ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-20-m0.u1	Good morning, dear colleagues. Please enter the hall, prepare for registration. Please. Dear colleagues, can we make a registration? Please take up jobs. I'm on it. All right, I'll just wait a minute. All right, colleagues. Good morning, dear fellows! Please register. Please, colleagues, let's register. [[10:04:36]] 357 deputies registered. The morning plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Honorary colleagues, all Ukrainians, were deeply impressed by the message of the death of an outstanding Ukrainian writer, a public figure, one of the organizers of the Taras Shevchenk Association of Ukrainian Language, a member of the National Association of Ukrainian Writers, a national deputy of the first call, a winner of the Shevchenk Prize, a deserving Ukrainian cultural worker, a hero of the Ukraine of Roman Ivanichuk. I must have had a lot of deputies growing up on Roman Ivanichuk’s books. I had the privilege of knowing him personally from an early age. We've read many novels, "The Red Wine," "The Manuscript of the Street of Russia," "The Water of the Stone," "The City," his work "The Scars of the Rock" was made in my eyes, and for all of us, it's a huge loss. Fellow countrymen, friends, family members will remember John Johnichuk with a deep intellectual, thinker, prominent writer, and patriot, he was among those national MPs who chose to declare Ukrainian independence 25 years ago. I ask all fellow national deputies to honor the memory of Roman Ivanichuk for a moment of silence. [[A Minute of Silence]] Thank you. We also suffered another great loss this week: the Deputy Chief of the President's Administration, Lieutenant General Andriy Taranov, whom we knew as an authoritative and experienced military officer, a real officer and a flaming patriot of Ukraine. He carried out his duties in a self - centered and professional manner. With the beginning of Russian aggression, Andriy Taranov returned to the service of the State, he used all his knowledge and skills to prepare the Ukrainian Armed Forces troops that went to fight terrorist gangs, to establish an effective system of countering hostile diversified activities. General Taranov was one of the engines behind the creation of the Special Operations Force, the reform of the high - mobile military and Ukrainian special forces. He was actively involved in liberating Ukrainian captives from Russian captivity. Dear colleagues, I also ask you to honor the moment of silence of Lieutenant General Andriy Taranova's memory. [[A Minute of Silence]] Thank you, colleagues. Dear National Deputies! On September 12, 2016, the Central Election Commission registered the Ukrainian People's Deputy, elected to the Ukraine People's Deputies' Elections on October 26, 2014, in the state-wide multi-mandatory constituency, Danilin Vladislav Juriovich, on the list of political parties of the People's Front. According to 79 of the Constitution, Ukraine’s national deputies take an oath before the Supreme Council of Ukraine before taking office. In order to make an oath to the rostrum, the national deputy of Ukraine, Danilin Vladislav Yuriovich, is invited, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-20-m0.u2	Good afternoon, Andri Volodymyrovich, National MPs, Ukrainian citizens! I swear allegiance to Ukraine. I commit myself to upholding Ukraine’s sovereignty and independence by all my actions, caring for the welfare and welfare of Ukraine’s people. I vow to abide by the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine, to carry out my duties in the interests of all fellow countrymen. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-20-m0.u3	Heroic glory! Hello! And I would like to immediately read out the statement that, according to article 13 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine and article 60 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, I am reporting my accession to the parliamentary faction of the National Front political party as a member of the political party of the People's Front. We welcome Danilin Vladislav Yuriovich, who joins our hard work. Welcome. Dear colleagues! In Ukraine, there is a member of the European Parliament, Vice-Department of the European Union-Ukraine delegation Michael Boni. Now the high guest is in the session room, let's welcome him. [[Applause]] My colleague says he's a little late. We'll welcome him back when he gets here.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-20-m0.u4	It's just Mr. Bonnie's coming back from Donbas. This is one of the three MEPs who made it to Donbas, so we'll welcome you in 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-20-m0.u5	Dear colleagues! In accordance with article 25 of the Rules on Tuesday, we have 30 minutes for statements by authorized representatives of the MPs and groups with proposals, announcements, statements, and messages. The factions and groups would like to sign up. Colleagues, please hold the recording. From the Radical Party to the word, Oleg Valeriyovich Ljashko is invited. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-20-m0.u6	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Dear colleagues, last week, I think all of you have paid attention to the terrible news -- this is a detention on our Donbassa by teenagers who are accused by the invaders of diversifying activities. I'm asking you to show these guys who are being held up. Look at them, please, fellow MPs, I want the whole country to see. And when one of you tells us why Donbas and why we should return him to Ukraine, I want you to remember these children. The only reason they were arrested was because they loved Ukraine. They were detained, accusing them of committing acts of diversion. I don't know what they did or didn't do, but what terrorists do by holding children back is barbarism, it's totally uncivilized, it's inhumane relationships. I want the whole country to know the names of these kids: Bogdan Kovalczuk, Arsenij Belav, Vladislav Pazusko, Denis Hmelenko, Jaroslav Mironov, Maksim Solodovnikov, Denis Koval Their only fault is that they love Ukraine and want to live in Ukraine. I am addressing the President and the Ukrainian authorities: the Radical Party welcomes the efforts of the law enforcement agencies and the President to free the hostages. Last week, we saw that several hostages had been released from a month - long captivity. But I want to draw particular attention to this very most gruesome fact: holding children hostage and holding them hostage. I ask the President at the highest levels, everywhere, in negotiations, in any negotiations, to raise the issue of the release of these Ukrainian children. In particular, I want to draw the attention of Parliament, the deputies to the fate of two million Ukrainians who, through the Russian occupation and Russian aggression, lost their home on Donbas, in Luhansk, in Donetsk. These people are shyly referred to as displaced persons. They're Ukrainians, just like us. But they don’t have a home today, they don’t have a job, and they think they don’t have a future. I want to tell these people that the Radical Party remembers them and the report of every effort to make sure that these so-called "migrants" are remembered by our Ukrainian brothers and sisters. We demand that in the State budget the cost of housing for displaced persons, for employment, for their children in kindergartens and schools. It's our Ukrainians that we have to protect and do everything we can to get them home as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-20-m0.u7	Thank you. From the Opposition Block to the word Wilkul is invited. From the rostrum, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-20-m0.u8	Dear people of Ukraine, there is no such thing as a budget to be discussed in every kitchen. People already hate this power and fear every year of it, because life is getting worse and the example is the budget, the genocide budget for 2017. You say it's an honest budget. He may be honest to your wallets, but he is dishonest to millions of Ukrainians. The minimum wage of $60 is the worst in Europe. Is that fair? In 2013, it was more than three times larger. The basis of this budget is not people's support and economic development, but the government's secret talks with the IMF. We are in favour of international cooperation, but this should not result in an increase in retirement age, a rise in tariffs and prices for Ukrainians to live only a year after retirement. We have an average of 65 years of age. You want them to retire and die? We are also opposed to the government taking the land from the Ukrainians and creating mechanisms for selling it. What do they want? Selling our businesses for nothing is the last thing left. And that's for the authorities to be honest? We're talking to people, and I want everyone to hear what kind of budget is fair. First, the budget should be honest and protect people. Communal tariffs need to be restored to 2014 levels, as 80 percent of people will not be able to pay these tariffs in November. The funding for energy projects should be increased by 10 times. Wages, pensions, social assistance have to be indexed to a real level of inflation, almost twice. Funding should be provided for resettlement support programs, including job creation and housing. The other one. The budget should be honest for the economy and create new jobs. The government is proud of the planned 3 percent of GDP growth. Even if that's true, we're only going to reach the 2013 level in 10 years. But this growth is an inflationary increase, and there's really no growth. So we need to build support for industries that have the highest added value: aviation, shipbuilding and machine building -- support for agriculture, construction of infrastructure. The budget should be honest for local communities. Because money has been given with one hand today, and with another hand it is required to finance or close down PTUs, schools, and take away benefits from people. The budget should be honest. End of moment. Budget approval should be transparent, not again at night.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-20-m0.u9	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-20-m0.u10	It's because of the culinary arrangements. And the IMF Memorandum should be officially published, taking into account the proposals made today by opposition factions, especially the Opposition Block. The opposition bloc will not vote on this budget proposed by the government for the destruction of people and the state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-20-m0.u11	Thank you. From the People's Front to the word, Maxim Burbak is invited. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-20-m0.u12	Good afternoon, colleagues. Good afternoon, Ukrainian people. I'd like to start today with what we have to do -- it's our duty as patriots, Ukrainian citizens -- to respond to that farce that happened last weekend in Russia -- that's the election to the so-called State Duma. Members of the People's Front have registered draft Decree No. 5135 on the Supreme Council of Ukraine's declaration of non-recognition by Ukraine of the legitimacy of the elections to the State Duma of the Federal Assembly of the Russian Federation of the Seventh Congress, their results and legal consequences, and in accordance with the composition of the powers of the acts and decisions of the Federal Parliament of the Russian Federation. The Kremlin held elections in Ukrainian territory. These elections were held to the so - called Russian State Duma. But these elections immediately became illegal because they were held in the territory of the illegally annexed Crimea, in the territory of the Ukrainian State. In accordance with our draft decree, the Supreme Council of Ukraine does not recognize or recognize the legitimacy of the State Duma. I'm sure there's a lot of patriots in this Parliament, even though there's a Russian agency. Elections are worthless both politically and internationally, we do not recognize this political farce and we urge the whole world not to recognize the outcome of these elections. We urge the President of Ukraine to address the issue at the UN General Assembly, the Ukrainian delegation to the UN should use all available means to internationalize illegal parliamentary elections in Russia. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs should carry out the same work in other international organizations as well as parliamentary assemblies. The election in the Duma of Russia in the occupied territories of Ukraine and Georgia is an example of cynical disregard for human rights and international law. Another important issue is Ukraine's draft State Budget Act for the following year. Yesterday he was presented, we met with the Prime Minister and discussed all the basics of this law. I'm very pleased that the requirements of the People's Front are in place. The first requirement is that the country's defence budget is not less than 5 per cent of the gross domestic product, it makes up and that's 129 billion dollars in the draft budget. The other one. Initiatives were supported by the Ministry of Education and the science of our colleague, Ms. Lilia Grinevich, regarding the need to raise 30 percent of the salary for teachers. The third is to continue funding of about 14 billion dollars in construction and repair of Ukraine's roads. And so I'm sure we should be looking at this bill right now on the site of factions, committees and discussions. You can criticize anything, you can scream that everything is gone, but you have to adopt this basic law of Ukraine. And the main thing is that this week we have to support the Ukrainian Law on a regime for the confiscation of money stolen by the Yanukovic regime. I want to remind you, over a year and a half, billions of dollars have been arrested by the government of Yatsenuk and placed in public bank accounts. We have to put that money back in the budget and then vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-20-m0.u13	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-20-m0.u14	The vote for this bill on Thursday will finally show who's really a patriot, who's taking care of our country, and who's a Russian agency that was brought here by representatives of the Russian Kremlin canals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-20-m0.u15	Thank you. Ribczynski is invited by the will of the people.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-20-m0.u16	Honorable Ukrainian People, Honourable Head, Honorable People! You and I understand that this autumn is going to be very, very hot. It is referred to as a few very important, first and foremost, international events. These are elections in the "Evil Empire" in the State of the United States and the end of the electoral race. The Russian Federation is already making a fatal mistake by holding elections in our Ukrainian annexed Crimea. They also try to influence elections in the United States. Pressed by economic sanctions against the wall, the evil empire is trying to go to the bank. Yes, in Ukraine, it uses not only its broad military potential, but also the incredible potential of its agency network, which relies on politicians, journalists, sometimes public figures, and so on. It is difficult for Ukraine to fight on several fronts. On the one hand, Ukraine is currently choosing its true freedom and independence, and on the other hand, it is effectively torn apart by corruption, populism, and the struggle of political power over power. And on this path, it actually loses the main thing -- the unity of the nation, solidarity and the state's orientations. An external enemy has forced the Ukrainian people to unite, but our inner enemies are trying to disunite us again. Masked adapters, conjuncturists, populists are virtually everywhere — both in parties, in factions, and in public organizations. Their main task is to deny the people, discredit the authorities, and the deep internal crisis is stabilizing the state. What are they preparing us for? See, we actually have some kind of provocations and some television channels, they actually prepare our Ukrainian people for other shocks. As they speculate on what seems to be the right slogans, they do not ignore corruption or bargaining, for they are far more important than the hundreds of square meters of their own home than the thousands of miles of our border. Now I would like to say a little bit about the seemingly beautiful events. So that's the week that we got the IMF's next tranche, and we're already expecting a visa waiver on October 11th, so we're supposed to have no visas.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-20-m0.u17	Please, 15 seconds, finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-20-m0.u18	Of course, the tranche is very good. But we take credit, and our children pay it back. And gas prices. Can I have some more?
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-20-m0.u19	Ten seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-20-m0.u20	Thank you. But I would like not only to have subsidies closing down gas prices, but also to allow people to earn money.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-20-m0.u21	Thank you, Your Honor. Please, from the Peter Dust Block. It's Peter Prashenko's Block, Igor Greene, leader of the Peter Dustenk faction. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-20-m0.u22	Dear Presidium, dear colleagues, I would like to begin this talk with the organizational issues that are necessary for the work of our Parliament. We spoke to the Conciliation Council yesterday, and we urge all of you and all of the factions this week to consider very important organizational issues. I would like to point out that today, in Parliament, there is a dangerous situation, with 28 committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine involved with a special monitoring commission, 7 committees without heads, or even a quarter of the committees of the Supreme Council without legitimate leadership. Of the 422 national deputies, 22 are not members of any committee, of which only 10 are members of our faction, which are not members of the committees. A red - language example. It has been exactly a year since the members of our faction, Gregory Schwerk and Vladislav Sevrukov, wrote statements of membership of the Committee on Freedom of Speech. Until now, questions have not been considered, and they cannot work fully on the committee. Moreover, a terrible figure, 50 percent of the committee’s meetings do not take place because of the lack of quorum. The work of the Supreme Council’s Preparatory Committees is not working, and the Ukrainian Parliament is not doing so because the work of the deputies is primarily to study the discussion of laws, not just the speeches of the populists from the Supreme Council’s rostrum. But I've come to realize that this is not a panacea, judging from the speech, one of the vice-premiers of the former government who promised to improve today, he's talking about a budget that he's obviously not even seen in his eyes, because none of these positions, including the retirement age, are reflected in this budget. So somewhere you have to stay in the demagogies, you have to stop in the populis. I want to bring to you the words of famous politician Margaret Thatcher, Prime Minister of Britain, who in due course brought his country's economy out of a deep crisis and experience that is actually very important for Ukraine. She said, "It's the same thing as treating leukemia with leukemia with leukemia." In fact, today we and this government are paying off debts created by previous governments. In fact, for the first time in years, it is possible to repay part of these debts. This budget raises by 30 percent of teachers ’ salaries. This budget raises 20 percent of the wages of doctors. In this budget, 15 percent is going to increase the cost by.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-20-m0.u23	Please, 20 seconds, finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-20-m0.u24	Thank you very much. Once again, let us understand that we live in one country, and you will not build up this country with loud statements. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-20-m0.u25	Thank you, Mr. Igor. Please, from the Rebirth Group, Alexander Billowol is invited to the presentation. Alexander Billowal of the Rebirth Group. You don't? Then please. Oh, there is. I invite you to the rostrum. And then self-help, and then the Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-20-m0.u26	Dearly esteemed Predestination, high-ranking colleagues! First of all, I want us to welcome today our Paralympics who came from the Olympics, take third place in the world rating, and 117 times raise the flag of our country. [[Applause]] Let's stand by and welcome our paralympics. [[Applause]] Thank you. I think our government and the Supreme Council need to pay attention to these patriots of our country, to support them materially, to demonstrate our great attention to sports and to these heroic people. Dear colleagues, we worked in major districts that week. The entire Rebirth Party group, representing 23 majors, worked in their own district. And most of all, what we've heard from our constituents. Today people need to, people want to understand today what they're waiting for in 2017: they can pay for tariffs when the heating season starts, whether their wages and pensions will be indexed, whether they'll be hospitalized and whether their children can go to school. Today, the MP's Rebirth Party Group has several basic requirements for the 2017 State Budget. First, this increase in social standards in 2017 should not be lower than the inflation rate in the last two years. Today, we demand that the social standards be increased by one and a half times, not as much as 10 percent today is budgeted in 2017 by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Today we demand that the subsistence minimum in our country be 2 000 709 dollars, and the main thing is that this should be initiated in 2017. The second question. In the 2017 State Budget, we should definitely pay attention to 100 percent of the funding of education and science. Today, in 2017, scholarships should be provided for our students, government funding for vocational and technical schools. And most of all, we need to pay attention to our scientific activities -- science. This is especially what the National Academy of Sciences needs: ours and the branch of the academy: medical, pedagogical, legal, and so on. Today, in 2017, we definitely have to start and implement that promised school bus program. Because we promised to do it, the government, in 2016, but that there was a lot of school closed down, and today children have no opportunity. I'll give the kids a ride to school. That's why we're going to the government, to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, to the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-20-m0.u27	One minute, finish, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-20-m0.u28	They closed the problem. And that's the main question for today: all our voters are asking questions about the cooperation of our state, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, our Parliament with the International Monetary Fund. We have to tell people who is making the 2017 budget today: the Cabinet of Ministers or the International Monetary Fund? Today, the International Monetary Fund is again asking us questions, reduced tax guarantees, social standards, rising retirement age, closing schools and hospitals. We're going to the Cabinet of Ministers: come on, take the state's position. Above all, the issue of selling the land began to flow from the mouth of our masters. Dear, dear colleagues, today we must consider this question in principle, the only thing left in our country is the earth. This is the acquisition of our people today.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-20-m0.u29	Thank you. Ten seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-20-m0.u30	Our personal right, this is our people today to own the land and to settle this issue. Dear colleagues, I would like to address each of the parliamentarians today.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-20-m0.u31	Thank you, Your Honor. Please welcome the leader of the Self-Help faction, Oleg Barresuk. Please, Mr. Liege.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-20-m0.u32	Your Majesty, the presiding lady! Ladies and gentlemen! Three very important components in today's speech. The first is Minsk. Yesterday at the Conciliation Council, one of the group leaders, as if walking, said that we should adopt several laws to resolve the Minsk Accords. What are the laws? The Laws of Surrender of Ukrainian Sovereignty and Independence? In order to implement the Minsk Treaties, we need to adopt one law, the Act on Occupied Territories, where we say that Russia is an aggressor country that has occupied our territories temporarily, we will someday release them when we become a strong state. And that's why it's very important today to know that we should not miss something in Parliament that could destroy our independence. And we in Parliament have to accept an objective reality -- that today the country is occupied and at war with a Russian aggressor. The second is very important, without the second one, there is no power of the state, there is a budget. To this day, we are deeply studying every number of this budget. There are three very important parts to coming into the budget. Nobody's been doing customs for two years, and this hole takes billions of Ukrainian money, just takes Ukraine's budget, another Ukrainian budget. And some tax collectors, once they're relaxed, say, "not one." Mr. Government. Gentlemen in the government, please take care of this. Next. The Transition incident is a sign that the government is not doing the income part of the budget, but is doing the scams that make "Transgas" in the manual office, taking tens of millions of dollars out of the budget. The next is, without a doubt, an enterprise. We need to continue to lower the tax base so that the wages are white, and the budgets of cities, villages and states are larger. And now for the extra part. Three parts are very important. Army. But spending on an army without civilian control in Parliament is throwing money into the wind, and adapters, unfortunately, will not spend that money on the army. But the army today must be the main expense of our state, because it is the power of our state. The second is medicine. Today it's the second front, there's a lot of people dying there. Therefore, medical expenses are critical, but we must help a new team to adopt the Law on the Independence of Medical Institutions, their autonomy to make this money work more effectively and better. Education. Who came up with the idea of taking money from the education grant budget for energy? It's a crime. We're going to be teachers, we're going to have students, we're going to have cold schools or we're going to have empty local budgets that can't get education and PTU in particular. These things are very important. And part three. The third part.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-20-m0.u33	Please, 30 seconds, and finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-20-m0.u34	The third part, which is perhaps the most important, without which the budget is not needed, is depression and persecution. You know, this is the first time I've seen, probably in the 21st century after Stalinism with political opponents successfully fighting not only the persecution of individuals, the persecution and siege of entire cities, but I mean the garbage siege of Lviv. One of the cabinet officials said, "If it wasn't for the politicalization of this issue, it could be resolved in one day." That's true. Let the First Vice Prime Minister, who said that, call the name of the person who is politicizing this problem, which is blackmailing people.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-20-m0.u35	How much longer? Ten seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-20-m0.u36	appreciating the city and Ukraine as a whole. These are three important questions: peace, budget, and despondency, which today are to solve them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-20-m0.u37	Thank you. Please welcome the leader of the Fatherland faction, Julia Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-20-m0.u38	Dear colleagues, I now want to address all Ukrainian citizens who understand what is happening to the state and who report that today in Ukraine is not chaos, not disorder, but a completely planned strategy for the elimination of the Ukrainian state, the Ukrainian nation and all of this is packed into beautiful, cool reform boxes. Dear friends, if you are packing a strategy to destroy the state in the context of reforms, then look at the real indicators that the country has been living with for the last two years. I just want to give you a few digits and you'll understand. Don't count the numbers in your bracelets, because the bracelet is blown, it's now completely destroyed by inflation and unmeasured emissions. Today, the financial system is ruined. Count the key values in the currency. Since 2013, the nation’s gross domestic product has been reduced by a currency of 1.9 times. No country in the world has ever suffered such devastating blows. If you count in currency, health spending has been reduced 2.75 times since 2013, all medicines are bought in exchange. The cost of education has dropped 2.6 times, to culture 2.4 times, and so on. We actually have a strategy today that is not publicized, after the destruction of the state. And today the budget they've proposed and those proposals to the government of the International Monetary Fund for the Balance of Finance are essentially a strategy for eliminating the independent state of Ukraine and the Ukrainian nation. I want to tell you that everything fits this strategy. For example, you know that a large - scale sale of agricultural land is being prepared. And there are two strategies in the state budget. The first is to clean up the entire tax system for farmers and small agro-enterprises, 30 billion dollars due to the cancellation of the tax system will be removed from the agrarians. They will actually lose their land and lose their ability to process it. So is decentralization. Decentralization now deprives villages, villages, and cities of district subordination of a key budgetary tax: a tax on the income of natural persons. Ukrainian citizens have been deprived of even a minimum standard of living.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-20-m0.u39	Please let me finish for 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-20-m0.u40	I'd like you to know that Janukovich's criminal regime paid a minimum pension and a minimum wage on a methodology equal to what the law provides. Today, 45 percent of the minimum wage on methodology is declining, and each year, the last two years. I want you to look at the budget with other eyes: instead of decentralization -- centralization, instead of raising the people -- the destruction strategy and the exit strategy of the Ukrainian people. I'm asking you to take a few steps today: first, the interfractional team, not the budget committee, which is endowed with intelligence and has the understanding that with the country of departure.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-20-m0.u41	15 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-20-m0.u42	I'm asking for immediate budget analysis, independent. We have the right under the Rules to go to the Court of Auditors and require an expert on the budget plan for the following year. We have to do this. And publish, please, the IMF Memorandum.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-20-m0.u43	Thank you. Ten seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-20-m0.u44	Since yesterday, we have been promised to publish, but we have been told that there is no Ukrainian text. How did Groisman sign it if he didn't speak English? Stop bullying the state.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-20-m0.u45	Thank you. Thank you. And we're asking you anyway.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-20-m0.u46	Dear colleagues, let's move on to the first question of the agenda. And we have the first question of the agenda is the draft Order 5060 on the agenda of the fifth session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the eighth call, taking into account all the plugins for adoption as a whole. And I have a request, colleagues, that we consider it as a reduced procedure. And I'm asking the MPs to come into the hall and take jobs. We have a very busy agenda today, for which the committees have been very conscientiously prepared, and today we have an informational issue. block informationing, we have a block, as promised, of agrarian policy issues, and colleagues, those three questions of decentralization that we haven't been able to consider, will be an offer today to consider. And so I'm proposing to work very dynamically, very actively, and I'm asking you to support the proposal to consider the reduced procedure of 5060. Is my offer supported? Supported. Colleagues, is it supported that the agenda is short-circuited? Supported. Colleagues, please prepare for the vote. and I would like to support the proposal for a review of Order 5060 on the agenda of the fifth session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for a reduced procedure. Please vote. Please vote, colleagues. [[10:46:55]] For 178. Decision taken. Honorable Fellows, to carry out the commission of the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on 12 September. In 16 years, the Supreme Council of Ukraine completed its work on additional proposals by the Supreme Council Committees for a draft agenda for the fifth session. As part of the completed draft agenda, in its first chapter, "questions that are fully prepared for consideration in plenary sessions", it is proposed to include 775 questions, in the second section "questions to be prepared and processed for the consideration of the session", 1375 questions, together with 2,000 and 150 questions. It also clarified the list of bills that the committees had concluded that the Committees had previously considered proposed not to be included in the agenda of the day session. Dear colleagues, a very large work has been carried out, in fact all the proposals that have been made by both committees and factions will be taken into account in Decree 5060. And there is a request that this question be supported in the hall. I know that the last time it came up was proposals to support all the bills registered. It's only about plus 150 bills, but I'm going to put it to the vote, my colleagues, and the first proposal that's made under the Rules, the ones that are proposed by the committees and the factions. Then, if there's an offer, I'll put a second one so we can support everyone who's registered. If these two proposals don't go away, I'm going to suggest that I go with the same formula that was last week, the weekly schedule. But we will be able to make the most optimal offer in the course of the discussion. And that's why I'm asking you to do the recording: two for, two against. Please, colleagues, please record. Peter Prashenko's Block, Tetjana Ritchkova gives the floor. Who's going to be speaking from the BP? Mr. Igor Green? Mr. Igor, who's going to be speaking from BP? Knazevitch. Please turn on the microphone. Ruslan Knazevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-20-m0.u47	Thank you, Andry Volodymyrovich. Dear colleagues, I think if we want to finally try to organize our internal parliamentary life from the standpoint of the legislative process, we should certainly start by taking the first step in shaping the agenda. Those proposals that are originally offered by you are very clear and reflect the Law itself, and the logic in general, which has been spoken many times and proposed by our European partners. The point is that it is the committees that should be the primary chains, the venues for discussion, which should work out proposals that can then be discussed in the session room. In addition, I would like to draw attention to, Mr. Andriy Volodymyrovich, honourable colleagues, that we have in the Rules a clear article that is supported by our foreign partners, which in general requires that it be greatly strengthened, which requires that a number of committees be empowered to have the right of an initial revision of all the bills, and that, in the event of their negative conclusion, such aberrant bills cannot be considered in the session room. Moreover, they demand that this be mandatory even if they are willing to go further than they are now in the Rules, and the Rules provide that such committees should report to the Parliament's leadership, which is already to return the bills on their own initiative. And we can't go back from that logic, because otherwise what we call legislative spam is going to cover us every day more and more. Let's at least try to take the first step towards reforming Parliament on the issue of legislation, based on the proposal proposed by the Chief of the Supreme Council, to distinguish those things, not on the proposals of factions, but on the proposals of the PICs. And then let the profiling committees be responsible for those legislative acts that they are willing to take and accompany them from registration to acceptance as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-20-m0.u48	Thank you, Mr. Ruslan. Babak Alona Valerievna is invited to attend. She gives the word to Oleg Berezuku. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-20-m0.u49	Your Majesty, Mr. Head, the noble colleagues! What the Supreme Council’s apparatus, the Supreme Council’s leadership, today offers is certainly a step forward. It's impossible to limit the legislative initiative of an individual MP, but every institution has to have a structure, and it's not just the bills of the genius MPs that have passed through the collective mind of a committee or committee. And that's very true. Yes, committees may not always be effective, but they are today. But as we approach the system, as is now suggested by the Head of the Supreme Council and the organization. And the Supreme Council's apparatus is the right way to work structurally and build an institution, an institution that will have authority before its deputies and in front of people. Therefore, our proposal to vote in favour of this order of days is imperfect. And you know that this room has the ability to improve, both in paws and not in paws, the order of the day, the vote that we put into one day's agenda and one day we vote in the first, second, third and tenth readings. More than that, we even publish in one day in the newspaper. So our proposal is to vote. But we, at the same time, would like to add the Family Access Act to this list. A lot of my colleagues, the doctors, maybe they'll sue me, say, "They're in the way." No, relatives never interfere. Yes, there may be different experiences, but we will help medicine to be better when those who love these people come along, pray for them, or even help those who at times cannot cope with their work. The next thing is very important -- it's the Law on elections on a proportional basis with open lists, it's the future of this successful state, it's the future of a good political system. Let's not be afraid of it and do it, vote today for the structure of this Parliament and an institution that is possible.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-20-m0.u50	Please, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-20-m0.u51	which or not today is an institution that is being built and despotted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-20-m0.u52	Thank you very much. From the Radical Party, Andry Lozový passes the word Halasyuk. Please, Mr. Victor.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-20-m0.u53	Dear Andrew Volodymyrovich! Dear colleagues! The Radical Party faction supports this document. But at the same time, we would like to stress that, in the first place, we need to include in the agenda such bills aimed at industrial development and preservation of Ukrainian state property: this is Bill 5065 on the Prohibition of the Privatization of Turboatoma; this is Bill 5113 on restructuring, financial recovery of the South Sea to save the Ukrainian space industry; it is also a bill on the moratorium on the removal of green plants in Kiev 4703-1. And in general, my dear fellows, we have a first priority with you to make those laws that are able to form the income part of the budget that are able to create new jobs, increase production, export and investment in the country, so that we don't start living on the basis of inflationary moss and IMF loans that only give an illusion of stability, just an illusion of coming into the budget, it's a hollow income to the budget, we need real income that can be from taxes on economic growth, and for those taxes to be specific tools. These specific instruments have already been proposed by the Radical Party faction, our parliamentary colleagues are also the Export Credit Agency, they are industrial parks, they are a series of sectoral bills on the cost of woodworking equipment, on the removal of import duties for scrap metal for Ukrainian metallurgy and a number of other sectoral important laws. That is why we support and stress the need to incorporate these additional laws. Again, I am calling on Parliament to hold next week in the Ukrainian Parliament the day of the Ukrainian industry, to adopt laws to develop the economy and raise citizens' incomes. This is the fundamental position of the Radical Party faction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-20-m0.u54	Thank you. And we agreed on these issues at the Conciliation Council that the next plenary week will begin: ecology and industry, and this is a matter that we agreed on yesterday, and it will not be disturbed as it did this week. From "The Fatherland" is Ivan Krulko. Please, Mr. Ivan.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-20-m0.u55	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues! The Fatherland faction has not changed its position and we will vote in favour of the agenda of the day session, where everyone is included without exception in the bills registered by the legislators. Each subject of the legislative initiative, each single national MP has equal rights under the Constitution with all other subjects of the legislative initiative. So this is the way that we need to go, if the bill that has been tabled and, at the moment of the vote, is registered, we include it in the agenda and we vote. At the same time, we propose that the questions that Ukrainian citizens need should be voted on first in this Parliament. Let's make a block, finally, "the day of the Ukrainians in the Ukrainian Parliament": when the TSC is voted on by tariffs, when a moratorium is voted on evicting people from apartments for these dragon tariffs that they cannot pay when a moratorium on the sale of agricultural land is voted. Here's what's supposed to happen: "the day of the Ukrainians in the Ukrainian Parliament." So if such a day is created.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-20-m0.u56	Please, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-20-m0.u57	So if there's a day like this, Fatherland will vote unanimously for the issues that Ukrainian citizens are really looking forward to today. And for the agenda, we have to vote for all the bills that are registered.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-20-m0.u58	Dear colleagues, the issue of the order of the day session is a key issue. Without making any decisions, we cannot go on to any of the questions of the order of the day in the first reading. I'd like to emphasize to none. Hence, an extremely responsible and important vote. I will put to the vote all three proposals from this rostrum: the first is the draft of Decree 5060, which is gathered at the committees' proposals; the second is all the bills, as proposed by John Krulko; and the third proposal, which was made by the People's Front, is to register for a week so that we can move forward, the weekly calendar plan. Mr. Oleg, it goes into either one or the other, or the third. That goes into it, that's all three proposals. I ask the secretariat of the Supreme Council to immediately invite everyone to the Hall, to prepare for the vote, and while the national deputies come in, I invite you to speak to the Deputy Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Oksana Siroid. Please, Mrs. Oksana.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-20-m0.u59	I want to address not as many MPs as I do people. I don't know if the Ukrainians know how many drafts are registered in Parliament and how many are being adopted. Thousands are registered, and less than five percent are accepted. This is a legislative and unfortunately a garbage disposal that corrupts both the work and the deputies and the Supreme Council's apparatus. The Americans are proud to accept their amendment, so far, and everyone remembers the amendments by their names, like Jackson-Venika's amendment. Who do you remember today whose bills were adopted? Are we not worthy to be proud of the decisions that we register, not those that we register? I think that we should finally go to quality, and that quality needs to be cultivated in ourselves, and make sure that every decision we propose is better than the previous one, not just that there are more. That's why we have to vote in favour. Today for this proposal, because this is progress on the way to improving the quality of legislative work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-20-m0.u60	Thank you, Mrs. Oksana. I ask my colleagues to come into the hall and prepare for the vote. You know, we talk a lot about reforming parliament with international colleagues, and when it comes to decision-making, we have something far more difficult with reform. So, won't there be any objections in the hall, colleagues -- I'm addressing the factions' heads -- that I'm going to put three bids on the ratings, and then the ones that get the most, I'm going to put them on the vote so we don't have a moment of rejection? Is such an offer accepted? Then I ask you, colleagues, to listen to logic now. I'm going to put three on the rating proposal, which is the proposal. The first is based on 5060, and the second is the "Fatherland" proposal, and Krulka is all drafts, and the third is weekly. Which one of them gets the most votes, that's where I'm going to put the decision, my colleague. Is it accepted? Then I ask you to prepare for the vote. Please take your jobs. Colleagues are indeed an important vote. And I'm putting up three ratings. The first rating vote is to be adopted on the basis and as a whole of Decree No. 5060 on the order of the day of the fifth session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. Please, colleagues, we're voting. Please be supportive. [[11:02:25]] For 209 The next proposal is to approve the order of the day for all. in general, the inclusion in the agenda of the fifth day of all drafts registered in accordance with the Rules at the time of the vote. So anything that's registered to include. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. The rating vote, I think. Please. [[11:03:03:03]] For-188. And the third sentence, colleagues, let's focus on it, I'm asking you to establish the order of the day session for this week so that we can unlock the work, start working. Who supports the proposal to approve the weekly agenda of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for September 20-23: signal voting. Please vote, colleagues, please support us so that we can get started. Please vote, please. [[11:03:43]] For 219 The most recent offer came. And, colleagues, I am addressing all the national MPs, also those whose bills we are today, we must now consider supporting that proposal, which has won the largest number of votes. I'm asking everyone to concentrate. I'm going to put that proposal to the vote. And I'm asking you to support my colleague, Oleg. I'm asking you to support me, colleagues. So I'm voting on the proposal to support and approve the weekly agenda of the plenary sessions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on September 20-23 as a whole. Please vote on the proposal. Please vote, colleagues, please support. [[11:04:44]] For 243 Decision taken. Thank you, colleagues, for your support. I hope next week we can make the final offer of 5060 and accept it as a whole. So let's move on to the next question of the order of the day. And we're starting a block of information. The first block is the question of first reading. And the first bill is the draft Law on Electronic Communications (3549), as well as 3549-1 and 3549-2. And there's a proposal for his consideration at a reduced offer, colleagues. I ask you to support the consideration of the reduced procedure. Please vote. [[11:05:43]] For a hundred and 194-yes. Decision taken. There's a couple of reporters here, and I'm going to invite them in sequence. The report first invites the Ukrainian national deputy Moroko Yuri Mikolaiovich. Please, Yuri Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-20-m0.u61	Ladies and gentlemen, three drafts of alternatives to electronic communications have been proposed to your attention. The two bills 3549 and 3549-2 (Babenko, Lukyanczuk, People's Front) are in the form of a Constitution; and the third “Tir 1” bill is contrary to the Constitution. This is an official opinion of the Chief Scientific and Expert Office. GNEU writes that the draft “tir 1” proposes the establishment of a non-constitutional body as a national operator in telecommunications. It would not treat the executive, but would be given great powers, ranging from imposing large fines to suspending the business without a court decision. The President's body is established, and it accepts and dismisses without any procedures. But under the Constitution, if you remember, we have three branches of power, government: legislative, executive and judicial. So the regulator can only refer to the executive branch. But then the President has no right to establish such an organ because he has the authority to create only advisory, deliberative and subsidiary bodies. And it is very difficult for a regulator who can stop an enterprise without a court decision to refer to an advisory body. For the content of this non-constitutional body, Bill 3549-1 proposes to introduce a new tax on the entire telecoms sector, and this tax will not go to the State Treasury, but directly to the governor's account, and he will not be reported for it. The regulator's budget will be increased 13 times, from 32 to 400 million. GNEU considers such a special way of financing as a direct route to the establishment of corruption schemes. In the view of the GNEU (I agree with it), all three bills must be sent for finalization and invited to be merged on the basis of 3549-2 (Lukyanczuk, Babenko) or 3549, which are not contrary.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-20-m0.u62	Please, have you done this? Thank you. The National Deputy of Ukraine, Danchenko Alexander Ivanovich, is invited to the report. Please, Alexander Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-20-m0.u63	Good afternoon, dear chairman, good afternoon, colleague. I'm the author, I want to introduce you to Bill 3549-1, which is supported by the President of Ukraine as an urgent matter. This bill, which has been drafted by virtually all members of all parliamentary factions, changes the old legislation in the field of telecommunications, which is 18 years old. For almost 18 years, this legislation has not changed. What is in this bill? The first is to improve control in the area of electronic communications with a view to preventing wrongdoing and reducing the potential pressure on operators, reducing the number of checks. The third is to ensure market competitiveness through this bill introduces the possibility of developing virtual operators, which we now do not have. A very important block on deregulation. The licensing of 90 percent of activities is cancelled, and technical licenses are provided for both the registration number and the natural radio frequency of limited resources. All right, all the other licenses are cancelled. There's a free go to the market, so called the silent consent principle, when the operator just says he's ready to work and he doesn't need any more documents. The mechanism for protecting the rights of consumers of electronic communications services is being improved, and a real independent regulator is being introduced, which is independent of financial and independent institutions. There's a question of institutional independence, but we're working on the second reading, I promise you, with everything discussed. It is vital that this bill opens the way to the fourth - and fifth - generation network. So this is reforming, this is technological neutrality. I mean.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-20-m0.u64	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-20-m0.u65	If we're behind in the implementation of 3G for 15 years, this bill allows, when it was adopted at this session as a whole, in the first quarter of 2014, to give the market the opportunity to be ready before. In the 1st quarter of the 17th year, before the 4th and 5th generations were introduced. And this is an investment in the state, this is really the development of an electronic digital society, because no electronic governance without everyone's access.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-20-m0.u66	Please, 30 more seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-20-m0.u67	To high-speed Internet, none of these projects will develop. Please support Bill 3549-1 and redraft it for second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-20-m0.u68	Thank you. Last report. Ukrainian deputy Lukyanchuk Ruslan Valeriyovich, and then from the committee there will be a performance. Please, Ruslan Valeriovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-20-m0.u69	Good afternoon, dear chairman, distinguished colleagues. The approval of the bill on electronic communications is very relevant because the laws in force on telecommunications and "the radio frequency of Ukrainian resources" are hopelessly outdated. Ukraine must align its legislation with European legislation. And a new law requires a branch, and stretching it out is unacceptable. To speed up the legislative settlement of electronic communications, my colleague Valérie Babenko and I are prepared to withdraw our bill from the consideration of Bill 3549-1. But you have to clearly understand that the bill. Oh, I'm sorry, 3549-2. Bill 3549-1 contains a number of major shortcomings, namely: it does not address the issue of radio frequency; secondly, it introduces licenses for a number of numerical resources, although at present this area is regulated; thirdly, the “Final Positions” are unjustifiably narrowed down the powers of the State Department; and, fourthly, that the basic bill does not fully correspond to the Constitution of Ukraine, and this is clearly stated in the conclusion of the General Expert Office. So I think it's necessary to take these four flaws into account, and then we're this bill. Me and my colleague, Valery Babenko, and the People's Front faction will support this bill in second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-20-m0.u70	Thank you. The committee is invited to serve as deputy head of the Committee on Information and Communications, Usov Kostin Glibovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-20-m0.u71	Dear Mr. Head! Dear colleagues! The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Information and Communications reviewed all three draft laws of Ukraine on electronic communications: 3549, 3549-1, 3549-2, introduced by the various national deputies of Ukraine, and notes the following. In accordance with article 93 of the Ukrainian Constitution, the President of Ukraine defined Bill 3549-1 as urgent for further consideration by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The main scientific and expert office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in its conclusions on the draft Laws on Electronic Communications makes observations and notes that, as you understand, these bills have the same subject of regulation. In this regard, in the process of further work on these bills, they are certainly worthy of unity by taking into account the draft Law 3549-1, which takes into account the comments made. The Ukrainian National Deputies, members of the committee, after considering the bills, agreed with the provisions they laid down, stressed the importance of harmonising Ukraine’s legislation in a regulated field with the European Union’s legislation and bringing it into line with the requirements of the International Power Union. At the same time, the National MPs noted that the provisions of the Bills needed to be improved. In view of the above, the Committee recommends to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the draft Law on Electronic Communications (Registration No. 3549-1), introduced by the National Deputies of Ukraine by Danchenk and another group of authors, to adopt the results of this review in the first reading and on the basis. Please support the committee's decision. And thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-20-m0.u72	Dear colleagues, the reports have been completed. And for discussion, I'm asking you to do a recording: two for, two against. Please. Alona Babak, Self-Help faction. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-20-m0.u73	Please pass the word to Roman Semensi.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-20-m0.u74	Semenha Roman, "The Self-Help Union" faction. Dear colleagues, Mr. Head, indeed, today the telecom sector is one of the drivers of Ukraine's economy, but without substantial legislative reform, we should not expect further rapid development of digital society. What exactly will give us the adoption of this basic law? First, the introduction of a series of deregulation measures, namely, the reduction in the number of licences from 7 to 2, the simplification of the start of business, the conduct of the application principle. Secondly, the following innovations are being introduced, such as the sharing of a radio frequency resource, the deployment of virtual operators, the resolution of the transition problem for the operator from one operator to another without changing the number. But the key idea of the bill is to lay down such legal principles for the formation of a national communications regulator that will ensure its equidistantness both from government and from big business. The real independence of any national regulator can be guaranteed by two things: the first is institutional independence, the second is financial independence. The self-help faction will support the main ideas of Bill 3549-1. But I point out that we have to lay down the following institutional aspects to strengthen the regulator: each member has to be selected and appointed by the same procedure, the head of the commission has to choose the members from among themselves. The other one. The head of a college body may not have other functions than representative bodies. All regulatory decisions must be made by a simple, collective majority. The guarantee of independence at the time of appointment, the President can only have the nominal right to approve those who have been chosen by the commission. We need to put in place safeguards against pressure and liberation, giving clear reasons and procedures for such release. And finally. It's in the law that we have to lay down the border number of the commission. Dear colleagues, despite all the criticism that has been made, we urge you to support this bill in the first reading with a substantial refinement of it to the second reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-20-m0.u75	Thank you. Kishkar Pavlov Mikolaiovich is invited to attend. Please, Mr. Paul.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-20-m0.u76	Dear colleagues, the National Movement of Ukraine will support this bill and ask for the support of all colleagues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-20-m0.u77	Thank you. The last record of the speech will be voted on in three minutes. I very much ask the heads of factions to invite MPs into the hall. I very much ask the secretariat of the Supreme Council to report that there will be a vote in three minutes. And I invite you to the words of Kirichenko Alexander. Alexia Mikolaiovich. Well, Chizmaru. But still, pass on the microphone, that's not difficult. Slipper, please turn on the microphone. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-20-m0.u78	Chismar Yury, faction of the Radical Party of Oleg Lášk. Dear colleagues, it is clear that electronic communication needs to be brought to the standards that exist in Europe today. But, at the same time, showing. An example of Europe, we must base their attitude on their own Constitution, which guarantees the respect of the rights and freedoms of every citizen. And no state institution in Europe, to which we today set an example, will allow itself to accept those powers that are not in conformity with the Constitution. And that's why in this law, when we prescribe that authority regarding the appointment of the leaders of this. This central-executive authority is behind the President, this is a violation of our valid Constitution, which we should respect as the Basic Law, where all the foundations of Ukrainian democracy, freedom and independence are laid down. Today we want to consider a bill in which we don't give the President powers, because the Constitution of Ukraine clearly defines those norms or powers that the President and no other laws can impose. Therefore, the faction of the Radical Party will not support this bill, respecting the current Constitution of Ukraine, and considering that compliance with the Constitution of Ukraine can lead to order and order in the country. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-20-m0.u79	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I just want to remind you that the bill is only adopted in the first reading, and in fact the second reading will be subject to proposals and amendments to the discussion. Colleagues, I'm asking you to hold internal consultations before the vote, because there's a lot of professional work going on with factions and committees to deal with similar clusters of issues. And I would very much ask that we do not lose those bills in which so much force and so much energy has been invested in our fellow MPs. Colleagues, I'm voting now. Please come into the hall, everyone, get ready. Colleagues, please come into the hall and take up jobs. I was informed that all the factions supported the bill, and I was surprised when there were such serious warnings. Let's, for the sake of clarity, I'll give you another word, one minute, Easy. Perhaps their position will be adjusted. Mr. Oleg, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-20-m0.u80	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Dear colleagues, the honourable drafters of the bill! Our faction made its remarks to the bill, my distinguished colleague Yuri Chizmar. With our proposals taken into account, particularly the removal from the bill of law of the right of the President to form a new commission, we are prepared to support this bill in the first reading. But we now propose, under the transcript, to remove this situation, because it's anti-constitutional: a list of the President's exclusive powers provided for in the Constitution and it's impossible for any law to give additional powers to the President. So we suggest that this anti-constitutional standard be removed. And under this condition, our first-reading faction is ready to support the bill and actively work on it for the second reading, understanding the need to develop information technology in Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-20-m0.u81	Thank you. Dear colleagues! I think it would be wise if we did the same as the previous decision: put it first, which is the decision of the committee. If it doesn't go through, then I'm going to go with Oleg Valeriovich Láška. Is that accepted? Colleagues Ready to Vote? I understand you don't deny the committee against such an amendment? But we're going to put the committee's decision first, then we're going to make an amendment. So, dear colleagues, I'm making my first offer. The first sentence, I put to the vote, is to adopt the draft Law on Electronic Communications (number 3549-1) in the first reading. Who supports the proposal in the first reading, please vote, colleagues. Please vote. Please support, we vote. [[11:24:07]] For 185 185. The second sentence, as I promised, I'm going to vote on the proposal to accept as a basis 3549-1 with the deletion of the standard. That's what I'm talking about. Let the committee head spell it out. Please, Danchenko, make an offer. One minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-20-m0.u82	I can't, he's like. Come on, come on, It's coming from the Usov Committee right now.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-20-m0.u83	Usov? Please, then, from the committee, would you mind if we made an amendment? So, Usov Constantine, can you give your position to the committee? Please. Tell me your position, come on.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-20-m0.u84	Please vote in favour of the amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-20-m0.u85	Thank you. So I'm voting on the proposal to adopt the draft Electronic Communications Act (3549-1) as amended. Which was sounded under the transcript by the national deputy, Oleg Lazko. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. Please vote. Please vote, please support. [[11:25:46]] For 211 211. Colleagues, do we put the first one again, or are we looking for compromise? Let's not get involved in the long discussion, asks Matthews, right? It's one minute, but it's up to you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-20-m0.u86	Matweenkov, 57th District, Mariupol City. Well, first of all, there's a procedure that clearly spells out the decision-making mechanism. We have a bill that wasn't voted on at all. It's our colleague's bill. That's the first one. The second question, if we are to remove this rule from the voice of improvisation, is to give a clear answer as to who will be the regulator in this situation, because the first bill is the Cabinet of Ministers, in the second bill, when the President took over, we remove it, and we are here with a hole. So the question is, let's sort of shake this moment up. There is a suggestion to send all three of them out for finalization, perhaps correctly and logically.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-20-m0.u87	Thank you. I will certainly put all three bills to the vote and then put them on the rereading committee, the first reading committee, my colleagues. Oleg Berezuk, he does. Let's have Oleg Berezuk, one minute, and get to the vote, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-20-m0.u88	Dear reformers! No doubt what's happening now is not about a better law, it's about trying to share a very important market, and no one cares about reforms or about the state. So there's a proposal to go up on all of this, to vote in the first reading, and then to fight: to fight for the Constitution, for Ukraine, and for everything. This is an important bill of the 21st century in Ukraine, and we can all be successful, all without exception.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-20-m0.u89	Thank you. Colleagues, I'm going to put in line with the Rules in the sequence that was proposed. So now I'm voting. Now I'm putting it to a vote. All right, since the biggest faction, Peter Dustock's Block, Igor Green. Please, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-20-m0.u90	I have an invitation to the chairman and to the chairman of the committee to consider this law in the first reading in the version proposed on the committee. And all the amendments, including the high - ranking national deputies, the leaders of other factions, will be considered on second reading. On the first reading, accept it in the version in which he was considered on the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-20-m0.u91	Mr. Igor, I support your offer. I'll tell you what I'm surprised at. In two weeks it was announced that there would be a day that would apply to these bills. It was time to reconcile all of this to the discussion in the hall. And I'm a little surprised that we're back in one position, and we're putting the bill at risk. Colleagues, at the request of Igor Greeniv and Oleg Brezjuk, I will put to the vote a return to the committee, and if there is political will, we will accept it. If there is no political will, you will have to return to your first reading. But now I'm putting to the vote Bill 3549 of People's MP Moroko Yuri Mikolaiovich, right? - who wasn't supported by the committee, but I'm putting him to the vote. So whoever supports the adoption of 3549 as a basis, please vote. Please vote. The committee supported him. Please vote. [[11:30:04]] For-147 The decision is not made. And I put 3549-2. The author withdrew his law, so I do not put him to the vote. And now, colleagues, I propose to return to 3549-1. I'm asking everyone to focus. I'll put it to a vote. If there are no votes to go back, I'm going to put the next proposal on re-reading. Prepared? Is everyone in the room? So I'm voting on the proposal to go back to voting and reviewing the draft Law on Electronic Communications, 3549-1. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. Vote, colleagues, please support. [[11:31:08]] For 215 By factions, please turn it on. Dear colleagues, according to the Rules, this is a proposal: re-reading the first reading, re-reading the first reading. I am voting on the proposal to send the draft Law on Electronic Communications (3549-1) to the Committee for re-reading. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. Please vote again for the first reading. Please vote. [[11:32:13]] For 260 Decision taken. But, dear fellows, I will once again make my point: it is not known when it will be possible to bring it back into the order of the day session. In advance, I've been addressing the committee, the authors, agree with how it's going to be in the hall. This is irresponsible when the discussion does not take place on the committees of profile before it is irresponsible. Thank you, colleagues, for your support, and I hope that we can work it out quickly and be able to reintroduce the agenda again. And I move on to the next issue of the agenda, this is the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Budget Code (on electronic communications) (3643). I'm told he's a derivative. The next, indeed, two bills are related to him, and they're actually postponing with that bill, they're derived from it. That's why both the authors and the committee are asking him to move it. Thus, the following is the draft Law on Electronic Trust Services (No. 4685). I ask you to support his consideration of the reduced procedure, colleagues. Anyone who supports the consideration of the reduced procedure, please vote. Please vote. [[11:33:51]] For-187 187 for. Decision taken. I'm inviting the Minister to report. Deputy Justice Minister Petuhov Sergey Igorovich. From the rostrum, please turn on the microphone on the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-20-m0.u92	Good afternoon, distinguished national MPs. I have the honour today to present a government bill of 4685: on electronic trust services -- which aims to comprehensively regulate the market for electronic trust services in Ukraine, to ensure effective cross-border cooperation, and to integrate Ukraine into the world's electronic information space. This bill is intended for implementation in Ukraine of Regulation No 910 of the European Union since 2014, which is Ukraine's obligation under the Association Agreement, as well as the action plan for implementation of the Association Agreement between Ukraine and the EU. This is a new regulation that has just become effective in the European Union in July 2016. And accordingly, Ukraine today has a unique opportunity, together with the European Union, to bring its market regulation of trust services into line and together to develop a single information space. The law introduces a series of new concepts that are technical in Ukrainian legislation, which define what authentication is, electronic identification, and for the first time, the definition of "web site" in Ukrainian legislation is comprehensively defined. The law provides for the authorization of the supervisory authorities, the freedom to make contracts, and the freedom of innovation in the market for trust services. The law does not require additional funding for the x state budget. During the consideration of this bill, comments were made on the profile committee and the Cabinet secretariat, most of which were taken into account, and what remains is ready for us to work on the second reading. I hereby request the Supreme Council to support this bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-20-m0.u93	Thank you. The report invites the head of the Committee on Information and Communications, Danchenko Alexander Ivanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-20-m0.u94	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs. The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Information and Communications discussed at its meeting on 16 June 2016 the draft Ukrainian Law on Electronic Trust Services (Registration No. 4685) submitted on 17 05. In 2016, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. The Committee on Prevention and Anti-Corruption concluded that the draft act did not reveal corruptive factors. The Committee points out the need to develop the overly complex legal structures used in the bill, as well as in article 43 of the draft Law, as part of the need to establish a system of application by the sanctioning authority. At the same time, we want to point out that this bill is a two-pronged bill, from the point of view of the association between Ukraine and the European Union, because it opens up the possibility of cross-border exchange of trust services. The bill also significantly expands the use of digital signatures, and digital signature itself becomes a trusted electronic service. This bill will allow Europe to join the only digital space of the European Union very quickly. The committee supported the bill in the first reading. I would like all the MPs to support this bill. The bill meets all European standards, is progressive and is the way to a single digital society, digital services with the European Union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-20-m0.u95	Thank you. Please record: two for, two against. Romanova.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-20-m0.u96	I give the word to Roman Semensi.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-20-m0.u97	Dear fellows, my lord! The rapid development of digital society and the market economy obliges us to regularly update our legislation to ensure national regulation and control over the maintenance of electronic digital signature legislation. The bill will allow Ukraine to implement the position of the Association Agreement between Ukraine, the European Union, will contribute to maximizing domestic legislation towards European development of cross-border certification services. The adoption of this law will enable Ukraine to create a new model for the provision of electronic digital signature services, which corresponds to the European trust service model introduced by the European Union since 2014. Set up regulatory and technological frameworks for electronic identification and create the legalization of modern services such as Mobile-ID and BankID. Qualified trust services and electronic identification form the basis for further development, user-oriented and secure electronic governance. Address the issue of cross-border recognition of digital signatures for Ukrainian citizens, Ukrainian businesses and their European partners. To enable, through modern technologies, Mobile-ID, Bankid to receive public services in electronic form not only in the middle of Ukraine but also within the European Union. The Self-Help Group will support in the first reading of the legislative initiative that will harmonise our integration into European digital society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-20-m0.u98	Thank you. Please, Lukyanczuk Ruslan Valeriyovich, and this is a closing statement. There will be a vote in three minutes. Please invite all the deputies to the hall. Lukyanczuk Ruslan Valeriyovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-20-m0.u99	I want to say that, as far as electronic trust services are concerned, the bill improves the legislation of Ukraine in the field of electronic signature, taking into account European experience. And the approval of this law is a step towards integration in the world's electronic information space. The People's Front faction will support this bill in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-20-m0.u100	Thank you. So the discussion is over. We can move on to making a decision. Colleagues, please take your seats, prepare for the vote. Please come into the hall, prepare for the vote. Colleagues, there is general support in the room, all speakers supported the bill. We can move on to making a decision. And I'm voting on the draft Law on Electronic Trust Services (No.4685) as a basis. Please vote, please support. Colleagues, please vote. [[11:42:00]] For 190 Colleagues, we just had a discussion. Each faction had the opportunity to speak. Well, if you have a different position, speak up, argue with it, explain it, please. Now I'm going to give the factions a minute to clarify the position. First I give the word who raised his hand first, Oleg Lazko. Then Danchenko. One minute at a time.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-20-m0.u101	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Dear Andrew Volodymyrovich, distinguished colleagues, it is clear that the chapter of today’s drafts on information technology development is underworked. We see that there is no effective vote for any of the bills. I would now like to take this issue off in general and start consideration of the agricultural sector. I hope that agrarian issues will find support in the room so that we lose time because information technology is an extremely important issue. But in order not to overthrow these laws, we need to move on to those who will find support in the hall. I hope that the entire Ukrainian Parliament Hall will unite the issues of the village. Today, for farmers, the price of milk, the development of the animal industry, the social sphere, the lease of land are key issues, in which case we will allow farmers to receive more money to feed their children. Our job is to rebuild the village and support it.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-20-m0.u102	Thank you. Please, Danchenko, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-20-m0.u103	My fellow Members, I want to say that all these bills have been completely worked out with all the factions and, if we talk about the village now, there is no investment there because there is no basic Internet. And now two factions, which are very often shouting about industrialization, are now rolling down the industrialization and modernization of the state. And no milk, nothing there, because investors don't invest where there's no infrastructure. All these bills have been worked out. And let's not get confused. I very much ask you to come back to these questions. I would also like to point out that this bill was completely supported in the first reading of the last session. But because of the new Cabinet of Ministers, he was simply recalled, and the Hall voted in full for him. So if we're talking about industrialization, let's be honest, some factions just don't want real industrialization in this country, digitization that's going to fight corruption. Without a digital society, corruption cannot be won.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-20-m0.u104	Dear colleagues, I'm asking the deputies to come into the hall and return to their places of work. I am a little surprised to hear no warnings during the discussion. I can't hear why. And, colleagues, but I'm looking at it, it's completely potential to make a positive decision. I'm asking the deputies to come into the hall. Colleagues, please invite the MP to the hall and prepare for the vote. So, dear colleagues, everyone has entered the hall, ready to make a decision. And I'm asking everyone to pay attention, and I'm proposing a return to the draft of Law 4685, where there are no warnings of any MP in the room. Please be supportive. Please vote, colleagues. Please carefully vote, colleagues, for the return of 4685. Please vote, colleagues. [[11:47:06]] For 257 We're back. And now I'm voting on the draft Law on Electronic Trust Services (number 4685) as a basis. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. Please, colleagues, we're voting on the ground. [[11:47:37]] For 260 Decision taken. Thank you to the authors and the committee. And for the second reading, I think we're going to work on it so that there's no discussion in the room. The next from the information box is the draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on the processing of information in cloud computing systems (number 4302). Please support the consideration of the reduced procedure. Please vote, please support. Please, 4302 is a reduced procedure. Vote. [[11:48:28]] For-195 195 for. Decision taken. And I invite you to the report of the Ukrainian National Deputy Danchenk Alexander Ivanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-20-m0.u105	Dear Andrey Volodymyrovich! Dear colleagues! Your opinion is proposed a bill on processing information in cloud computing systems. Authors: Danchenko, Belkova, Semimenha, Matuzko, Skrum It will call for the creation of conditions for the efficient use of state resources, in line with the Information Society Development Strategy in Ukraine, through the introduction of new technologies in the processing of information. The amount of information that needs to be processed daily increases. According to The Economist, the amount of digital information is increasing tens of times every five years. This bill, like all the other bills that are now in the information block, is bringing Ukraine back to the modern era, to the modern level with other states. So far, our government authorities have not been able to use cloud computing or store databases in the clouds. What does this lead to? This means that the state spends a lot of money on building its own data centers, buying servers -- it costs a lot of money that doesn't guarantee the same amount of information, it delays the development of government resources on rare. To build a data center is about a year. Instead of putting the information that's not under "T" in five minutes, it's not a secret, it's in the clouds. The bill also provides an opportunity, as Ukraine stands in the middle of China, America, Europe. The investment attraction of building data centers here to huge companies and putting its content right in Ukrainian territory, thus reducing the signal path to this content, and thus increasing the quality. I'm asking you to support the innovation bill from cloud computing and open the way to digital society, to economics.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-20-m0.u106	Thank you, Your Honor. And the word for the report is given to the First Deputy Head of the Committee on Information and Communication to Ruslan Lukyanczuk. Please, Mr. Ruslan.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-20-m0.u107	Dear colleagues! Dear Chairman! On July 6, 2016, the Committee on Information and Communications considered at its meeting a draft Law amending certain Ukrainian legislation on cloud computing systems (register No. 4302). The bill creates the conditions for the introduction of new technologies in the processing of information, which is managed by government authorities and local self - government. I would like to emphasize that the project does not refer to information that it has. It contains a State secret. The project provides preconditions for the further development of information and communication technology platforms in various areas of social life, particularly in the areas of government, education and science. This is achieved through the following tasks: first, the concept of cloud computing and cloud service providers is introduced into legislation. The other one. Various protective tools are being developed to process cloud computing information. Third. Cloud computing systems that have certificates of conformity with national or international standards in the field of information protection are allowed. Four. It extends to subjects who can process personal data owned by government authorities or local governments. According to the Committee on Budgets, the adoption of the bill will have no impact on the budget. The Anti-Corruption and Anti-Corruption Committee reported that there were no corruption factors in the project and that it met the requirements of anti-corruption legislation. According to the draft bill, the Committee on Informatics and Communications approved the recommendation of the Supreme Council to recommend a bill amending some Ukrainian legislation on cloud computing systems (number 4302) as a basis. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-20-m0.u108	Thank you, dear colleagues, for following the rules. And I ask the factions to sign up for the discussion of Bill 4302: Two for, two against the MP. Please. Please, from Self-Help, National Deputy Costenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-20-m0.u109	Please give the word to Roman Semensi.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-20-m0.u110	Roman Semenha. Will you be from the rostrum or will you be from your seat, Mr. Roman?
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-20-m0.u111	Semenha Roman, "The Self-Help Union" faction. Dear Mr. Head, distinguished colleagues, cloudy technologies have, in fact, long gone into the lives of each and every one of us. We all use e-mail, we use social networking and all kinds of messaging. The time has come to put cloud technology in the service of the State. Colleagues, how would you react if someone suggested that you build a separate electronic power plant for every government authority, for every silage. However, something similar is happening now with data centers that are no longer needed for electricity, but for digital information in the country, for electronic governance, for documentation, for simplification and automated work in the public sector. As we continue to analyze electricity, legislation requires us to invest enormous costs in the construction, maintenance and upgrading of individual power plants for each institution separately. The bill that I'm commenting on today suggests joining existing power lines and taking as much electricity as it takes. Cloud computing systems allow older computers to be more efficient because information processing is done in special information centers and computers are used as terminals. And the acquisition of software licenses, at the same time, the cloud services of many providers also provide the possibility of using their software, that is, using clouds, the state can avoid substantial additional costs. We talk a lot about integration into Europe, but the European Commission has introduced cloud technology since 2012. In Britain, for example, all tax, customs, and health data have already been transferred to the cloud. Yes, the government also planned to create state-owned data centers first, but they quickly realized that the government's clouds would not be able to provide the necessary level of flexibility and access. Thus, the bill is accompanied by important points in the economy of budget funds and the conduct of new technologies. Colleagues, I urge you to support the bill in the first reading as a basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-20-m0.u112	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the closing act. In three minutes, we'll move on to making a decision. Everyone, please come into the hall, take your jobs. I would like to invite Mr. Halasyuk Viktor Valeriyovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-20-m0.u113	Thank you. Dear Andrew Volodymyrovich, distinguished colleagues of the national MPs! The Radical Party faction will support this bill, which aims to develop and apply cloud technologies in Ukraine, including government authorities. Why is it so important? Not just because it allows for additional electronic governance in the country. Not just because it provides effective communication. Not only because it essentially brings Ukrainian legislation into line with the global technological trends that exist in the world and that we need not fight them, but to use them for the benefit of our country, our government. And we will support it also because it is a real fight against corruption. Because when government authorities purchase equipment that is out of date in six months, when government authorities place such specifications on the purchase of equipment that are absolutely artificial, which does not even help ProZorro, this law will help to deal with such problems. I would like to point out that even today, the head of the Balchun Crossroads has stressed that he sees a systemic problem. In other offices it's the same problem: they put artificial technical specifications on government purchases; then they're loaded into ProZorro -- and there's a transparent tender. But the problem is not how a tender takes place, but what technical task those contracting authorities are dealing with. So in order to clear those possibilities of creating artificial technical tasks and buying that iron that costs very expensive and very quickly then the state doesn't need to save money from the state budget, we really have to put cloud technology on the armament of the state. So the Radical Party faction always supports industrialization, innovation and modern information technology in government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-20-m0.u114	Thank you. Dear colleagues, there is full approval in the hall of the bill. I ask everyone to take up their jobs, prepare for the vote. Colleagues, please come into the hall. I want to emphasize, there must be a moment of solidarity. When it is a day of profile, support the committee. Tomorrow will be your profile day, the committee will support you. Don't put politics where there's no politics, where there's development of the country and where there's development of our information technology. And I'm voting on the draft Act amending some of the Ukrainian legislation on the processing of information in cloud computing systems number 4302 as a basis. Please vote and please support 4302 as a basis. Vote, colleagues, please. [[11:59:01]] For 214 We didn't make it, we didn't vote. I see I haven't voted on a few cards. Even Irina Heratschenko did not vote on the card. Please come into the hall, take your jobs. I'll be back in a minute. Are you guys ready? Everyone's in, everybody's in? I very much ask for concentration and concentration when voting, when making decisions. Are you guys ready? I'm offering to go back to 4302. I ask everyone to concentrate and vote for the return of 4302. Please vote. Please be supportive. [[12:00:19]] For 232 They all had cards. So they're focused, and I'm putting the draft Law 4302 to a vote on the basis, please vote, please support me, colleagues. We're voting! 4302 on the ground, please. [[12:00:50]] For 229 Decision taken. Welcome to the committee. Colleagues, I'm going on for 15 minutes. Colleagues, we still have two bills that aren't conflicting either. Can't we make it? Okay, colleagues, I'm just saying. Society, listen to my logic: The sooner we go, the sooner we get to the issue of agrarian politics. [[B in m in s a l in]] Three, yes, three. But I'm stressing again. All right, I'll call it a break. But also, I want to tell you that we have a statement already made, and the Ukrainian Parliament, to my conviction, has to assess the next crime of the Kremlin occupying power -- the pseudo-voys in the Ukrainian Crimea under the guns of the Russian machine guns. The corresponding draft statement in the Supreme Council of Ukraine is already registered. I ask the Committee on Foreign Affairs to consider it during this break so that we can give a dignified, firm and firm position of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the pseudo-elections that took place in the Russian State Duma. And now, according to the Rules, I announce a break until 12:30. At 12:30, I ask everyone to come to work to continue our work.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-20-m0.u115	Dear colleagues, please come into the hall to continue our work. Please, one minute, please come into the hall. Colleagues, let's move on to the next issue of the day's agenda from the information box. The next is the draft Law on Basic Principles for Cybersecurity in Ukraine, 2126a. Dear colleagues, I ask you to support the proposal for a reduced procedure. Can I count on the support of all factions -- the reduced procedure? Then I ask you to come into the hall, take your jobs, get ready for the vote. Colleagues, please come into the hall, there will be a decision to make now, and I ask you to prepare for the vote. Colleagues, I'm putting to the vote a motion to review the shortened procedure for draft Law 2126a. An extremely important and timely bill, and I ask everyone to concentrate and vote on the reduced procedure 2126a. Please vote, please support. Let's vote, colleagues. [[12:40:09]] For 106 The decision is not made. We didn't make it. I see they haven't made it. And, colleagues, I really want to make it clear to everyone: is it really the will of the hall to consider it fully? Please, colleagues, let's go into the hall, we've got work to do. [[B in m in s a l in]] So, colleagues, I'm going to put the reduced voting procedure again and I'm going to explain to you what happens when we don't vote. We go into the hourly consideration of one question, the question of local self-government is passed on, the question of the agrarian block is passed on for an hour -- colleagues! - for an hour. And then there are complaints that we don't accept enough bills during the day. So I'm asking everyone to take up their jobs, and I'm only going to make one more vote. You all know the order of the day, we have a chance to go through it completely if we work dynamically and effectively. Colleagues Ready to Vote? I'm betting, and I'm asking you to support, a reduced procedure, the security of Ukraine. An extremely important question. And I ask you to support and vote. So once again, I'm going to ask you to consider a reduced procedure of 2126a. Please vote and please support. Colleagues, please support everyone. Vote. [[12:43:02]] For-151 151 for. Decision taken. And I give the floor to the Ukrainian national deputy Lukyanchuk Ruslan Valeriyovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-20-m0.u116	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the honourable chairman! The issue of cybersecurity is extremely relevant for Ukraine, but in our country, responses to the challenges and threats in the area are only at the beginning and are not complex. As we know, the number and variety of cyberattacks against Ukraine are increasing at present. The aim of these attacks is to violate the confidentiality, integrity and availability of information resources, the latrine mode of information and telecommunications networks, including critical infrastructure objects. Therefore, the State needs to implement comprehensive measures aimed at securing cybersecurity and, above all, to regulate this area in legislation. The first step in this direction is the revised 2126a bill, which has been under way for more than two years, since June 19, 2016. In connection with the introduction of the Ukrainian National Security Strategy, approved by Presidential Decree No. 96 of March 15, 2016, the working group developed a new draft of the bill, which is fully in line with the principles and regulations of the strategy. I would like to point out that only the law can be determined, who can be the subject of a national cybersecurity system, which is mandated by the relevant authorities and which are the main pillars of their activities and functions. That's exactly what the bill says. The bill also takes into account many good points made by interested authorities and public authorities. The adoption of the bill will allow legal, organizational, basic objectives and directions, powers and responsibilities of public authorities, enterprises and institutions, and their coordination and basic terms in the area of cybersecurity. Dear colleagues, please support Bill 2126 as a basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-20-m0.u117	Thank you. The co - report invites the head of the Committee on Information and Communications, Danchenko Alexander Ivanovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-20-m0.u118	Dear Head, distinguished national MPs! The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Information and Communications discussed at its meeting on July 6, 2016, the draft Law on Basic Principles for Cybersecurity in Ukraine (register). Number 2126a of 14.04. In 2016, introduced by a group of national deputies: Lukyanchuk, Kozemyakin, Buharev, and others. The draft law was drafted in accordance with the task envisaged in paragraph 2 of paragraph 2 of paragraph 1 of the decision of the National Security and Defence Council of Ukraine of 28 April 2014 on measures to improve the formation and implementation of public policy in the field of information. the information security of Ukraine", introduced by Presidential Decree of Ukraine of 1 May 2005. 2014 (number 449) The essence of the legislative initiative is to introduce appropriate terminology to determine the legal and organizational principles of state policy in this area, the basic principles and the direction of cybersecurity. The chief scientific and expert administration of the Supreme Council's apparatus recommends that the Supreme Council of Ukraine, as a result of the first reading of the draft law, be redrafted, as it is necessary to develop a comprehensible apparatus. But this bill contains very important standards. Under the conditions of war with Russia, there can be no hybrid war in the state. No cybersecurity bill. Gentlemen, for almost two years we've had a war, this bill has opened up opportunities for the cyberprotection of our state. I'm asking for your support. There are important standards in this bill, such as the protection of critical infrastructure, you know how our energy was attacked, now what critical infrastructure is -- there is no. Please. Our committee at its meeting supported this bill unanimously, please support the bill on the basic principles of Ukrainian cybersecurity. Number 21.)
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-20-m0.u119	Please finish 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-20-m0.u120	Please accept it as a basis and by an accelerated procedure, a reduced procedure for second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-20-m0.u121	Thank you. I'm asking you to make a record: two for, two for against, please. Danchenko Alexander Ivanovich, conveys the word Semensi. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-20-m0.u122	Semenha Roman, "The Self-Help Union" faction. Dear Mr. Head! Dear colleagues! At last, after two years of undeclared war by Russia, we have here in the sessional room to discuss an important component of hybrid war, namely the cybersecurity of our state. Let me remind you, actually, Russia's aggression in Europe started not two and a half years ago during the annexation of the Ukrainian Crimea, and not even during the annexation of part of the sovereign Georgia in 2008, but from a full-scale well-planned cyberattack by Russia on independent Estonia in 2007. The self-help faction will support an initiative that promotes the strengthening of the country's cyber-protectionist, but at the same time, such an initiative has many very declarative things, and it solves too few critical tasks that lie ahead of our country. This applies, for example, to the state cybersecurity center. There's no detail of this center in the bill. One of the tasks of developing secure cyberspace should be to improve the system of independent audit of information security. Instead, the bill of audit is based on the Ukrainian State and Security Service. Thus, there is no possibility in the bill. the option of involving independent audiences, which is actually a world practice. The authorizations of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in the area of cybersecurity are prescribed in only one sentence, but it would be appropriate to oblige the Security Committee to regularly monitor the state of cybersecurity and report regularly to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Despite all the remarks, I am convinced that the adoption of this bill in the first reading will begin a professional, professional discussion on creation, the work of a powerful cyberspace of our state. Colleagues, please support as a basis in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-20-m0.u123	Thank you. Please, Lukyanchuk Ruslan Valeriyovich, "The People's Front"
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-20-m0.u124	Thank you, Mr. Head. Ladies and gentlemen, the People's Front supports the bill. And I would also like to point out with regard to the previous speaker that this bill is a form, and the content will be filled in gradually as the issues are developed. And also, here are the basic principles that are fully and completely consistent with European and Nativity. So please, colleagues, support this bill, it gives the first step towards moving to cybersecurity and building a normal cyberspace in Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-20-m0.u125	Thank you very much. Please, Kugel Alexander Volodymyrna.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-20-m0.u126	Thank you. Fatherland, Alexander Kugel. I want to stress that we have been very serious and carefully considering this bill on the faction. There are many observations. Comments on the transfer of some credentials. They are controversial, but we have decided that this bill must be supported in the first reading. Because we think that this is a government's first decision in a very important direction -- the direct protection of information. And this is an important bill. The Fatherland faction will vote in the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-20-m0.u127	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the discussion is over. Everyone, please come into the hall, take your jobs. It is very important that, in the matter of national security, the entire Supreme Council Hall unites, and political discussions go awry. I hope that our vote will be the same. Colleagues, please come into the hall and take up jobs. The Secretary of the Supreme Council, please inform us that a decision will be taken in 30 seconds. Please, we're taking up jobs. Voting heads, colleagues? I put to the vote the draft Law on Basic Principles for Cybersecurity of Ukraine (number 2126a) as a basis. Please vote, please support. Based on 2126a. Please, colleagues, we're voting. [[12:53:14]] For 215 We didn't make it. I see they haven't made it. Please come into the hall, take your jobs. Please show by factions. It's important how the factions vote on matters of national security. Block of Petra Poshenko – 86, National Front – 58, Opposition Block – 0, Self-help – 21, Rebirth Party – 9, Parenthood – 12, Radal Party of Oleg Lachka – 11, Will of the People – 4, non-fractional – 13. I ask all statesmen to concentrate, prepare for the vote. I'll be back in a minute. Ivanchuk came in, he'll make a decision. Andrew Volodymyrovich, quickly move to your workplace. And I'm proposing that we go back to the draft law, the basic principles of cybersecurity in Ukraine (2126a). Please vote. Colleagues, please vote. Please vote. [[12:55:03]] For 233 We're back. And now I'm putting to the vote the draft law the basic principles of securing Ukraine's cybersecurity (number 2126a) as a basis. Please vote, please support 2126a as a base, please. [[12:55:34]] For 235 Decision taken. Welcome to the authors. And there was a proposal for us to vote on the second reading for the shortened procedure. Yeah? I'm proposing a shortening of the deadline for the submission of proposals and amendments to the second reading. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. Please select a shortcut for the second read. Vote, fellow supporters. [[12:56:12]] For 193 193 for. The decision is not made. Next: draft Law 4159 of the Information Unit. This is a draft of the Law on Access to Construction, Transport, and Electricity for the Development of Telecommunications Networks. Please support the consideration of the reduced procedure. Colleagues, please vote in favour of a reduced procedure. Please. [[12:56:58]] For-195 195 for. Decision taken. And I invite you to the report of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Seminohe Roman Sergiyovich. Please, Mr. Roman.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-20-m0.u128	Roman Semenha, Self-Help Unit. Dear colleagues, Mr. Head, I have the honour to present in this session room bill 4159 on simplifying the access of telecom operators to infrastructure objects. The bill is the result of years of work by dozens of people. Our Ukraine is truly unique. On the one hand, the speed of the Internet in Ukraine is one of the largest in Europe; on the other, it is one of the smallest. If the situation in large cities is relatively normal, only 1 out of every 3 cities and villages has access to the Internet. For example, the State is currently actively developing a network of CNAPs. But if we do not connect to every CNAP in every center and village with a high - quality Internet, there is no point in the existence of such a CNAP. What are the reasons for such a situation? Uncoordinated relationships between operators and infrastructure owners, unjustified refusals, or creation of access to infrastructure during construction. In many cases, there is a different approach for owners to pay for access to objects, to burden their providers with additional obligations that they do not have, to abuse individual monopoly owners of infrastructure, such as energy companies, owners of telecommunications wells, and others. But the main objective of the bill is to strike a balance between telecom operators, owners of infrastructure objects of different forms of ownership and, above all, end consumers. Every Ukrainian in any part of our country is obliged to have full access to quality high-speed Internet. The adoption of this bill will allow the introduction of the only rules for the whole sector throughout Ukraine. We're talking a lot about the village right now, but the wise people are saying, "Today the village needs not only the road and the school, but also the quality of modern communication." Colleagues, please support in the first reading and join in preparing for the second reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-20-m0.u129	Thank you. The co - report invites the head of the Committee on Information and Communications, Danchenko Alexander Ivanovich. Please, Mr. Alexander.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-20-m0.u130	Dear presiding officers, distinguished national deputies. A bill on access to infrastructure for buildings, transport, electricity for the development of telecommunications networks (register) 4159) (from 26.02.2016, completed 06.06. 2016), submitted by the factions: Self-help, WFP, National Front, Fatherland, regulates at the legislative level relations related to the establishment of the only legal framework for access and use of infrastructure for the development of telecommunications networks to meet the needs of consumers of telecommunications services and the development of information society in Ukraine. It is also envisaged that public authorities be empowered to develop and approve appropriate methods of payment for access to rules, regulations, and requirements for the placement of technical means of telecommunications in the relevant infrastructure. The bill is designed to implement paragraph 128 of the Action Plan for the Implementation of the Association Agreement between Ukraine and the European Union and the Action Plan for the Deregulation of Economic Activities. The need to address these issues is reflected in the commission of the Presidential Administration of the National Commission, which regulates state affairs in the field of communication and information, and in the National Commission for State regulation in the field of energy and utilities. The Committee on Environmental Policy, Environmental Management and the Elimination of the Effects of the Chernobyl Disaster proposes to remove from the draft law the proposed amendments to the Ukrainian Law on the Nature and Command Fund of Ukraine on the placement of telecommunications technology in areas of the natural-command fund. The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine recommends that the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopt this bill as a result of the first reading, accept as a basis, and work on the rights that exist. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-20-m0.u131	Thank you very much. You're done, aren't you? Dear colleagues, please record: two for, two against. Please. Lukyanczuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-20-m0.u132	Thank you. Dear colleagues, regarding Bill 4159. The committee carried out considerable work to reconcile the interests of representatives of various sectors. We were able to achieve a very complex compromise, but it was successful. The approval of the bill will allow the system of telecommunications to be unlocked in Ukraine and will improve its quality and accessibility. Dear colleagues, the People's Front faction supports this bill in the first reading on the ground. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-20-m0.u133	Thank you. Berezuk Oleg Romanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-20-m0.u134	Alona Babak, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-20-m0.u135	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-20-m0.u136	Ladies and gentlemen, the self-help faction not only asks you to support this bill, but it also wishes to point out that this law will make progress for the first time in Ukraine to regulate the right of operators and telecommunications providers to access electricity, transport and construction networks. What is happening in cities today? When any operator or telecommunications provider tries to look at a particular structure that has a monopoly on the market, whether there's a water undertaking, whether there's an electricity company, or there's an electric company, or there, there, a highway in relation to a telecommunications operator, there's always a variety of requirements that can also be called corruption. This law lays down rules on which relations between market participants are to be built. So what we're talking about is that we're going to start civilizing the relationship between all the participants in the telecommunications market. What's important? We're also going to set up a system in the apartment buildings: without the owner of the house you can't get to the network of this house. Only on contractual terms with the essential conditions enshrined in this law will anyone be able to access the infrastructure inside the apartment building. This is an extremely civilized and progressive step in our legislation. So we ask you to support this and follow the normal civilised development of the telecommunications market. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-20-m0.u137	Thank you very much. Ustin Glibovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-20-m0.u138	Constantine Usov, 33 constituency. Please give my word to my colleague Maxim Chicken.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-20-m0.u139	Thank you. Dear Andrew Volodymyrovich, distinguished colleagues of the national MPs! The bill, on the one hand, is really promising because it provides the European model for regulating telecommunications services in Ukraine. The bill seeks to address the problem of access to housing and non-residential infrastructure. A tool has been developed and proposed – at the legislative level to establish the rights and responsibilities of operators and local authorities. Friends, on the one hand, that's very good, but I'm now addressing the drafters. Colleagues, a little bit of human memory, and a second reading of the flaws need to be corrected. What is it? There's a problem. The point is that the rights of the residents of apartment buildings, the owners of apartments, and the rights of organs. The mergers of coowners of apartment buildings in this bill are not properly regulated. Their rights are not regulated by this law, their interests are not protected. I mean, people have been forgotten. Look what's going on in the driveways of our residential homes that have been left behind by Internet providers and owners and cable operators -- holes in the ceilings, holes in the roofs, wires, cables that hang like webs and some unimaginable web-based web-providers in the pursuit of profit have forgotten that they are simply throwing away the comfort and security of our citizens. Friends, who's gonna clean this up for them? I ask the second reading to pay considerable attention to the resolution of these issues and to the protection of residents of the rights of dwellings in our homes. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-20-m0.u140	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the final closing statement, in three minutes, I ask the factions and the secretariat to inform the deputies to take their seats and prepare for the vote. And I give the word Ivchenk Vadim Evgenovich, "The Fatherland." Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-20-m0.u141	Vadim Yvchenko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues, I want to agree with previous speakers, this is really a draft law that defines new rules in the telecom market. We want to increase network coverage for providers, operators, telecommunications networks. But at the same time, we're laying down rules for the use of house distribution networks here, and I think that's right as co-author of the bill. In particular, we allow local self-government authorities to set fees according to methods that will approve the public authority, as well as to provide full non-discriminatory access for all operators to distribution networks, both in buildings and on, in certain modules, networks and so on. What is proposed today is that we immediately include this amendment and adopt the law in the first reading by voting. We have to choose and the committee has already said this, we have to choose the amendments to the Natural Command Fund Act, where we allow the installation of modules, technical tools and so on for communication services. We're thinking that today it doesn't meet the requirements of the environmental and the development of the natural reserve, the parks and so on. Therefore, it is suggested that these changes be corrected. The committee supports. And everything else we're going to work on between the first and the second readings and we're going to do. we will introduce certain rules for access to these networks and the development of operators and information systems providers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-20-m0.u142	Thank you. In general, the rules apply between the first and the second readings, but if there's a common position between the factions and the committee, then I'm going to make a proposal that. Colleagues, let the committee head make a sound, which is why we vote under the transcript, and then we'll know exactly how we vote. Please take up jobs. Please, Danchenko, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-20-m0.u143	Of course, this question is counterversive, because the development of tourism in these places also needs -- I want to emphasize -- a link. But on the other hand, I agree with your fears. But if there's no way to discuss this question, I have two suggestions: whether to discuss this question before the second reading all together, so that it is, if you agree, or now. I would suggest discussing this issue and I would like to point out that in my speech I raised this subject as committee heads. No repairs.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-20-m0.u144	No corrections, right? Colleagues, I'm voting on the draft Law on Access to Buildings, Transport, Electricity for the Development of Telecommunications Networks (No. 4159). Colleagues, just on the ground. Whoever supports this position, please vote. Please support 4159 as a base. Vote, colleagues, please. [[13:10:33]] For 236 Decision taken. And, dear fellows, we have the last draft of the chapter that stood today, which is a chapter on information. 2133a is a bill amending certain Ukrainian laws to increase responsibility for offences committed in the field of information security and the fight against cybercrime. But, dear colleagues, we had a discussion the day before, and I need to understand, and the author needs to understand, is there any support for this bill? I want to ask you, "self-help," 2133? Dear colleagues! "Peter Prashenko's Block," is there support for this bill? Colleagues, so I'm going to make a proposal to 2133a for a reduced procedure. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. Short procedure - 2133a. Please vote, please support. Please. [[13:12:43]] For 193 193 for. Decision taken. And I invite you to report to the head of the Committee on the Law Enforcement of the Protective Activities of Kožemjakin Andrija Anatoliyovich. Please, Mr. Andrew.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-20-m0.u145	Good day, honourable colleagues, the Committee on Law Enforcement, discussed the draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to Certain Ukrainian Laws on Strengthening Responsibility for Offences in Information Security and the Fight against Cybercrime. Well, it's almost the same law that we just voted for security, cybercrime. The purpose of the bill is to define the main orientations of state policy and the function of national security subjects in the area of cybersecurity in Ukraine, to identify real and potential threats to Ukraine's cybersecurity and to introduce new terms into legislation, such as cybersecurity and cyberspace ("cyberspace", cybersecurity"). To this end, the bill proposes to amend a number of legislative acts, such as the Ukrainian Code. to the Ukrainian Code of Administrative Affairs -- I'm telling you -- a violation to make you aware of what's going on, the laws: operational and search activities and the Ukrainian Security Service, counter-intelligence, the foundations of national security, intelligence and telecommunications. The Ukrainian Security Service supports the bill, the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of Internal Affairs supports the bill, the Ministry of Justice supports the bill. And after reviewing this bill, the committee members noted that, despite the fact that it contains certain shortcomings that would be further developed during the preparation of it in the second reading on the committee, we would invite all those who would like to make suggestions and corrections that could be corrected during, as I said, preparations for second reading, its acceptance is essential to prevent threats to the security of the state in the information sphere and cyberspace. This is especially important during the war that is under way today in Ukraine. As a result of the discussion at the committee meeting, we decided to recommend to the Supreme Council that we accept as a basis and ask for support. And as for the bill that was passed earlier, this bill clearly amends operational laws, I mean operational-search activities, the Criminal Code, the Criminal Procedural Service, the Ukrainian Security Service, it's a normal legal and technical operation. This law, the first law that has been passed, will not work without this law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-20-m0.u146	Dear colleagues, I'd like you to have two in favor, two in favor. And I want to point out, really, this bill was included yesterday in the order of the day at the request of the muscle. During the war, when the Force asked to support the initiative, and especially in the fight against cybercrime, I suggested it, but the MPs would, of course, be determined on their own during the discussion. But I think the right thing to do is to take the first reading, and we'll be able to make the second. So, Ivchenko Vadim Evgenovich, please. Eutushka. He's handing over Eutuska, all right.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-20-m0.u147	Sergey Eutuszek, "The Fatherland" faction. Mr. Chairman, your honor, you know, the whole world has now focused its attention on the fight against terrorism. These days, a plenary session of the UN General Assembly is held, which also raises the issue of combating terrorism. This bill of authors and parliament can open up a debate on this new issue, because we have to understand how to fight theft, how to fight other crimes, but we still don't understand how to fight such information wars, hybrid wars that are now in Ukraine. I also want to go to all the factions and give an example. In the town of Brezne, on the Plains, there's a warrior attaché named Usach Andrew, who was literally assembled in parts and anyway, they made him live. So, when volunteers, good people count his money as an electronic bank card, 90,000 dollars were stolen from this card, and the operation was too difficult. So far, no investigation has been carried out, since today’s legislation does not allow the complete database to be extracted and investigated. Therefore, the bill clearly provides for the right of management, at the written request of the Security Service of Ukraine, the Ministry of Internal Affairs, to all special departments that are entitled to receive written information and to investigate such crimes. I ask all factions to support this bill. "Paternity" asks and supports this legal act in the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-20-m0.u148	Thank you. Please, Papamarczuk Mikola Petrovich, Peter Dusty Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-20-m0.u149	Dear colleagues, this bill will allow the Special Forces to fight evil as not only today but also today's cyber. The fight against cybercrime and the evil that terrorism is now inflicting on our nation and all the nations of the world. All of Europe is struggling. The fight against cybercrime and we also have to keep up, we have to do everything we can to give the instrument to the law enforcement authorities and the security services in the fight against cybercrime. There is no political aspect, this law is necessary and essential for our society. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-20-m0.u150	Thank you. Please, Monsieur Igor Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-20-m0.u151	Igor Mosiyczuk, Oleg Lachka Radical Party Our faction will support this bill, as it is overwhelming, especially in times of war and during the turmoil that takes place in the information space of our nation. In fact, we need to focus on a few points. How protected today from cybercrime are the bases and registers of the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine, for there is no mystery to how part of the raids take place, part of the changes made to registers, interference with registers. There is now a two-pronged process of filling out e-declaration, which will also be kept in an appropriate database, and into which cybercrime may also be involved. That is why this bill is excessive. We're working on introducing the rights between the first and the second reading to it. And we ask Parliamentary colleagues to support it in the first reading, because its adoption will not only simplify the work of law enforcement agencies, but will lead them to a completely different level and allow them to resist Ukrainian and foreign cybercrime. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-20-m0.u152	Thank you very much. Colleagues, there'll be a vote in three minutes. I very much ask my fellow national deputies to come into the hall and prepare for the decision. And I also ask the secretariat of the Supreme Council to inform the deputies that a decision will now be taken. And I give the floor to Soboljevo Yegor Viktorovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-20-m0.u153	Self-help points out that this bill appeared at the parliamentary table at night. This cannot be the case with the normal Council. We will not vote in favour of a law that has not been discussed properly. Don't joke there. We've just started to study it: it gives us the right to block sites, it gives the Ukrainian Security Service the right to impose demands, including on business; it imposes fines for failure to comply with those requirements. In fact, we have a huge threat to the replay of the mask show that we saw in the offices of many IT companies, which included the use of Alpha, which is in itself a nonsensus, because it's an anti-terrorist unit that's very necessary during the war for independence. Self-help suggests a normal consideration of this bill. In particular, we want to listen to a representative of the Ukrainian Security Service, to understand what powers they are about, how they will apply, especially to business, to IT business. And no doubt we cannot vote for what we bring to the Supreme Council at night and vote in the morning. This is not right for the Ukrainian Parliament.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-20-m0.u154	Yegor, I just want to emphasize that this law has passed the committee and all necessary procedures are foreseen. I'll give it to you in closing. One minute, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please. Colleagues, please come into the hall. One minute, Oksana Siroid, one minute, Andrew Cosemiakin.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-20-m0.u155	Dear colleagues, I'm addressing the drafters too much, you know perfectly well that the basic mission of the SBU, it's counterintelligence, it's not an investigation, it's not. Dear colleagues, you're doing a very dangerous thing, you're proposing a dangerous thing that has to have an extremely dangerous effect on human rights and freedoms. You're actually translating those functions that the Public Prosecutor's Office used to have, now on the BSI, which will allow you to intervene in the activities of any government and local government, as well as in business, you're strengthening the BSI's tracking functions. First of all, it's completely distant from us from the reform of the BSC in principle, and it has to be admitted that you're moving in the opposite direction. And secondly, admit that you're actually turning B.B.I. into a punitive organ on the spot.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-20-m0.u156	Thank you. One minute, Andrew Kožemyakin, and we move on to the vote. Sir, Andrew, please come into the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-20-m0.u157	Dear colleagues, first of all, this is a first reading review, once. Secondly, I want to say that in answer to Mr. Sobolev. Mr. Yegor, I don't register some of the legislative acts, for example, to change the subjectivity or make changes to the NABA in order for it to have the right to listen to phones, for example, one law is, it's registered, then you register another to get it to you on the committee, you accept it and it goes normally, but look, the one that passed our committee, it doesn't get looked at somehow. This Law was introduced yesterday after the Conciliation Council according to the Rules. I talked about him and he was introduced, not at 22, as you say, but at 6:15 a.m. he showed up at the website. Anyone who wants to work will always find something to work with. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-20-m0.u158	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the discussion between security and human rights is a discussion that takes place in all civilized countries, but most of the factions that have spoken have expressed their support for the bill, and more so, it is only discussed in the first reading, I stress. We can fix the risks there to the second reading. And so, colleagues, I'm voting on a bill amending some of Ukraine's laws to increase responsibility for the commission of information security offences and the fight against cybercrime (number 2133a) on the basis of a colleague. Based on the base. Please vote, please support on the basis. [[13:26:19]] For 208 Is there anyone who hasn't made it? Can we bet on the return? Excuse me? Please, I'll give you 30 seconds. Come into the hall, who has not arrived, and come to the workplace. I'll put it back once. If there are no votes, I will propose the following forms that are in the Rules. Please come into the hall, colleagues who have not arrived. We're taking up jobs. Colleagues, I'm going to return to this bill once. Are you guys ready? I propose to go back to consideration of 2133a on accepting it as a basis. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. Colleagues, please vote. 2133a, return. Vote. [[13:28:00]] For 222 Dear colleagues, my system's broken, my system's not working. [[B in m in s a l in]] Do you have a job? How much? [[B in m in s a l in]] Please, I'm asking the technical services to fix my screen. And I didn't have a button. It didn't work out for me either, colleagues. I'll be right back. I didn't have a machine, either, but I'm asking you to. [[B in m in s a l in]] This is our own issue of cybersecurity and the Supreme Council. That's what happens if we don't vote, you understand. Colleagues, come on without my board, I think my card will work. I'll bet again. Please, I'm putting the vote back to 2133a. Whoever supports the return to this bill, please vote. Colleagues, please vote. Vote. Please vote if the system works. Please. [[13:29:27]] For 215 There's no room. And, colleagues, I'm going to make the next suggestion -- for the first time again, to go back to the committee. Is there support for such a position? Colleagues, send to the committee for re-reading, right? Colleagues, I'm voting for a motion to refer to the committee for a re-reading of Law 2133a. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. Please vote. [[13:30:21]] For 243 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, let's move on to the next issue of the agenda. This is the next question of the draft Decision on the application of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for non-recognition by Ukraine of the legitimacy of the elections to the State Duma of the Federal Assembly of the Russian Federation of the Seventh Call, their results and legal consequences, and, accordingly, the composition, credentials, acts and decisions of the Federal Parliament of the Russian Federation. The committee's decision is already there, and I'm convinced that the Supreme Council should give its assessment to those actions that took place in the Russian Federation last Sunday. I would like to support the proposal for a simplified procedure for the draft law. Please, 51. Oh, the draft decision. 5135 under reduced procedure. [[13:31:38]] For 228 228 for. Decision taken. I invite you to the report of the Ukrainian national deputy, Georgi Volodymyrovich. Please. Report.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-20-m0.u159	Dear colleagues, I ask you very much to draw your attention and to respect this document that we are currently considering. This respect for this document is respect for our state. I urge you to support and vote in favour of the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine not to recognise Ukraine's legitimacy of elections to the Federal State Duma of the Russian Federation's seventh convocation, their results and legal consequences, respectively, the composition, credentials, acts, decisions of the Federal Parliament of the Russian Federation (registration number 5135). What's the point? What's the call? The call is very simple. I urge you to vote for the truth that Crimea is Ukraine, and we have no right to trade them! Anexia, which has now taken place in the territory of our state, is a crime. And if we do not recognize as a crime, what right can we demand from other nations or international societies that we have not recognized, but they must support us. Today's clear legal and political fact that 229 MPs of the Russian Federation are illegal, as they are. There was a vote in the occupied area. I would like to emphasize that they are illegal, not one of their documents. And when there's a tribunal over the leadership of the Russian Federation, we have to present these documents and say that we did these steps, we didn't call Crimea the Southern Federal District, and we didn't actually close our eyes on this. I call on this House. Now under the walls of the Supreme Council there are people who are asking you to vote, they're looking at who in this Parliament can now trade our land, who don't protect our prisoners in this Parliament.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-20-m0.u160	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-20-m0.u161	The unity. Now those people who are behind bars in Majlis asked you, "Who are we? We are hostages who believe in international law, who protect our country, or we are fools who are left without experience. Without help?" So I'm asking everyone to be alone in this matter, we have to give back to the enemy and not let our land and our people trade. [[Crimean Tatar expression]] Crime is Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-20-m0.u162	Thank you. The report invites the head of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Hopco Hanna Mikolayovna. Please, Mrs. Hanna.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-20-m0.u163	Dear parliamentarians, dear Ukrainians! The Committee on Foreign Affairs, at its meeting literally half an hour ago, reviewed the draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the application of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for non-recognition by Ukraine of the legitimacy of the elections to the State Duma of the Federal Assembly of the Russian Federation of the Seventh Call, their results and legal consequences, and, accordingly, the composition, credentials, acts and decisions of the Federal Assembly of the Russian Federation. The committee members decided to support the draft ruling despite the major debates that took place during the committee meeting. The committee's decision is not to accept the legitimacy of the elections to the Federal Parliament of the Russian Federation's Seventh Congress, their results and legal consequences. Also during the committee, we discussed what we would like to thank those nations, those international organizations for their consistent position, and the condemnation of Russia’s aggression against Ukraine, the failure to recognize the occupation of Crimea, the occupation of Donbas and also the city of Sevastopol. We also welcome the principle of the position of foreign parliamentarians, parliamentary assemblies and international organizations, who have refrained from participating in the monitoring of illegal elections to the State Duma of the Russian Federation in the occupied territories of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and Sevastopol, and in any event do not recognize the elections that have been held there. We want to say from the committee and thank all parliamentarians for their efforts now to ensure that sanctions against Russia are extended. And today's step, which may be a precedent, is the political decision of the Parliament, chosen by the people of Ukraine, that we do not recognize this Duma in connection with its execution in Crimea. And it's just as much our step so that the isolation of Russia, that Russia pays even more price, and that what it's doing in Crimea right now, doesn't just come out of her hands. So I urge unity to vote and support this extremely important decision. Thank you, colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-20-m0.u164	Dear colleagues! This is the common position of the committee, this is the continuation of our position of the Supreme Council, which was pointed out in our previous address, which I, by the way, passed on to all the leadership and the European Parliament, and the European Council on the non-recognition of elections to the Russian Federation. Because, I emphasize, not only were the majors elected to Crimea but they were in proportion and, in fact, in the occupied territory they voted for the entire proportional component. So the entire composition of the State Duma cannot be legitimate, it cannot be recognized by the world, and I am convinced that Ukraine should take an active position in this process. Colleagues, may I put it to a vote? Then I ask you to prepare for the vote and I put to the vote a draft decree on the Supreme Council of Ukraine's declaration of non-recognition by Ukraine of the legitimacy of the elections to the State Duma of the Federal Assembly of the Russian Federation of the Seventh Call, their results and legal consequences, and accordingly the composition, credentials, acts and decisions of the Federal Parliament of the Russian Federation. The Committee's proposal: on the basis and in general. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. Let's vote, colleagues. [[13:38:39]] For 264 Decision taken. Please include the factions. Welcome to the decision-makers. Welcome to the Supreme Council for an important decision. On the international aspect of the decision, Irina Heratchenko, literally one minute. Please, Mrs. Irina.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-20-m0.u165	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we are of course. We are very careful with you all to follow up on the reaction of our European and world partners to the elections to the State. And of course, it's disturbing that there are allegations that other countries claim not to recognize elections in Crimea, but it does not indicate that elections to the State in general are not recognized. Because it's really important to consider that they're forged not only in four districts in the occupied Crimea, but also in lists, because 2 million Ukrainian citizens have been forcibly introduced through the annexation of Crimea into these lists. And that is why this is the position that we have to take with you to all international organizations, and for us to start a key work in our inter-parliamentary assemblies: The NATO Inter-Parliamentary Assembly, the OSCE Parliamentary Assembly, the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, where we should call on our colleagues not to recognize the delegation of the State of Russia as being elected illegally, and this is our joint task that I hope we will be united. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-20-m0.u166	Thank you. Dear colleagues, once again I welcome everyone's decision and I want to inform you that we've completed our review of the information block, we've adopted five bills in our first reading, we've sent two of them to read again, and if there's a common position, we'll be able to put them up for consideration in the next plenary weeks. I would also like to point out that from our previous decentralization cluster, three laws were not fully agreed on at the time -- 3390, 4772 and 4773. Extremely important laws, and we now have the ability to pass this block, which is in the Rules. Colleagues, please. Your maximum concentration. And I'm asking you to go over the three bills that we have left over from the previous part of decentralization. And I'm announcing a review of Bill 3390, this is a bill amending the Ukrainian Law on Voluntary Union of Territorial Communities. This is the second reading, the right hand is not much. And I invite the head of the Committee on State Building, Regional Policy and Local Self-Government of Fedorok Mikol Trochymovich to report. Please, Mr. Mikolo.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-20-m0.u167	The Committee on State Building, Regional Policy and Local Self-Government, commissioned by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on 13 July 2016, to review the comments and proposals made by subjects of the right to legislative initiative in the draft Act amending the Law on the Voluntary Union of Territorial Communities on the State Support for the Voluntary Association of Territorial Communities (Registration No. 3390), submitted by the National Deputy and adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the basis of the first reading on 2 February 2016. For the second reading of the bill, 13 proposals were made from the 13 national deputies, three of which are proposed to take into account, one to be edited, two to be taken into account in part, seven to be rejected. As a result of the Committee's general discussion, it was agreed: to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, in accordance with article 123, paragraph 3, of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the draft Act amending the Law on the Voluntary Association of Territorial Communities, on the provision of State support for the voluntary integration of territorial communities as a result of the second reading, to be adopted in a second reading and in general. The final draft of the bill is being prepared with the observation of the Supreme Council’s Chief Legal Authority. Technical legal pre-processing, there's an offer, after the adoption, to be held. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-20-m0.u168	Thank you. Please stay in the rostrum. Colleagues, all negative 7 rights. We'll walk on them quickly and then we'll go to the vote. And I'm starting to ask the right-wing authors to prepare. 4th, Revega. Is it insisting? No, it doesn't. Fedoruk 5 for confirmation. Turn on the Odarchenka microphone, please, Odarchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-20-m0.u169	Dear colleagues, this amendment was introduced by the author of the bill himself, and it substantially changes its contents. In fact, according to this amendment, we're taking any impact on the formation of communities into the district councils at all. If this amendment is accepted, the principle is: the administration is proposing a draft forward-looking plan, if the council approves it – the Cabinet of Ministers approves the changes if the council does not approve it – the Cabinet of Ministers approves these changes anyway. In fact, with this right we take the right of district councils to take part in the formulation of a forward-looking plan. I'm asking you to put it on the stand, and I think it's very harmful, which is actually damaging and damaging to local self-government.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-20-m0.u170	Please comment, Mr. Mikola.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-20-m0.u171	I want to say that this bill does not take the right of district councils to adopt and modify a promising plan for voluntary unification, and the principle of volunteerism is preserved. This bill deals with the question that if the District Council does not deliberately consider the issue of a forward-looking plan, the approval of it, this right goes to a decision that goes to the Cabinet of Ministers, but volunteering is when the District Council ignores the decisions of the communities. This bill puts the right of communities to volunteer.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-20-m0.u172	Thank you. But there is a requirement, there is a requirement for confirmation. Dear colleagues, the vote is about to take place. And please prepare for the vote, go into the hall, take the jobs. No. 5, right? The committee has made a clear position that this amendment should be. We need to support her. And I'm betting on confirmation. Whoever supports the committee that supports the committee's position has to vote in favour to support this amendment. Now Mr. Mikola will be back for his card, and I'll put it in. So I'm going to vote for amendment number five, the Fedoruk People's Deputy. If you support the committee, please vote for confirmation of the amendment. Please vote. 5th Amendment, People's Deputy Fedoruk. Let's vote, colleagues. [[13:46:55]] For-191 191 for. The decision is not made. 6 Amendment, People's Deputy Levchenko. Don't insist. 7th, Lensky. Don't insist. 8th, Davidenko. Don't insist. 11th, Yvchenko. He insists. Turn on the microphone, please, Yvchenk.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-20-m0.u173	Vadim Yvchenko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues, think about it: we have named the law with you: "On voluntary union of communities." We have a forward movement in the design of forward-looking plans, but there's no reverse movement. If today the district government, completely ignoring the principles of volunteering, submits to the district council, can the district council take — and give a reasoned refusal to turn down rural, rural and district councils? Okay? So let's write this down. This is the normal norm that reverses the movement in order for district governments to count as local governments. The committee rejected the amendment, I ask for support and let's really make the process voluntary, and otherwise we have a situation where we want to, we say we volunteer, and we actually do centralization and we put administrative pressure on communities. I would like this amendment to be voted on and I would like to ask the Chamber to support it.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-20-m0.u174	Thank you. Please prepare for the vote. I'll put it to a vote. Will you comment, Mr. Mikola? No, it's not. I am putting to the vote the amendment of 11 People's Deputies Ivchenko, which was rejected by the committee, who supports the amendment, please vote. [[13:48:49]] For 104 The decision is not made. Colleagues, in three minutes, there will be a vote, please enter the hall, take up jobs, and there will be two revisions left. Next up: 12th People's Deputy Ivchenko. He insists, insists. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-20-m0.u175	Dear colleagues, the law is basically the same arrangement that the district council can, within three months of receiving a request from rural, rural councils, send for further development by the district government. And with this readjustment, we just forbid, if she refuses, we forbid the Cabinet of Ministers to make decisions without a decision of the District Council without a positive decision. I ask colleagues that we also support this amendment, because in principle district councils, these are elected deputies in the districts, they're basically communicating with rural, rural heads, they're studying the situation. I think that this process is really going to give us volunteering and it's not going to give us the opportunity to say no, in a reasoned statement, in addressing the relevant authorities of local self-government, it's not going to enable Kabin without a decision of the district council to make positive decisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-20-m0.u176	Please comment, Mr. Mikolo. Are we voting now?
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-20-m0.u177	The thing is. We now vote that the committee did not support the amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-20-m0.u178	Whoever supports the amendment of the 12 national deputy Ichchenka, who has been rejected by the committee, please vote. Please vote. [[13:50:40]] For-74. The decision is not made. Yeah, we've got 10 more sales left, 1 minute. And then there'll be the last Revegue, the 13th. Please, Mrs. Oksana.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-20-m0.u179	Dear colleagues, thank you, Andrey Volodymyrovich. I ask for confirmation of the 10th amendment, which I ask to leave to the district councils to make observations and suggestions on the long-term plan that is being tabled by the government. And only in that case, if the district council didn't make any comments and suggestions, would it only then give Kabmin the right to approve this promising plan. The committee ignored the amendment. So I'm asking the room now to leave the right of district councils to participate in what we call decentralization. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-20-m0.u180	Mr. Mikola, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-20-m0.u181	I can tell you, after the amendment that Deputy Odarchenko made was not confirmed, changes are like any changes before. They lose their meaning, and they lose their repairs, including the sales.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-20-m0.u182	However, I understand that Mrs. Oksana insists on voting. Whoever supports Amendment 10 of the People's Chamber of Commerce, please vote. Please vote. [[13:52:11]] For 165 The decision is not made. And the last amendment is 13, Revegue. Is it insisting? No, it doesn't. So we can go to the vote. Colleagues, second reading. We voted, we went through all the amendments. And I'm voting now. Please prepare for the vote, please enter the hall, take your seats. Dear colleagues, I am voting on the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the Voluntary Integration of Territorial Communities to provide State support for the voluntary unification of territorial communities (No.3390) in the second reading and in general. Please vote, please support in the second reading and in general. Please. [[13:53:26]] For-195 The decision is not made. It's a bill. Well, let's give Berezuk one more minute and then I'll make my verdict. My colleagues, I'll tell you that the discussion is over. Okay, I'll give it to the factions, because you know, one thing, about reform and self-governance is to talk in the clubs, and the other thing is to actually do it here in the hall. And when we're going through procedural things here, we're going to put, brake the development of many communities. Didn't we witness when local communities couldn't unite because certain political ambitions in the district councils stopped it, stopped it for political reasons, not for self-government. And because of our lack of discipline, political debates prevent us from taking the important steps that are necessary for our lowest-level communities that await our decision. Let's exchange thoughts. Oleg Berezuk - 1 minute, Oleg Lazko - 1 minute and Front - 1 minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-20-m0.u183	Ladies and gentlemen, this law, this was a law that had a very balanced balance between district councils, administrations and communities, and allowed common sense to enter into this procedure. Because in fact, communities today are gaining strength and want to determine their own future. The small interests of political officials in places, political officials, I emphasize, undermine their wishes, so this bill is very much needed with this amendment number five, which was destroyed because they were balances and weights, and the opposites on the part of the communities, not on the side of the politicians who are fighting for sources of funding in these areas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-20-m0.u184	Dear colleagues, by the way, if there's a general demand for a faction, I'll put it back once. If there's a total fraction position. Now I'm going to give all the factions who want to come forward, and I'm going to put, as I always have done, once on my way back with the number five confirmation. Please, Oleg Lazko, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-20-m0.u185	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. The Radical Party faction did not vote in favour of the bill for one reason, because in fact, the district councils that were elected by the inhabitants of one area or another are disenfranchised. One. The other one. Honorary colleagues, when we speak of voluntary union, are not the associations that are imposed by administrations and approved by the Cabinet, but the voluntary unifications of the inhabitants of these territories. And the third. When you talk about decentralization, I say that the results of your decentralization will lead to the disappearance of the Ukrainian village. Today you're destroying the Ukrainian village, with the permanent life of Ukrainian peasants under decentralization and, in fact, you just want to save money in Ukrainian peasants and deprive them of learning, treatment, administrative services, and so on, reforms and economies. Reforms have been forgotten about people, and let us mention them.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-20-m0.u186	Opposition Block, Kisse, 1 minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-20-m0.u187	Dear friends, the Revival faction, Anton Kisse. I support my colleague Lazko, he has explained the reasons quite clearly and clearly. I will say literally a few words, as is done in the Odessa region. The long-awaited plan adopted by the Regional Administration remained to be passed on to the Cabinet in order to ensure that, without any agreement, there were no problems, without prejudice to the Voluntary Association of Communities Act, so that the Cabinet of Ministers would take a decision. This cannot be allowed, it is a crime against the village and especially the Odessa region, because I have not seen in my constituency any official who would come and explain the problem and how it will be better. Thus, dear friends, the Rebirth faction does not support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-20-m0.u188	Mr. Kisse, I apologize for calling the faction an incorrect, technical mistake, excuse me, please. So we still have Odarchenko -- one minute, Burbak -- one minute, one minute, one minute from the non-fractionals, and we'll finish the discussion, and we'll move on to the decision-making. Please, Odarchenko, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-20-m0.u189	Dear colleagues! What is happening now is that there is no volunteering in the unification of communities. And today we see the desire of certain MPs to make this will in general disappear from the Law on Voluntary Unity. What can be discussed when even the district council, which is united by the community, is deprived of the right to consider, analyze, and approve this plan? Mr. Andrew, you are so anxious about these questions, but you need to know what responsibility you have: 100, 50 communities unite into one united community. What is the development of local self - government? Is that decentralization? This is generally the destruction of local self - government, because local self - government foresees a community, Mr. Andrew, a community of villages, a village. And when we unite whole regions into one community, I don't know what this is all about in Ukrainian legislation. This is the destruction of the settlement network in Ukraine, that is.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-20-m0.u190	Maxim Burbak is one minute. And then one minute, Vladimir Parasuk. That's it, that's it.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-20-m0.u191	Here is the speech of the speaker who was before me, the deputy of the people. So tell me, please, do you confirm your position that your faction for decentralization, do you mind? Because the facts indicate that you are of all kinds, your political power is hampering the process of decentralization that we have started and allowed communities to unite. Instead, your district council leaders are doing everything they can to prevent this from happening, to prevent it from happening, to prevent all kinds of obstacles. And 150 communities already received billions of dollars for infrastructure projects this year. Give them the opportunity to work and exist. Don't engage in politics, we see your position! In the European Union, you're very much confirming, yes, we're in favour of decentralization, but here in the room, you're going to slow it down. It's a disgrace!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-20-m0.u192	Thank you. One minute, Vladimir Parasuk and then the Peter Dust Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-20-m0.u193	I'm also in favour of this bill for one simple reason: please give people money to make arrangements in their places. You know it's been a while. This political influence on the district councils, we take the budgets from here, we send the money in the area, and in the area by quota principle, who has more representation, is drawn to the district. He's sitting right here! Let's give people the opportunity to develop, so let's go back to the basics that have been in our country for a long time. And in conclusion, everyone loves talking about decentralization at a meeting with voters, so let's really talk about our votes, not empty words.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-20-m0.u194	Thank you. Peter Dustenka's block hasn't had a word yet, but this is the last performance, Lushanjak one minute, please turn it on. And please come into the hall and prepare for the vote. Please turn on the microphone. Step out to the rostrum, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-20-m0.u195	Dear colleagues! Recall the first session of 2015 when we voted on Friday before closing a law to allow us in the Ternopil area without a decision by the district council to create 26 united communities. The Ternopil region has become the leader of united territorial communities, and people today thank the Supreme Council for making such decisions. Look, we don't have the right to influence decisions of a community that want to unite -- that's their constitutional right. I ask the entire Parliament, without ambition to vote in favour of this, to allow Ukraine to develop itself exactly as an example of the united territorial communities. Please, vote! Thank you!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-20-m0.u196	Thank you. Colleagues, discussion is over. I'm going to put once back on trial 3390. I ask everyone to prepare for the vote, if there is will in the room, we vote, there is no--the bill will be rejected, colleagues. It's going to be rejected. I am voting on the proposal to go back to the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the Voluntary Union of Territorial Communities to provide State support for voluntary unification of territorial communities (3390). Anyone who supports the return to consideration, please vote. Please, colleagues, we're voting. [[14:03:34]] For 193 The decision is not taken. Bill 3390 has been rejected, colleagues. [[B in m in s a l in]] According to the Rules, I'll call it a break until 2 p.m. 16.00. At 4: 00 p.m., there will be two important bills of local self - government. I very much ask everyone to be in the hall on time so that we can get through them quickly and get to the agrarian committee issue. At 4:00, I ask everyone to be in the hall.
