ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-19-m0.u1	Good morning! Good morning! Dear colleagues, please come into the hall and prepare for registration. Colleagues, please, we're taking up jobs, we're getting ready to register. Colleagues ready to register? Dear colleagues, please register. I'd like you to sign up. Please. [[10:03:40]] 351 deputies registered. We can start our work. The morning plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues, in accordance with Rule 25 of the Rules, we have 30 minutes Wednesday for the national MPs to make proposals, statements, and messages. And I'm asking you to record the performance. I would like to point out that today he spoke from the deputies, not from factions, but from deputies. Please hold the recording, please. Dirov Anatoly Borisovich, People's Front.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-19-m0.u2	Please pass the word to Teteruk Andry.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-19-m0.u3	Dear Mr. Head, the distinguished peoples of the deputies of Ukraine, the distinguished Ukrainian people! I, Teteruk Andry, am a representative of our Ukrainian Parliament in the Ukrainian space agency. And over the past two years, my colleagues and I have been watching closely how things are happening and what our space field is doing to take place in international space. I welcome everyone’s successful launch, including our Ukrainian development, the first step was to take the satellite into orbit. But at the same time, we have a huge flaw, namely the Cyclone-4 project, which was made for 14 years, which ended up costing our country almost 4.5 billion dollars, and we finally got a ton of paper. We have Antares, the Antares, who are afraid of non-existent missiles for almost 50 million, and no one is responsible. We have the opportunity to put public funds into the new private bank and no one is responsible for it. Moreover, the Pavlovgrad Chemical Plant, which is obliged to eliminate solid fuel in the process of nuclear disarmament. It has been 10 years, and only 47 percent of the program has been implemented. Two years left, a lot of money spent, and no one is responsible. Moreover, financial irregularities of almost 700 million government funds have been detected in this company as a result of financial checks. Worse. While I was in Ilowaysk with my brothers, the director of the company was conducting financial transactions with the Russian FSB, as if selling them an apron. Does anyone believe that the Russian FSB was buying crabs at this company? Selling technology. Irresponsibility for the end result. All of this will move us to pay attention to what is happening in this field. The very irresponsibility of our parliament 14 years ago did not protect the state's investment, which allowed us to have almost a billion dollars of damage today, and instead we got one and a half tons of paper. We have an operational tactical complex called Sapsan, for which Ukraine has paid 25 million dollars. Instead, we got 200 kilograms of paper. And instead, this project was supposed to protect us from Russian aggression. All of this will move me to turn to the Ukrainian Parliament, to study this situation with the help or creation of a temporary investigator.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-19-m0.u4	Please, 30 seconds, finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-19-m0.u5	or a joint meeting of the National Security and Defence Committees and the Anti-Corruption Committee to study the situation and make the right decisions, because protecting private individuals who steal money by means of lies and handicrafts is not the method that will lead to Ukraine's success in international space. I ask you to study this question and make a balanced decision. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-19-m0.u6	Thank you. Martovicki gives the word “Shufrich. ”
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-19-m0.u7	Thank you. Dear Chief, distinguished colleagues! Today, finally, there will be a meeting in the form of a Norman Four. I pay my respects to all Ukrainian citizens, but I will continue my speech in Russian because today's meeting can be a contribution to our citizens, I stress to Ukrainian citizens who use more Russian in their lives. Of course, today is the day of hope, after all, the leaders of the four countries will meet to resolve the question of the implementation of the Minsk Agreements. Indeed, everything is clear, and this is what many people's deputies have said in this room, that there is no alternative to the Minsk Agreements, and that their implementation is peace in our country. That is, stability, our country's integration, economic capacity-building and the return to growth, both economic and moral. I am absolutely confident that today we have an obligation to show our position towards the commitments Ukraine has undertaken by signing the Minsk Agreements, namely, to vote on the laws contained in the Minsk Package. What's going on today? What is the primary issue of chicken or egg? I would like to remind you of the words of Byden, who spoke from this rostrum and urged you to vote on the laws provided for in the Minsk Agreements. He said that, in due course, senators and congressmen from the south had voted unpopularly for them to unite the United States after the civil war, and they had done so, even at the cost of their careers. Today, it is very important to show our position today, to vote on the necessary laws and when they are voted on and signed, the question of their implementation will already be the question of the competence of the signings of the Minsk Agreements and the parties to the “Normandy format”. But today we are in this room blocking the Minsk Accords. Why are we doing this? Who is the Ukrainian Parliament: is it a Parliament of Peace or is it a Parliament that allows the authorities to cover up war and speculate in war? Who is this Parliament, who is this power? Is it the desire for peace, or are they the marauders who are covered in war? I want to believe that our Parliament is a parliament of peace, and we must vote on the laws provided for by the Minsk Agreements, that is Ukraine's obligation. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-19-m0.u8	Thank you. Please, People's Deputy Wilkul, Opposition Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-19-m0.u9	Respectable people of Ukraine, distinguished people's deputies! According to the UN, the number of Ukrainian citizens living below the poverty line has tripled over the past three years. More than 80 per cent of Ukrainian citizens, people living in Ukraine live on less than $5, it's 130 bracelets a day, according to the UN, people don't live, people do. The absurd, minimal consumer basket used in Ukraine today is lower than the 1942 German prisoner of war spiders, and the bread, and the bread, and the fish, and the tea, yes, practically for all foods. I'll get some numbers, German prisoner of war spiders, August 1942. Crop 100 grams, minimum working Ukrainian living level in 2016 24.7 grams, fish in prisoners of war 100 grams, fish 35.6 grams and so on for all foods. It is absurd and other figures that have established the power that power enjoys. A girl, from birth to 6 years of age, has to wear one dress for 3.5 years. In our view, children don't need diapers, not pencils, not plastics, nothing at all. Dear colleagues, I appeal to the leaders of all factions of Parliament, there will be a meeting of the Committee on Social Policy today at 4 p.m., and two bills will be considered at this meeting, which proposed the Opposition Block. The first is my bill to raise the minimum wage from a thousand 450 grevens to three thousand 37 grevens. In order to at least have the consumer basket above the German prisoner of war in 1942. The second is our proposal to hold a parliamentary hearing to combat poverty. The opposition bloc has a clear, concrete, understandable plan to fight poverty, how to create a normal life in our country. And we very much ask the Committee on Social Policy to support these two bills, which were introduced by the Opposition Unit. Be the good leaders of the factions, give your instructions to the members of this committee. Dear colleagues! This is exactly what we believe should be done by the Ukrainian Parliament. Parliament is dealing with renamings, Parliament. The Government proposes a 12-year payment schedule for utilities, and will soon offer loans to be taken to pay for heat. Parliament must address poverty, raise the minimum wage, and clearly develop and implement a plan to combat poverty. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-19-m0.u10	Thank you. Welcome to the statement of the People's Deputy of Balitsky, "The Opposition Block," please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-19-m0.u11	Good afternoon, dear Ukraine! Today, I draw attention to one eerie fact that is happening in the city of Melitopolis. People in meetings ask me, is Melitopol Ukraine? If this is Ukraine, why is there no Ukrainian law in Melitopolis? Why is it that Melitopol does not comply with court decisions? And this is under the leadership of the mayor of the city, the representative of the Peter Poroshenko Party. The person who, think of it, a year after that code was a local election, we don't have a council secretary in town. The mayor doesn't get him to work after he's elected by the deputies. We don't have a year's schedule, the mayor believes it's a rule. We don't have permanent commissions in town. The mayor believes these commissions, he doesn't like them. We don't have temporary commissions that can control power. We've been in town since 2010. Well, what other city in Ukraine is the spring of the bloom of Janukovic? People say, "What, are they ready to give us up because they gave up the Crimea?" We're being prepared to not have laws first, to turn us into Transnistria. And who does that? The worst representatives of the then Party of the Regions are acting. I'm asking you to show me the video so that you can understand what this is all about. Please turn on the roll. [[Video Record Preview]] Here's spring of 2014. Mayor of Melitopolis Sergei Minko. This is a representative of Peter Poshenko's party. Here's a question. I have a question. Guys from the powdery party, how much money do you need to get back to Janukovich's office or take back these guys: there, Klimenko, Yakimenko, Arbuzov? Do you understand what you're doing with the territory? You're making Melitopol a territory that you'll then accuse us of being separatists. But your party rating is less than 5 percent because people don't believe you because you're making fun of our city that way. Add 10 seconds, please. Ten seconds! I'm addressing you. Give me a hint.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-19-m0.u12	Please let me finish for 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-19-m0.u13	Turn it on? Set an order. I am addressing law enforcement agencies. When will there be discipline in the city? When there's city council, when the mayor stops making fun of the city. Thank you. And my address, please register as an MP.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-19-m0.u14	Thank you. I'd like to invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy, Andrew Illenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-19-m0.u15	Andrew Illenko, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, the city of Kiev. You know, I wanted to talk a little bit about something else, but I can see that today is just someone near the rostrum, a whole parade of peace fighters, and, you know, all the peace fighters from the former Party of Regions, including when you ask them, "Well, who started the war? Is Russia an aggressor? Didn't Russia take the Crimea? Did Russia send its troops to Donbas?"so they don't answer, they start telling us that we have a civil war going on in the country. This is the price of these fighters for peace. We remember that in the 17th to 18th year there were also many peace fighters in Ukraine who said we didn't need an army, we had to be pacifists. And we remember how it ended, and it ended with the occupation of Ukraine and the famines. Now, these very so-called peace fighters, and in fact, war starters, they continue their policies. Today we really know that there is going to be a meeting in Berlin in what's called the Normandy format, and we realize that Ukraine is currently under intense pressure and, unfortunately, this pressure, it's coming from some European politicians. We have heard recent statements by the Minister of Foreign Affairs of France, who said that, in fact, "We will force Ukraine to accept the conditions for it to be a special or special so-called status of Donbas, we will talk about Ukraine holding elections, more specifically, adopting the law on elections in occupied territories," and I do not really see how this can be said in a way when Russia has not carried out any point of the Minsk Treaty, when Russia continues to war, when Russian troops continue to do so on Donbass, when there is not much control abroad, when fighting continues when our soldiers continue to die, in these conditions we are told somewhere in Europe that we have what we have to do in this situation. You know, I can't imagine what it means to force Ukraine, so we're going to force Ukraine, which is a victim of aggression, right now, until some action, while no one forces Russia to start and wage this war before it stops. We realize that this format is not suitable for Ukraine. We realize that today the attempt to make pseudocosmetic peace seems to be at the cost of giving up national interests, at the cost of actual surrender. But the whole story proves that this is never, never a surrender, never a surrender of one's own national interests leads to peace. This always leads to an even worse war, which always leads to even greater casualties. And so we have to stand firm in our national positions, we have to stand firm for our national interests, not listen to these "cliches" who are here shouting for peace, they've actually started and they're continuing to start a war, hypocrites, liars. And we need to understand clearly that our interests are not objects of trade or objects of speculation. Thank you. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-19-m0.u16	Thank you. I'd like to invite you to the floor of the National Deputy John Krulk, Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-19-m0.u17	Ivan Krulko, faction of Fatherland. Honorable National Deputies, distinguished Ukrainians! If we open the Constitution of Ukraine, we'll see that we have a parliamentary-presidential republic. But if I look closely at how Parliament works, I have a very different impression. That is not that the parliamentary-presidential republic, but that Parliament is a body on the run to the Bank, to the government, to someone else, but not just the parliamentary-presidential republic, which should set a tone for Ukraine. We do not have the Law on Temporary Commissions of Inquiry. This law, the bill was registered as one of the first factions of "The Fatherland" at the beginning of the vocation of the current one. No, it's not. Accordingly, Parliament has in general removed itself from the task of carrying out its control functions. Please tell me, how can it be when the right of opposition to exercise a control function through temporary commission investigators is ignored all the time in the current parliamentary call? Where is the temporary offshore investigation commission? They don't, they don't block, they don't put it in the agenda. Where is the provisional tariff tracking commission based on tariffs? They don't put the day in order. As a result, the government is offering a unique know-how, which is in time for people to pay for tariffs, for 12 months to be paid the tariffs that they have to pay since this month. Where is the interim commission of inquiry on the state budget for defence and corruption that is taking place there with public finances? It's not, it's blocking. The same fate will be met by a temporary commission of inquiry to check on Mrs. And this shows that Parliament is failing to implement its control function. Next question. Please tell us why we are here, in this room, we are not solving the personnel issues that Parliament must decide. For a year and a half, the Court of Auditors passed the Law. Since March of the month, there has been a presentation of a budget committee on the appointment of new members of the Court of Auditors. For three years now, as Parliament has been moving away from establishing a new composition of the Court of Auditors, and this is our control body, this is the body that has to strengthen Parliament rather than weaken it. Why does Parliament not solve the issue with the Central Election Commission? So who needs it? Not to Parliament? To be members of the Central Election Commission representatives from all factions represented in Parliament. If we want this Parliament to be counted, we really need to restore parliamentaryism. We have to adopt the TSC Act. We have to give the opposition the right to implement its control function by creating temporary commissions of inquiry. Dear colleagues! Let's start with Parliament in this country starting to set up a day-to-day order. We need to set the routine, and unfortunately, we are not yet able to form our own agenda for the session. For one and a half months each week, we vote on the order of the day for a week because we can't put our agenda together. So, my request. We are restoring parliamentaryism, not doing what we do. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-19-m0.u18	Thank you. Welcome to the speech of the People's Deputy, Oleg Laska, Radical Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-19-m0.u19	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Dear citizens of Ukraine! Dear colleagues! There is a meeting in Berlin today in the so-called Normandy format with the participation of the leaders of Germany, France, Ukraine and Russia's aggressors, where Ukraine will be forced to implement the Minsk Accords. Yesterday's statement by the French Foreign Minister requesting Ukraine to grant special status to Donbas, legalizing terrorists through elections, amnesty for fighters, we can already predict the format of this meeting. Now we see speeches here in the House of Representatives of the Breaking Block of the Moscow Colony calling for peace, for peace, for peace, for peace, and for that we need to adopt laws, for Parliament to adopt laws. I think it's obvious for every Ukrainian to have peace in Ukraine in order for the Donbassians to live in a peaceful sky, first of all, to have the Russian army out and put down arms, and to cover the border. And then we'll talk about everything else. I'm surprised, just as it is for every Ukrainian, to imagine peace when the Russian army is on Donbassa, when illegal military formations are on Donbassa, when people are being killed. What kind of peace can we refer to? And I would ask all of the Ukrainians to point out that the Kremlin bloc requires us to adopt changes to the Constitution, but they don't say a word about Russian aggression, about weapons folding, about the return of control over the border. So they actually sound like the Dark Ones written in the Kremlin, and they sound them here in Parliament. I wish the President of Ukraine success in the negotiations. And the most important thing I want is fortitude! The president of Ukraine, Poroshenko, must not assume obligations that he cannot fulfill. Just like it was in Minsk. When Poshenko, Kuchma, the Medvedchuks made a commitment to Parliament, they assumed functions that the Constitution did not give them. The only source of authority in Ukraine is the people! And we live in the Parliamentary-President Republic! Neither President Poshenko nor Kuchma, Medvedchuk, Godfather of Putin, have the right to trade in Ukrainian sovereignty and the Ukrainian Constitution! That is why President Poroshenko has to be firm, to explain to our international partners, Ukraine, which state. Above all, President Poroshenko must demand of our partners the Budapest format of negotiations to fulfil his commitments under the Budapest Memorandum! Everyone shyly forgets, as if a piece of paper that should not be mentioned. Then I'll remind those who want to forget. In exchange for this paper, like paper, we have given up our third nuclear potential in the world! And international partners have guaranteed support for our sovereignty and guaranteed us the fulfillment of our obligations. Now is the time to fulfill these obligations! And President Poroshenko is in Berlin today, tomorrow in Brussels, he has to remind our international partners that they have to fulfil their commitments under the Budapest Memorandum.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-19-m0.u20	Thank you. I invite you to the words of the Pavlovka People's Deputy, the Opposition Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-19-m0.u21	Honorable Presidium, Honourable People's Deputies of Ukraine! On October 12th, last week, there were parliamentary hearings of "Child Rights: Security, Compliance, Protection." And we have to say that the government continues to ignore the policy of protecting and protecting children's rights. Regrettably, there were no ministers in the parliamentary hearings who were responsible for the protection and care of children. During this time, no ministry addressed the issue of child protection and protection and did not consider them in colleges. It was only once that the Minsk authorities managed to hold meetings at the request of an expert environment. The materials presented by the central authorities are self - reports of progress in the work. At the same time, no material has been analysed, its dynamics, and the requirements of the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child. The issue of children and war in Ukraine continues to remain silent, even statistics on children who have died. That is how I was asked by Donetska and Luhanská VCA to report 20 children who had died. Instead, on June 1, the head of the Supreme Council reported 68 dead children. Public organizations are talking about 198 dead children. But there's no exact answer, this data is either closed or no one's running at all. In January 16th, a law was passed establishing the status of a new child, a child who had suffered as a result of war and armed conflict. In more than nine months this rule has been blocked, since the government has not developed a status order. Orphanage is one of the tragic consequences of war. Even so, the number of children without parents has been declining for three years. I'm saying that this trend is false. In particular, I want to take note of the actual elimination of the only information and analysis base "Children" that would be named after them, by the name of dynamics, to give a story about every child who's orphaned. The police have simply removed 12,000 children from statistics who, orphans, children deprived of parental care, who have remained either in uncontrollable areas or in Crimean children. So we demand that the Children database be fully restored immediately so that Ukraine knows about the fate of every child who has lost their parents.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-19-m0.u22	Thank you. Welcome to the speech of the National Deputy Igor Lucenka, Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-19-m0.u23	Dear Society, Igor Lucenko, the Fatherland faction. Dear Ukrainian Parliament, and do you know that you've tripled your bracelet, that you and I are responsible for 40 percent of last year's inflation, and we don't know how much will happen this year. That it is you and I who are responsible for the fact that more than 85 banks are currently insolvent, that we have a collapse of the banking system, a collapse of credit, resulting in a lack of real economic growth, a crisis of whole sectors. I call on you not to be an accomplice to the crime of macroeconomic, financial, banking crime that is currently taking place under the leadership of Valeria Gontareva. I urge you to respond to that. In America, a detailed report on the work of the Hontareva was distributed in the Ukrainian Parliament. Now there's practically no person in this room who doesn't know this information. So, if you'll excuse me, it won't work. Dear friends, we are now meeting in Normandy format. President Prashenko will ask for increased sanctions on Russia as an aggressor. What does Gontareva do at this time? Over the years, Russia’s share of the banking system has grown from 12 percent to 40 percent. This is because Ukrainian banks were destroyed, Russian banks were getting funding, they were getting a favourable investment regime, and they were buying up our banking system. So how can President Poroshenko ask for sanctions when we are such a "warm regime" for Russian bankers. The constitutional tasks of the National Bank were broken down with a crash, and the stability of the Ukrainian monetary unit was completely unsecured by the National Bank of Ukraine. And it is necessary, of course, to set up a temporary commission of inquiry in Parliament to investigate acts of failure to carry out this main task, to review the effectiveness of this financial institution with an exit to criminal charges. Dear friends, I am very grateful to our colleagues from the financial and banking committee, who made the decision yesterday to ask President Prashenko to immediately submit here for the release of Pottery, and this decision needs to be applauded – this is the first such right step. But let's move on. There's a speech prepared by our colleagues on the criminal offences committed against Yuri Vitaliyovich Lucenka the Attorney General, Mr. Sitnik, the National Anti-Corruption Bureau, the BSC and the IMF, and the police. Please allow me to invite all of you to sign this petition and to sign Mrs. Gonnaareva and her colleagues for the crime. And in addition, we have this beautiful tract where all these crimes are very detailed. Please join me, everyone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-19-m0.u24	Please finish 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-19-m0.u25	I call on everyone to be real parliamentarians, responsible parliamentarians and to sign on to this appeal, and not to participate in these colossal macroeconomic crimes. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-19-m0.u26	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the closing statement by Halasyuk will be followed by a vote and I ask to invite the deputies to the hall. The word is now given to Halasyuk Victor Valeriyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-19-m0.u27	Thank you. Dear Andrew Volodymyrovich, distinguished colleagues of the national MPs! Foreign advisers from President and Prime Minister Baltzerovich and Miklos proposed a reform plan for Ukraine. I've studied it carefully, and I want to share it with you. This should be so disrespectful to Ukraine and the Ukrainians, so we should be treated to offer the country and our authorities this "Morgentau Plan" in fact a plan to destroy the industry and the economy of Ukraine. I want you to compare yourself: please read the 2020 Development Strategy for Europe, read the seven Flagman initiatives and the five goals that are being proposed. Goals: employment, innovation, education, climate, new energy, and business conquest. Flagman initiatives: digital order of Europe's day, innovation union, resource-efficient Europe, industrial policy in the era of globalization, new skills, new jobs, overcoming poverty in Europe, are the priorities of the European 2020 strategy. What are Miklasz and Baltzerovich offering us? Maybe they are taking this framework of European strategy and developing it for Ukraine? Well, they're offering us to remove the trade insurrections in our relationship with the European Union. Is this to reverse the moratorium on the export of roundwood? They're proposing to raise the retirement age instead of detonating the economy and developing the enterprise, raise the retirement age today. I'm not even going to comment, privatize the Turboat strategic enterprise. Look, I was at a meeting at the Ministry of Economics yesterday, and Crossroads doesn't know how to sell signed cars, they do that for months, they can't sell cars, they can sell cars, they can sell cars, they can sell cars, they can sell cars, they can sell cars, they can sell cars, they can sell cars. Next. Ukraine is proposed to abandon the establishment of economic development institutions. What are they talking about? Maybe the export credit agency that we supported on the Committee of Finance and Banking yesterday? This agency in Canada generates $60 billion of GDP per year, $60 billion through an export credit agency. But we don't have much more GDP in the country. Or are they opposed to industrial parks? So let me inform you that today, in the United States, we are creating the largest industrial park in the world of Tahoe Industrial Center, 43,000 acres. Do you know what tax preferences Tesla is giving today to place its Gigafactory 1 in 3.5 billion investments? They give them tax preferences of over $1 billion, Tesla won't pay taxes for 10 years, they just go in there, they create jobs and they make innovations, and they give us the role of a raw supplement. So I think the historic mission of Parliament is not to miss it and change the economic course of the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-19-m0.u28	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, the time for the national MPs has come to an end. Before we go into the agenda, and we have two overwhelming ratifications at the beginning, I want you to know that there's been a statement from two factions about the break and they're willing to take a break for the speech. And I invite you to Barna's performance, from the rostrum or from the seat? From the rostrum, please. And, colleagues, I'm asking everyone to come into the hall, the next questions will be ratification.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-19-m0.u29	Praise Jesus Christ! The guy from the Opole turned to me about the situation in Melitopol. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind you that this mayor has been chosen by people for the second time. What he did in Melitopol is he stopped the counter-revolution, the road pro-Russian that you just initiated, your regavian party. What these people who were at risk of their lives in the minority have done is that Zaporozhye and Melitopolis remained Ukrainian cities and Ukrainian territories, as opposed to where your vast proputinian majority and weak local representatives showed a weakness in Donetsk and Lugansk. But what I want to do is remind my colleagues in the Environment not to remind you of who took Yanukovich to power in 2010, not to remind you of who all those years he was in power to pursue his crimes. And I don't need to remind you who voted in favour of the dragon laws on January 16th, and those of them are now in Parliament as well. Besides, when you want to talk about parliamentaryism, remember how for Yanukovitch those who are and here of you in Parliament as monkeys voted on the piano led by their conductor. So you don't have to judge parliamentaryism. And if we're talking about a difficult economic situation in the country and there's not enough money, then remember how your foreman, when he robbed the Ukrainian people with 50 billion of them as rats, ran away from the people into the neighboring aggressor country, stealing the looted people, stealing from their people, swearing in loyalty and serving. Should I remind you how each of you ignores any bill that has to do with security, defense, protecting our national interests or protecting our military? As you ignore all submissions, the initiatives of our Commander-in-Chief, who, along with the coalition, received Ukraine in a state of war, but managed to stop the enemy, preserve our territory, and now, consistently, stands our national interests in the international community. And believe me, we'll do it, but the time of payment will come. And if you want to help the Ukrainian people at this critical time of economic hardship, please share, and more precisely return the looted from the state. And return, and repent, and keep your forebear.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-19-m0.u30	30 seconds. Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-19-m0.u31	And if you want to protect Ukraine, it's very easy to do that: take a weapon, organize a turd battalion, and wash your conscience with blood, and repent. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-19-m0.u32	Dear colleagues, now we have two major ratifications. The first is the draft Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between Ukraine and the Kingdom of the Netherlands extending until 1 August 2017 the period of validity of the Agreement between Ukraine and the Kingdom of the Netherlands on the International Mission for the Protection of Investigation from 28 July 2014. I'm asking everyone to take up their jobs. First, there will be a proposal for a reduced procedure. And I'm asking my colleagues to focus and support the consideration of this short-term ratification. Please vote, please support me, colleagues. Please. Please vote on the summary procedure, please. [[10:43:58]] For-153 Decision taken. And I invite you to report to Deputy Foreign Minister Sergio Olegovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-19-m0.u33	Good morning, distinguished national deputies. The President's proposal to ratify the Agreement in the form of an Exchange of Notes between Ukraine and the Kingdom of the Netherlands, which was made on August 1st this year, is to extend until August 1st of the following year the Agreement between Ukraine and the Kingdom of the Netherlands on the International Investigation Mission on July 28, 14th. The Netherlands side took the initiative to extend the International Mission’s work. The number of international investigation missions under the leadership of the Netherlands is now no more than 700, the mission has actually completed technical work in Ukraine in the city of disaster, and the main efforts are currently focused on the preparation of a comprehensive report on aviation accidents. In carrying out its tasks, the mission staff have observed and adhered to Ukrainian legislation and coordinate their activities with the Ukrainian authorities on the ground and with the special monitoring mission of the OSCE in Ukraine. Implementation of the mission extension agreement will not require additional financial and material expenditure from the state budget. The Government of the Netherlands is covering all the necessary costs for the material and technical and financial security of its staff and mission as a whole. I would like the people's deputies to support the President's proposal and decide on the ratification of the agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-19-m0.u34	Thank you. A representative of the Committee on European Integration, Captain Helen, is invited to the report, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-19-m0.u35	Ladies and gentlemen of the people! For your consideration of the decision to ratify the Agreement in the form of an exchange of notes. I want to point out that three weeks ago, the first MN17 disaster investigation report was made. And this report has become crucial to Ukraine and to our geopolitical position. Including our victory at the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe became possible because we had an argument that Putin had been lying all this time, and that Russia had a direct bearing on the disaster, the death of people, the MN17 plane crash. Therefore, the Committee on European Integration, at its meeting on 18 October 2016, reviewed the draft Law on the Ratification of the Agreement in the form of an Exchange of Notes between Ukraine and the Kingdom of the Netherlands on the extension of the period until 1 August 2017 of the Agreement between Ukraine and the Kingdom of the Netherlands on the International Mission for the Protection of Investigation from 28 July 2014. The ratification of this agreement will lead to the conclusion and final investigation of the causes of the flight crash MN17 on July 17, 2014. Ladies and gentlemen, the Committee of European Integration is asking you to support this treaty on the basis and in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-19-m0.u36	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I don't think anyone in this room has any objection to supporting this ratification, which only involves date transfer. I, my dear colleagues, ask you to come into the hall and prepare for making a decision. I am convinced that this will unite the entire hall as far as the actual legal evidence of Russia’s aggression and crimes are concerned not only against Ukraine but also against mankind. And our task, and our responsibility, is to support this initiative and continue the work of this commission. So, dear colleagues, please take up your jobs. And I am voting on the draft Law on the Ratification of the Agreement in the form of an Exchange of Notes between Ukraine and the Kingdom of the Netherlands extending until 1 August 17th year the duration of the Agreement between Ukraine and the Kingdom of the Netherlands on the International Investigation Mission from 28 July 14th year. No.0111. At the invitation of the committee, I propose to vote on the basis of, as a whole, colleagues. Please take up your jobs. On the basis and in general, 0111. Please vote. I'd like your support, colleagues. All factions, all deputies. Please vote on the basis as a whole. [[10:49:25]] For 247 Decision taken. Welcome to both the committee and the authors. We took an important step. Next, the 5238 Draft Decree on the Appeal of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the Member States of the European Union, the parliaments of foreign states, parliamentary assemblies and international organisations on the completion of the ratification of the Agreement on Association between Ukraine and the European Union, the European Atomic Energy Community and their member States. Dear colleagues, please support the consideration of the reduced procedure. Please vote. Please be supportive. [[10:50:18]] For 181 Decision taken. And I invite you to the report of the Committee on European Integration, Helen Sotnik. Please, Mrs. Olena.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-19-m0.u37	Thank you, Mr. Head! Dear colleagues! I would like to draw your attention to the basics of this decision. As you know, on September 16, 2014, the Supreme Council of Ukraine and the European Parliament ratified the Association Agreement between Ukraine and the European Union. Later, all the member countries of the European Union have ratified this agreement in accordance with their national parliaments. In September 2015, the Association Agreement was also supported by Parliament and was signed by the King of the Kingdom of the Netherlands. And accordingly all necessary procedures have been carried out, including the relevant instruments of ratification of the Depositary. But later, in April 2015, a consultation referendum was actually held in 2016 under the new law in the Netherlands. In line with this consultative referendum, the majority of those who came to vote voted in favour of the non-ratification of the Treaty with Ukraine. Today we have a situation where 0.6 percent of the total population of the European Union voted against the ratification of the Agreement with Ukraine. But that's a very small part. But this small part of us today actually puts in a difficult position as the Government of the Netherlands, which has to make the right decision and consider the referendum. And at the same time, we have a situation where, in fact, 27 member countries have ratified this Agreement. So in this context, we need to call on the Government of the Netherlands together with.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-19-m0.u38	Please, 30 seconds, finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-19-m0.u39	together with the institutions of the European Union to make a balanced decision. And such a decision not to discredit Ukraine’s choice, the European choice of Ukraine. So that it does not discredit the decision of the 27 member states of the European Union. In our decree, we address all national parliaments, so directly to the Netherlands and the institutions of the European Union. And please support us accordingly in such a balanced decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-19-m0.u40	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Is there a need to discuss whether we can move on to making decisions? Yes. Please keep a record: two for, two against. Please. Please, Happy Natalia Vasilivna.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-19-m0.u41	Please pass the word to Sergei Kiral.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-19-m0.u42	Dear colleagues, I, along with my fellow Member of the Pigeon, had the opportunity to visit the Netherlands on Monday and to meet with activists, to meet in the Dutch Parliament, and to discuss, in fact, these issues that my colleague, Stotnik, was talking about today. In fact, the situation is indeed ambiguous, and it is complicated by the fact that there will be parliamentary elections in the Netherlands in March 2017. And as we often see in our policy, European politics is no exception, parliamentary factions, especially those who are forming a coalition government today, are very much affected by their ratings. So you and I all, colleagues, have to help and support them, strengthen the positions that they can manage today, give the necessary arguments that they can use, including in internal debates, in order to make the right decisions and support the ratification of Ukraine. So I urge you all to vote in favour of this decree. Another question. Let's also go to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, because one of the results of our discussion came from a proposal for a separate reference, this could be in the form of a joint statement by the Government of the Netherlands and the Government of Ukraine, in which we'll point out those negative or observations that were determined by the outcome of the consultation referendum in the Netherlands, and we'll call on both sides to settle those observations at the level of inter-State bilateral agreements. This will remove this tension and allow, in principle, sufficient arguments for the Government of the Netherlands to reach out to Parliament and this ratification of the agreement has been confirmed. We are now voting in favour of this decree. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-19-m0.u43	Thank you. Please, Melniczuk Ivan Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-19-m0.u44	Please give the floor to our colleague Igor Artyushenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-19-m0.u45	Igor Artyushenko, The Block of Petra Prashenko, the city of Zaporozhye. Of course, our faction will support this decision. But I wanted to talk about something else, and I wanted to explain to all my colleagues, journalists and Ukrainians the situation that was being addressed here by the Odystic MP from Melitopol from the Opposition Block. You know, it's very cynical to translate from a sick head to a healthy one, because the mayor of Melitopolis, Sergio Minko, who stopped the Separatist infection in Melitopol, who cut the video, is insinuation, he was really at that rally to stop the situation and really bring the order in, he's the mayor who organized the blockades, along with the entire Ukrainian public, he's a peace and tranquillity in the city of Melitopol. And that's why he was elected mayor in October 2015, because he was able to chase down the cesspools of separatists who are now holding some of their sessions in these basements and rocking the situation in Melitopolis. So I want to assure everyone in the next, and the mayor, and the patriotic majority in the city council, and the management of the B.S.A., the prosecutor's office, the IMF in Melitopol are in a patriotic position, there's a Ukrainian flag over Melitopol, and he'll always be there if someone doesn't want to change it. And the last. Today, a patriotic action is taking place in Melitopol, in the center of the city, Ukraine’s largest flag 40 by 60 meters [40 by 60 m], recorded in the Guinness Book of Records. So once again, I can assure you, all the Melitos, the city works, develops, and we won't let anyone rock it. Thank you. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-19-m0.u46	Eutusek Sergey Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-19-m0.u47	Please give the floor to an experienced diplomat and internationalist, Boris Tarasyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-19-m0.u48	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the Fatherland faction clearly supports this decision, which contains a very important statement that could unlock the issue of the validity of the Association Agreement between Ukraine and the European Union. At the same time, I would like to propose an addition: paragraph 3 of the operative part where it says what the Supreme Council calls for -- in paragraph 3 at the end, to put a dot. And then, after a dot, the next sentence is, "A possible way out of this situation could be an interpretation statement from the House of Representatives and the Senate of the Kingdom of the Netherlands," and then a dot, a coma. This idea was sounded at a meeting of a group of national deputies, including me, with the Ambassador of the Netherlands. I ask you to include this sentence, which provides the way to solve this problem. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-19-m0.u49	Thank you. From the Radical Party of Lazko Oleg Valeriyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-19-m0.u50	Oleg Lazko Radical Party. The Radical Party faction will support Parliament's appeal to our Dutch colleagues to support Ukraine's Association Agreement with the European Union. But at the same time, I'm addressing the government, I'm addressing the President and the parliamentary majority. Dear colleagues, have you had the opportunity to analyze the implementation of this agreement since its entry into force on January 1, 2016? The one who hasn't analyzed, I'll tell you the figures: the quotas set by this agreement for the dutyless sale of Ukrainian products and, above all, agricultural products -- they're totally scarce, they don't match the national interests of Ukraine. The hands should be held back by those who have set these quotas and who have not been able to defend the national interests of the national producer in the preparation of this agreement. It's not really a Free Trade Agreement, it's a "spart we don't even have a nose in." For example: out of a million 100,000 tons of chicken that we made last year in Ukraine, without a moment, we can only sell 15,000 tons a year, or 4 thousand tons of tomatoes with almost half a million tons produced by our famous Hersonian, Santa Claus and Clothing, and I can give you a lot of examples. That's why I'm asking the President and, above all, the government to start negotiations with the European Union to increase quotas for national Ukrainian producers without the moment of supply to the European Union. Because they can bring anything to us, without restrictions, without paying our taxes, we can't bring our own. Is that in favour of Ukraine's national interests? No, it's not. Ukraine’s national interest is that we sell our products as much as possible, bring more currency to Ukraine, and not get married like boars around the world for loans. A radical party demands a change of policy.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-19-m0.u51	Thank you. Dear colleagues, in two minutes, there will be a vote, please, I invite the deputies to the hall. Now I'm going to give the word to Irina Heratschenko as co-author, and I'm going to ask her that the proposal that Taraszuk made under the transcript is confirmed by her co-authors, so that we can include her in the text by voting. Please, Irina Heratchenko, two minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-19-m0.u52	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the ninth paragraph of our ruling, there is an imprint, and so I would like to ask the transcript of the last sentence to put it this way: "The 27 member states of the European Union have done the necessary procedures and passed on the relevant ratification letters," not "surrendered," is a clean seal. And I also very much thank the colleagues of Mr. Kiral and Mr. Boris Ivanovich Tarasyuk, who correctly formulated the position that we should propose to the Dutch side a way out of this situation, which has completely internal roots for them, and from our group of authors to confirm the correct wording of Boris Ivanovich Tarasyuk's amendment to the formulation part after the third paragraph, I urge the House of Representatives and the Senate to put the following, which could have been a possible solution to this situation, a statement from the House of Representatives and the Senate of the Kingdom of the Netherlands, is very correct. And in fact, the honourable colleagues, by this decree of the Supreme Council, we are also demonstrating that Ukraine, the Ukrainian authorities, the Ukrainian Parliament are fighting for our position, in this case the Association Agreement. And the same situation, I want to do a parallel here, is happening in the norm format. I would like to point out, my fellow Members, that today, in our Ukrainian delegation, negotiations are extremely difficult tonight. And I'm sure the Ukrainian team really needs our support today. We've heard statements from the Minister of Foreign Affairs of France and so forth, but there's a statement by the Ukrainian side and it's clear. There was a tripartite contact group of video conferences yesterday, and there was a clear statement on Debaltsev. Debaltsev is Ukraine. The Ukrainian President makes it very clear that the security issue, the humanitarian aspect, the border issue is a priority and this is our position. And so it's very important that we defend Ukrainian interests on all fronts. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-19-m0.u53	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I haven't paid attention to another faction that hasn't made a speech, one minute of Debenkov and we're moving on to making a decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-19-m0.u54	Dear colleagues, distinguished presiding officer! The position of the Opposition Block faction on this issue has not changed, it has not changed, it has never changed, nor in its previous convening. We have talked about the fact that the Free Trade Zone with the EU is not beneficial to the Ukrainian industry. It was very interesting to listen to those speakers who appeared to have seen and said that the agreement was not beneficial. Thus, we have always talked about this and said that we should not rush into this economic part of the association agreement. Since the European producer is very generous in protecting its producer, unlike us, the parliamentarians who have taken the stand for the Association of the Agreement, both political and economic, especially Yatsenuk, have shouted that our markets will open immediately, why we have the eastern markets, and we have 500 million people in Europe, Europe is not the way it is waiting for us to produce. Therefore, we must not turn to the European Parliament, but rather to protect ourselves from the work of the domestic producer and.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-19-m0.u55	Dear colleagues, so we concluded the discussion with Boris Tarasyuk. And I'm going to put to a vote with this amendment, which was written under the transcript and agreed with the drafters. And that's why I'm asking you to take up jobs, so let's move on to making decisions, colleagues. I therefore put to the vote the draft Decision on the application of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the member States of the European Union, the parliaments of foreign states, parliamentary assemblies and international organisations for the completion of the ratification process of the Agreement on Association between Ukraine and the European Union with the right which he announced under the transcript of Boris Tarasük and the technical amendment which she also announced under the transcript of Irina Herashchenko (No. 5238). And the committee would like to support this decision on the basis and in general. Please prepare for the vote, and I will put to the vote in general Order 5238. Please vote. I'd like your support, colleagues. Please be supportive. [[11:06:56]] For 235 Decision taken. Welcome to both the authors and the MPs for an active discussion. Thank you and welcome the adoption of the law. Colleagues, we're moving to Youth and Sports Block. An important work was done. I don't have it. Guys, I'm sorry. There is still a proposal for our resolution. Yeah, but I don't have one. I don't have it in "dedicated," nor do I have it in my papers. Let's do it if she does. When they bring it back, we'll go back to her. Colleagues, we are now moving on to youth and sport. We first have a bill to amend some Ukrainian legislation to improve the protection of the child's right to adequate maintenance. Colleagues, I ask you to support the proposal to consider it as a reduced procedure, and I ask you to vote in favour of the reduced procedure. Please. [[11:08:15]] For-167 167-for. Decision taken. I invite you to report to the First Vice - Chief of the Committee on Family, Youth Policy, and Sport of Veliczkowich Mikola Romanović. Please, Mr. Mikola.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-19-m0.u56	Dear Andrew Volodymyrovich, distinguished colleagues. The bill was drafted on the basis of committee hearings on the theme: "Allimental obligations to maintain livestock. The problems and ways of solving them" took place on April 20th of this year. The participants concluded that in recent years the situation of alimony obligations to support a child has increased significantly. Thus, in 2015, nearly 83,000 alimony payers were owed alimony payments for more than six months. As a result, tens of thousands of children do not receive the necessary funds from their parents to support themselves. At the same time, alimony payers who deliberately avoid child support have the opportunity to use the processual possibilities of extracting, delaying the trial, which leads to violations of the child’s rights to receive alimony. Your proposal for a bill drawn up with the participation of public organizations, lawyers' organizations, is to simplify the mechanism for a court decision to bring alimony by simplifying the court's rights to the recipient of alimony, taking into account the hidden income of the alimony payer in determining the size of alimony, and so on. The bill proposes to amend certain legislation by providing legislative grounds for determining the legal regime of alimony as a child's property; taking into account the cost of the alimony payer for which the latter does not prove the origin of the funds for their financing to determine the size of the alimony; increasing the minimum amount of alimony to be charged from the alimony payer; bringing alimony to a minimum of 10 alimony per child, one quarter to two children, one third to three and more half alimony pay, but not more than 10 living minimums per child of the relevant age. Exemption from payment by the court in cases involving additional expenses, penny insolvent for payment of alimony
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-19-m0.u57	Please, 30 seconds, finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-19-m0.u58	index alimony and change the way they are downloaded. The Ministry of Social Policy of Ukraine, the Ministry of Finance and the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration propose to adopt a bill as a basis. The Committee on Family, Youth Policy, Sport, and Tourism considered the bill at its meeting on September 6, this year, and decided to recommend a bill to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Please support the committee’s decision and protect Ukrainian children’s right to adequate custody. Thank you. For your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-19-m0.u59	Thank you. It was a report from both the initiators and the committee. Please sign up for two, two for the other. I'd like to invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy Alona Babak, Self-Help.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-19-m0.u60	Please tell Irina Sisoyenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-19-m0.u61	Please, National Deputy Irina Sisoyenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-19-m0.u62	The self-help faction will vote in favour of the bill, as the bill simplifies the mechanism for the court's decision on alimony. For the first time, the bill defines alimony as solely a child’s property. The parent who receives alimony is solely in the interests of the child for the purpose of alimony. The bill also establishes the right of the parent with whom the child resides to determine how alimony is drawn and how to obtain alimony. It is also established that the time from which alimony is awarded will be considered to be the date of the court’s appeal. And according to this jurisprudence, which is formed by prolonged court proceedings, the sum of alimony will no longer be affected. Thus, the bill protects the child’s rights to alimony and the rights of parents with whom the child resides to receive alimony. The important norm of the bill is that the alimony court will not stop if there are other legal proceedings for the recognition of parenthood, for the recognition of a child’s place of residence. So I ask everyone to support an important bill aimed at protecting the rights of the child and the parents who receive alimony. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-19-m0.u63	Thank you. I would like to invite you to the statement of the People's Deputy Taras Jurik, "Peter Prashenko's Block."
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-19-m0.u64	I'd like to give the word to a fellow Sporish John.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-19-m0.u65	Please, National Deputy Ivan Sporish.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-19-m0.u66	Ivan Sporish, Peter Dusty Block. Dear National Deputies! I think Peter Poshenko's Block will unanimously support this bill, 4928, because there's actually an improvement in the protection of the rights of the child and for proper maintenance. As already stated in the previous speech, and now I want to add to the fact that article 5 of the Law on the Judicial Assembly is being amended, where the really proposed mechanism for bringing alimony and extra expenses on a child is being improved by reducing the court's time frame as well as the case. And you know, we know perfectly well how many almanacs they refuse to pay, we know how many courts are being held up, and the child can't get those livelihoods. That's why I think we should vote unanimously today in favour of this bill, because here we're actually making it easier for the child to live, and there's going to be some justice in that at the end of the day, and by reducing lawsuits, court cases, the children will receive the corresponding costs from their parents that they are obliged to receive. So I want all of us to unanimously support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-19-m0.u67	Thank you. I'd like to invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy, Mikola Fedoruk.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-19-m0.u68	Please give the floor to an expert in this field, Andrew Pomazanov.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-19-m0.u69	I would like to invite you to the floor of the People’s Deputy, Andrija Pomazanova.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-19-m0.u70	Andrew Pomazanov, People's Front faction. Dear colleagues! According to previous speakers, we realize that there is no warning in the room about the adoption of this law. But if you add a little bit of a simple word. We know a really sad statistic that almost 80 percent of the performances involved in alimony payments are not being carried out. Why Are They Not Fulfilled? They are not fulfilled because unconscientious potential alimony payers simply ignore their child - rearing responsibilities. Now we have sad statistics. We have many cases in courts where mothers, or even sometimes parents, are seeking the truth in court. And they've been forced to stand in line for years in court to pull those unfortunate alimony. Right now, this law simplifies court proceedings for alimony. We establish that really, alimony, all the money, it's only a child's property. We're this bill, if it's approved and signed by the President, we're going to make a system that says that those parents who avoid paying taxes that live on black wages and actually don't pay alimony and say that they only have a thousand dollars of official earnings, and at that time they're driving on the Maldives, these costs, their expenses will be accounted for in the alimony amount. So, honourable colleagues, we are often asked by our voters, why is this Parliament just lobbying? Dear colleagues! Let us work together to lobby the interests of a child, children who are our future. So I urge everyone to support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-19-m0.u71	And I'd like to invite you to the floor of National Deputy Igor Mosiyczuk, the Radical Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-19-m0.u72	Igor Mosiyczuk, Oleg Lachka Radical Party Of course, the Radical Party faction will unanimously support the bill and all other initiatives aimed at improving child protection and child support. But with the opportunity, I would like to draw the attention of society and parliament to the situation of the children of the occupied Donbas. The question of captured children in Donbassa. Children held by a Russian aggressor in prison And today, on the date of the meeting in Berlin in Normandy format, Peter Poroshenko, President of Ukraine, wanted to raise before the parties the issue of the release of children held by Russian terrorists, and the poster with portraits now hanging by us and the leader of the Radical Party, Oleg Lášek, on the stand, the issue of children imprisoned by Russian terrorists, of the issues of the Ukrainians in general. After all, there is a Ukrainian captive who is currently held in Grozny, Stanislaw Clich. Questions about the release of Clich and Mikaly Karpuk must be asked immediately at all levels, as the lives of Ukrainian citizens are at stake in the lives of Ukrainian patriots. The bill itself we support as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-19-m0.u73	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the discussion is over. Please come into the hall. This is the first draft of the Family and Youth Committee block. Let's support our colleagues from the committee, we've done a lot of work. It is proposed that this bill be adopted. And I am voting on the draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation to improve the protection of the right of the child to adequate maintenance (No.4928). The committee's proposal: to support this bill on a basis, colleagues. Please vote, please support base 4928. Please vote. [[11:20:17]] For 244 Decision taken. Welcome to the authors. Welcome to the committee's decision. Colleagues, I have received a call from the Foreign Affairs Committee, and it was announced by Hanna Hopko, that there is a need for a "ratification" bloc today to adopt a draft regulation on the application of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the international parliaments of the OSCE member states and the organizations of the Islamic Society for the latest events in Syria. The draft decree aims to condemn Russia’s same aggression in Ukraine, the destruction of civilians, the use of weapons against civilians. And if it's your will, I'm going to make an offer right now to put us in the agenda for making a decision. And if it's your will, we're going to look at it right now, because it needs immediate consideration, and the Foreign Affairs Committee stresses this, as did Svetlana Zalachtzek. So, colleagues, if you'd like to prepare for the vote, I'm going to make an offer to put it into the agenda so that we can look at it immediately. Colleagues, I'm putting a motion for a vote to put into the agenda for a decision draft regulation 5214, the name of which I just sounded. Please vote, please support the inclusion in the agenda for consideration, ratification. Please. I'd like your support, colleagues. [[11:22:06]] For 211 211 for. I'll put it to the vote again, colleagues. Not all of them made it. But for some reason, MPs come out of the hall instead of entering the hall. I can see we didn't make it. I'll wait a few seconds for you to come into the hall. This is a matter of our and international obligations, and just as we expect the world to support us against Russia’s aggression, so it is important for us to support the civilized world and condemn Russia’s aggression in Syria, which operates in the same way as in Ukraine. And I think that my fellow MPs will feel responsible and now they will vote. Colleagues, I'm asking you to take up your jobs. And I'm voting on the proposal to include draft regulation 5214 in the agenda for the decision. Please support and please vote. Please support me, please vote--to include a decision in the agenda for the decision, please vote. [[11:23:25]] For 223 I see we haven't made it. Obviously, some people think that the issue of aggression by Russia is a matter of coalition. Yeah? Colleagues, I'll put it back up again, and if it doesn't work out, we'll take it back to tomorrow. Colleagues, please come into the hall and prepare for the vote. Colleagues, please come into the hall. I would like to stress once again: the proposal and request of our Committee of Foreign Affairs to include in the agenda a draft Decision on the application of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to international organisations, parliaments of the EU member states on the latest events in Syria. I'm putting a motion on the vote to put into the agenda for a decision to be made so that we can move immediately to its adoption. Please vote and please support, colleagues. Please vote and please support. [[11:24:43]] For 223 Thank you, colleagues. I see we haven't made it. I'm going to set up again, and I'm going to ask everyone not to move away from their jobs. So I'm re-entering the agenda for the decision of Decree 5214. Please vote and support, colleagues, please include in the agenda for decision-making. Please vote, colleagues, please. [[11:25:26]] For 231 Decision taken. And I immediately put to the vote the motion for a reduced procedure, and I ask you to support us to get through this appeal quickly. Please support the consideration of the reduced procedure, please. [[11:25:53]] For-187 Decision taken. And I invite you to report to the head of the committee's subcommittee on foreign affairs of Svetlana Petrovna. Please, Mrs. Svetlana.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-19-m0.u74	Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, allow me to inform you of the Supreme Council's decree on the address of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the international organizations of the parliaments of the OSCE member states and the organization of Islamic cooperation on the latest developments in Syria. The purpose of the draft decision is to ensure that active hostilities in Syria are halted, that international law, human rights and international humanitarian law are respected in the course of armed conflict in Syria, that the United Nations is politically resolved, and that the bombings by the Russian Federation are condemned. Under the transcript, I would like to point out that at the committee meeting we made changes, and I will dictate in paragraph 15 the words "voted for the continuation of its own policy of killing civilians and destroying" to replace by the words "confirmed the continuation of its criminal policy, the destruction of the civilian population and destruction." In our ruling, we give arguments about the similarity of acts of armed aggression by Russia in terms of Syria and Ukraine. Unfortunately, the Russian side continues to play a destructive role in the issue of peaceful settlement of the Syrian and Ukrainian conflicts, and actively abuses its veto power in the UN Security Council to block any constructive initiatives by the international community. As in Donbasa, in Syria, Russia, making commitments to destabilize the conflict, immediately violated them and only fuelled violence by deploying arms and ammunition by promoting propaganda. Dear colleagues, please support the appropriate decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-19-m0.u75	Thank you. The report invites the head of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Hanna Hopko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-19-m0.u76	Dear citizens of Ukraine! Dear Chairman! Russia now wages two parallel wars, one in Donbasa, the other in Syria. And this is the project that called the Supreme Council of Ukraine on international organisations, parliaments of the OSCE member states and the Organization of Islamic Cooperation on the latest events in Syria. We just want to encourage the world to consolidate its efforts to stop the Kremlin, to stop Putin. We see a similarity in the conduct of Russia's aggressive policies, both in terms of Ukraine and Syria. We saw on October 8, 2016, at the UN Security Council, Russia actually confirmed the continuation of its own policy of killing civilians and destroying civilian infrastructure in Syria. At the same time, the outcome of the vote at this session was evidenced by Russia’s public condemnation by most members of the Security Council for its aggressive actions in Syria. We have also seen Russia abuse its veto power before, effectively blocking the decision of the UN Security Council to set up an International Tribunal for the Investigation of MN17, which is not a direct and logical evidence of its involvement in crime. And so today, we would like to urge the Ukrainian Parliament to vote in favour of this Appeal in accordance with the amendments that Svetlana Zalitschuk said, in accordance with the committee's decision, which calls for a vote on the basis as a whole. And also taking into account the negotiations that the Ukrainian team is going to want in Berlin today, Ukrainian representatives have a strong enough position, and the world calls on the whole arsenal, which is Russia's opposition not only to sanctions, but to use the energy embargo, including to shut Russia off from the SWIFT system. Because all these crimes should not be impunity and the success of the international community, and peace in Ukraine is also an opportunity to prevent new conflicts in the world. So please support this vote and our solidarity with those people who have become victims of Russia's actions in Syria, too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-19-m0.u77	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I'm asking you to enter the Chamber, I'm asking you to call the Chamber of Deputies to come into the Hall and prepare for a decision. I want to remind you of my time. [[B in m in s a l in]] Showcases, right? Okay. Please record two in favour, two in the opposite. If they're willing to speak. From the Radical Party of Amelchenko. A wolf. He's giving the word "Wolf." Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-19-m0.u78	Victor Wolf, Oleg Lachka Radical Party. Dear colleagues, the latest actions of Putin in Syria followed by the announcement of the results of an international investigation into the defeat of Malaysian Boeing over Ukrainian Donbas form the final image of Putin as an international war criminal, the site of which is on trial in The Hague. Until recently, he had tried to play the role of almost a leading fighter against the terrorist threat and forced the West to weave in the tails of his actions in the Middle East. But in recent months this rescuer of the world from the horrors of Islamic terror has become the world public thought of a bloody monster who, by flying, wipes out the most Syrian Aleppo from the face of the earth with its civilian population, schools, and hospitals, children, and elderly. In fact, Putin tries to play by raising stakes in Ukraine, Syria, in the field of nuclear safety, and trades with the United States and Europe. The method of blackmailing the civilized world that Putin has chosen is to create and deepen international problems in neighbouring countries such as Ukraine, Europe, the Middle East and global security. Because of Putin’s challenge, the international community is at a crossroads today. We have repeatedly claimed that Putin understands only power as a racketeer, and weakness deeply despises and uses it for his own good. So Oleg Láška's Radical Party stresses that we have to do everything we can to stop Putin. At this time the weaknesses of the world’s leaders must be strong on their own. Therefore, the Radical Party calls on all national MPs to support the draft appeal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-19-m0.u79	Thank you. Matuzko Olenna Alexandrovna. Passing the word "Honcharenko," please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-19-m0.u80	Thank you. Dear colleagues, today Aleppo is actually going through the first line of defense in Ukraine, because what's going on there is that Putin got involved in this conflict and is killing Syrian civilians today, as he did in Ukraine. Who is Putin today? Putin today, this is the world's Motorola, otherwise it's impossible to call it. Just like the one from the car wash who came to Ukraine and decided that if he had a machine gun, he was a great general and a great geopolitical, so he got his social elevator to the top. That's exactly how Putin is, just instead of a machine gun, he's got a nuclear missile, but he's also getting his "social elevator," because there can only be one end to this situation. Today Putin, it's a danger to every person on the planet and it's events in Syria that have testified to the whole world, because when he told about Ukraine that he was here protecting the Russian-speaking, then, yes, it was and some people in Europe thought, "Yeah, there's really Russian-speaking in Ukraine," but when he went to Syria, every person realized that tomorrow he would come to Estonia to protect the Russian-speaking, then to Latvia, then to Poland, then to London, then to Miami, then to wherever he would find them. That is why it is so important to make that decision today. And I'm addressing, honourable colleagues, and respected citizens of Ukraine, look who's not voting for this decision right now. Every person who now, every national MP who doesn't give his voice, is the person who is really not the National Deputy of Ukraine, but the Kremlin agent here in the Ukrainian Parliament's session room. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-19-m0.u81	Thank you. And the closing statement by Dudenkov Alexander. We'll go to the vote in a minute. Please come into the hall. Please, Dobrenkov. He's handing over Papiev.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-19-m0.u82	Thank you. Honorable Ukrainian national MPs, respected Ukrainian citizens who listen to us and watch us on TV. You know, what's happening in the Supreme Council of Ukraine is causing some concern. Because, for example, I can read you from the previous decision that we adopted. Imagine, in the previous ruling voted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, there are such words that, given that the results of the consultative referendum in the Kingdom of the Netherlands of 6 April 2016 rejected the ratification of the Agreement, it is 0.6 percent of the 500 million people in the European Union. So we basically said in a completely incorrect form that you know that such a small portion of the Netherlands is in the total number of the European Union that you don't even have to pay attention to them. Dear colleagues, we accept serious documents. We don't have to put them in the hall like that and then vote, and we have to vote them off. Next. In the order of today’s session, there was no regulation that we are considering. Dear colleagues, let us remember, however, that authorization in international politics, in accordance with the Constitution of Ukraine, is the mandate of the President of Ukraine. As Ukrainian national deputy, I would like to know the opinion of the President of Ukraine on this matter. The second question is, I would like to know the opinion of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on this issue. And third, let's give ourselves an answer. Now, 19 numbers in Berlin are being met by the Normandy Four. Please tell me whether this decision will bring us closer to peace on Donbassa, will it contribute to constructive negotiations or not? Let us, however, make informed decisions that will be in the interests of Ukraine and that will bring peace to the Donbassa. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-19-m0.u83	Thank you. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, we will now speak for another ten minutes, and we may simply have no votes, colleagues. I'll answer that, Sergei. Dear colleagues, because I rarely comment on the situation, but right now I'm going to allow myself to do so using my right to vote. I want to tell you that similar decisions like this are positions for the state of Ukraine, which is a warring country. It was the Ukrainian State that initiated the antiputinian coalition. Then many in the world said that we had to make a deal and make peace with Putin, and we said that his tanks would appear in the most unexpected places. Today the world understands that, and the world understands that. And when we vote on this resolution, in fact, in this room, we clearly determine whether we are together with all the free world members of the anti-putin coalition, whether we are agents of the influence of the Russian world, which is killing our citizens. It's a question that's beyond politics. This is a question that stands in the sphere of public interest. Therefore, there is no need to cover up the Rules. You don't have to hide in imaginary forms. This is a question that defines the position of each MP: whether we are taking the position of Ukraine and of the entire civilized world against the atrocities that Putin is doing around the world and killing our citizens, or whether we are on the side of Putin. And this vote will demonstrate it, colleagues. I ask you to prepare for the vote. And please proceed to making your decision. I am voting on a draft decree to refer the Supreme Council of Ukraine to international organisations, the parliaments of the OSCE member states and the organization of the Islamic Society for the latest events in Syria. No.5214. Everyone please take up their jobs. It is proposed that the ruling be voted on as a basis, and generally so, colleagues. I will then testify to the faction that voted on the board and the announcement, who and how many votes for the decree. So please vote and please support as a whole. Colleagues, please vote, please support. Please vote. [[11:40:16]] For 241 It's been decided. Please show by factions. Peter Poshenko's Block – 103, People's Front – 65, Opposition Block – 0, Self-help – 21, Father's Party – 12, Radical Party – 15, Rebirth Party – 0, Will of the People – 4. My colleagues, I think there was a position vote that explains a lot of things, what motives govern one or the other MPs in the room. Thank you for your support, thank you for taking the decision and preparing the committee for this decision. Let's move on to the next question of order of the day. From the youth and sports bloc, it is a bill amending some Ukrainian legislation in connection with the implementation of child patronage No. 4997. And I ask you to support the consideration of the reduced procedure. Please support me. [[11:41:26]] For-195 Decision taken. And I invite you to report to Deputy Minister of Social Policy Ivankevitch Viktorovich. Please, from the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-19-m0.u84	Dear Andrew Volodymyrovich! Dear National Deputies! Child - care provides temporary care and parenting for a child from 3 to 6 months in a specially trained home of a protective caregiver as an alternative to setting up a child in a boarding school. The introduction of a child’s patronage requires that social security be provided to protective caregivers. The draft law proposes to amend some Ukrainian legislation in connection with the introduction of a patronage over a child, such as the Ukrainian Family Code, the National Pension Insurance Act, the collection and payment of a single contribution to the general government social insurance obligation. Such changes will help to eliminate the contradictions between family and labour laws in the provision of parental care and the provision of pension guarantees to protective educators. A patron saint, it's supposed to be a kind of professional activity to provide this kind of social services. The adoption of the bill is a necessary legislative prerequisite for the implementation of the child’s patronage, as well as for the social protection of protective caregivers, on whom the child’s care, upbringing, and rehabilitation will depend for a period of time when he and his parents face difficult circumstances. The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Family, Youth Policy, Sport, and Tourism was recommended to adopt the draft law on a basis and in general. I'd like to support you, distinguished national MPs.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-19-m0.u85	Thank you, Mr. Deputy Minister. Please give the floor to the head of the Committee on Family, Youth, Sports, and Tourism, John Sporish. Please, Mr. Ivan.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-19-m0.u86	Honorable National Deputies, Your Honor! As soon as we heard the deputy minister of social policy, Victor Ivankewich, there was a bill that really needed to solve a lot of things. I'd like everyone to go back to the hall and vote in favour of the bill, because there's quite a lot here. There is the work of the protective caregivers in connection with the implementation of child custody. And that's the first thing that's in the bill today, and we have to make a decision. The bill therefore proposes that the second part of article 252 of the Ukrainian Family Code should be deleted, which states that a protective educator is assigned to work under a contract of employment as a budget institution for social protection of the population by the local public administration or local council. Such changes can remove, on the one hand, the risks of double funding for the services of the family patronate, on the other hand, to eliminate disagreements with individual labour laws. In addition, the bill provides for appropriate amendments to the Ukrainian National Pension Insurance Act and "The Collection and Accounting of the Single Contribution to the General Compulsory State Social Insurance" which will allow the right to pension insurance to be secured by the guardians. The Chief Research Administration recommends that the bill be adopted as a basis. Therefore, during the discussion, members of the committee also supported a legislative initiative aimed at providing protective care in connection with the implementation of child custody. So I'm proposing this bill as a whole. And I ask everyone to support this bill of our committee. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-19-m0.u87	Thank you, Mr. Ivan. Please, according to the Rules, we now have an entry to discuss bill two in favour, two in favour. Please, Alexander Kodol of the People's Front.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-19-m0.u88	Alexander Kodolah. Please pass the word to Andrija Pomazanov.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-19-m0.u89	Please turn on Andrew the Anointed microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-19-m0.u90	Andrew Pomazanov, People's Front faction. Dear colleagues, if we recall, we recently passed a law with you that allows us to create protective families for our children who are deprived of parental care. So this law is really a continuation of what we've approved recently, and it allows those people who will assume the dual role of a patron to be socially protected and have pension insurance in the future. So, dear colleagues, I don't think there should be any discussion here, we should support the government, the government bill and, first of all, support our Ukrainian children, who unfortunately don't have proper parental care right now. And we need to create a set of bills that can fully protect those who are left alone in this difficult life. So, colleagues, please support and the People's Front faction supports unanimously. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-19-m0.u91	Thank you, Your Honor. And please, from the Self-Help faction, Mrs. Romanov.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-19-m0.u92	Dear colleagues, we have indeed passed a law last year, which for the first time in 25 years in the legal field in Ukraine introduced such a concept as a protective family. So we've gained experience, successful experience in Europe, as well as developed countries, including the United States. It is now necessary to protect those who will act as protective educators because it is much cheaper for the state to pay for the work of a protective educator than to take the child to an orphanage or other internal institutions that have already proved ineffective. We're gradually, as a nation, we have to get rid of these kind of boarding schools and move on to family forms of parenting. So I ask you to vote in favour of this law, because children are our future. And "The Self-Help Union" will always support those bills that are aimed at eradicating social orphans from our society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-19-m0.u93	And thank you, dear fellow. Please, from the Opposition Block, Yuri Pavlenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-19-m0.u94	Dear colleagues! Your attention is drawn to the fact that when a law was voted in accordance with which a foster family institution was formed, we warned that this law would not work because it was imperfect and did not take into account all the circumstances surrounding the creation of a protective family, including the financing and financial protection of both a child and a protective parent. Nine months later, the government came to its senses, realizing its failure to enforce the law. At the same time, I would like to point out that it has been nine months since the Law on the Establishment of a Protective Family has not been drafted by the government: there is no order in which a foster family is formed, there is no order in which the rights of a child in a foster family are protected, there is no order in which the parents of a foster family are required. That is, the government failed the Law’s work after the formation of a protective family, and it is already asking for money. In addition, I note that money is not extra, but money is spent on orphans and children deprived of parental care, as a foster family is added to a subsidy granted to an orphan child, a child deprived of parental care, which is raised in a foster home, or in a foster family. In addition, I note that the government has failed to provide work for children in the family and adoption, and having children in the family of Ukrainian citizens in the family has gained a critical minimum. In the last two years, two thirds of the Reich’s administrations have not placed an orphan child, a child deprived of parental care, in the family. And now they're going to come up with a proposal.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-19-m0.u95	Let me finish 15 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-19-m0.u96	And now they're proposing new forms that are also not protected by the regulatory framework. Therefore, in the way that there are bills today, they cannot be supported. At the same time, we demand that the government carry out its duties immediately.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-19-m0.u97	Thank you. Please, from the Radical Party of Oleg Lazko.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-19-m0.u98	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Since this is a child’s protection, I have an appeal to the representatives of the Moscow Thieves Block, which is measured in Bloody Rose and Ingulac. Maybe you don't know, then I'll let you know, there's no heat in Inhala's nursery till today. So I demand that the local authorities immediately, I stress, immediately, sit on their own cold and hungry, and turn on the inflammation so that the children do not get sick in kindergartens and that the parents are confident of their children. So you're here teaching us how to live, and you can't do the basics to start the heating season on time. So you want order in the country, start with yourself. Before the election, you buy 500 bracelets of voice, and then the children sit in cold kindergartens because of you. When we talk about protecting children, it is primarily the support of their parents. When their parents have a job, they will have a decent salary, they will buy food, diapers, clothing, and the best protection for our Ukrainian children. And the Radical Party faction has registered a number of drafts that enable us to solve key problems for our country, overcome poverty, create jobs for Ukrainians, maintain a national producer, protect Ukrainian children, so that both in kindergarten and school, and in the hospital, there is heating up so that Ukrainian pensioners who today cannot buy medicine for their copier pensions will be able to get at least five positions of medicine from the state each month. We require the indexation of pensions, setting them at a level not below the minimum of living. We demand an increase in salaries for the budget: for the teachers, for the doctors. This will be the real policy of supporting our children.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-19-m0.u99	Deputy Minister of Social Policy Viktor Ivankevich asks one minute for answers to questions and summaries and then goes to the vote. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-19-m0.u100	Dear National Deputies! The adoption of the bill and the following two bills will allow for the payment of caregivers and the payment of social assistance to support a child in a foster home. Our ministry has studied the need for regions to create protective families, and the local authorities are now ready to create over 400 families of protective caregivers. Ladies and gentlemen, we need your help on those projects that the government is going to approve, and they're waiting for a solution. The adoption of these laws, and we are prepared to make it literally for the next government meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-19-m0.u101	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the discussion is over. I'd like you to come into the hall and take a seat, please. We're about to make a decision, I'm asking everyone to come into the hall, prepare for the vote. And I am voting on the draft Act amending some of Ukraine’s legislative acts in connection with the implementation of the child’s patronage, number 4997. So first, I'm going to be the basis if there's a general position I'm going to put in general. Who supports this bill as a basis, please vote, colleagues. Please vote. [[11:55:29]] For 227 227 for. Is there no objection to voting in general? [[B in m in s a l in]] Let's back it up. Colleagues, I'm putting in the whole draft of Law 4997. In general. Please vote. I'd like your support, colleagues. Please come into the voting room. Please, in general. Please vote. [[11:55:57]] For 224 Two votes. Colleagues, I'm going to put once back on the vote as a whole. If there's a MP's will, I'll put it all over again. If not, it will only be accepted as a basis. Anyone who supports the return to the vote in general, please vote. Please be supportive. Please vote. Please be supportive. [[11:56:34]] For 231 We're back. And I'm going to put it all over again, 4997. Please vote. Please support a total of 4997. Please vote. [[11:56:55]] For 231 The law is passed. Welcome to the authors. Welcome to your colleagues. Now, pay attention, colleagues. There is a request from the chairman of the committee, came Arthur Palace, which remains a few minutes before recess, and there is a bill in the second reading, where there are just a few lines. If this is the will of the hall, we can change the order of the day. But I would like to stress, if that's the will of the hall. So who's backing us now to consider draft law 1248, which stands a little bit further, who supports us to look at it now (there's a few rights and there's a short consideration of it), please vote on who supports it. Please support our committee. Please vote. [[11:57:51]] For 219 Dear Mr. Arthur! [[B in m in s a l in]] We didn't make it? Can I put it again? No votes, we're going in the daytime, colleague. So the next one. I'm continuing the session for 15 minutes. Is it supported for 15 minutes, colleagues? So that we can at least consider one more bill. And I'm putting in the next draft of the Law, which is in order of day, this is the draft of Law 4970 amending the Ukrainian Budget Code (for payment of the services of the guardians). Please support his consideration of the reduced procedure. Please vote in favour of the summary procedure, please. [[11:58:47]] For 201 I invite you to report to Deputy Finance Minister Marcenko Sergey Mihajlovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-19-m0.u102	Good afternoon, distinguished Andrew Volodymyrovich, distinguished national deputies. I propose a bill amending the Budget Code, which deals with issues relating to the financing of the patronage that we have considered in the previous bill. These bills have been drafted to implement the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts on Enhancing Social Protection, which stipulates that from 1 January 2016 to 31 December 2018 an experiment is being introduced with the patronage of the child. The Family Code provides that payment of care and social assistance for the maintenance of a child in the family and a protective caregiver is made at the expense of local budgets. At the same time, while the experiment is under way, it is anticipated that these payments will be made at the expense of the State budget subsidy to local budgets for the payment of state social assistance on the basis of the "money goes to the child" principle. In the 2016 State Budget, the amount of this subsidy is estimated at 769.5 million dollars. By the end of the year, if this law is to be passed, there will be a need for expenditure of about a million dollars. That is, making changes to the Budget Code and the 16 - year budget change bill will not require additional expenditure. In the future, after the experiment has been completed, the expenditure will be made at the expense of the local budgets. The adoption of the bill will allow for the identification of the mechanism and the establishment of a source of funding for caregivers and social assistance for the maintenance of a child in a foster home. Please be supportive. In 2017, 36 million dollars can be added to these goals. This applies to 154 families. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-19-m0.u103	Thank you. The co-report invites the head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Budget Ischeikin Kostin Evgenovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-19-m0.u104	Dear Andrew Volodymyrovich, distinguished national deputies and invited! The Budget Committee of September 7th reviewed Bill 4970 and notes the following. The Ministry of Finance 2016-18, such payments will be made at the expense of and within the funds provided for as a subsidy from the State budget to local budgets for the payment of state social assistance to orphans and children deprived of parental care, the provision of money to parents and foster parents, and starting in 19 years, at the expense of local budgets. The implementation of the bill may then require an increase in public and local budget expenditure in the coming budget periods, depending on the state of implementation of measures to optimize the network of shelters, socio-psychological rehabilitation centres, boarding schools, in connection with the introduction of the experiment and the implementation of the child's patronage. The main scientific and expert management generally supports the bill's proposals. At the same time, it should be noted that the bill is systematically linked to two other government bills: 4969 and 4997. Therefore, they need to be viewed in a mutually agreed manner. As a result of the review, the Committee on Budget Affairs adopted the following decision: recommending Bill 4970 to the Supreme Council as a basis and as a whole, taking into account the technical and legal proposal made by the Committee in its letter of conclusion to the Supreme Council. Appropriately, the committee, together with the Chief Legal Authority of the Appellate Office, should be subject to the necessary editorial and technical regulations when establishing the relevant law. Please support the committee's decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-19-m0.u105	Thank you, dear fellows. Please record two in favour, two in the opposite. Please. Lapin Igor, People's Front. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-19-m0.u106	Please give it to Amazan.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-19-m0.u107	Andrew Pomazanov, People's Front faction. This bill, which is also a government bill, is directly linked to the previous bill, also aimed at the development of a protective service, a security service institution in Ukraine. And I think we should definitely support it, because the foster parents should have not only adequate pension insurance, but also material security during the period of such a vital function as the protective care of our children. So, your honor, together with you, we're going to adopt these bills, which are complex, which are necessary to run this necessary, dutiful, protective service. Therefore, honourable colleagues, I urge all to vote. The People's Front supports unanimously. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-19-m0.u108	Thank you. Jaroslav Moskalenko, "The will of the people".
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-19-m0.u109	I ask you to pass the word to Vladimir Mikhailovich Litvin.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-19-m0.u110	Dear Head! Dear colleagues! If we are looking at a trend in the country’s social budgets, I think that we will soon or later decide that the security and defence sector is financed by local budgets under the slogans that there is a huge amount of money. Regrettably, no one has ever calculated that they have already been budgeted locally. And I'm taking this opportunity to talk about children right now, and I'm going to talk about others, and I'm going to talk about people who are sick. A simple example. In the village of Doubish of the Žitomir district, a refuge for lonely people was created. A huge amount of money has been invested in the reconstruction of this shelter. 28 people. Now they are forced to decide that these people must be cut off and sent miles away from their homeland to other orphanages! I think if we follow this logic of the authorities, these people, as cynical as it sounds, have to be taken to the cemetery right away. Another example. You know we have over 13 million pensioners. 43 percent need medical attention, many of whom are lonely. This is done by the protective service of the Red Cross. More than 3,000 people working. Finances are taken away, budgeted, and motivated by social functions! At the same time, they perform a medical function! So to my profound conviction, we need to take very careful steps to make these decisions and consider them comprehensively, systematically. Because we're in one place and we're throwing people away. Taking this opportunity, I would ask these positions, which have just spoken, to take into account the MP's request and send them to the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-19-m0.u111	Thank you. Berezuk Oleg Romanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-19-m0.u112	Dear colleagues! By creating a protective service for our children, we do great things for Ukraine. But this law, which you now want to vote on, will destroy this protective service. Because in two years, the patron service will be financed from local budgets. And if big cities can afford it, small towns and villages will not be able to afford it! So it's a two-year scam to finance from the state budget and then transfer it to the locals. If we do that, the child’s protective services in Ukraine will not take place in two years, but will be in elite cities alone. So our proposal is to take that standard away. If the state cares for orphans, the few tens or thousands of orphans in Ukraine must be provided by the local authorities but given money! Otherwise, there will be no protective service in Ukraine. So I ask you to make an amendment to this law now that the patronage service is financed exclusively from the state budget.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-19-m0.u113	Thank you. Final speech. You're arguing with Ivan Dmitrovich. And I'm asking all the deputies to come into the hall. They'll be here in a minute. [[B in m in s a l in]] Since the factions, okay, Papiev. Please, Sporish Ivan Dmitrovitch, then Papiev and the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-19-m0.u114	Ivan Sporish, Peter Dusty Block. I think it's an extension of the bill that we just passed, 4997. And there's nothing to be afraid of, we're talking about orphans today, we're talking about protective parenting today, we're talking about protective families. And let us not be afraid of what we fear. This is a small number of children who have to be protected by both the state and local budgets. If we do not accept this question today, many children today will be overlooked. So I would like you all to vote unanimously in favour of this decision. Let's not worry, this is a small cost, but we're going to protect quite a lot of orphans, children who really need to be raised, including foster care. I thank you very much, and I would like to invite everyone to accept the bill as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-19-m0.u115	Thank you. Papi's 1 minute. And let's go to the vote. Let's go into the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-19-m0.u116	Thank you. Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine, honourable citizens of Ukraine! This bill is interesting and deserves attention. But at the same time, I would like to draw your attention to the question that you asked, the answer to the next bill is No.4969. So let me tell you, this is the Law on Change in the State Budget of Ukraine, and it does not provide for any increase in the amount of funding for the proposed budget programmes. That's the first one. The other one. The subject of the legislative initiative is government. But in doing so, the government defiantly violates article 91 of the Ukrainian Law on the Rules, there is no side to the financial and economic justification of this law. And the third is really important. There is no evidence in the accompanying documents of the ability of the local budgets to execute these programs, not to say that the law itself states that it has been put into effect since the day following the publication, but that it should be placed in the Final Positions.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-19-m0.u117	Thank you, colleagues. Please come into the hall. I wanted to consult with you. If we're going to take it as a base, if we're going to make an adjustment, is that going to be a normal path? For in the first reading we cannot bring rights, between the first and the second. And so, colleagues, I'm going to lay the groundwork, even though the committee is proposing in general, but we're just going to fail in that case. On the basis of this, I ask everyone to support the important social initiative of supporting children. Dear colleagues, please come into the hall and prepare for the vote. And I'm voting on the draft bill amending the Ukrainian Budget Code (for the payment of patronage services) (4970) as a basis, colleagues, just as a basis. Please vote, please support me, colleagues. Please vote. [[12:11:29]] For 225 One voice. We didn't make it. I see they haven't made it. Please. We know who did it, by name. Colleagues, I propose to return to the vote of 4970, and I ask you to vote carefully. First vote back. Please, colleagues, please vote for the return. [[12:12:07]] For 224 224. Colleagues, I can't see. Fellow workers, please be careful about taking up jobs. Colleagues. 224. Colleagues, I ask you to return to the vote in 4970. Please come into the hall and take part in the vote. So let's go back to the social initiative in the first reading. If you'll excuse me, please vote return to 4970. Please vote, colleagues. Please vote and support. [[12:12:57]] For 229 We're back. Now, colleagues, I'm putting 4970 on the ground. Please support everyone, please vote. Please 4,970 as a basis for paying for the services of foster parents. Please vote on the basis. [[12:13:25]] For 227 Decision taken. Colleagues, we have a number of questions left in the youth and sports bloc. I very much ask, after lunch, that everyone come to the session conscientiously so that we can vote effectively. Now for half an hour, I had the right to continue my work for only 15 minutes. At 12:45, we will continue our work and very much ask everyone to come to the hall at 12:45. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-19-m0.u118	Dear colleagues, the time allocated for recess is over. Please enter the hall, prepare for such not simple but important work for Ukraine. Please come into the hall. Colleagues, invite your fellow MPs into the hall. Tell me you have to work. Did they call you back? Everyone calls another deputy, invites him to the hall. Colleagues, well, I'm really asking you to invite MPs who are still wandering around in the towers to come into the hall. For example, I would like to report that the next draft of Law 4969 was derived from the previous 4970 on the payment of the services of the guardians. Since we only accepted it as a basis, the necessity of the next bill is being removed and the government is calling it off. Next bill. So 4969 is not going to be on the table right now, and we're going to move on to the next one. This is the draft Law on Anti-Doping Control in Sports. Reporter Gozul Igor Evgenovich. The reporter of Silantiev. And I'm asking the reporters to prepare for the bill, and the deputies are requested to come into the hall. We'll wait 30 seconds and start our work. Colleagues, please invite the deputies to the hall. So, dear fellows, we continue our work. I would like to point out once again that the draft Act on Amendments to Appendix 3, Number 7 of the Ukrainian State Budget Act is being withdrawn from consideration by the authors of the government in view of the fact that the previous bill was only adopted as a basis. And we're moving on to the next draft law, this is the draft Law on Anti-Doping Control in Sports 4724, colleagues. We still have a package of bills, and I'm going to ask you to support a reduced procedure, colleagues. Because if we go in full, we won't get a chance to get to the next bill. And so now I'm going to put this motion to a vote, and I ask everyone to take part in the vote. And support the review of the short procedure of the draft Law on Anti-Doping Control in Sports No. 4724. So, colleagues, please support me, please vote 4724, summary procedure. Please vote. Please be supportive. [[12:56:06]] For a hundred and I'll do it again. If we don't, we're going in full procedure, colleagues. So I'm voting again on the short procedure for the draft Law on Anti-Doping Control in Sports 4724. Please support the proposal, please vote. [[12:56:40]] For 139 Colleagues, I can put it again, or we can go full. Let us examine and consult with one another. If we go in full procedure, it'll actually be the only bill we'll have a chance to consider. If we go for a shortcut, we'll be able to look at a few more bills, colleagues. So I'm going to ask you to come into the hall, take up jobs, and I'm going to put this motion to the vote again. Please invite the deputies to the hall. So, colleagues, I'm going to put it again, if we don't, we're going to go after the full procedure. Please respond carefully to this vote, I urge you to support the committee, to support their bills. And please, my colleagues, I'm re-voting and I'm asking you to support the review of the short procedure for the draft Anti-Doping Control Act in sport number 4724. Colleagues, please take part in the vote, please vote, please support. [[12:58:25]] For-142 There is no political will in the room to consider the reduced procedure, colleagues, so let's move on to the full procedure. I invite you to report to the First Deputy Minister of Youth and Sports, Gozula Igor Evgeniovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-19-m0.u119	Dear Andrey Volodymyrovich! Dear National Deputies! In the fall of the year, the World Anti - Doping Agency recognized the National Anti - Doping Center of Ukraine as not meeting the requirements of the World Anti - Doping Agency. This meant to our country that Ukrainian athletes could have been deprived of the right to speak at international competitions. The basic requirements for us or the basic claims to us were the following. A laboratory and an anti - doping center is one organization that violates confidentiality. We're testing in a national laboratory that's not certified. Also, the National Laboratory is not fully independent. The new law that you are proposing is designed to resolve this issue and to remove claims to our country as one that does not fully meet the International Convention on Doping in Sports. This convention was approved, I think. ratified by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The proposed project removes these claims, divides the functions of the laboratory and the anti-doping centre, removes the ban on drug testing of Ukrainian athletes in the VADA accredited laboratory and gives additional authorizations to the anti-doping centre that meet the requirements of the World Anti-Doping Agency. The adoption of this law is extremely important for our Ukrainian sport, because it gives us a chance to take the path of pure sport and join all the civilized countries that are going that way. So the Ministry has developed this project and asks you, honourable national deputies, to support it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-19-m0.u120	Thank you. Please remain in the rostrum. Now we have time to ask the reporter, and please record the question, please. Semenha Roman Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-19-m0.u121	Please pass the word to Ana Romanovi.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-19-m0.u122	I have such a question for the minister of honor. Mr. Igor, please tell us that we are creating a new state-owned enterprise by this bill, but the question is that if we create a new state-owned enterprise, we will plan the budget for anti-doping tests, but the World Anti-Doping Agency will not give certification to this state-owned enterprise for such trials, what will we do then? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-19-m0.u123	The process of certification of the National Anti-Doping Laboratory is a process that takes a long time. If we're super successful and we adopt this law today, it'll take at least two years. So it's suggested that you create a laboratory just as a state-owned enterprise that will be able to perform other orders today and labs, and that you keep that professional warehouse of the people who work there, and that you keep the equipment that's bought at a government expense and it costs a lot of money.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-19-m0.u124	Thank you. Please, Gusak Vladimir Georgievich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-19-m0.u125	Good afternoon. How much does the current world practice and the current demand to fight doping in sport correspond to that of the National Anti-Doping Center and the National Anti-Doping Laboratory under this bill will be subordinated to the central executive authority responsible for implementing State policy in sport, namely the Ministry of Sport?
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-19-m0.u126	It's absolutely true that this bill has been harmonized with the experts of the World Anti-Doping Agency and with the Council of Europe profile committee, and it's approved in such an edition. So we ask for her support.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-19-m0.u127	Igor Lapin, People's Front, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-19-m0.u128	I'd like you to pass it on to Santa.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-19-m0.u129	Please tell me, Mr. Deputy Minister, the presence of such a laboratory is only going to be for Ukrainian athletes, can we still engage to serve other athletes from other countries?
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-19-m0.u130	Our task is to achieve the future accreditation of our National Laboratory as an international one, which will allow trials not only by national athletes but also by international athletes. This will enable labs to earn money and Ukraine to earn international authority in sports. But I've already talked about it, it's a process that's going to take long enough. And we have to be successful on this path.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-19-m0.u131	Thank you. The time for questions is exhausted. Thank you, Igor Evgenovich. I invite the deputy head of the Committee on Family, Youth Policy, and Sports, Silantiyev Denis Olegovich, to report. Please, Denis Olegovich. Let's call Dennis Olegovich together. There's already Denis Olegovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-19-m0.u132	Dear Andrew Volodymyrovich, distinguished colleagues! The committee at its meeting on June 14, 2016, reviewed the draft Law on Anti-Doping Control in Sport, submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, and reported on the following. The bill proposes a valid Ukrainian law on anti-doping control in sports to be published in a new edition, taking into account the provisions of the International Convention on Combating Doping in Sports. The bill defines the additional powers of the National Anti - Doping Center to approve anti - doping rules. Powers and basic tasks of the National Anti-Doping Laboratory are established. In doing so, the laboratory will function separately from the National Anti-Doping Center. The chief scientific expert of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's apparatus proposes to adopt the bill on the basis of his comments. During the discussion, members of the committee supported a legislative initiative aimed at creating the necessary legal, organizational, socio-economic principles, and further effective activities from the organization of anti-doping control in sport. At the same time, members of the committee and representatives of the physical and sports community have set up a number of proposals for a bill that will be taken into account when preparing for the second reading. In particular, proposals were supported to increase the responsibility of athletes to use doping, ban on doping advertising, standardize the National Anti-Doping Laboratory with appropriate equipment at the expense of the state budget. However, the law on the definition of the National Doping Laboratory by the economic activity subject of the State form of ownership has led to a discussion of committee members. According to the committee, in the absence of an accreditation of the National Anti-Doping Laboratory, it is unable to obtain income to compensate at least for the rent of a room at market price. Therefore, when preparing the draft for second reading, the committee will once again examine the relevance of granting the National Anti-Doping Laboratory the status of the budgetary institution to be accredited by the World Anti-Doping Agency. As a result of the committee’s consideration, the draft Law on Anti-Doping Control in Sports, 4724, submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, was adopted as a basis for consideration in the first reading. I'd like your support, colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-19-m0.u133	Thank you, Your Honor. Stay in the rostrum. We have a full discussion. Please ask the co-conspirator. If they are, please sign in. If we don't, we're going to shorten the time. Please, from Mr Papiev, from the Opposition Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-19-m0.u134	Thank you. Mr. Reporter, the law is very interesting and positive, but in my opinion it would be necessary to foresee in the law this weight that would not allow the use of doping laboratories for some political or regional purpose, or competing goals between the owners of different teams. You know what I mean. For example, when VADA is the World Anti - Doping Agency, it was found that it was selectively suited to athletes. For example, Simonie Bales, this is the four-time champion of the 2016 Olympics, or the Williams sisters, they've given "good" to make absolutely peaceful use of doping. And at the same time, there was no means of influencing them. Won't it be that, for example, there's a football team winning another team, and then the lab will be used for the benefit of one of the teams? So it's a very big danger. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-19-m0.u135	Thank you. Please have a question from Mrs. Natalia Wesselow from Self-Help.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-19-m0.u136	Please pass the word to Romanov.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-19-m0.u137	Dear colleagues! I think that our results at the Rio Olympics have shown that we, including parliamentarians, pay very little attention to the development of physical culture and sports. Here, look, all the bills that apply to our collective, the development of mass sports, they go into the agenda, if they go, if they go, if they go, if they go, it's only Wednesday. As far as the bill is concerned. Of course, we need to do everything the World Anti - Doping Organization has recommended. But what we said was a warning about setting up a state-owned enterprise, that's the first thing before the moment of accreditation. And the second. We need to explain to ourselves that this should be a self - sacrificing organization. And in principle, this bill states that we have this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-19-m0.u138	Let me finish. And then please answer two questions. I'm out of my mind. And indeed, the answer to Mr Papiev. And then Mrs. Romanova. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-19-m0.u139	With this bill, we have to even save government money. Because now we have to send anti-doping tests to Germany to make, really prepare our athletes. But we have to vote in favour of this bill in the first reading in order to even save the budget. Please support and then make an offer on.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-19-m0.u140	Thank you. Mr Papieuve, Mr Papieuve, Mr Papieuve! Mr. Mikhail Papiev, there will be an answer to your question. Please, Mr. Silantiev.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-19-m0.u141	Yes, you're absolutely right: there are abuses, there are abuses of the International Anti-Doping Laboratory. But if we do everything as prescribed in the Anti-Doping Act, there will be no such abuse. And if you have a proposal to place a safety guard, a safety guard from not being such a moment, it's just the first reading, we can continue to accept amendments, discuss and accept. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-19-m0.u142	Thank you. Now, according to the Rules, you and I are to sign up for the factions. I'm asking for a recording, and you, Mr. Selantiev, can pass right now to your seat. Please, from the Opposition Block, the people's deputy Gusak.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-19-m0.u143	Dear colleagues, respected citizens of Ukraine, this bill is a government bill. And the faction of the Opposition Block is the only, real and consistent opposition force in this Ukrainian Parliament. We did not vote in favour of any of the budgets that took pensions from pensioners, disability benefits, child feeding. Unlike the factions that now call themselves opposing, we have never been in a coalition and have not been in a coalition in 2015 that led Ukraine to an economic catastrophe. But this law applies to an important area that should unite all of us, namely, clean sports and sports. In fact, in today’s world and in today’s sports world, the fight against doping is getting tougher all the time, new rules are being introduced, new ways are being found to do drug testing, doping that was not revealed last time. And it should be said frankly that, unfortunately, Ukraine has a drug problem. Recently, two medals from the 2012 Summer Olympic Games and one medal from the 2008 Summer Olympic Games were collected in Ukraine. Even after that, for example, the number of medals that Ukraine won at the 2012 Olympic Games in London was 18, 6 of which were gold. I would like to remind you that the minister of sports in Ukraine recently spoke and reported on some progress. So in the last Olympic games that ended this summer, Ukraine won only 11 medals, of which only 2 were gold. And we understand that in order for Ukrainian athletes to have a chance to win an honest fight, it is necessary to bring Ukrainian legislation into line with new international standards. Ukraine needs to win sports, but it has won pure and honest. And that's why the faction of the Opposition Block will support this bill in the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-19-m0.u144	Thank you. Please, from the Peter Dust Block, Mr. Sporish. Please, Mr. Ivan.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-19-m0.u145	Honorable National Deputies, Your Honor! I think that as soon as we heard the first Deputy Minister of Youth and Sports, Igor Gozula also made a concrete and meaningful presentation by Dennis Silantiev. Because the main thing that we have to accept in this bill today is the fight against doping. We know perfectly well, and we see in the last Olympics, which recently took place, how many Russian athletes didn't make it to the Doping Olympics, we know that even the trouble was in us, where parts and our athletes weren't allowed through doping. And that's why question number one today -- we really have to adopt this bill today. Because recognition at the legislative level of laboratories accredited by the World Anti-Doping Agency, it should eventually be and should correspond to our laboratories. And our National Anti-Doping Laboratory really has to answer with a global one, and that was all said. And if we're going to adopt this bill today, if we're going to do it again, a small amount of money is needed for this bill to be adopted, we have to do everything we can to make it true today, and the World Anti-Doping Laboratory and our National Anti-Doping Laboratory. So I think that really, today we need to adopt this bill both as a basis and as a whole that will allow us to be equal to our athletes, laboratories worldwide, and that we don't have any pretenses and reasons for doping. And I think today, this is the question that stands today, the question of sports in our session, I think today will give our team Dinamo Kiev the opportunity to win at the central stadium. And I invite you, and we invite you all to football, and I think the national MPs will all come today and help Dynamo Kyiv win today. That's why I'm asking for Bill 4724 to adopt and unanimously vote for everyone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-19-m0.u146	Thank you. Only after the meeting of the Supreme Council, please, not right now. And we invite the self-help representative of Egor Sobolev to the rostrum. Oh, he's handing the word to his colleague, Mr. Danchenk. Please, Alexander.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-19-m0.u147	Good afternoon, colleagues! Good afternoon, everyone! Sports is the health of the nation, sports is the future of every state. Pure sport is the principle of maturity, the principle of openness of each state, and also its power. So, of course, such a bill is needed and we need our athletes to be crystal clear so that our children don't see any examples of drug use, then we have a strong nation that can move forward. According to this bill, the second reading should be followed by, in fact, by fuses that would not allow corruption or some kind of manipulation. The draft fully meets the requirements of international legislation. But I want to point out that the problem of our sport is not only in anti-doping legislation, our athletes need basic feeding, they need food money, they need football fields, they need other halls, so doping is good. Gentlemen, with this funding and attitude to Ukrainian sports, no one will be tested for doping at the next Olympics. Therefore, there is no doubt that this bill needs to be supported, but it has to work on supporting Ukrainian sports. Well, it's coming from a block that said it wasn't anywhere, and in any coalition, they weren't, and there's no point that our Ukrainian sport is now broken down. I want to tell these representatives, you're going to have to go through this anti-doping first and check it out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-19-m0.u148	Thank you. Dear colleagues, three factions have taken advantage of their right to speak on this bill and have not signed up for the People's Front. But please. The Radical Party and then the People's Front, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-19-m0.u149	Dear colleagues! A wise person said that the country’s ratings were measured by the number of nuclear warheads and the number of Olympic medals. There are no nuclear warheads in Ukraine, so I hope this bill will help our Olympics bring more and more medals of different kinds every year from any future Olympics. And given that there is a participant in the Olympic Games and the prize of the Dennis Silantiev Olympic Games, I hope you will all understand that you will take a decision on this bill and support everyone in this room unanimously. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-19-m0.u150	And thank you, Mr. Amelchenko. Please, representative of the People's Front, please to the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-19-m0.u151	Dear colleagues! This anti-doping law is very important for Ukrainian sport right now, it's not only about athletes who are preparing for the Olympics, it's about the regular athletes who are playing internationally at the European Championships, the world championships. They are always under anti-doping control by VADA, and so the presence of such a laboratory and such a centre in Ukraine is exactly what is needed for Ukrainian sport. This will not only allow us to save money on the trials that our athletes have to undergo in other countries. This will allow for the inclusion of funds from other countries where there are no such laboratories. I urge everyone to vote in favour of this bill, we understand that there are some points that need to be amended in the second reading, on the committee we will do so. I urge everyone to vote in favour of this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-19-m0.u152	And thank you, Mr. Big Guy. Colleagues, are they still willing to come out of factions? All of them, exhausted. From our B.P.P. faction, which was already speaking. Not just two political groups and Fatherland. You don't want to? That's why I'm asking you to sign up for the National MPs right now. And this, Mr. Kishkar, will be your chance to speak too. Paul Kishkar, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-19-m0.u153	Thank you, dear friends. In fact, we need to speak very briefly so that we do not run and support this bill. And thank you, Mr. Prime Minister of Youth and Sports, for the fact that this bill is now under consideration, because I'm not as optimistic as you are, and I think we're going to need 5 years to get VADA to actually certify our lab. I would very much ask that the 2017 budget truly reflect the needs that the laboratory already has for today with regard to the equipment that needs to be placed there in order to claim the appropriate status and certificate of VADA. Today’s sport really has three pressing problems. It is doping as the first and essential component of honest fighting, corruption in the very structures that govern sports, and manipulation of sports events or sports competitions as the third basic ingredient. I think that both this Supreme Council and the Ministry of Youth and Sport are actively involved in solving these pressing three problems, including by settling this in the Ukrainian legislative field. At the moment, the only revolutionary bill that I personally submitted as the first author is 4857, which reflects the reality, the reality of how sport in Ukraine must develop. I would very much ask that all the national deputies, including the ministry that supports us on this difficult path, join in with the authorship, join in official support and support, and vote. And the leadership of the Supreme Council, I would like to ask you to spend youth and sports day in the Supreme Council in order to address in a comprehensive manner the urgent problems that we now have in the field of youth and sport. Thank you very much. And please support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-19-m0.u154	Thank you, Your Honor. Please, from the People's Front, Deputy Lunchenko. Deputy Lunchenko of the People's Front.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-19-m0.u155	Please pass the word to Maxim Burbak.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-19-m0.u156	Maxim Burbak's on the scene.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-19-m0.u157	Dear colleagues, the People's Front faction will support this bill because it is overweight. In view of this, we see what was the doping scandal with the Russian congregation, which was almost entirely unable to go, and thank God, she was unable to go to the last Olympics. But what I want to say is that between the first and second readings, we need to predict the possibility of checking some of our colleagues in the session room for some stimulating substances and starting with Caplin, because we need to worry about his health. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-19-m0.u158	From the Opposition Block, Mikhail Papiev, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-19-m0.u159	Thank you. Dear Ukrainian National Deputies, honourable citizens of Ukraine, I think everyone can be convinced and the Supreme Council has confirmed its priorities. But notice, today, in order of the day, important statements by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, which were taken by the Supreme Council of Ukraine's ruling, have been adopted by a reduced procedure of vote, for lack of text, in fact, by these statements, the Supreme Council of Ukraine may in general disrupt the negotiating process and complicate the negotiations of the "Normand Four", and this approach is completely disregarded. After that, the Supreme Council of Ukraine passed laws concerning orphans, foster families, financing, for some reason, you did not discuss these laws in full bill-making mode to make informed decisions that would be in the interests of Ukrainian citizens, in the interests of Ukrainian families. And look at the excitement of this law. Do you know why? I'm explaining to the citizens of Ukraine. Because today's predominant coalition has seen the creation of an anti-doping laboratory, hundreds of millions of dollars from the state budget of Ukraine, it's an opportunity to assign the right person and use the lab for either political purposes or for some sport, especially football, especially game sports. That's why it's so exciting. Nevertheless, I would like the priorities of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to reflect people's interests so that we can use the same time today to review laws that overcome poverty, laws that raise social standards for people. Here's the next bill that's going to be, is to make changes to the state budget of Ukraine, where in fact the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine is putting social aid on orphans' children into local budgets. No increase in the funding of subsidies, even for the transitional period until 2019, is available. And we're actually making it impossible to finance local budgets today. We've already got vocational and technical education, we've got science, we've got scholarships. You've already gotten to the orphans. Ladies and gentlemen, have God in your heart! And I would like the Supreme Council of Ukraine, first of all, to adopt laws that are in the interests of people today, not in the interests of individual or sports, or political or factional groups in the next instance, including in sports. Thank you for your attention. And I would ask everyone to draw attention to the social problems of society.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-19-m0.u160	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I see we have more deputies, and we will be able to move on to making a decision. Could there be general agreement that we would allow Saul to speak and then move on to making a decision? We had a lively discussion. I'm asking everyone to come into the hall, please, everyone, to the decision room. And I invite you to the address of Solovya Yuri Igorovich. And invite the deputies into the hall, please. Mr. Yuri, may I have a word with you?
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-19-m0.u161	Yuri Solovay, 89 constituency, Gutzulščina, and Pocust. Dear colleagues, as a man who has been involved in sports since childhood, I want to say that this very thing has given me very much in life and formed a series, along with educational skills, formed me as an adult. And that's why when we, today I hear a previous reporter saying that sport is the last thing the Ukrainian Parliament should be looking at. Then let me disagree with him. Sports is one of the key issues that should stand in the order of the day of the Ukrainian Supreme Council. Because we often struggle with the consequences, the poor level of education, the huge cost of medicine, alcoholism, tobacco, without realizing that the root and the reason are completely different. And the reason is that we don't actually have any infrastructure for a new sport. The operating infrastructure is the infrastructure that we inherited from the Soviet Union. Over the past 25 years, no amount has been allocated from the budgets of all levels to the development of sports infrastructure. Where do we get the athletes from? Where will we get the image of Ukraine? And that's why I think it's extremely important that this kind of legislation is in Parliament today. I'll give you an example. The highlands, the mountain district, the only Olympic football base in Ukraine, which is practically completely ruined, a base that prepared Olympic champions and champions of the world. That's one particular example. We will see hundreds of such examples in Ukraine, if not thousands. Therefore, I support my colleague Paul Kishkar, who said that we should definitely spend the day of sports in our Parliament. That's the first question. And the second question. There's a budget process going on today. Those who spend money on sports do not solve the problem completely. I urge all parliamentarians to take a closer look at this issue and, in the coming year, to increase spending on physical culture and sports. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-19-m0.u162	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please come into the hall. We had a lively discussion of the bill. All the factions expressed their support for the bill. So we have a politically agreed position. Please come in, take up jobs. And I want to agree with the previous statement that the issues of youth and sport, which are one of the key to the development of our youth and our state, cannot be overshadowed. Today, the committee has put exorbitant bills into order. And I would ask that we support the committee and our colleagues. And that's why I'm asking you to take up jobs. Now I'm going to propose to the committee to vote for the basis. Based on the base. And then I'll make the next proposal that the Committee on Youth and Sports will recommend. So, colleagues, can we move on to making a decision? So I'm voting on the draft Law on Anti-Doping Control in Sports No. 4724. At the suggestion of the committee, it is proposed that this draft law be adopted on a basis, colleagues. On the basis of that, please support, please vote, colleagues. Please vote, colleagues. Based on the base. Let's vote, colleagues. [[13:35:21]] For 211 I see they're not all there. I see they're not all there, are they? I'm asking you, colleagues, to come into the hall. Colleagues, please, and we have further questions about youth and sports, which are the initiators of different factions. My colleagues, I would like to remind you that before the break we made an offer to consider in the second reading the law that we have under number 1248. We did not have enough votes, but all the factions confirmed that they were willing to vote for it. But we need to get through this vote. I'm asking you to focus, come into the hall, take jobs, colleagues. Now I'm going to go back to 4724, support sports. And, colleagues, please prepare for the vote. Please come into the hall. So I'm proposing to go back to 4724, to the draft Law on Anti-Doping Control in Sports. And I ask you all for your support, colleagues. Please vote, please support, colleagues. Please vote. Please vote. [[13:36:54]] For the 220. I see a little bit, colleagues, we just have people on the floor when we vote. I ask you very much to come to my workplace. I see you're asking very, colleagues. Making decisions is one of our main responsibilities. I ask you to support the sport, support the Committee of Youth and Sports and Arthur of the Chamber personally. We can, right? I see there are seven other deputies. So, colleagues, I'm asking you to carefully enter the hall, take your jobs. And once again, I propose to go back to the draft Law on Anti-Doping Control in Sports. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to vote back to 4724. Please vote, please support. Please vote. [[13:38:07]] For 228 My colleagues, thank you. Now we're going to continue the vote. I'll set it up now, Mr. Ivan. Mr. Arthur, I'll put in a second reading. But now we have to vote for the law that we're back to. And I'm voting on the draft Law on Anti-Doping Control in Sports (No.4724) as a basis. Colleagues, based on. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to vote. Please vote. Please vote. [[13:38:48]] For 231 Decision taken. Welcome to the committee. Colleagues, pay attention! Attention! Please remain seated. Both the committee head and representatives of all factions asked me to now review the draft Law on Amendments to certain Ukrainian legislative acts (to improve specific provisions of youth policy and to set up youth centres). It's the second reading, it's in the daytime just through two bills. And the committee insists that we now move on to its consideration, there are just a few amendments, just a few amendments. Let's support the committee, it's all right. The Supreme Council of Ukraine has the right to change its decisions. And the Supreme Council will take advantage of that right now, I hope. And I'm voting on the proposal of the committee and all factions to now go to the draft Act amending some of Ukraine's legislative acts (for the improvement of individual youth policies and the creation of youth centres) (1248), which is in the second reading, there are just a few amendments. I'm asking you to support the proposal so that we can move on to his consideration now. All factions have confirmed that they support this proposal. Please vote, please support. Colleagues, please vote to move to 1248. Please vote. [[13:40:28]] For-198 There is no such political will, Mr. Arthur. There is no such political will. And so we move on to the next question of the order of the day, which is next. This is question 4984, a draft regulation to ensure the continuous development of the physical culture and sport in Ukraine under conditions of decentralization of power. Colleagues, I'm asking you to stay put and I'm asking you to support the proposal for a reduced procedure. Please. [[13:41:09]] For 171 171 for. Decision taken. And I invite you to the report of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Silantiev Denis Olegovich. Please, Mr. Dennis.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-19-m0.u163	Dear Andrew Volodymyrovich, distinguished colleagues! Recently, in Rio de Janeiro, the Olympics were over, and Ukraine was 31 in the medallion. Our athletes won only 11 medals and 2 gold medals -- the worst result in all of Ukraine's history in 25 years. We all know that one of the main reasons for these National Assembly Olympics is the problem of financing, above all, the foundation of sports at higher levels of children's sports schools. There is a dangerous trend: Despite the demands of legislation, some local councils refuse to finance sports schools. So the management of the Montenegrin City Council in its ultimative form has led to the knowledge that in 2017 the City Council will not fund sports schools of sports and sports associations if they do not move into municipal property and such cases are not unique. In addition, we have to say that, under the slogan of decentralization, the state has actually self-removed itself from supporting mass sports, which, in the context of legislative uncertainty, causes serious problems in the development of sport in the territorial communities whose leadership does not give the necessary attention to physical culture and sports. This is why my committee colleagues and I have registered a draft Decree 4984, which, in particular, is proposed by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to approve immediately the national targeted social programme for the development of physical culture and sports for the period up to 2020. Implement a plan of action for 2017 from the implementation of a national health-care strategy in Ukraine for the period up to 2025 entitled: "Working activity is a healthy way of life, healthy.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-19-m0.u164	Please give me 30 seconds to finish, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-19-m0.u165	Can I have more?
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-19-m0.u166	More? A minute?
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-19-m0.u167	Yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-19-m0.u168	One minute, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-19-m0.u169	Thank you. To improve the work of involving investors, patrons, and reconstruction of existing sports infrastructure. Local executives, local self - government authorities, in order to take steps to create conditions for the regular organization of motor activity of the population with a view to strengthening health, taking into account interests, wishes, abilities, and individual characteristics. Providing support to sports and health camps for the health and recreation of children engaged in sports, conservation and development of a network of physical and health facilities for local housing, work and mass recreation using public-private partnerships as a condition for the inclusion of different types of population for health care, etc. The adoption of the draft decision will allow approval of the proposals made to ensure the effective development of physical culture and sport in Ukraine and contribute to improvement.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-19-m0.u170	30 seconds and you're done, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-19-m0.u171	Activities of executive bodies, local self - government bodies, public organizations to promote development in the field of physical culture and sports in Ukraine Given the importance of this decision, please support its adoption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-19-m0.u172	Thank you very much. The co - report invites the head of the Committee on Family, Youth Policy and Sports, Palatno Arthur Leonidovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-19-m0.u173	Dear colleagues, Honourable Andriy Volodymyrovich, the committee at its meeting on 6 September 2016, discussed the draft Ordinance on Ensuring Permanent Development in Physical Culture and Sport under the conditions of decentralization of power. The draft decree proposes to improve state policy in the field of physical culture and sports by adopting a series of proposals to executive authorities, local self - government authorities, in order to improve physical and sports functions. The Ministry of Youth and Sport of Ukraine supports the adoption of the draft decision. During the discussion, members of the committee supported a legislative initiative aimed at improving legal and economic development mechanisms in the area of physical culture and sport, which will support child-to-child sport, improve the competitiveness of higher-performance sports, improve the health of Ukrainian citizens, promote mass sport and a healthy way of life in the country. In a meeting. Following the Committee's consideration, it decided to recommend a draft decision to the Supreme Council of Ukraine to ensure permanent development in the field of physical culture and sports in Ukraine under conditions of decentralization of power. Submitted by the Ukrainian National Deputies and members of our committee. Dear colleagues, I ask you to settle down and support this determination. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-19-m0.u174	Thank you, colleagues. Thank you. Is there a need to discuss? Yes. If anyone wants to speak, please record: two for, two against. But I call for a brief discussion, which is the result of parliamentary hearings. Please record two in favour, two in the opposite. Please, Barna, turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-19-m0.u175	Today’s questions about the development of sports are extremely relevant. We all see the results of a lack of activity, a muddy, criminal activity, the failure of previous powers in all of Ukraine's history, an independent, 25-year-old. And as a result of this muddy activity, we see that strokes and heart attacks have already occurred at school. So we need to radically change the whole concept of developing sports and mass work, starting with preschool education, improving sports and mass work at school, increasing physical education. As little as possible, hours are allocated to collective sports: football, volleyball, basketball, and so forth, and more insistence on the development of individual sports: athletics, gymnastics, and self - struggle. In addition, special attention should also be paid to the development of sports and especially to the development and sports schools. Sports schools, which are now in very poor condition and at the same time need to be stressed that it is the development of Ukrainian sports, sports, and individual sports that can improve the overall health of the population. And we need to go back to the old principles of giving in to the physical culture and sports standards that in school, as well as giving priority to advertising sports as a healthy way of life as a priority in improving the overall status of the person. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-19-m0.u176	Thank you. Rybczyn Alexei Mihajlovich gives the floor to John Krulk. Please, Mr. Ivan.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-19-m0.u177	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. Well, first of all, I want to say that the "Paternity" faction will support this bill in its entirety. I would also like to take this opportunity to wish to all the Ukrainian teams that will defend the country's colours in the Europlums today and tomorrow, this is the Kyiv Dynamo, the Donetsk Shahtar, the Lugansk Zara, all of our victories and victories. And also, Andrew Volodymyrovich, I would like to address you and ask you to go back to Bill 1248 (this is the second reading, youth centers) -- a bill that is prepared to take all the requirements of the Council of Europe into account. We're going to create a whole network at the local level of those youth centers that will give a very powerful impetus to the development of youth policy in Ukraine. It is a bill to unite the entire room and allow Ukrainian youth to develop here in the Ukrainian State, not to dream of going abroad, leaving the Ukrainian State. Let's prepare Ukrainian youth and mobilize them for that. to work for the Ukrainian State. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-19-m0.u178	Thank you, Mr. Ivan. I had been approached by the committee heads and by some factions, not all of them. So after considering this bill, I'm going to make another suggestion to go to the second reading. There are only a few amendments, but you will ensure that the number of votes is needed. Corchinska Oksana Anatoliyevna is now invited to the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-19-m0.u179	Good afternoon, dear fellows! The Radical Party faction. Oksana Korchinska. Of course, we support this bill, it's extremely important. We need to make sure that to cut the deadlines very much, we've had all the legal acts made that we don't regularly have the Cabinet of Ministers. And besides, we have to support athletes, we have to raise more patriots. I'll point out that a few weeks ago, most parliamentarians here called on the Cabinet of Ministers to save the untargeted assets of the National Bank of Ukraine by handing them over to the Ministry of Youth and Sport for the Paralympics in the first place, because we all bloated, but we don't care about our athletes, especially the disabled. When we were asked to transfer the health complex to Theodore Dreiser in Kiev, where Arbuzov invested 50 million dollars of government money in the 13th year, it's a VIP complex with four pools. The Minister's office looks like he can't hear us with you for two weeks. Now these non-target assets of the National Bank go through the holding of auctions, which means that someone is privatizing and stealing from our athletes with you. It's not just a healing complex, it's also a 50-vip base in the Gulf, it's a base in the Ivano-Frankian VIP level where our athletes can not only rest with you, but also go through rehabilitation. That's why I demand, I now have a representative of the President in Parliament. Arthur Gerasimov, I ask your personal control, we should not, we should have our own restraint, which we must give to the athletes and, above all, to the Paralympics, so that the auction now goes at no cost, this state property, it should get to the athletes. Thank you very much. I'm hoping for backup.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-19-m0.u180	Thank you. Gusak Vladimir Georgievich. This is the last performance, and then we'll move on to making a decision. I ask all the deputies to come to the hall and prepare for the decision. Please, Vladimir Georgievich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-19-m0.u181	Dear colleagues, respected citizens of Ukraine. In the first year of Ukraine's history of the summer Olympic Games in Atlanta in 96, Ukraine entered the top ten of all countries in the world and won nine gold Olympic medals. It was probably one of the best representations of our young country in the international arena, and we were all proud of it. In the last summer of the 2016 Olympic Games, Ukraine took 31 seats among all the countries of the world and won only 2 gold medals. In general, we were visited by countries like Uzbekistan, Belgium, and Kazakhstan. And in some sports, the situation is even worse. Sports, for example, are the most massive. Thus, Ukraine’s third Olympics have no team in sports. And that's because Ukraine has traditions. For example, in the women’s handball where the Olympics won the Russian Women’s Assembly. And in Russia there was a great celebration. By the way, most of the European champions' cups in history have been won by the Kyiv team Spartacus. There are many reasons for this. This is also a general decline in the country, and the decline in population, and there are so many questions to today’s leadership of youth and sport. I would like to remind you that in 2014 the government of the Ministry of Youth in general put an honest chance on a person. Can I have 30 seconds? Dear colleagues, the Olympic medals are not an end in themselves, but the results of the Olympic Games and the great sport are the top of the pyramid that shows the state of affairs.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-19-m0.u182	30 seconds, complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-19-m0.u183	which shows the state of affairs with the health of the nation as a whole. And one more thing. The Opposition Block is a responsible faction that is really concerned about the laws that matter to the country. I'd like to draw your attention to the fact that today's important legislation on supporting orphans, the previous anti-doping law, and I hope this decision -- they weren't adopted without the votes of the Opposition Block. We believe and speak for the Ukrainians to be healthy.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-19-m0.u184	Thank you. We've got some left. Ten seconds, finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-19-m0.u185	So our children can play sports so Ukraine can have Olympic champions. And that's why we support this decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-19-m0.u186	Thank you. One more minute from the People's Front, Bigwig. And let's go to the vote, colleagues. Please invite the deputies into the hall, please come into the hall. In a minute, we move on to making a decision. Please, Mikola the Great.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-19-m0.u187	Dear colleagues! I ask you to vote in favour of this decree. So that we don't have to repeat that disgraceful phenomenon that we had when we failed the parliamentary recommendations. I appeal to all factions, to all colleagues, to vote in favour of this decree. And it was really, you know, strange to hear right now the representative who was speaking to me, who was here crying crocodiles for how to love Ukrainian sports, and who failed to vote in favour of parliamentary hearings. I'm talking to you again. The People's Front is voting and addressing everyone, too.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-19-m0.u188	So, colleagues, we're taking up jobs. We'll support the Ukrainian sport. I would like to point out that there is obviously no reason for us to burn our heads in ashes because we have been able to take a decent stand at the Olympics in comparison with many other countries, including the EU, which do not wage war against the invaders. So let's just support sport and take a responsible position. So I'm voting on a draft regulation to ensure the continuous development of physical culture and sport in Ukraine under the conditions of decentralization of power. No.4984, at the suggestion of the committee, based on and in general, colleagues. Please vote. Please be supportive. Please vote. [[13:58:07]] For 215 Not all made it, I see. Please, colleagues, from the cabinet and others go to work, colleagues. I'm asking you, colleagues, to take up jobs. I'll be right back. I'm asking you to invite the deputies into the hall. And the MPs take up jobs. So I'm proposing to go back to voting for draft regulation 4984. I'm asking you, colleagues, to take your seats and vote for the return to 4984. Please vote, colleagues. Please support the committee, support the Ukrainian sport. [[13:59:06]] For 219 Five votes, colleagues, please! Invite the deputies to the hall. Please, colleagues, please take up your jobs. Please come into the hall. Now I'm going to put another one on the way back. So, colleagues, can we move on? Please, colleagues. Arthur, please. Yes. I propose to go back to the draft Ordinance on Ensuring the Permanent Development of Physical Culture and Sports in Ukraine under the conditions of decentralization of power, 4984. Please vote, please support me, colleagues. Please support me. I'd like your support, colleagues. [[14:00:16]] For 221 Well, we're still going out. I see you haven't made it. But that's not one of them. And we're short five votes. Chewchenko's here, I see. Fellows, I'll put it again, I see, Derivyanka. Please, I see, colleagues, please invite you to take up jobs. You don't have to perform. We're just gonna take a little time. Colleagues, we can vote. I'm once again proposing to return to draft Law 4984, the Ordinance on Ensuring the Permanent Development of Physical Culture and Sports in Ukraine under the conditions of decentralization of power. Yes, the deputies are here. Please be supportive. Please vote. Please, colleagues, we're voting. Be careful, we're voting. Please be supportive. [[14:01:30.]] For 228 And now we're voting, please, colleagues, I'm voting again on the Bill of Decree 4984 as a basis and as a whole on the committee's proposal. Colleagues, if you'd like to vote carefully, I'd like everyone's support. Please vote, colleagues. Please be supportive. Please be supportive. Vote. [[2:02:01]] For 228 Colleagues, pay attention! We have, we can, like, five minutes to adopt the law in the second reading. There's literally three repairs, colleagues. I have the right to continue for 15 minutes. If there's a positive vote, we'll put it in if we don't, we won't put it in. Everyone who supports the second reading of Law 1248, which supports all factions, please vote who supports it, and then I will continue the session. Please vote, please support. Please vote. [[14:02:46]] For 193 The decision is not taken. Colleagues, I did what I could. We haven't been able to go through the whole "young and sports" block, but I congratulate you on the fact that more than half of us have made the decision, and congratulations on your fruitful work. Those bills we didn't come up with, we'll put them on another day. And, my fellow Members, I would like to inform you that there will be hearings in this room at 15 hours on "State guarantees of social protection for ATO participants, the Dignity Revolution and members of their families: status and prospects." Please all take part in these hearings. I also want fruitful committee work. I declare the morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine closed. And I call on everyone tomorrow at 10 o'clock at the Supreme Council of Ukraine to resume our work. Thank you. Fruitful committee work.
