ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-21-m0.u1	Good morning, dear fellows! Please come into the hall and prepare for registration. Are you ready for your registration? Well, then, dear colleagues, please register. Please. [[10:03:20]] 323 deputies registered. The morning plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues, I've been instructed by the MP to develop an electronic registration mechanism at the entrance to come in, come out, and see who's not in the hall. I think during the month-and-a-half we're going to develop this mechanism (I think we're going to find funds for this, not even donor funds, not from our Ukrainian budget), so that we have a rule where there's an electronic registration that we can't change without incorporating the daily Amendment Act into the Rules, but we can make it happen even without changing the Rules. So we don't have every morning a situation where we make fun of each other, colleagues. Dear colleagues! Present today at the meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Prime Minister of Ukraine Vladimir Borisovich Groisman and members of the government. Let's welcome our government. Vladimir Borisovich, Ukrainian Parliament welcomes you. But, dear colleagues, before moving to the hour of questions to the government, there was a statement from two factions: "The Opposition Block" and "Rebirth" requiring a recess, which they are willing to exchange for a speech from the rostrum. I must give immediate opportunity to speak. And that's why I give the floor to Igor Shurma from two factions, and then we'll move on to "The Year of Questions to the Government." Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-21-m0.u2	Igor Shurma, Opposition Block. I will only ask for one minute of attention from my fellow MPs. If you don't mind, you and the government, I'll appeal to the citizens of Ukraine. Dear citizens of Ukraine! Finally, the hall calmed down. I, by order of the opposition block faction, want to make a statement to the opposition block. Yesterday, by Parliament, October 20, a decree was adopted on the conclusions and proposals for the draft Ukrainian State Budget Act. and only paragraphs 3 and 4, which provide for the raising of national deputies’ salaries, starting in 2016. [[Noise Nodes]] On the order of the faction, I want to say that today, during the period of poor pensions, the demeaning wages of health workers, education, social workers, we find it not unacceptable to vote in favour of such a decision when the chairman receives 48,000, the national deputies will receive 36, from December 1st to 40,000, and that is double. We feel that today is an unacceptable norm. The Opposition Block faction is a sequential faction, and we have in our time refused to receive funding for party financing. We believe that to this day it is not timely either to finance parties or to raise national MPs. Let's raise our pensions, let's raise our salaries in the budget area and think adequately about the social protection of the people's deputies. We are ruling today in contrast to the decisions taken, namely paragraphs 3 and 4 above. And lastly, I have great respect for the position of the Head of the Supreme Council, who is trying to bring the order into this session hall, taking into account the interests and opposition forces and the governing coalition, and I ask him to continue to be consistent. Mr. Chairman, I ask you to publish the list of deputies who voted yesterday to raise the salary of deputies twice from November 1st. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-21-m0.u3	All voting results are published. If two more groups make a statement, that will be the case. And now we're moving on to an hour of questions to the government. I just want to make one more important message, colleagues. Yesterday I was asked in the hall whether there would be a decision by the Polish Seima on a joint declaration, and I would like to inform you that yesterday at 22:20 in the time of Kiev the Seima of the Republic of Poland approved a joint declaration of memory and solidarity with Ukraine. This declaration was supported by 367 Seima deputies. I'm convinced that we've removed the tension in our relations with the nearest neighbor, we've shown real political wisdom, we're strengthening and cementing the anti-putist coalition, colleagues. For you to understand, the discussion in the Polish Seima was very difficult, it lasted for a very long time, it was very emotional and complicated, but in the end two key political forces were able to unite both in the first and in the second readings. I would also like to welcome a colleague of the National Deputies and thank the members of the Polish Fair of Majority and Marshal Kuchcinski for this position and for this initiative. And now we're moving on to Year of Questions to the government. And I remind you that we have half an hour to speak from the government to answer the written questions of the MPs, and then half an hour of questions from the national MPs, a colleague from the national MPs, not from the factions. And I invite you first to the words of Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Regional Development, Construction and Housing of Zubko Hennady Grigorovovich. There's no dialogue. It went well, thank you. Please, Hennady Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-21-m0.u4	Dear Mr. Head, honourable national MPs, I would like to firstly show you the map of Ukraine with connection to central heating, how it happens. And first of all, before we go over the problematic issues that still exist in both the Mikolai district and in the Hersonian region, thank that local self-government, the local government that started the heating season on time in Ukraine. For the first time in Ukraine, by the 15th calendar day of October, the heating season was started according to the temperature regime. And it was in the Ternopilsk, Ravensk, Volinsk, Hmelnitsk region that the season of another 10 numbers began. In other areas, a little later was involved. The housing sector was connected, boilers were involved, and social facilities were involved. So the state of affairs today, it's almost 95 percent of the feces. This question concerns the Odessa region, which is just beginning with the temperature mode of connection. Also in the Mikolai region and in the Herson region, where the heating season was later started in connection with the temperature regime. I can also thank the head of the district military-civil administration of the Donetsk district of Žebravski, his deputy Vilinski, who, in principle, in two days practically did everything possible with the restoration of the heat supply, with the restoration of the gas supply. And today you see that the Donetsk region is at 95 percent. So I think that these are the questions that are relevant to this kind of planning, but today, there are still those questions that are relevant to Nicholas, those questions that concern the very district center of Harrison. And what I'd like to say is that local self-government, yes, should not go in the direction of waiting for the temperature regime. And to prepare in advance before, I mean, even though at the end of September, we're going to make contracts to NAC "Naftogazu" in order to do them in a timely fashion. On the other hand, I can say that the local councils today make decisions when the centralized heat supply is denied. And it was this year that there were three cities in the Dnipropetrovsk region, three cities that said they were giving up centralized heating. It's possible to connect people to self-heating. On the other hand, local self - government has proved to be very, very socially responsible in the city of Pochrov, in the city of Nicopol, by adopting a direct municipal program that allowed those who cannot join the autonomous heating system to write applications and give them social support for such connections. So there are things that are being taken at the level of local self-government. And I'll be honest with you, these are the decisions that we expect from local self-government after budgetary decentralization. Self - control, self - service, and decision - making. On the other hand, I would like to look to Parliament for support. It is in those bills that allow the sector to reform, to reform a sector that, unfortunately, for 25 years has only been told that what needs to be helped needs to be reduced, that the cost of the services being provided needs to be reduced. But on the other hand, the heat supply sector today is heavily in debt -- 18 billion dollars. And the question is that today's investment in restoring and modernizing this sector is virtually impossible without legislative steps. So first of all, I want to thank the entire body of our Supreme Council for the fact that in the first reading, and voted in favour of the shortened procedure between the first and second readings of Law 5273, which allows the debt to be restructured by thermal organizations for five years, to sign the restructuring schedules. Allowing them to invest, allowing them, once they have restructured debts, write down the fines and pennies that they had on them, and they accordingly, without income articles that would allow these fines and pennies to be removed either from budgetary organizations or from the population, and make it possible for them to invest in credit and investment. So we expect very fast work on the committee, very fast work between the government and the deputy corps in preparing this law for second reading. And I think in the next plenary week we could also consider this bill. As for the complex approach to branch restructuring. This issue is not only a matter of financial recovery; it is only a matter of review of the accounting system; it is also a matter of moving forward today to reduce energy consumption for the heating sector. How is that possible? This may not only be due to the modernization of the sector itself, it might be due to the modernization of the housing sector. This isn't just about individual buildings, it's about, first of all, multiple floors that we have today are about 240 thousand. 80 percent of the housing sector is under modernization today. And the question of energy efficiency, the question is that the government is now practically running a policy where, by giving people the opportunity for two years because of support, through the heat of credits to compensate for the costs that Ukrainian families today directly bear, gives 20, 30, 40 percent of the compensation for the costs that families spend on housing rehabilitation, warming, window replacement, and also the use of building materials that allow energy consumption to be reduced. We can see that we're still moving. We are prepared and already sent a bill to discuss with the central executives about the Energy Efficiency Act. But on the other hand, I would like to ask Parliament for the support of four bills that are fundamental to implementing energy efficiency measures. It is these things that are very important to us. Why? Because they give us a reason to do certain things: a hundred percent calculation -- without calculation, we can't control heat and any kind of energy. So the Law on Commercial Accounting, which was supported by Parliament this week in the first reading, I would like to consider and support it in a second reading. Because it is the 100% commercial bill that should be introduced by 2018 that will allow not only to count energy, but also to enable us to count the economy that we have to fight for, and the economy today, when all energy efficiency measures are implemented, can make up about 9 billion cubic metres of gas. The second bill, which is also very important, is the Housing Services Act. A law that provides a clear distinction between the responsibility of the service provider and the responsibility of the consumer, which answers all questions relating to the introduction and service of house management, the introduction of all utility services, and gives a clear indication of how quality services will be implemented in the coming years. The next basic bill, which is very important. Why? Because when we say energy efficiency, we have to digitize it first. The question of energy efficiency of buildings. I would like to reassure everyone in terms of a binding law that really corresponds to the 31st Directive of the European Union. But on the other hand, when we talk about the efficiency of using not only state funds, not just the international funds involved in this area, but the direct efficiency of using the funds of our Ukrainian families. We want this to be specifically demonstrated by the audit of the implementation of such measures. Therefore, the issue of certification of the house, the question of auditing the house before and after energy-efficient measures is the very foundation that can give rise to the cost to the Ukrainian family from the state, from international partners. So in order to implement an energy efficiency fund, we need and provide technical support through the fund, financial support to each family, first of all, we need to answer the question of how energy is operated, how the building is certified, how do we determine the effective outcome of these energy-efficient measures, and how the relationship between service providers and the consumer is built? So the question of these basic four bills, which are now three of them already in Parliament. And I want to emphasize that it was the two bills and the Commercial Accounting Act, and the Housing and Communal Services Act was worked by the National Deputies, together with the Government, and the Commercial Accounting Act today has 40 authors from the People's Deputies. The Energy Efficiency of Buildings Act has also worked for a very long time from two profile committees, two profile committees have supported it, and today we will continue to work to find in factions, committees that, by implementing this law, will allow for the introduction and implementation of energy efficiency measures. So I would like once again to thank all the people's deputies for their active position towards supporting energy efficiency. To say that the government is spending 800 million dollars in the budget next year not only on the implementation of the Energy Efficiency Fund but also on the possibility of continuing the Warm Loans Programme. We expect support from our international financial partners up to 3 billion dollars in energy efficiency. But for all of this, we need to take a few steps, we need to adopt laws on commercial accounting, housing services, energy efficiency of buildings, and the Energy Efficiency Fund. Thank you again for your support and for your further fruitful cooperation. Good-bye! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-21-m0.u5	Dear colleagues! Thank you, Mr. Hennaday. We now have Nasalek Igor Stepanovich, but at the request of the deputies and at the agreement of the Prime Minister of Ukraine, of all the parties that are in the hall. A proposal has been made to listen to the foreign minister about the reconciliations and arrangements of the Normandy format. And I think it will be important and useful for all, and I invite you to share that time in two: seven minutes of Klimkin Mr. Paul and seven minutes of Mr. Nasalik. Is that the form you're taking? I invite you, Mr. Paul, to the rostrum. Minister of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-21-m0.u6	Dear Mr. Head! Ladies and gentlemen of the national deputies of Ukraine! There was a "Normanda" summit last night. Proposals for this summit are made by Angela Merkel, Federal Chancellor of Germany. This summit took place almost after a year’s break, since the past took place in October 2015. I believe that the real result of this action, as it were, is the fact that it is being carried out. Because, as you all know, Russia has consistently refused to continue the discussions in this format by deliberately raising the stakes. It is also important that this action took place just before the European Council meeting, where today and yesterday questions about the format of relations between the European Union and Russia are being discussed. All of this takes place against the background of the crimes committed in Syria and especially around Aleppo. And as you may have also heard, the Federal Chancellor of Germany has raised questions about the possibility of imposing sanctions against Russia in the context of Syria. Thus, the "Normand Summit" helped today's and yesterday's discussions, helped clear lines of solidarity and consolidation of the European Union to support Ukraine's fight against Russian aggression and to continue sanctions. As for the concrete outcome of the summit, except for the fact that it is being held, I would like to make a general agreement on the possibility of continuing to work in the format of the road map. For us, the road map of Minsk's performance is first of all a sequence, a clear sequence of steps, particularly from the Russian Federation in the area of creating a proper security environment in Donbasa, and of course guarantees these steps. Without clear consistency and guarantees to talk about the Minsk implementation, and this is our common position with our friends and partners -- with Germany, France, with the countries of the European Union -- it is impossible. So we're going to work on this road map. Today our position, I mean our common position with Germany and France, and Russia's position is very different. There are differences both in the sequence of actions and in the clear guarantee of implementation, in the plan of allowing the OSCE to the territory occupied by Donbas, in the plan of allowing the OSCE to the uncontrolled area of the Ukrainian-Russian border. Our position during the summit was consistent that without the execution of a series of key security arrangements, including a complete cease-fire and the main one, its control by the OSCE, full access by the OSCE to the territory of occupied Donbas, full access by the OSCE to the monitoring of the uncontrolled border area without the withdrawal of regular Russian troops, and, of course, Russian mercenaries, as well as Russian weapons, it is impossible to go to discussion of other issues. Thus an agreement was reached that a meeting in the form of foreign ministers might take place during November to discuss the logic of such a road map. I also want to say that the road map mentioned should include a safe measure, which I have already mentioned, should include the logic of further political steps, but it must include a humanitarian dimension. By this I mean not only the release of all the hostages and political prisoners. We also talked about the possibility of introducing an armed component of the OSCE, and here our positions are still quite different. But most importantly, as a result of successive pressure, an agreement was reached to continue this discussion in the Vienna field. I am very grateful for the opportunity to inform the national MPs about yesterday's meeting, just as yesterday during the Brussels contacts, all European leaders were informed of this during the appropriate contacts between the German Federal Chancellor and the French President. I'll be ready to keep the MPs informed in real time about further contacts in the "Normand format", particularly about preparations for the ministerial meeting and its possible results, I say "possible", because so far Russia's position remains the same. Thank you very much and ready to answer any questions you may have.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-21-m0.u7	Thank you, Mr. Paul. The questions will then be, after the speech of the Minister of Energy and Coal Industry. And I invite you to the address of Nasalik Igor Stepanovich. Let's do it in 10 minutes, it's going to be 15, we're going to cancel out for five minutes at the expense of the Foreign Minister. Please, Mr. Igor.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-21-m0.u8	Dear Andrew Volodymyrovich! Dear National Deputies! Of course, in seven minutes it is very difficult to get involved and talk about work.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-21-m0.u9	Ten! 10, Mr. Igor.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-21-m0.u10	Ten? Well, that's easier. A unified energy system. The work of the United Energy System of Ukraine, but I will try to do so. Gennady Grigorovich has already described how ready the infrastructure and local authorities are for the supply of heat, and I will try and tell you how the United Energy System of Ukraine works, works, and works. So I want you to demonstrate the first graph, and this is the base of how the atomic industry of our state works. If you see, blue is what we had last year, and red is how generation worked this year. If you see that the level, starting with April-May, is not what's low, it's critically low. It was not in Ukraine that during the summer period there were only nine atomic blocks. And this was due to two main reasons: first, objective reason, this is a translation and planned repair with the extension of the 1st and 2nd block, which began in December of the past. And in January last year, which was put to work; and the second reason is that Energoatum's accounts were blocked, and virtually no business could be carried out. What are we going to do with the Ministry during this period? We solved four major problems: we resumed our farm work; we restored repair sites; we completely diversified. And what I want to say in Ukraine today is that we've launched the 5th Parish Block, which is completely Westingausian, and today we're looking at a program -- 40 percent of the Ukrainian atomic block will be working on the Westingau nuclear fuel, 40 percent of which we're diversifying. In addition, during this period, I want to thank the Supreme Council, and we have solved the issue of the construction of the dry shelter of the workers. nuclear fuel that diversifys completely. Every year, Ukraine paid $200 million for the disposal of spent nuclear fuel. Starting in 2017, these costs will not be paid because we have our own. What should he say? We've restored the repair site. If you see that in April we had a 47 - percent contribution to the nuclear industry, today we have a 60 - percent contribution for October. What caused this low level in April, May, June, I ask you to show the second graph. All the pressure was on the heat generation. If you see that in December, 6,000 700, in January, when winter, 7,500, there was 7700 and 8300 in August and July. What did that mean? This meant that the closing generation of heat carried all the loads. Of course, it has to be added that in April, May, June, there was absolutely no coal delivered from the ATO zone, no tons were delivered and conditions were created that we had practically approached what solution: A is a blowout; B is the inclusion of gaseous blocks and the third is the import of electricity from Russia. I have to say that during this period, the power system of Ukraine worked, we didn't take any kilowatts from the Russian Federation, we didn't make a screwdriver, and we didn't launch gas lines. What do we have today? You have to tell the national MPs and the media that's generating companies and the equipment that's connected to Ukraine's energy system is 100 percent ready for the fall-winter period. Not only did we implement the plans presented by the Ministry and the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine but we also overturned them in a repair site. With regard to coal and so many observations, let's say there's a plan for coal, coal. Yes, it has to say that in the controlled territory of Ukraine we get exclusively gas coal, there is no anthracite coal group in the controlled area. Is one more minute left? Ukraine uses 9.2 million anthracite coal. We've managed a million million million tons of coal to date on the stock of generating companies. In addition, for the first time, 600,000 tons of coal have been chartered from other sources other than the ATO zone, and what's interesting is that it wasn't just Centrenergo, it did "DTEK", "TechNova" and other market participants. On this day of chartered coal and what is in store, we are fully fulfilling the obligations we have before the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine regarding the accumulation of coal. And you also have to say that by increasing the contribution of nuclear industry to a unified energy system, we have also issued a billion 150 million kilowatt-hours of nuclear power and 100 million kilowatts. Mega. No, kilowatt, this is where we gave, I say kilowatt, hydropower. This makes it possible to save about 520-550 thousand tons of coal. In conclusion, I see there's no deadline. It's very positive, I don't know how to evaluate it. If in April, May, March, we had a decline compared to last year's around 7-8 percent, so far consumption in Ukraine is increasing plus 15 percent. Of course, I would like to know that this is linked to the growth of the economy. That's why I want to confirm again. Today, Ukraine’s unified energy system is ready for the autumn winter period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-21-m0.u11	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we now have a chance to enroll in questions to all members of the government, and to present today, and to all represented members of the government. We're announcing an entry for questions from Ukrainian national deputies. Please, from the Radical Party of Oleg Laska. From the Radical Party who? Oleg Lazko. Please, Mr. Oleg.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-21-m0.u12	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. I have a question for the minister of justice, Paul Petrenko. In the last "hour of questions to the government," I told the story of the raiding of the farm "Dar" in the village of Pázna Novomoskovsky district of Dnipropetrovsk. I want the Justice Minister to inform me and the farmers and Ukraine of what was done this week to protect farmers from the raiding of their land and property. And one more thing. Address to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Mr. Vladimir Groysman. Yesterday, together with colleagues from Halasyuk, Bakumenka, Mud and others, we registered a draft decree to hold parliamentary hearings on the protection of farmers and landowners against the capture of raiders' land. I ask the Head of Parliament and the Prime Minister to support our initiative, on 16 November, to hold parliamentary hearings in Parliament. Invite farmers here and make a policy of protection.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-21-m0.u13	Please, Mr. Petrenko. And then the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-21-m0.u14	Thank you for asking, Reverend Oleg Valeriovich. I'll keep you posted on the following. First of all, thank you for your active position to protect our entrepreneurs from illegal capture. I want to inform you that due to the radical party's position, a strict anti-trade law has been passed which is sent to the President for signature. And the president said he was going to sign that law without delay. This law introduces a severe criminal responsibility for this type of action, up to eight years in prison and a special confiscation. As for the particular enterprise that you call it, the Gift Company. There we were really approached by the complainants and indicated that the documents had been forged. For our part, we have sent these materials to the law enforcement agencies, and I think that with the firm and active position of the members of your faction, we will see to it that criminal conduct is violated and those responsible are held accountable. That's why we're moving in that direction. The question is difficult. Because, in fact, the raiders used schemes to fake and involve different kinds of organs in this process. But the truth will be on our side and the truth will prevail. So I think that together with you we will protect both the small and the medium-sized business and the farmers, and not just farmers from this kind of illegal action and those officials who do the raiding and the appropriate groups. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-21-m0.u15	Please, Mr. Groissman, our distinguished Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-21-m0.u16	Thank you, Reverend Irina Volodymyrna! Dear Oleg Valeriyovich, distinguished colleagues of the Ukrainian National Deputies! First of all, I would like to thank everyone for their support in the first reading of the draft State Budget Act 2017. I think this document is a good basis for continuing our work in the budgetary process, or not for the first time, when we can finalise our work in a common position on many important issues. So once again, I want to thank all the people's deputies for supporting the government and the draft budget for 2017. Next. As for raiding, if you please, a few words. Yesterday, I took part in the Department of Internal Affairs College. I would also like to thank the Ukrainian National Deputies, who have supported changes to the state budget, including in the financing of the country's criminal search. I'd like to inform you that the 1st October search will get three times its salary. And that means we're going to demand a criminal search for more effective crime, criminal crime. In particular, we also discussed the issue of raiding, the excitement when young people in sports class start doing what we call raiding, and I just want to say it's banditry. And so today I'm going to call the law enforcement system and the National Police to shave the broth in the floor first, and then I'm going to have to figure out what they were doing in one or the other businesses, why they were fascinated, why they were captured by agrarian production. And this is fundamentally important. Therefore, your support will also be needed to increase the responsibility of those who abuse other people’s property, health, and those who rob apartments, not God’s hand, rape and so on. So we are counting on Parliament's support to increase responsibility to make it tough on such manifestations. No one has his dirty hands to put where there is an effective owner, where there is a owner, who has his property. Now for parliamentary hearings. We fully support parliamentary hearings. We think it's a very nice field of dialogue and the questions you've asked about landowners, about farming development and protecting farmers' rights, it's just in time. And I want to emphasize that all the rational and professional proposals that the government will make in the hearing process will take into account. And we will also participate in these parliamentary hearings. Two more words, if you please. First. I would like to draw attention to three issues that have been raised in the past "hours of questions to the government." First. We've been discussing with you the creation of the National Industrial Development Committee of Ukraine. I want to inform you that on October 11, the government made a decision and formed a National Industrial Development Committee. He's starting his work now, and actually, I can say, yesterday was the first meeting, and this work is starting, and the success of this work should be the development of our industrial potential. Next position. The national deputies of Ukraine asked questions about the holding of a competition to replace the leadership of the State Enterprise Ukratranshimyak, and a question was raised about the head of this company. I would like to inform you that, according to my mandate, the First Deputy Prime Minister has ordered the discharge of the acting Director from the performance of these duties and, instead, the second Deputy Minister has been appointed. That's why the question is solved. Next, we talked about forest protection and reforestation. Also, as I promised APK Minister Taras Kutov on October 18th, a working group led by the Minister of Agrarian Politics and co-chair of this group is the Ukrainian National Deputy Ostap One, as I promised. So I would like to ask this working group that also includes the national deputy of Yemen, Lopushanski, Miroshnichenko, Mishchenko, Jurchishin. Please work, make proposals, and I'm very counting on the position of co-chair of the Ostap One Group as soon as possible with proposals for reforestation. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-21-m0.u17	Thank you. Let's have a word with Solowy Yuri Igorevich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-21-m0.u18	Yuri Solovay, 89th constituency, Gutzulščina and Poksi. I have a question for Mr. Omelian's Minister of Infrastructure. Mr. Secretary, you know that I was one of those who supported open competitions for vacant positions of heads of state enterprises. But I, in particular, have today's appeal to the head of the Crucifixion, the newly appointed manager who receives 1 million 400 dollars a month, and it's virtually impossible to find him at work. I would like to point out that I have made ten calls demanding that I meet with a national MP. In just two months, I was given 15 minutes to meet the overemphasized head of the Crucifixion. I was preparing an address, not on my own behalf, but on the question that this leader is breaking down the construction of roads, especially in the West of Ukraine, because of the failure to supply wagons. In particular, for the construction of the R-24, declared thousands of wagons.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-21-m0.u19	Please add 30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-21-m0.u20	A total of 115 wagons were delivered and this was the situation in Ukraine as a whole. Tell me, please, how do you see the solution to this situation, and what do you see as you see the future fate of this leader? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-21-m0.u21	Good afternoon, distinguished national MPs! Thank you for asking. A little detail, not 1 million 400, but 400,000 bracelets with a tail. As for turns and wagon situations, last week we held a separate meeting with all the exporters, manufacturers, freight forwarders who use the services of the Crucibles, the situation is, indeed, critical. There's been a plan of action to get out of this situation, and I hope we can make it even by the end of the month. Emergency measures will also be taken to repair electric vehicles, vehicles, and wagons. On your date, we apologize for your disregarded address. The following week, we will be organizing such a conversation in my presence. In general, I hope that the management level of the Cruise Station will rise in the near future and we will enter into a normal reform process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-21-m0.u22	I'll have Vladimir Borisovich Groysman's answer, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-21-m0.u23	Thank you to the distinguished National MP for taking care of the problems both in the district and in the region. I'd just like to say one thing, it would be very unfair for us today to be responsible for that state of affairs of the Railroads on a leader who's actually been working since May. The Crucifixion has been chronically introduced into bankruptcy, unfortunately too much, the costs that had to be used effectively and directed to modernization have gone nowhere. And a beautiful billionaire enterprise has been given the terrible condition that is today. So the policy of management today and the manager that you're talking about is to get us out of the crisis of the Crucifixion. He doesn't give wagons because they have and are standing, and because for years there hasn't been any upgrades or repairs or purchases of new wagons. He has no desire simply because he has not been repaired, a new one has not been bought, and there is a problem. It is today in the grave challenge of that old system that has corrupted the entire Crucifixion on all purchases, on all tenders and on all other things. So today, our task, first of all, is to change the supervisory board to a public, independent supervisory board, there are officials there today, and there should be independent professionals -- that's the first position. The second position is I'd like you to invite him to the profile committee of the head of the Crucifixions, and I'll ask him to show you both publicly and openly, and all the procedures that have been followed, and what contracts have been made for the supply of these or other saccharines. And I think there's going to be a lot of discoveries for you. So today there's really not only a problem with motorists, there's a problem today, both metallurgy and grains, there's a lot of problems. But the task of Crossroads in a year is to take a normal position with regard to cargo transport, cargo transport, excuse me, and most of all passengers. And today they're doing this, they're placing orders for the modernization of cars, they're improving the management system, but I want to say that the old system in the middle of the Crucifixion today is resisting, but today we need to break this resistance so that the real, serious, powerful, national cruiser enterprise really becomes an open business, a billionaire who's going to invest in the economy, in the moving warehouse and in the quality of his work. And here the new manager needs support, if we're going to find the extreme, it's definitely not him, thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-21-m0.u24	Thank you. Please, the River Andriy Alexanderovich, the People's Front.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-21-m0.u25	Please give the word to the head of the "National Front" faction of Burbaku Maxim Yuriovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-21-m0.u26	I have two simple questions for the Minister of Foreign Affairs. Mr. Klimkin, please tell me if you're going or not. And all the participants in the Normandy format for possible elections in Donetsk and Lugansk, which are discussed so fiercely as an observer or an agitator? And secondly, please tell me, what is the legal status of the Minsk Accords, is this a document for the liberation of Ukraine from the Moscow Order or the surrender pact? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-21-m0.u27	Thank you for asking. First of all, I'm not sure that all participants in the "Norman format" will go as an agitators, because not all of them are Ukrainian citizens. Of course, if the Supreme Council raises the issue of changing the relevant legislation, they can look into it, I can talk to our French and German friends. But the situation today, and as I have made clear today, we are far from moving on to the question of organization of elections, since we need to achieve all the necessary security prerequisites. And the implementation of these premeditations will be appreciated by both us and the OSCE, particularly by the Bureau of Democracy and Human Rights. And as for the status of the Minsk Accords, of course, this is a question that concerns, first of all, that Russia, with its regular forces, its mercenaries and its weapons, should get out of Donbas, and that international society with us, and in particular the OSCE, but not only the OSCE, should not just control the situation by first having access, but then actually be able to control the security situation and bring Donbas back to normal life. And then we can talk about the organization of normal elections or even elections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-21-m0.u28	Rudik Sergey Jaroslavovich, please, Peter Dustenka's Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-21-m0.u29	I have a question before the acting minister of health. Dear Mrs. Uljana, look, yesterday a lot of my colleagues went with these tapes, please show me. It was yesterday's All-Ukrainian Breast Cancer Day. It is widely known that 7.5,000 women and 100 men die of this disease in Ukraine each year. Many of these people could be saved, as if we had in every district hospital devices that could do this. This year, according to my colleagues on the budget committee, we had a separate government program that allowed us to buy X-rays from a native producer to detect early breast cancer. But according to the Ministry of Health's insistence, we have moved these funds to another very important need — the treatment of children who are seriously ill abroad. When the draft budget was voted on, please give me another 15 seconds for 2017, Mr. Kubi, who represented the draft budget.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-21-m0.u30	Please, 30 seconds to complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-21-m0.u31	The first Vice-Prime Minister to report to the Budget Committee on the draft budget for 2017 assured that this particular programme would appear in the budget this year. But last night, when we voted, it was written that part of it was my amendment to the State Budget Bill for 2017. Request: Express your position and take this into account in the 2017 budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-21-m0.u32	Thank you for asking. I'm a radiologist, and I do these things professionally, and I support women's screening. I know that this helps in early diagnosis and that more women can live to be 90 years old as they can have early intervention. The problem is now that the Ministry of Health has to make all government purchases through international organizations. And international organizations can't limit their tenders just to conclude, to join domestic manufacturers' tenders, they have to be open tenders. So we have to solve this problem somehow so that we can continue this program. And second of all, we're talking to radiologists without borders right now and they're willing to help us with the project to get the equipment to mammograms in Ukraine and also to the district hospitals. I would very much like to meet with you to talk to you about how we can bring these two programs together and solve this problem of public procurement and international organizations, because I support this project, I think it's very good, but now legislation forbids us to complete it as it is now written. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-21-m0.u33	Thank you. Please, Galchenko Andry Volodymyrovich, the Opposition Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-21-m0.u34	Yes, thank you. I ask you to pass the word to Dudenkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-21-m0.u35	Dear colleagues, respected citizens of Ukraine, after the ruling had been voted on yesterday, the draft regulation, as a whole, is now Supreme Council regulation No. 5000, on which the draft State budget was approved, for which the Government would separately thank. I have a question for Minister of Finance, Alexander Daniluk. It does not seem cynical to you that you have found the financing of the Presidential Administration by 50 per cent compared to this year, the Cabinet of Ministers by 30 per cent, the Attorney General by 40 per cent, and the people's deputies by 100 per cent. The people's deputies, now receiving 17,000, will receive 36,000 with effect from 1 November and 40,000 with effect from 1 December. Can this money be channelled to finance the social needs of the population? The minimum wage was raised by only 10 per cent, 1,600 bracelets, the minimum wage and the minimum subsistence minimum, whether this money could not be allocated to these needs to raise the minimum wage.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-21-m0.u36	Thank you for asking. First of all, I want to point out that the government raises social standards by 10 percent in the 17th year, and that's not what you described, that's just 10 percent, that's a significant increase by 10 percent, plus an increase that's going to take place by 10 percent in December of this year. So that's essentially a significant increase. It's about pay. We came to the implementation of laws that were adopted by the Supreme Council in a very conservative way. This is also true of the Sudokus Act."and the State Service Act." These are the laws that were passed here. So we went conservatively, did everything we could to implement these laws within the budget, yes. And leave the resources to raise social standards, to raise salaries for teachers and for doctors. I think that's what society expected us to do, and we did it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-21-m0.u37	Thank you. Dubinin Alexander Ivanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-21-m0.u38	I have a question for the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Please tell me, according to the Minsk Accords, the sequence of action on border control and elections was as follows: first control of the border and then elections. And the President spoke about this several times on television and in public. Information is now being received that this priority has changed, and control over the border will be the most recent. Here's the question. If so, then explain why, on what basis, the position of Ukraine and the position of the President on the decision have changed? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-21-m0.u39	Thank you. First of all, the Minsk agreements have not been changed, no one will allow them to change for our benefit. And no one's going to let them change their turn. The logic of the Minsk Agreements is that without monitoring by the OSCE abroad, which should include, in particular, the possibility of the OSCE to be located along an uncontrolled area of the border with special bases to be suitable representatives of the OSCE at the crossing points where we are on our side of the border. And so there's video surveillance. There can be no real security. Because it makes no sense to discuss the issue of military withdrawal or the withdrawal of weapons at all. So first of all, it's full monitoring by the OSCE. Developing a border transfer plan. And on the second day after the election, handing over the border to Ukrainian border guards. Such logic was originally laid down in a mine deal and never changed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-21-m0.u40	Thank you. Kulinich Oleg Ivanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-21-m0.u41	Thank you. Oleg Kulinic, 147th constituency, Poltavščina. I have a question for the Prime Minister. Dear Vladimir Borisovich, Vladimir Borisovich, you have a question. Two years ago, we passed a law on deregulation that substantially reduced the essential terms of the land lease agreement. However, the relevant amendments to the standard contract, which should be approved by the relevant Cabinet of Ministers, have not been made so far. For two years, I have repeatedly, three times, addressed appropriate parliamentary questions, for the last time to you personally. But the issue is not settled. The registration of such contracts raises questions. And here's the raid, and there's all the other things that I don't understand. That's why I'm addressing you personally, Vladimir Borisovich. Please make sure that this matter is settled. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-21-m0.u42	Thank you so much for informing us about this problem. I'll study it and inform you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-21-m0.u43	Thank you. Victoria Juryevna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-21-m0.u44	Thank you. I have a question for the Minister of Economics. Dear Stephen Ivanovich, you and I know how decisive the role of the sphere of intellectual property rights is. Because it's not just the growth of the economy and the development of business, it's also the ability to protect goods and provide safe and quality goods, especially in the field of food. So I would like to ask you, what are the priorities in this field now seen by the Ministry of Economics? What was the fate of the bills that were drafted by the Twinning project and passed on to the Cabinet of Ministers? And when, finally, we can see in Parliament the first initiatives in the field of intellectual property rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-21-m0.u45	Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to say that this is a very important question. The decision of the Cabinet of Ministers is a concept that is currently being discussed in all countries. We had a trip where more than 200 participants were held in Lviv. 28-29 figures this discussion by experts will be held in Kharkiv. And the third round table open to the public will be held in Kiev. The second position on the principles of the implementation of agreed bills, which today are in common with the deputies of the Supreme Council and the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, not only the Ministry of Economics, but also other adjacent enterprises, is being developed on an appropriate basis. And the last. The Conciliation Council will be held on Monday to present the concept of bills to be put on the floor of the Supreme Council Committees on Public Discussion. And the last. I had a conversation today, including in the morning with Cripent about agreeing to a joint reform effort, which is absolutely the activity and the Cripent, and intellectual property at the state level, will minimize all the corruption that, unfortunately, is present today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-21-m0.u46	Thank you. Please, Bondar Mikhailo Leontijovich, People's Front.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-21-m0.u47	Thank you. I have a question for the Minister of Energy. Igor Stepanovich, speaking, you have just said that the liabilities to Kabmin have been made by coal. Are the commitments to miners fulfilled? Are the figures needed in the 2017 budget both for restructuring and for mining and maintenance? Please tell me, is this cost sufficient? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-21-m0.u48	Thank you, Mr. Mikhail. Thank you for your position. And first of all, I want to thank you for the active work you're doing in aiding the development of the coal sector, not only in the Fuel Energy Committee, but in the Ministry, including. By the way, Monday at 1300 there'll be a huge college, you're a member of the college, and I invite you to be present to the extent possible. On the other hand, it has to say that the new Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine has reviewed all the needs of miners and more than a billion dollars for coal compensation and 800 million dollars for mine restructuring for 2017. By the way, on Monday there's going to be a concept of coal development and I think you have your knowledge and deep knowledge in the coal sector, you can make comments that will, of course, be taken into account. Thank you, Mr. Mikhail.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-21-m0.u49	Thank you. I also want to celebrate the important active role of Michael Bondar in supporting miners. Rybchin Alexei Mikhailovich. Corchin Oksana.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-21-m0.u50	Good afternoon! Oksana Korchin Faction of the Radical Party. Question to the Prime Minister and to the First Vice Prime Minister. Mr. Kube, a question including yours. A few weeks ago, 50 deputies handed over documents requiring the Cabinet of Ministers to transfer non-target assets to the National Bank of VIP Complex in Kiev and VIP Base in a bay costing 70 million, 2 objects, paralympics and disabled ATOs. Why has Kabin not made a decision so far? Mrs. Gontarev gave us the answer that this was handed over to us for the purpose of privatisation through the auction. Who wants to steal government property worth 70 million instead of giving to the disabled ATO? Under which rights do you now, the Cabinet of Ministers, pass this on to neither the Ministry of Social Policy nor the Ministry of Sport, the country has invested 70 million.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-21-m0.u51	This is a very topical question today, it's a three-part answer. Part one: The National Bank of Ukraine transferred this object to the State Property Fund. According to the procedure, the State Property Fund has appropriately accepted the object’s balance. Third. The State Property Fund is an independent government authority appointed by Parliament and has received information from me, as from the minister, at the request of 50 deputies for the transfer of the object, as requested by the solicitor. It's a matter of control, but we can only inform you in an informative way that the State Property Fund can't interfere with. But we agree to hand over the address that you said to the members of the ATO and, according to the disabled, the sport complex. I promised you yesterday, I'll keep you informed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-21-m0.u52	Thank you, colleagues. And the last question I'm going to ask Mamchure Yuli Valeriyovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-21-m0.u53	I give the floor to my colleague Lechchenko Sergei.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-21-m0.u54	Turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-21-m0.u55	Questions to the Minister of Infrastructure of Omelyan. Mr. Secretary, can you please explain what's going on with the bottom-up project at South? This year a tender was announced as the winning companies, suddenly we find traces of a deputy from the People's Front, the director of this company becomes the deputy's assistant, and the stockholding of this company changes and 55 percent are now recorded in two Cypriot offshores. It's one of the nicest pieces of tender this year, about a billion to the bottom of the depth. At the same time, the Dutch Van Oord company, which applied for 90 million dollars less, is not allowed at all. How can it be when we start with the government budget to fund already parties so that they're independent. And at that time, they're starting to start putting their "computations" into government tenders. Please give an answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-21-m0.u56	Mr. People's Honourable Deputy, thank you for your question. What happens in seaport administration is a subject of constant attention by law enforcement authorities and the Ministry. As for the participation or participation of individual national deputies, you have a grand opportunity to negotiate directly in the session room. In connection with this tender, I met separately a special company called Ian De Zero last week, who confirmed their direct involvement. At the same time, it's about particles and everything. The procedure itself, I hope that after a separate investigation by the Ministry and by the law enforcement agencies, we will be able to give a full assessment of this situation. But thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-21-m0.u57	Thank you, Your Honor, for your closing statement to Prime Minister Volodymyr Borisovich Groissman of Ukraine, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-21-m0.u58	Thank you. I'd like to add deeper into this in different ports. I think this is necessary, but I have the same question as the Prime Minister about the efficiency of using these funds. And that's why I think it's not too much if we involve the people's deputies of Ukraine in public control over the use of those resources. I think it's a very important question, because it costs a lot of money, the seaport administration. And so I'm waiting on the people's deputies, so let's make suggestions on how we can improve the quality of public control over the use of resources. And clearly, we need shipping channels, we need to increase our capacity, but I hear something about these shipping channels that have been dug for decades, and they haven't been there. So there's a very important question here for both the law enforcement system and for public control. So make your proposals openly and I'll respond to that very quickly. Thank you very much. Dear fellow national MPs! I want to thank you again for your questions, they are fixed and we will continue to work on them, thank you very much. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-21-m0.u59	Let us thank both the Prime Minister and the Government for their work in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. We have a constant dense dialogue, and this cooperation is a positive and good result for the country. Thank you, Vladimir Borisovich. Thank you, dear colleagues, members of the government. Thank you. The year of questions to the government is over. And, fellow Members, we have, as always, a change to the portion of the reading of parliamentary requests. Deputies are 266. That's a lot, but we have to read them. And I pass the word to read out the questions to the first deputy head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Irina Heratchenko. Please, Mrs. Irina.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-21-m0.u60	Thank you, Your Honor, Mr. Head of the Supreme Council. In fact, we have 266 questions today, two of them addressed to the President of Ukraine. So now I'm going to ask for confirmation of these questions, and I'm going to ask my respectable colleagues not to disagree. So we have to get a name for the request first, and that's at least 150 votes. The following questions have come, I ask Andrew Teteruk as co-author of one of them, Andrija Teteruka, to come to the place to vote, to the President of Ukraine on the Society's possible illegal actions, with limited responsibility, "Agrofirma "Slavutic", the peasant farm "Leshchenko V.M.", Farmers' Farm "Svetanok-2005", National Deputy of Ukraine and officials of the Vilnius District State Administration of Zaporozhye Region. Please support the request by voting. [[11:13:28]] For-95 Sadly, only 95 votes, but this progress, respected colleagues, is significant compared to other Fridays. The next request, let's not depart from Yuri Bogdan Shuhevich, the honourable President of Ukraine for the removal of the "no publication" Griffith, and the lifting of all the classified legal acts of the President of Ukraine, which have established illegal pension privileges for former National Deputys of the U.S.R. and the Soviet Union, former First Secretaries of the Ukrainian Company, and so on, and members of their families, who have calculated pensions, on the basis of the official salary of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the suspension of pensions for these persons. I'm asking for confirmation. [[11:14:26]] For a hundred and Unfortunately, only 107 votes won this request, and this time it does not pass. I'm moving on to the questions of the people's deputies to other institutions of power. Viktor Razwadowski to the head of the Žitomir District Council, temporarily acting as head of the Zitomir District Administration for the allocation of 400,000 dollars for the capital repair of the sports course in the village of Stanishovka Žitomir district, Žitomir district on the street of Coopertivni, 2, in the territory of Stanishivska Public Education School I-II. Viktor Razwadowski to the Minister of Defense of Ukraine for the release of an AK-74 training machine for fire training with students of the Wonderland region of Žitomir. Jaroslava Markevich to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the allocation of state budget allocations for the demercurisation of the VAT "Radical" industrial site in Kiev in 2016-2017. Sergey Larina to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for a review of the appeal of the Kirovograd Regional Building Support Fund for individual housing in the country to finance the program "State Credit for Individual Farmers for Construction (Renovation) and Housing". Sergey Larina to the Minister of Agriculture and Food Policy of Ukraine on the solution of the situation at the Kirovograd Centre for Certification and Expertization of Seed and Garden Material of the village of Novoselice Blagovishtenski district of Kirovograd. Andrea Teteruka to the Director of the National Anti-Corruption Bureau of Ukraine, Head of the National Fiscal Service of Ukraine, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, Attorney General of Ukraine, Head of the Zaporez District Public Administration on possible illegal activities of the Association "Agro-firma "Slavutic", Sg Leszczenko W.M.", fg "Svetanok-2005", the National Deputy of Ukraine and officials of the Vilnius District State Administration of the Zaporozhye Region. Vasil Janicki to Prime Minister of Ukraine for the financing of sanatorium treatment for workers at the expense of the Social Insurance Fund. John Melniczuk to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the State Service of Ukraine for War veterans and participants in the ATO, the Minister of Health of Ukraine, the Ministry of Defence of Ukraine, the Ministry of Social Policy for the provision of a member of the ATO war effort with a back implant at the expense of the State. Irina Heratschenko, head of the Ukrainian State Border Service, heads of the U.S.S.A. on the use of legal responses to violations of Ukrainian legislation regarding entry into Ukraine by foreign nationals. Irina Ephraimov to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the budget forecast for 2017 for 124 million dollars from the National Academy of State Administration to the President of Ukraine. Vladislav Buhareva to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the allocation of funds from the State budget of Ukraine and the State Development Fund for individual territories for the implementation of the socio-economic programmes of the Labedin district of Suma region in 2016. Vladislav Buharev to the Prime Minister for asking the Executive Committee of the City Council of Suma not to allow for changes to tax legislation, which provides for the removal of excise excise duties from oil products from local budgets. Valentina Nichiporenka to the Prime Minister for the provision of gas to the general and pre-school educational institutions of Jaskovski, Zvenigradski, Talniwski, Mankovsky, Lysian regions and the town of Vatutine Cerkaskie. Stanislava Berezhkin to the Prime Minister for the conduct of a pension census for former internal affairs officials (Militaries). Michael Bondar and Oksana Bilozer to the Ukrainian Minister of Culture for the 50th anniversary of the Children's Music School of Igor Bilozer in the city of Radehov in the Lviv region and the allocation of funds for new musical instruments. Mikhail Bondar, head of the State Agency for Roads in Ukraine for the listing of roads that are under repair at the expense of the state budget in 2017, is part of the Buskie, Radehivska Kamyanka Buzhký, Brodiv region of the Lviv region. Anatolia Evlakhova to the head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Budget, Minister of Finance of Ukraine, Minister of Education and Science on the method of determining the extent of the educational subsidy in the draft Ukrainian Law on State Budget 2017. Julia Ioffe to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need for urgent action to address the critical situation that has arisen in the Separate Department of the "Gyrian" State Enterprise. Dmitry Kolesnikov to the Prime Minister for the removal of the moratorium on the export of forests. Vladimir Litvina to the Prime Minister, temporarily acting as Minister of Health of Ukraine for the conduct of a course of intensive neurophysiological rehabilitation at the International Clinic of Re-treatment of the City of Truscavet child with disabilities at the expense of budgetary resources. Vladimir Litvina to the Prime Minister, temporarily acting as head of the Provincial District Administration for immediate work in thewarming of a multi-child home. Igor Goose to the Prime Minister, the First Deputy Head of the Government of the State Fund for the Promotion of Youth Housing on the need to rebuild the financing of the State's "Affordable Housing" programme. Igor Guza to the Prime Minister on the need to settle inter-budget relations on educational and medical subsidies from the State budget. John Melnichuk to the Cabinet of Ministers, the Ministry of Social Policy, the Ministry of Health, the State Institute of Otolaringology of Professor Colomaychenk of the National Academy of Medical Sciences, for the implementation of the constitutional right of citizens to free medical care. People’s Deputies (Sotnik, Markevich and others) In total, 8) to the National Depository of Ukraine, the National Securities Commission, and the stock market to provide information on possession of securities. Artura Martovicki to Prime Minister of Ukraine for the provision of financing for mining operations in coal companies. Ruslan Solvar to the Prime Minister, the Kyiv District State Administration, the head of the Kyiv District Council to provide information on the results of the verification initiated by Volodymyr Groissman, and to determine which schools, kindergartens, Fastovsky, Skuriski, Kyivo-Swiatosinski, Makarov region of Kyiv region are in danger, as well as the verification of compliance with the requirements of legislation during the renovation of the roof at the Fastov High School I-III. Ruslan Solvar to the head of the Committee of the Supreme Council on Budget Affairs, temporarily acting as Minister of Health, Minister of Social Policy, Kyiv District State Administration for Support of the National Program "The Watchful Service of the Society of the Red Cross of Ukraine". Olesia Long to the interim responsibility of the Ministry of Health to carry out treatment at the expense of budgetary resources. Olesia Long to First Deputy Prime Minister - Minister of Economic Development and Trade, Minister of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine for the Free Trade Agreement and the Agreement on Preferential Trade. Vasil Pétovka to the Prime Minister for the financing of the completion of the construction of a district hospital in the village of Ugl Tachiv district of Zakarpat. Vassil Petíkovka to Henprocuror for falsification of documents and illegal ownership of land of municipal property in the village of Podišor of the Lower Apshan village council of the Tajov district of Zacarpatsk, excuse the Lower Apshan village council of Tajov district of Zacarpatsk. Valentina Nichiporenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the restoration of the gas supply of the Taleniv Central District Hospital in the Cherkas region. Igor Shurma to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Environment and Natural Resources of Ukraine, Prosecutor General for the illegal actions of officials aimed at illegal logging in the Carpathians, which destroys the flora and fauna of the Western forests of Ukraine. Igora Shurma to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the failure of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to implement Parliamentary Hearing Recommendations on "On the Military and Medical Doctrine of Ukraine" approved by the Supreme Council of Ukraine Order of November 25, 15 No.827-VIII. Andrija Derkacha to the Prime Minister for equipping rural schools with modern means of information technology, creating modern computer multimedia classes, local network, telecommunications outlets to the global Internet, providing basic and specialized software products. Andrija Derkača to the Prime Minister for the verification of the legality of construction in front of a cult building called the Chapel in honor of the Holy Equitable Prince Vladimir, located on the street of Telman in the city of Kiev. Jury Bublika to the Minister of Defense of Ukraine, Head of Genstab, Commander-in-Chief of the Armed Forces on the legalization of the work of medical volunteers of the first volunteer mobile hospital named Mikoli Pirogov. Igor Lapin to the Prime Minister of Ukraine regarding the employment of ATO participants. Vasil Janicka to the head of the Revenna District State Administration, the head of the Rokitni District State Administration of the Plains Region, the Head of the Government of the Public Shareholders Association of the Equaloblanergo to solve the issue of the electrification of the arrays in the village of Maseevich of the Rokitni district of the Plains region. Groups of National Deputies (Vasynika, Kadikala, Bondar) to the director of the National Architecture Museum and to live in Lviv, Lviv, in the city of Lviv, on the assignment of the name Clementia Sheptical Museum of National Architecture and Life in Lviv. Olega Kulinić to Minister of Youth and Sport of Ukraine for the provision of an international class sports master’s apartment. Oleg Kulinić to the head of the government of the public shareholders association "Ukrainian Railway" for the restoration of the work of the trailer group of Poltava-Lviv cars. Andrija Vadaturski to the Minister of Finance of Ukraine, Minister of Social Policy for the availability of debt in the Mikolaiwi region for solid fuel and scrap gas subsidies. Jury Bublika to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Authorized Supreme Council of Ukraine for Human Rights, the Authorized President of Ukraine for Child Rights, the Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine for the Elimination of Violations of the Rights of Many Child Mothers. Dmitry Dobrodomov to the prosecutor of the Ternopil district, temporarily acting as the head of the National Police Department in the Ternopil region, in charge of the investigation of the murder of a public official and activist, Vitalia Vashchenka (Cremenec, Ternopil district). Dmitra Dobrodomov to Prime Minister of Ukraine, Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine - Minister of Regional Development, Construction and HKG, temporarily acting as Minister of Health of Ukraine on the forward-looking plan for the administrative and territorial distribution of the communities of the Ivano-Frankov region and on the establishment of hospital centres in the Ivano-Frankiv region. Vadim Yvchenk to Minister of Interior, Head of the Security Service, Henprosecutor for the immediate investigation of the raiding of the agricultural societies "Earth", "Orion", "Premuga-Agro" and the agricultural farm "Alexandro-Volodirovsk" of the Sofia district of Dnipropetrov. Jurya Boyka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the worsening of poverty in Ukraine. Ms. Kostin Jarinič to the Minister of Finance of Ukraine for the use of social stress measures in the Ukrainian Ministry of Health laboratory teams, which resulted from the delay in payment of salaries due to the absence of a approved passport for the budget programme under KPC 2301040. Savchenko’s hopes for the Ministry of Defence regarding the provision of information on the total number, the amount of contracts concluded between the Ministry of Defence and enterprises that are not directly producers under these contracts, or are not directly service providers. The hopes of Savchenko to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for an incomplete response from the Cabinet of Ministers to a parliamentary request, announced on 9 September at a meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and a normative settlement of the issue of the illegal use of defence land by the Ministry of Defence of Ukraine. Vladimir Aresonkov to the Director-General of the Ukrainian State Enterprise Ukrinteravtoservis for free transfer to the municipal property of the territorial community of Korosteny Zitomir district of the building of a former school located on the street of Kotsubinski, 74. Vladimir Aresonkov, under the temporary responsibility of the Ministry of Health of Ukraine for the preservation of the patronage service of the Red Cross Society and St. Helena’s Hospice in the city of Korosten of the Žitomir region. Anatoly of Denisenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the formation of public policy in the field of reproductive health of the nation. Anatolia Denisenka, under the temporary responsibility of the Ministry of Health of Ukraine for the acquisition of medical equipment for the conduct of laparoscopy to the Kharkiv City maternity facility No. 7. Sergia Eutuska to the Minister of Environment and Natural Resources of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine, on the investigation of illegal logging in the area of green plantations in the village of Krukovščina in the Kyiv region. Sergey Eutuska to the Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine for the non-compliance with the contractual obligations of Pat "Ukrzalznica" in relation to the state-owned enterprise "Sarnen Forest Farming" and the urgent need to address the critical situation in the field of rail transport. Jacob Besbach to the Cabinet of Ministers, Minister of Finance of Ukraine, Authorized President of Ukraine for the Rights of the Child, Ministry of Health of Ukraine on the need to contribute to the treatment of severely ill young children in Polina Harchenko and Larry Budychenko to ensure them an inalienable natural and inviolable right to health care and timely medical care by authorized authorities of the State. Irina Herashchenko to the Minister of Culture of Ukraine, Head of the Security Service of Ukraine on the facts of the violation of Ukrainian legislation in the conduct of gastronomic activities in Ukraine by members of the culture of the Russian Federation. Alexander Suprunenka to the Kyiv City Head for the use of measures to expand the network of preschool educational establishments of communal property in the Darnicki district of Kyiv. Alexander Suprunka to the city of Kiev on the use of measures to support the city’s producers. Vladimir Husak to the head of the Donetsk district government regarding the formation of the Volodymyr village united territorial community. Andrija Lopushinski to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need to ensure that rural, rural, urban, basic conditions for voluntary unification of the territorial communities are respected in accordance with the Ukrainian Law on Voluntary Union of Territorial Communities. Tetjana Bacheva to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the inadmissibility of transferring 27 unique preventive, rehabilitation, laboratory and other institutions in the Ministry of Health to the local government, which is not funded by the State Budget project for 2017, which will result in their further privatisation. Alexander Guerrega to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, temporarily acting under the responsibility of the Ministry of Health of Ukraine to provide sugar - lowering pills for diabetics in the Danube region. Alexander Guerrega to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Ecology and Natural Resources of Ukraine, head of the Hmeljna District State Administration on the status of water supply for the rural inhabitants of the district of Chemerovac. Vitalia Gudzenka to the Chief of the Road Service in Kiev, the first deputy head of the Kyiv District Administration for the capital repair of the road in centrally in the village of Jablounjka of the Bilocerkow district of Kiev. Vitalia Gudzenka to the Chief of the Road Service in Kyiv region for the capital repair of the local road of district value C 102101 Popuzne-Chapaivka of the Stavishtensky district of Kyiv region. Maxima Burbak to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the illegal involvement of the law enforcement authorities in the operation of T.O.K.Karpatia-Buk. Mikoli Fedoruk to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine, for the illegal capture and use of a shopping centre that is not operational. Olga Bogolec to the Ministry of Defence of Ukraine, the State Border Service of Ukraine, the National Police of Ukraine, the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, the Ukrainian Security Service on the need to monitor the time-consuming presence of military personnel in the zone of hostilities and to prevent violations of discipline in the zone of hostilities. Andrija Vadaturski to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the comprehensive development of Ukraine's transport routes and the effective use of the funds of Ukraine's State Budget, which are planned by Bills No.4014a and 4015a, to send to the State Road Fund. groups of people’s deputies (Romanov, Kiral and others). A total of 9 deputies) to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine, Minister of Finance, on the status of preparations for the implementation of the European Investment Bank Project for the development and improvement of the energy efficiency of higher education institutions. Anna Romanova to Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine, on the cancellation of the payment of unused subsidies from citizens. Yuri Savchuk to the Head of the National Fiscal Service of Ukraine regarding the improper performance by officials of the Volin Customs of the Fiscal Service of Ukraine of their functions. Alexander Kodola to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine, for the untimely start of the heating season in the town of Nizhin Chernigiv district. Alexander Kodola to the head of Montenegro's district administration for the closure of the pre-primary school "Little" in the village of the city-type Zamglai Chernigiv district. Alexander Dubinin to the head of the State Service of Ukraine for work on the requirement of a comprehensive verification of compliance with Ukraine's laws by the administration and the Trade Committee of the Tramway Municipal Company of Kamyansk with the aim of ending violations of the Ukrainian Code of Law on the Work of Ukraine with regard to conductors of the Trade Union Department. Olga Bogolec to the temporary duty of the Ukrainian Minister of Health to review the conditions for licensing private medical practice. Andrija Illenka to the head of the Kyiv City State Administration, head of the Dniprovsky District in Kiev, State Administration on the need to restore the previous state of the territory, after carrying out the emergency repair work of Pat Kyivenergo in the Dniprov region. Andrija Illenka, head of the Ukrainian Security Service, head of the Ukrainian State Fiscal Service, heads of the government of the Ukrainian Railway Association of Public Shareholders, heads of the Ukrainian National Police for the possible theft of 1.3 million dollars while serving the Hmilnik - Irsava track. Jaroslava Dubnević to the Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine on the social and legal protection of the participant in the fighting, disabled by Oleg Macarczuk Group II. Alexander Brigintz to the head of the Kyiv City State Administration for gross violations of legislation in the organization and for the holding of competitions to replace the post of head of Kyiv’s cultural institutions. Alexander Brigintz to the Minister of Defense of Ukraine on information about the theft of food, and the inappropriate quality of food in military section No. 169 of the Right School complex. Andrija Lopushanski to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the conformity of the Ukrainian Law on the Prohibition of Communist and National Socialist (Nazi) Totalitarian Regimes in Ukraine and the Prohibition of the Propagandization of Their Symbolism" of individual legislative and normative acts. Sergey Kaplina to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the absence of heat at the Donetsk Legal Institute of the city of Krivý Rig Dnipropetrovsk. Sergey Kaplina to the Minister of Ecology and Natural Resources of Ukraine, Attorney General of Ukraine, on the implementation of effective measures to prevent illegal logging in the Lugansk region. Romana Macola, head of the National Environmental Inspectorate of Ukraine for the determination of the circumstances of unsanctioned export of garbage to the territory of the Berzdian rural united district of Slavutsk district of the Hmelni district and the use of urgent measures to address the issue. Romana Macola to the Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Regional Development, Construction and Housing of Ukraine, to address the issue of the approval of objects in the Slavutsky region for the financing of socio-economic measures to compensate for the risk of the population living in the area of observation. Taras Batenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on an immediate and comprehensive solution to the problem of ensuring adequate water quality for the rural population in small and polluted areas of the Lviv region through the implementation of the investment project "Building Water Management Networks in rural Lviv areas using imported water". Taras Batenka to Henprocuror, Head of the National Police of Ukraine, Head of the State Environmental Inspectorate for Immediate Response to Potential Environmental Hazards, taking into account the illegal construction of mineral fertilizers in the village of Roswads in the region of Lviv. John Rybak to the Prime Minister, Minister of Ecology and Natural Resources, temporarily acting as Head of the State Water Agency, Head of the Montenegrin District Administration for the allocation of funds for shore-building work in the village of Rostoki in the region of Czernovetsec. Michael Dovbenko to the First Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Economic Development, to amend the Ukrainian Cabinet of Ministers' decree of February 2, 2011 No.98. Leonidas Hamtsa to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, head of the Kyiv City Public Administration on the grave violation of the rights of children with disabilities and children from socially vulnerable families by creating artificial conditions to deny them access to the municipal health facility, the Olympus swimming pool in the Pecher district of Kiev. Leonidas Hamtza to the head of the Kyiv City State Administration, Director-General of the Public Shareholders Association Kiivenergo in connection with the violation of housing rights of residents of the M. Crivonos street, 12th in the Solomonian district of Kiev in connection with the prolonged absence of centralized hot water supply, as well as the requirement for payment of virtually unsurprised services. Igor Pober to the Deputy Minister for Economic Development on the verification of fraud and the corresponding attraction to criminal and disciplinary responsibility of UDFP management. Alexander Nechayeva to the Prime Minister on the need for a quick solution to the issues of providing for the beginning and conducting of the heating season in the city of Mikolayev, Mikolayiv region. Alexander Nechayeva to the minister of culture for gross violations during the competitive election of the director of the Mikolai Academy of Art Russian Dramatic Theatre. Groups of National Deputies (Conditions, Novak, and others) A total of 5 deputies) to the Minister of Justice of Ukraine on the elimination of shortcomings in the work of the Office of Electronic Services of the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine. Groups of National Deputies (Conditions, Tucks, and others) A total of 5 colleagues) to the head of the National Fiscal Service of Ukraine on the assessment of the first results of the temporary ban on timber exports in unprocessed form. Mikhail Golka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, temporarily acting as Ukraine’s Minister of Health for the prevention of the closure of the maternity ward of the Pochai district clinic of the Kremenac district of Ternopil district. Mikhail Gołka on the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Vice Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Regional Development, Construction and HKK on the review of the appeal of the Ternopil Water Channel utility of Ternopil in the Ternopil region. Oleg Osuhovski to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the use of measures to prevent pressure on victims in criminal proceedings. Oleg Osuhovski to Prime Minister of Ukraine for the establishment of a clear order for the execution of valid court decisions to comply with the Ukrainian Act on the Status and Social Protection of Citizens affected by the Chernobyl disaster. Jury Pavlenko to the Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Regional Development, Construction and HKK on the need for regulatory regulation of the functions of child protection by the unified territorial community. Jury Pavlenko to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the critical situation that has arisen in the Žitomir region, with compensation for the costs of transporting the benefits categories of citizens, and the non-reception of transport to socially vulnerable groups. Michaela Papiev and Yuria Pavlenko to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on violations of legislation on the treatment of orphans and children deprived of parental care and exclusion from Ukraine's statistical reporting of 12,000 orphans and children deprived of parental care from occupied territories and from the ATO holding zone. Alexia Rybkin to the Attorney General of Ukraine about the delay in the disclosure of a terrorist act committed at the office of the Suma District Party Organization of the Fatherland. People’s Deputies (Shinkovica, Macoli, only 11 colleagues) up to the temporary duty of the Ukrainian Minister of Health to grant primary health care centres the right to create a 24-hour hospital at the expense of local communities. Andrija Šinkovič, under the temporary responsibility of the Ministry of Health of Ukraine for the preservation of the integrity of the Department of Health "Specialized Medical and Sanitation No4" city of Neteshina Hmelnicki district. Jurya Bereza to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the lack of funding and cost-effective October-December 2016 targets for the purchase of food for students of the general category of the State Vocational and Technical Training Institute "West-Dniprova Centre for Vocational and Technical Education". Groups of National Deputies (Takkauk, Soslovna and others – only 6 colleagues) to the Minister of Justice of Ukraine on information on the activities of the Commission on Public Registration Complaints. Roman Semenha to Henprocuror of Ukraine for a reasonable period of time during criminal conduct. Roman Semenha to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine for the promotion of the standardization of the certification of a citizen for a period of formation or exchange and the issuance of passports for a citizen of Ukraine. Alexander Onishchenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the forced alienation of the land for social purposes for the construction of a road around the city of Kagarlik of Kyiv Region and the forecasting of expenditures in the Ukrainian State Budget for 2017 for the financing of construction work. Helen Sotnik to Henprocuror of Ukraine on the illegal blocking of the activity of the Robinson Summer Children's Camp and the investigation of illegally leased state land and the blockade. Paul Rizanenka to the procurator of the Kyiv region for the legal assessment of the official falsification of the green plantation survey for the purpose of moving the land to a residential residence, resulting in the threat of the destruction of green plantings on the street of Viacheslav Crnovola, in the city of Brovary, Kyiv district. Paul Rizanenka to the head of the National Commission of Securities and Stock Markets for the conduct of verification of transactions that have signs of manipulations in the stock market with domestic government bonds by state banks AT "Bastadbink", Pat "Ukrexmibank", Pat "Ukrgazbank" on the stock market PAT "Fondova Stock Exchange" at the participation of intermediaries of TOV "Funda Asset", TOV "Investment Capital of Ukraine", NOVKIF "Bond", TOV "Central Broker" for the purpose of raising the funds of state banks and the commercial bank of PAT "OP Bank". Oksana Bilozer to Henprocuror, head of the National Police of Ukraine to ensure that a criminal case is properly investigated for the murder of a citizen of Ruslan Taburianski. Irina Efraemov to the Prime Minister for the financing of the Politechnics sanatorium of the National Technical University of Kharkiv Political Engineering. Alexia Lensky, Minister of Interior, Minister of Ecology and Natural Resources, on the use of response measures aimed at halting unauthorized deforestation in the province of Žitomir, attracting the guilty to the responsibility established by Ukraine's legislation. Alexia Lensky, Minister of Ecology and Natural Resources of Ukraine, Attorney General, on the use of response measures for the immediate execution of the decision of the Royal District Court of the City. The Royal District Court of Žitomir since February 19, 2014, for the prosecution of the city to Colonel Nedilski Volodymyr, on the way to return the land of the coastal strip to the land of the territorial community of Žitomira, to the responsibility of Nedilski Volodymyr for the capture of the coastal strip and for the examination of the reasons for the failure of the performing service, which ignores the decision of the court. Paul Dzüblik to the Prime Minister for the financing of health facilities in the Žitomir region in order to pay off existing debt in full. Paul Djublik to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for an immediate response to violations of environmental legislation in the territory of the Žitomir region. Alexander Vilkula to the head of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine regarding the publication of the Resolution of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine concerning the constitutional conduct of 48 national deputies on the conformity of the Constitution of Ukraine with the Order of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the renaming of the city of Dnipropetrovska Dnipropetrovsk in connection with the violation of the Ukrainian Constitution procedure for its consideration and approval. Irina Friz and Irina Heratschenko to Henprocuror, head of the State Border Service for the use of legal responses to violations by citizens of France and Italy of Ukrainian legislation on the border regime. Irina Friz and Irina Herashchenko to the Attorney General and Minister of Internal Affairs on the use of legal responses to violations of Ukrainian legislation on the illegal transfer of persons across the state border of Ukraine. Andrea Shipka to the temporary responsibility of the Ukrainian Minister of Health regarding the provision of information on the purchase of medical supplies and immunobiological drugs. Andrea Shipka is under the temporary responsibility of the Minister of Health to take measures to ensure the implementation of the National Institute for Cancer Reconstruction and Expansion project. Sergey Leschchenka to the director of the National Anti-Corruption Bureau of Ukraine on the possible involvement of deputies from the People's Front to the opaque distribution of 900 million dollars on the tender for the conduct of deep-sea work at the South Seaport. Sergija Lešchenka to the Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine on planning in the Ukrainian State Budget for 2017 for the restoration of the material and technical base of transferred higher education institutions. Alexander Dombrovski to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Vice Prime Minister of Ukraine Paul Rosenck, Minister of Social Affairs of Ukraine, Head of the Vinnick district administration, Vinnicki city head for the assignment of the Kuharan Ludmila Viktorovni grant. Alexander Dombrowski to the Prime Minister, Deputy Prime Minister Paul Rosenck, temporarily acting as Minister of Health, Minister of Social Policy, Commissioner for Children's Rights, Head of the Vinicko Observatories, Head of the Vinicko Oblast for the restructuring of the Ladzhina Children's Home of the Trostian Region of the Winnitsky Region. Ruslana Demczak to the head of the Nemirov Regional Administration of the Vinnitsk Region for the immediate completion of the school bus purchase procedure for the transport of the students of the Nemiriv district of Vinnitsk, at the expense of the educational subsidy from the state budget to the local budgets. Ruslan Demchak to the head of the General Directorate of the Dergeokadastr in the Vinnitsk Region for the implementation of the procedure for the preparation of documentation for the auction with the subsequent transfer of land to the territory of the Babinetsk silrad of the Cemetery area to rent. Mikoli Palamarchuk to Henprocuror of Ukraine on the improper investigation of the abuse by officials of the Department of HKG and the construction of the Kamyan City Council at the time of the confirmation of all the work under the treaty on the isolation of the city's thermal route at the addresses of: Boyka Street near buildings 10, 14, Komsomolsky Avenue, 3. Vasil Nimchenk to Henprocuror of Ukraine, on the basis of the State's injury and abuse of office by officials of the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine. Victor Krivenk to the State Audit Service of Ukraine, the Court of Auditors, on the improper use of the funds of the State Budget of Ukraine allocated DP "ANTONOV" during the financial recovery of the enterprise. Victor Krivenk to the Attorney General's Office of Ukraine for the violation of land legislation during the notarial certification of contracts for the sale of land and the return of agricultural land to the local community of the village of Schulgivka of Petrików district of Dnipropetrov district. Jury Derevjanka to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the need to initiate service investigations with respect to members and other officials of the National Agency for the Prevention of Corruption, the State Service for Special Liaison and Protection of Information of Ukraine and its institutions, as well as to carry out technical audits of Ukraine’s electronic declaration system, as a result of the threat of failure to implement electronic declaration and, as a result, failure to comply with Ukraine’s obligations to the European Union to obtain visa-free treatment. Jury Lewchenka to the head of the Kyiv City State Administration for the inclusion of House No4/1 on the Russian Coast to the Address List of Housings for the Capital Repair of the Kiev Housing Fund in 17 years. Jury Lewchenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the head of the Winnitsky District Council, the head of the Vinnitsky District Administration for the urgent allocation of funds and for the immediate work of the reconstruction of the Carmalukee High School of Higher Education, II-II, took place in the Žmerinsk Region in order to restore the proper conditions for the conduct of the educational process. Sergei Rudika to the Prime Minister, temporarily acting as Minister of Health of Ukraine to resolve the issue of the transfer of comprehensive property complexes of former National Health and Epidemiology Centres to the administration of the Ukrainian State Service for Food Safety and Consumer Protection. Sergey Rudik to the first deputy head of the Smilian Regional Administration of the Cherkas region, deputy head of the Cherkas Reichsgericht of the Cherkas region, first deputy head of the Kamyan Reich administration of the Cherkas region, Kamyan City Head, acting as head of the Smilyan City Head on the effectiveness of using the 12.6 million sums of the targeted subsidy from the state budget to local budgets to take action on the socio-economic development of Kamyansk, Smilian and Cherkaskie regions of the Cherkas region, as well as the city of Kamyanka and Smilil. Vitalia Stasuka and Elena Boyko to the Kiev City Head on the need to restore the heat station in Apartment No. 1 on the Visnikowska Street in the Darnicki district of Kiev. Vitalia Stasuka to the Head of the National Police of Ukraine, Head of the National Environmental Inspectorate of Ukraine, Kiev City Head, for the removal of the causes of atmospheric air pollution from the area of lakoshoshos on Lake Garjak in the Darnitsk district of Kiev. Eduard Matviychuk to the Authorized Supreme Council of Ukraine for Human Rights, Ministry of Regional Development, Construction and HKG, Attorney General of Ukraine, Odessa District Public Administration, Odessa City Council on the need for a comprehensive review of citizens' collective appeal in connection with the construction of Odessa, 6th Line of the 6th Station of the Lustdorff Road, 27. Edward Matviychuk to the authorized Supreme Council of Ukraine for Human Rights, the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine, Henprocuror, the Odessa District Public Administration, the Odessa City Council on the need for a comprehensive review of the appeal of the resident of the Kyiv district of Odessa Grebenyuk Claudia on the question of the restoration of her constitutional rights to housing and safety of life and health, as well as of all legal aid. Igor Popova to the Head of the Ukrainian Security Service for making a procedural decision on the confirmation of illegal interference with the register of electronic declarations. Igor Popov to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the possible violation of the rules of law by officials of the central executive authorities during the introduction of the electronic declaration system. Jury Miroshnicka to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on how to determine citizens' incomes for grants. Jury Miroshnicka to the Office of the Attorney General of Ukraine on the possible offences committed by officials of the Fund to guarantee the contributions of individuals and judges of the Court of Appeal of Kharkiv Region. Borislav Bereza to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine on the illegal use of a unit of police officers. Robert Gorvato to the Deputy Prime Minister for European and Euro-Atlantic Integration of Ukraine on the harmonization of national environmental requirements for wheeled vehicles with international (European) standards. Roberta Gorvato to the Ministry of Infrastructure of Ukraine regarding the proper provision of certification bodies for individual approval of wheeled vehicles, wheeled vehicles, Lord, means of transport, parts and equipment. Yurya Berezi is acting as head of the Dnipropetrova Road Service in the Dnipropetrova area on the breach of the deadlines for the execution of the work from the pit cover repair in the areas of the local value of Krasnoyevka-Saxagan-/M-04/ and Saxagan-Czumaka, as well as on the approved schedule for the execution of the work with the seal repair of the road cover in the Dnipropetrov region and its status. Olga Cervakovi to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the inaction of law enforcement authorities in investigating criminal conduct on the grounds of the abuse of power by the mayor of the city of Irpin Kyiv district of Karpuk. Dear colleagues, these are all questions for today. And we're addressing the authorities that they're asking to have MPs get complex and complete answers to their questions. And also, honourable colleagues, we have received an appropriate appeal from the Ukrainian national deputy Igor Shurma, who has expressed his words, meaning a protest against the dissatisfaction of the Ministry of Health at the parliamentary request of Igor Shurma, who was announced on June 14, 2016. And according to the Rules provided for in article 226, paragraph 1, and article 226, paragraph 2, of the Rules of Procedure Act, he has the right to speak at this plenary meeting right now in order to evaluate the above-mentioned answer. Mr. Shurma, I invite you to the rostrum for your speech and you have three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-21-m0.u61	Igor Shurma, faction of the Opposition Block. Mrs. Irina, thank you for the opportunity to contact Ukrainian citizens. On June 17, 2016, at a meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I was asked about a catastrophic situation with vaccines that threatens Ukraine with the outbreak of a series of epidemics. Why such a request was made. The whole point is that with the coming to power of the team of reformers of the then minister of health, Kvetashvili has repeatedly been charged with and the fact that vaccination is not satisfactory and that it will be purchased and provided with vaccines within the next two weeks. A very interesting chronology as a ministry is concerned about the state of supply of vaccines. Only September 5, only September 5, was answered by the Ministry of Health. Four days later, after receiving that answer, I once again turned my back on the Cabinet of Ministers. The head of the Cabinet of Ministers, Prime Minister of Ukraine, has given the mandate to conduct the purchase immediately. And what we have today is that the Ministry's latest response is that signed by the executives, which will immediately conduct a procurement procedure to prevent the suspension of vaccination this year and to resolve the issue of providing immunobiological drugs for the population of Ukraine, the Ministry is making every effort to speed up the procurement process, which was given on June 2nd. To date, no tender for the Ministry's purchases has been carried out, no Prime Minister of Ukraine's order to immediately conduct purchases has been carried out. I have a question. Who's responsible for all this? We let Flowers go, he's a Ukrainian citizen. Where is he, in Ukraine? Let's ask him why it's all messed up. And if he's gone where he came from, let's write over the ocean, let him be summoned here. We received a second Ukrainian citizen who told the Health Committee that she was ready to take responsibility for her activities. Do you know what the responsibility is? June 2nd, it says, "we're going to buy," and the state of affairs for today -- no tender for 2016. And in 2015 it was set, 2015 – 90 percent of everything is needed. There's no one to ask about today. And I appeal to the head of the Cabinet of Ministers, Vladimir Borisovich Groysman, to appoint a head of the Ministry of Health to be held accountable for the inaction in the provision of medicines. Please consider my statement as a standing request to the Ukrainian Security Service and to the Prosecutor's Office of the Ministry of Internal Affairs.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-21-m0.u62	15 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-21-m0.u63	Complete the inspection of the Ministry of Health and bring in the buyers responsible for the collapse in 2016. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-21-m0.u64	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear colleagues, now, according to the Rules, we have a break for half an hour. In accordance with the strict standards that I am subject to, including the honorable Radical Party, I cannot violate the Rules. So at the request of the Radical Party, I'm now putting the vote off the break, and I've postponed it, and if we get 226 votes, I'm happy to announce the "Rose" section. But now that we have the will of God and the will of the session room, we can, of course, cancel the break. Put to the vote, put to the vote to postpone the break. So we vote. [[11:57:53]] For-72 Only 72 national MPs have been able to vote, and others want to prepare for the "Variance" section in more detail. We're calling a break right now, and at 12:30, everyone who wants to sign up will be able to sign up and come out of the Supreme Council podium by 2 p.m. I hope everyone can sign up. See you later! I'll announce a break until 12:30.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-21-m0.u65	Good afternoon, once again, dear colleagues! I ask everyone to return to the session room. Unfortunately, we can't go with you, your honorary colleagues, to the consideration of those bills that were scheduled for the day, due to the absence of MPs, the amount needed to vote in favour of the bills. The factions' heads are also going back to the "Victane" section, where they're going to perform. We've already seen a few. Dear colleagues, so we're starting our work after a break, and now I'm proposing, in view of the impossibility of considering the issue of the agenda, to go to the "Rizzle" section. We're doing a recording on "Rose," please. It's a recording on "Rose." Please, Oksana Korczynska of the Radical Party, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-21-m0.u66	Yuri Suhevich. I give the floor to Mr. Yuri Suhevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-21-m0.u67	Please, Mr. Suhevich. Please, Mr. Suhevich. Mr. Yuri, we're with you. I'm not responsible for the system that lights it up. Please turn on Mr. Suhevich's microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-21-m0.u68	Ukrainian people! Yesterday in this room our deputies voted in favour of the so-called Declaration of Memory and Solidarity, without discussion, without anything, not even many knew what they were voting for, while I listened to the necessary discussion at the Polish Seym. We had nothing, and there was nothing else, because we were dumped, dropped that statement by Poles, and we were just ready to sign. Laugh, you spiders! Do you know what you voted for? For allegedly losing our independence under the Ribbentropa-Molotov Pact, we replaced one occupation with another -- Poland with Soviet. Do you think that's the way it is, one naked word? No! No! Gentlemen, it turns out from that declaration that the Rebbentropa-Molotov Pact was illegal and as a result World War II began and Poland was occupied. And by doing so, they consider our western lands to be Polish lands. There is such a profound conclusion. And the Poles gave us this. And think about it, they're yawning, that's what was seen in the discussion at the Polish fair, so that we can change our Law on the Recognition of Fighters for Ukraine's Will. That's what you voted for without even thinking. So cheer up, spiders! And secondly, the film "Wolvey" came out. A disgusting, anti-Ukrainian film. And they were found. You know, I've already quoted those words here, and I'm not going to quote Lenin's entire phrase, but one conclusion that he called such people "chulps, hammocks." And 30 of us are there, and he approves of it all! The director of the Zankovetske Strygun Theatre. Holoppy! Hami, who is disgraceful all over Ukraine, who took part in the anti - Ukrainian film! Thank you!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-21-m0.u69	Please, National Deputy Yegor Sobolev is invited to the rostrum by the Self-Help faction. We're glad there's more to "self-help" than in the question book.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-21-m0.u70	Nine days left before the last high - ranking owner of his family’s property declaration. I want to thank all the deputies who in this room refused to rewrite the law at the last minute, and for the first time in years this law began to work. I know from questions, from stories, even from the sufferings of many colleagues, that, for the first time in Ukraine, all high-ranking people are taking seriously the disclosure of their wealth, the disclosure of their income, the publication of everything they have. I think that's actually what we do and live in the historic moment when we become like a normal European civilised state. I think we're going to do right now what for any European or American parliamentarian is a normal, normal thing and it's very good that we started with this. I am grateful to all members of the Supreme Council Committee for their opposition to corruption, along with which another attack on legislation was halted yesterday. Regrettably, the Anti - Corruption Agency at the last minute wanted to rewrite its own legislation. And it's a good thing we didn't give it to them, and it's a good thing they had enough sense to give up that idea. Thus, nothing prevents the law from being fully operational. I see only one risk that on the night of October 30 to 31 all data will be destroyed, distorted, or gone. I want to warn all the people who are involved in organizing the site that they now have a direct service responsibility to make it work. The Anti-Corruption Agency, its leaders, all its members are responsible and the State Enterprise "Ukrainian Special Systems", part of the State Special Liaison Agency is also officially responsible for the work of this site. In order for anyone to have any wrong thoughts, I ask, on behalf of the Committee of the President of Ukraine, to personally monitor the launch of this system, personally to ensure that the site is not broken, distorted, and that the public authorities protect, rather than corrupt, the system of declarations and the work of the key to unlocking these declarations of the site. And of course, we're addressing the President of Ukraine, it's time for him to set his own example, fill out an electronic declaration and show all the citizens that in the country, indeed, everything is new.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-21-m0.u71	Thank you. Please welcome national deputy Nemirowski. No, he gives the word to his colleague.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-21-m0.u72	Shinkovic, Special Affairs Team, Hmelničina, BPP faction. Thank you, dear colleague Nemirowski, for giving me his word. Dear fellow national MPs! Dear Ukrainian people! I want to be brief and brief on two questions and update the issue. First. The medical reform that is taking place today is limited to words that sound like cuts, restrictions, and reductions. Well, unfortunately, it's not even a reform. And among the other reforms that we are adopting with you in the Hall -- changes, including the Constitution, new laws, changes to existing laws -- medical reform is still going on quietly -- and what's really interesting is that these days, these days, there are cuts in access to public health services. Although we don't vote for it. The Ministry of Health with the previous headmaster, "God give him health" (in paws), and with that respectable lady of duty, they're, you know, like, some sort of archival, arch. As they show with their gestures, they learn in training, here. But in fact, people need to be told what's going on. And it's very simple. An example of hops. Bilogir district, the village of Lampil Isiaslav district, the village of Bilogrodka Krasiliv district, Antonina village The few beds of a day - to - day station located in these large villages are reduced as branches in the therapeutic wards of the district hospitals. And it's all under the heading, "Let's give better medicine to man than we will, let's say, take it to a 24-hour station where there's no quality medical care!".. This is all a lie, Your Honor, because no one in the district hospital gives better medicine than that ward. This time. The other one. There are situations in which 9, 8, 10 kilometers [10 km] to an elderly woman with pressure, with other diseases that she will not go to the district hospital for 30, 40, 50 km [30, 50 km]. And to leave this 24-hour station, I emphasize, these few beds of a 24-hour station, it also has social significance. Hence, from this rostrum of our respected parliamentary office, I want to contact the W.O.D. Minister of Health. Dear Mrs. Uljano, I have, of course, made a written request, but I would like to emphasize that, first of all, let's give the IPMC, the Center for Primary Health Care, open day-to-day stations and keep them on voluntary grounds at the expense of the local community. That is, if the village, conditionally the village of Lampil in the Bilogir region, has an additional coming, because our convening of the Supreme Council has passed certain powers, and they now have from 800 million to their budget a million 600, that is to say, they want the neighboring villages to unite into a united territorial community, they want to maintain several cots at their own expense 24 hours a day, and they don't have that right, and that's exactly what's going on.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-21-m0.u73	15 seconds to complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-21-m0.u74	This is all happening in the course of administrative and territorial reform. I'll tell you the truth, I'm a major, and in my district, we're not allowed to create a united community, we're campaigning against creation until the medical system, the accessibility for human beings is fixed.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-21-m0.u75	Thank you. Next colleague, John Melniczuk, of the Peter Dusty Block, gives the word to John Sporish. Please, Mr. Ivan.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-21-m0.u76	Dear Chairman, distinguished national MPs. Of course, this week, our plenary, it's been marked by events, laws and so forth, but we're particularly pleased that our Committee of Families, Youths, Sports, Children, Tourism and so on has adopted a number of laws, where child protection is the main one and that's quite pleasant. I would like to turn to myself today about an environmental tax that today is quite disturbing to all those in the ecological zone of some small but possibly pollution and disaster. We have on Winnitzkin such a Ladzhina GES and you know that the pollution from it is quite large, but this pollution is not only in Ladzhina, but around all the villages that are around Ladzhina. And we know that a 15-kilometre zone, it also has to, these villages get the same costs that go to pollution. But there are villages that are also in the five-kilometre zone, and so I think they should all be by law. So I'm also going to the budget committee, I'm going to the Cabinet of Ministers, personally to Vladimir Groysman: we should first of all, if we're going to adopt a bill as a whole, a budget, 5,200, we should really take that question into account. So I'm asking you, Mrs. Irina, to also write down my speech, it's for yourself as a request. I think we should, we've also adopted a partial budget committee this week. It's understandable, as Victor Pinzenik said, that the budget is an active cow, and that's fair. How much milk it will give, how much we can feed, and how many people we can feed. I think we have to do everything we can to have the country's economic development to increase the budget. We must give all conditions to investors, destroy corruption, and first of all give full legal protection to investors. Then the investment will enter our country, and we will be able to fill out the budget. It's nice that this growth budget is for medicine, but the increase is for education, the increase in pay and so on. But at the same time, I am happy that 10 billion have been allocated to agriculture. But I think it would be much better if these 10 billion didn't come out again, but for agriculture, they have to return a special tax regime. I think we have to do everything we can to make our farms work in the villages so that the farmers don't export these last cows if we return the special tax regime. So I'd like very much to take this into account when we take it into account. For agriculture.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-21-m0.u77	Please, 15 seconds. I was distracted by a little bit here.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-21-m0.u78	If we do everything we can today to make agriculture work, I think we're going to do a budget addition, and we're going to raise the standard of living for peasants. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-21-m0.u79	And thank you very much, Mr. Ivan. And please, now, the next colleague, National Deputy Razwadowski, will pass the word to his colleague Mr. Shapovalov. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-21-m0.u80	Dear colleagues! In view of the fact that the Head of the Supreme Council has not been able to declare my application for the fourth day, I will do so on my own. "A statement. In accordance with part three of article 60 of the Ukrainian Act on Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I report the withdrawal from the MP group "The Will of the People". National Deputy Sapovalov Yuri Anatoliyovich." Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-21-m0.u81	Thank you, Your Honor. Next performance from Peter Dustenk's Block, colleague of Aresonkov. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-21-m0.u82	Vladimir Aresonkov, 64 constituency, Žitomirščina. Dear Madam Chairman, dear colleagues! Dear viewers! I want to address all of the subjects that I think are extremely important, not only relevant to me, to my constituency, to the people who live there, but also to the whole country. This is about the rational and efficient use of forest resources, the basic wealth of our Polish country, and the entire nation. I'll give you one simple fact. Ten days ago, I was approached by one of the engineers of our circuitry, the Corstene region, the APC Forest Authority, for the illegal logging of many valuable species of trees in the territory of the Corstene region. With the circuit council’s MPs, we went to the scene and found more than 400 oaks illegally cut! And what I want to tell you is that trees that were more than a half-meter in diameter were only taken from the business section, the lower part of the trunk, everything else was thrown into the forest. It's a fully stocked area. The head of the household was summoned and the response was that he ate the mushroom. A mushroom that ate more than 400 oaks. Now we're going to have the district attorney's office cleared up, and we're going to the Attorney General's office, and we're going to talk to the officers of the Ministry of Internal Affairs. But I mentioned this fact only as an example of what is happening in our forests in general. Believe me, this is a unique case. And I have a question today to the State Forest Resources Agency, to her supervisor, Christina Yushkevitch. First. When the state strategy for the development of the forest sector is reached, it will be discussed and approved by most citizens today. Next. When will the responsibility of those working today in the forest responsible for fire safety be increased for deforestation, deforestation, and deforestation? At the very least, let us now look to the example of other countries. Today, Romania has declared an extraordinary situation at the level of the State when illegal logging occurs. I have a question for Kristina Yushkevitch. Will the state agency insist that the forests of the APC, military and other units finally enter the State Forest Fund? These are extremely serious questions. I urge you, your honor, all to get involved in this matter. And to the end. Let's not be embarrassed, let's have a discussion about our salary, which is in the 2017 budget. Let's talk inside of each other before the second reading and make a decision, because.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-21-m0.u83	15 seconds, please. Yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-21-m0.u84	Dear colleagues, let's not be pianist, come out of every political force, accuse anyone of wanting a higher salary, someone less, let's be clear about the principles and let's reconcile these issues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-21-m0.u85	And we thank you, dear colleague. Paul Kishkar now gives the word to his colleague Vladislav Dove. Please, Mr. Vlad.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-21-m0.u86	Thank you, Your Honor Irina Volodymyr. First of all, before going directly to the topic of my speech, I want to say that, today, Vladimir Borisovich Groisman announced that he was relieved of his duties as director of the Ukrainian strategic firm Ukrichtrasamak, Mr. Polozov, but this gentleman has just been in the towers of the Supreme Council and accordingly, I've recorded this video about how I was threatened. Therefore, pursuant to article 37 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of People's Deputies, I request the leadership of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, as well as the Ukrainian Security Service, to respond to the threats that have been made to my address. But my speech, I want to go back to the famous city of Zoldanosz of the Cherka district of the 197th constituency, which is an honor, I have to represent here, in the session hall of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. You know, I recently received an answer from the executive duty of the Ukrainian Minister of Health to try the sewage that follows the so - called purification of the so - called Goldenic Cleansing. And since December 2015, at the end of September 2016, when the so-called reconstruction was carried out, there has never been any improvement in the situation, and the state has allocated about 100 million public funds to the reconstruction of these clean-up facilities. Then it becomes clear that this so - called reconstruction has become a simple tool for washing and accommodating government funds. Dear Irina Volodymyrically, my speech, I ask you to consider the MP's address, to give an order to the Apparatus to prepare for me as a deputy's appeal to the Attorney General, to the Prime Minister regarding a situation involving money laundering in the city of Złotosza. But this is not the end of this story: recently, a tender was announced on the public procurement site by the same urban canal of the city of Złotonosza for about 40 million dollars for repairing the collector -- kind of a nice topic, sort of a good thing. But the question is, according to this fund-raiser, it's due by the end of the year, and today we have the end of October. We all realize that this 40 million is going to be nothing more than a continuation of the debasing of the funds that the city's power and the head of the city's water channel is going to be. Again, I would like to present this with my second parliamentary address to the Attorney General and Prime Minister of Ukraine, Vladimir Groysman. That's why I also call on the head of the Church State Administration to bring the order in the area he's responsible for and to stop taking a position that he doesn't see anything. And I also demand that he submit to the Supreme Council for the holding of the election of the city’s head of the city of Złotonos, as well as the city council of Złotonos. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-21-m0.u87	Thank you. Please, the next speaker is Taras Batenko, who is given the right to speak by his colleague, National Deputy Konstanovic.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-21-m0.u88	Thank you. Dear Mrs. Irina, the distinguished heroic national deputies who have remained in the hall until now! I would like to draw your attention to the topic that is constantly on this floor, the topic of corruption, one of the most sophisticated topics in the area of corruption, namely, the sphere of social protection of the military, which protected our state and our peaceful life in the ATO zone. The Ukrainian Union of Patriots of UCROP has consistently advocated the rights of military and patriot volunteers who, at the most difficult time for the country, have demonstrated their willingness to defend their state. But unfortunately, the state, in the person of some corrupt officials of the Ministry of Defense, repays them in its own way. I was approached by military officials, members of the ATO, who live in the military village of Lipivka, in the Mikolai district of Lviv district, requesting to intervene in the critical situation surrounding their housing. I'm going to ask you now to prepare slides so you can see the situation. The Ministry of Defense of Ukraine made contracts last October with the private enterprise OTG for the purchase and sale of real estate. The object of the contracts is the purchase of apartments in a secondary market for military personnel in a house on Shevchenka Street, 7 in a village, in fact, Lipivka in Lvivščina. Under the terms of the contract, the seller is obliged to transfer the apartment to the Ministry of Defence in a state that meets the requirements of Ukrainian law. Look at the conditions that meet the current legislation of Ukraine, the ATO military and sanitary standards. So the apartment has to be ready for settlement and all the furniture work has to be done in full. During the examination of such a house, the commission found, in a mild sense, a number of violent violations and shortcomings on the part of the seller. Not every apartment is home to major violations of sanitary and building standards, light water is not available, wet walls, ceilings are leaking, linoleum, no electroplates and electric heaters, and a number of major defects. At present, the military is actually doing their best and at their own expense to eliminate all the shortcomings of the house. It is virtually impossible to accommodate military personnel who have gone through a war zone with their families in these apartments. I want to turn to another circumstance that the price of housing in such a house that was prepared for settlement by the Ministry of Defence through subterranean organizations is a square meter higher than buying an analogous apartment in Lviv than in a village under Lviv Mikolai district. How typical and massive is this problem for Ukraine, since last year the state allocated over 700 million dollars to improve living conditions for military personnel. That year, the Ministry of Defense purchased the above-mentioned apartments, if the state allocates funds, in this case it is over 9 million dollars to provide 16 families of military personnel with housing, then it is not possible to settle people in apartments that are unfit for living. So, dear friends, we went to the Attorney General's Office, to the NABU, in her responses, the Attorney General's Office said that she had sent the question to the NABU, and I'm saying that it wasn't her organ, and that's all, dot, corruption we fought in that situation. So we're Ukrainian.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-21-m0.u89	15 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-21-m0.u90	I personally demand that the management of the relevant competent authorities investigate the abuse of state funds and finally break these corruption schemes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-21-m0.u91	Thank you, Your Honor, we're about to put together two speeches at the request of the leader of the Radial Party of Light and now Oleg Lazko has the word of six minutes. He is given the word of his colleague, the national deputy of Rybalka and Suhevich. Excuse me, it's Wolf. He's got the word "fisher's deputy" for three minutes, please, Mr. Wolf.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-21-m0.u92	Victor Wolf, Oleg Lachka Radical Party. This week in Berlin, for the first time in the last year, there was a meeting in "normal" format at the highest level. As a result, no documents have been signed, no joint declarations, statements, or press releases. We've only heard unagreed comments by the leaders of the Normandy Four about the hypothetical road map for the implementation of the Minsk Accords, the next meeting of ministers, and so on. It may even seem that they were involved in various negotiations. In different comments, it is important not to lose sight of the picture of the negotiations in general and not to lose understanding of the reality that no results have been achieved in Berlin. Putin supports the Norman format to repeat the "mantra" of amendments to the Constitution with separatists, to take Dustenk into the "minish trap" of the special status of Donbas and the political legalization of the militants through elections, and in recent times to get out of the isolation he is in because of his war crimes in Syria. Merkel and Holland are trying to contain Putin’s aggressiveness and maintain the illusion of success in French and German diplomacy. However, it is obvious that the Normanic format and the Minsk process as real peace negotiations have long been exhausted. They've never really been like this. We have repeatedly emphasized that Putin only understands power, and we need to speak to him from a position of power. In any successful negotiations with Putin, the nuclear countries - the U.S. and the United Kingdom and the world power centres that imposed economic sanctions against Russia, the same US and the European Union - are bound to participate. I recall that the first international meetings since the beginning of Russian aggression were in March 2014 in the Budapest format with US and UK participation, and in April in Geneva with the participation of Americans and the European Union. The principle concession made by President-elect Poroshenko in June 2014, after agreeing to a narrowed Norman format of international negotiations with Germany and France instead of the US-EU and Britain, did not justify itself at all. Oleg Láška’s radical party emphasizes that the time has come to correct this strategic error. Real negotiations are only possible in Budapest and Geneva formats and on the basis of documents signed in Budapest and Geneva. A fine opportunity for this will be the change of the U.S. administration, where to prepare and carry out appropriate diplomatic work. The Ukrainian authorities have no right to miss their chance to move the train of history to another track.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-21-m0.u93	Thank you. The word is now given to the representative of the Fatherland faction Igor Lucenka. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-21-m0.u94	Igor Lucenko, "The Fatherland" faction. Your Honor, from week to week, there's a bill of special confiscation, and every time we're forced to put it in order of the day, and so on. Well, I don't think there's going to be any people in this room besides the Environment who don't understand that Janukovitch is a criminal and who don't want to confiscate his assets immediately, hand it over to the army and pass it on to social programs. But I want everyone to understand, including the television set, the Ukrainian people, what's actually going on here. Dear friends, our Criminal Procedure Code, the Criminal Code gives us a lot of tools to confiscate Janukovic's assets. Sadly, though, there is one problem. The problem is that Yanukovich needs to be recognized as a criminal by law. This is to be done by the court, and no one is going to do it. At present, only Yanukovich’s money is of interest to the highlanders, not the blood he shed on Maidan. And that's the story behind the confiscation. No one's going to investigate the crimes of the Yanukovitch gang, it's going to be the third year, it's going to be the three years Janukovitch has fled, and 2.5 are actively working investigators of two hundred men. Where are the results? No results, no results. On the contrary, we are hearing from Europe, which is detaining from the assets of the Yanukovich gang, no search for members of this gang. And I'll tell you why it's moving so slowly, why it could last forever this whole investigation. For example, Gontare's ICU company was doing what my fellow national MPs said was to wash away Janukovich's money. So, of course, how does Mr. Yuri Lucenko, a friend of Dusty's, convict another friend of Dusty's, Mrs. Gontarev? I can't imagine that in today's coordinate system. So, dear fellows, I don't think we all have to cover this. I want to speak to Yuri Vitaliovich Lucenka. Mr. Jury, stop dealing with matters under your control. Stop this systematic blocking of the Maydan investigation and of the crimes of Yanukovich. It's your responsibility now. I'm addressing all the high-level owners, the Kabmin, the administration of President Dustenk. If you do not organize and punish your predecessors, your successors will punish you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-21-m0.u95	Now six minutes is given to the national deputy Lazko, who is given the word of his colleague Mr. Suhevich and Mr. Kuprienko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-21-m0.u96	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Yesterday, in Parliament’s Hall, the government’s 2017 budget bill was first read. The Radical Party faction did not support this document because the proposals made by our faction to this budget were not supported. I want once again for all citizens, for the whole country, to highlight our principles of budget requirements for the following year. First of all, this budget should not be a budget for food, but rather a development budget, the country's economic development budget, the restoration of national production. The government's projected 3 percent increase in GDP in the next 2017 is an absolute gap if we remember that last year we had a negative 15 percent drop in gross domestic product. If we grow at the rate suggested by today’s authorities, we will not reach Belarus for more than 20 years. I want to remind you of those who may not know. In 1991, after the collapse of the Soviet Union, Ukraine had twice as much GDP per capita as Belarus and 4 times that of Poland. Today, the situation is fundamentally the opposite. Why? Because in 25 years, Ukraine was transformed into a raw material supplement. In the structure of Ukrainian exports, almost 70 percent is raw material. And that's why we depend on prices in China, on prices in Africa, because of their GDP growth. And if we were trading, not raw materials, but value-added products, final products, we wouldn't depend on the development of other countries and, above all, we wouldn't depend on the loans of the International Monetary Fund. Because today, the National Bank is holding the currency exchange rate stable only on the basis of external borrowings that are placed in gold stocks, and the currency exchange rate stability should be based on an increase in the export potential of the country, on an increase in the foreign exchange flow that is due to go to Ukraine, not Ukraine. Instead, we're brought to us by the mud they sell, which we can produce here ourselves, we're producing currency, and then we, like the bogeymen, we go around the world, and we ask that they give us loans, with huge potential, with unique lands, with unique human potential, an educational level of the Ukrainian working population. We are, in fact, the whole world is looking at us and wondering why we live like this. Why are we living? Because we can't see our noses anymore, because those who are in power today are unable to predict where the world is going to be, which is going to be with the world and Ukraine in 20, 30, in 50, in 100 years, they don't see what happens tomorrow, they don't see, they see the team of the Radical Party. That's why we've registered in Parliament bills that, in the event of their adoption in Parliament, will provide jobs for millions of Ukrainians, a radical increase in the purchasing power of citizens due to higher wages, higher pensions, because when Ukrainians have no money, when they have nothing to go to the store, there will be no small and medium-sized businesses, no domestic economy, no economy can develop at the expense of external borrowing, no external borrowing, it can be like a temporary pillow, and, above all, it's internal infrastructure projects, the development of their own metallurgy, coal sector, construction, agricultural production. This is what you have to do to create jobs. That's why we're asking the government in the budget next year to save VAT for farmers. Those schemes that the government is offering today in exchange for this specialty, 20 billion dollars want to take away, instead of offering 5 billion dollars, and they will not reach farmers, small farmers, but they will only reach the oligarchs or those who will bring bribes. That's why we're offering: Hands off the farmers! Last week we achieved the adoption of my law in Parliament, and I thank everyone who continued the moratorium on the sale of agricultural land. Today, the second key task is to restore state support for the animal sector, plantation, job creation for young people, primarily in the countryside, because young people are leaving today, and older people no longer have the physical capacity to work. Another huge problem is the raiding when farmers take their land, their property. To stop this plague, the plague of raiding, Victor Halasyuk, Alexander Bakumenko, Gregory Zabotny, and other fellow MPs, we registered a bill for the 16th of November parliamentary hearings on overcoming the raid. We invite farmers from all over the country to come to this hall, from this high parliamentary rostrum to talk about their pains, their problems. And the Radical Party team, I hope, together with all the deputies, we will do our utmost to protect Ukrainians, farmers, from raiders, from this plague when people take their last assets. Our next requirement for the budget is to radically raise citizens' incomes, which is to restore the social standard of gas consumption in the heating season, which the government has unfortunately deprived. That's why we are now from Parliament, together with my colleague Oleg Kuprienk, other members of the Radical Party, we are going to court, where, through the court, we are seeking to annul the government's decision to raise tariffs, to increase the price of gas. We will fight like lions for every Ukrainian, for every penny so that people will not be robbed so that they have the job and the bright future that they have.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-21-m0.u97	Thank you. Dear colleagues, now National Deputys Pavel Kostenko and Jaroslav Markevich of Self-Help are handing over their speeches, 6 minutes to National Deputy Seminchenk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-21-m0.u98	I want to address the Ukrainian people and talk about things that concern not only warriors on the front, but also all those who send their children, their husbands, their grandchildren to protect our country now. Yesterday, there was a vote in favour of the draft budget. One of the reasons why Self-Help has abstained is the lack of full-fledged parliamentary control over national security and defence spending. One of the main functions of the deputy, apart from legislative activities, is the function of parliamentary control. If any violations are detected, the MP may write a request, and the authorized authorities, the Procurator's Office, the BSS, the Ministry of Internal Affairs shall carry out an investigation. Then report to the deputy. In almost two years, no statement of corruption or looting in the army, which had been submitted to the Military Prosecutor's Office by the members of the National Security and Defence Committee, had ended and had not been brought to justice. And the people who raided the army didn't sit down. This is true of the things associated with clothing for the soldiers who burn. This has to do with the people who supply fuel to the army at high prices. This is true of those who earn money on food, who earn in fact on everything. The same fate was in fact awaited by my parliamentary requests personally. I would like to say that in two years, I have also drawn attention to many of the things that are being done with our function of parliamentary control. A few examples. If you remember, there was a very resonant event in early 2016. One of the founders of the so - called Lugano People’s Republic of Corsunsky Sergei was met in a café in a café in Kiev. There was a very big scandal, all over the TV channels. The BSB reported that it had detained Corsunsky, although he had documents, the indulgence was actually from an IMF staff member. It's been eight months. And this person was released from criminal responsibility and sentenced to the media, which was adopted at the request of the prosecutor with the following wording: “According to the explanation of the prosecutor, it is found that no evidence of the commission of the Corsunski S.O. was found in the pre-trial investigation. Other crimes other than participation in a terrorist organization.” In doing so, the Corsunsky voluntarily informed law enforcement authorities of the activities of the LPD terrorist organization and contributed to the detection of the crimes of LPD. During the week, official and informal comments were made by various representatives of the authorities that it was almost a BAF agent. As a result, however, the situation turned out to be a very unexpected one. The President of Ukraine approves the decision of the PRSP on personal sanctions against the enemies of Ukraine. They, along with the Russians and traitors of Ukraine, contain a previously released Ukrainian prosecutor's office under paragraph 98. Sergey Corsunsky wrote: "The actions of entities that create real and (or) potential threats to national interests, national security, sovereignty and territorial integrity of Ukraine contribute to terrorist activities." I can't understand who the idiots are, the people of Ukraine. Those who include completely random people on the sanctions list, or those who leave calmly, because of the involuntaryness of the enemies of Ukraine. Other very interesting processes take place in parallel. My delegation's control includes some resonating cases, not against terrorists and enemies of Ukraine, but against volunteers and soldiers. For example, everyone knows a case that began to be investigated at the end of 2015 by the Chief Military Prosecutor's Office for the so-called Andrew Group. At the end of 2015, volunteers and DFS personnel were killed after the destruction of the infantry mine in the Happy region, who decided to do so in a volunteer manner because of their inability, for some reason, to investigate the facts of smuggling and trafficking with the enemy. This is where the charges against the 92nd Brigade began. During the six months, these accusations have become complicit in the subversion of participation in the so-called transnational drug trafficking group. While these people who are being accused are ordinary soldiers, we have seen them from a broadcast of interrogations that they conducted for the captured Russian Special Forces, Eropheev and Alexandrov. So now, as it turns out, these people are already at large, these people are sitting quietly in court, and the investigation is deciding to put an end to this case, I understand, because the evidence is similar to the theory of an alien conspiracy. Thus, the official treatment of the Ukrainian military prosecutor to the law enforcement authorities of the Russian Federation for legal aid is the basis for the suspension of the investigation. While there is an interesting dialogue in the court, counsel suggests that he be allowed to know, the lawyer of our Ukrainian 92nd Brigade fighters, to see the documents of the application, which the investigators have not been given. However, on the question “Have you been contacted by the representatives of the aggressor State of the Russian Military Prosecutor’s Office?” The reply of the official of the Ukrainian Military Prosecutor's Office was as follows: “I have no reason not to trust the authorities of the Russian Prosecutor's Office.” This is a flagrant case which must be investigated by the Attorney-General. The same is true of all other resonance cases. I walked into the hall today, and I approached the deputies of Lozo, Mosiyczuk, Kostenko, Sobolivo -- all those people who almost four months ago signed their personal commitment to the Battle of the Idar Battalion Valentina Licholita. You remember that story when you actually had to take him out of the Cave Court when the Attorney General himself claimed that a group would be set up.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-21-m0.u99	I'll give you 15 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-21-m0.u100	They will do what they do, and if they are not guilty, they will release them. Now, in four months, Lycholit was never questioned. I appeal to the Attorney-General to request that the Self-Help faction be initiated with him in person, to understand why the MPs are in charge and in whose interest the members of the Military Prosecutor's Office are working during the war. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-21-m0.u101	Thank you. Please welcome the national MP from the People's Front, Mr. Danieline. And then. He passes the word, yes, yes, he passes the word to Andrew Teteruk. And then Mr. Shurma.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-21-m0.u102	Dear Chairman! Dear fellow national MPs! Dear Ukrainian people! I would like to draw your attention, first of all, to the observance of the laws in Ukraine that adopt laws here and then require everyone else to comply with them. October 10th was the second stage of the competition to replace the post of Director General of the South -- this is an extremely important stage in the selection of a person who can lead a construction office that should leave Ukraine in space. Sadly, though, some national deputies find it necessary to make their own noise and to allow themselves to influence the members of the commission, which is defined by law, which conducts the competition in a very transparent way and influences the results of such commissioning. In my opinion, this is a disgrace, but today I have not been able to hear an answer from the head of this committee, Mr. Kubov, why has there not been a public protest against the depraved conduct of the People's Deputy of the Fatherland faction? What exactly is their goal in destroying those state institutions that we should protect? Some moments are familiar to me, and I put them on my Facebook page, but for those who don't go to Facebook, I'd like to disprove the lie that echoes from Mrs. Timoshenko's second homecoming issue. She claims that Mr. Dehtyarov, who headed the South Bank, was thrown into the street. In fact, he is today the main designer who took part in this competition and he doesn't want to be the main designer, he doesn't want to build a rocket, he wants to go to the competition and become CEO. Perhaps, first of all, to protect his pocket bank, a new bank, where he spent one and a half billion government funds and then washes out hundreds of millions of dollars a year in his pocket. Maybe that's the main motive for the Fatherland faction to completely wrongly destroy the selection of candidates who could lead the design office, influence, pressure the members of the competition commission. Why and how this is going to develop, I'm going to inform society. I just want you to be careful to keep an eye on what statements they make, check them, and avoid being misled, because lying and handcuffing is a normal way of doing it.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-21-m0.u103	15 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-21-m0.u104	The usual way of doing things for the old formation's politics, first of all we have to do it in a legitimate way, open and open to all society, should be clear about the motives that one or the other politicians are guided by. Thank you all for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-21-m0.u105	And thank you, Mr. Andrey. Please, Igor Shurma of the Opposition Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-21-m0.u106	Igor Shurma, Opposition Block. Dear citizens of Ukraine, you know today for people who are in opposition to power, not to Ukraine, there is no problem in choosing the theme of the speech from the Supreme Council rostrum. You want to talk about deforestation, let's talk about the Carpathians, who will soon be on the world map, called the woods of the mountains. Would you like to talk about pensions, please, about the frozen salaries of social, educational, medical workers? Please. You want to speak for the stagnation of the economy, please. I'll focus today, in my opinion, why is this happening? Low executive discipline and a drumming attitude towards health issues both by the Ministry and apparently the Cabinet of Ministers. On June 1st, a speech was sent to the Cabinet of Ministers signed by 26 national deputies, stressing, from all factions, from all factions that are in the Supreme Council. With regard to the transfer to a balance sheet at the operational office of the Lviv National Medical University of Danil Galick State, the Lviv Research Institute of Epidemiology and Hygiene of the Ministry of Health has set up a joint improvement in educational and scientific and preventive work. A corresponding commission was given to the Holding Foundation, the Mine Economic Development Fund, the Lviv District Administration, the Ministry of Health – it was June 15th, and no one has moved their fingers to this day. Everyone's worried about education, everyone's worried about the prestige of medical science, a question that I'm not worth a penny, and all it needs is a free decision -- it's not being solved. The question of the Lviv perinatal center, which is a flagman in our medical field, in the post-Radians space was the first facility to provide perinatal help. What is today? All the officials who come to Lviv promise to make money. In the 2016 and 2017 budget, zero copies. I would like to stress, first of all, the question of birth, health, and, shamelessly, the death of our children in Lviv. They don't give money! Is that a problem for today’s budget of 15 million dollars to start a job? Emergency medical care is a safety issue. The law is, wages are not paid in the Lviv region, allowances, no one is thinking of solving this issue. For 2017, no copies have been issued for the implementation of this law. Why Not Answered? Because there is no minister of health. What's a health minister? Today it's a woman who says to journalists, "Where's your higher education diploma?" – she sends them to Google. And everyone says she has secondary education, and she says, "Go to Google." Perhaps the Cabinet of Ministers has been sent to Google! So I ask you to appoint this person as a health minister or take responsibility.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-21-m0.u107	15 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-21-m0.u108	for the inaction of the Ministry of Health. Please consider the facts that I have heard, the parliamentary request to the head of government, the Ukrainian Security Service and the National Security and Defence Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-21-m0.u109	Thank you. Please form this statement as a deputy’s address, and the national deputy of the Dove, who made the same request, made an appeal. It's a parliamentary address. Please, People's Deputy of the People's Front. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-21-m0.u110	Gennady the Clumsy. Good afternoon, dear fellows! You know, I'd like to raise a question right now that's probably the whole of Ukraine, but unfortunately for some reason, it's only from a political point of view or some sort of agitation point of view, rather than talking in terms of constructive decisions that can be and how we can continue to be. This applies, first of all, to tariff policy, which is being talked about today, once again, at a time when it's convenient for someone, not when it's needed, in fact, to talk about and make decisions. We all understand how this policy is being set up today, we all understand what responsibilities both the Cabinet of Ministers and take all the appropriate authorities in the area of tariff regulation in the area of housing and utilities. At the same time, I would like to point out that we should give ourselves a certain assessment and give ourselves an answer to the tired cut, that we should talk about it and have the appropriate authorities of local self-government, well, at least -- appropriate district councils or even local self-government bodies -- city councils or district councils. Why am I talking about this? We see how many representatives and how many district councils and district councils, well, having and without authority that is controversial, but expressing some mistrust or even taking action against one or the other tariffs at all. However, one way or another, we are faced with the fact that they cannot even provide their cities or their villages, or their district centers, or the district centers at the right time during the heating period. So there's probably a substantial proposal, a constructive one: this is the Cabinet of Ministers, the regulator in the area of tariff regulation, as well as with the authorities of the relevant district councils, the local self-government authorities, to sit down at the table and start negotiating to give appropriate authority to the authorities so that the community itself can participate in the formation of these tariffs. I can't say it can come out of this right now, but this is actually going to be a certain negotiating table, a round table so that in the future we have a constructive, well-founded, exact price on. the tariff price. price policy so that no one can speculate on it, so that everyone can understand how this price is produced and so that everyone can pay the exact price for gas, for heat, for any electronics, or even for housing and utility tariffs at what they are. At the cost they're paying. I'm sure that, perhaps today and in the future for a few years, we should understand that this may be one of the steps that we can take when we can come to the only solution: how should we regulate the very tariff policy in the area of housing and utilities in our country. Thank you. Gennady Kryvoshea, faction of the People's Front.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-21-m0.u111	And thank you, Mr. Curvature of the People's Front. Please, National Deputy Martovicki of the Opposition Block. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-21-m0.u112	Dear citizens of Ukraine! Dear colleagues! This statement on the concern of representatives of the public and industry sectors, which is based on the adoption of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine Decree of 24 June 2016 on the number 461, which approves new lists of work, occupations, jobs and employment that grant entitlements to retirement at the age of the benefit. Thus, this regulation still preserves the principle of listings Nos. 1 and 2, but lists No. 1 on underground works in mines, mines and mines, mining of useful mines, geological exploration, drainage mines, mines, mines, mines are all excluded from the list of occupations whose employment gives rise to the right to a retirement age on extended terms. At the same time, the Ministry of Social Policy, as a responsible body, has not developed or approved the order of application of these lists, as required by legislation, since the decision has become effective, i.e. since 3 August 2016 and now. It is therefore difficult to predict how the new lists approved by Cabinet of Ministers No. 461 will work, but it is now clear that since 3 August 2016 it cannot be justified to determine the rights of citizens engaged in repairs with harmful working conditions at retirement age. It should also be noted that for 22 years — that is, since 1994 — the principle of a specific definition of processes and positions that has been cancelled today has been in force. This Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine has completely ignored the requirement of Ukrainian legislation for public consultation on the formation and implementation of state policy. This decision is taken without proper discussion and agreement with the representatives of the industry, which provides for legal uncertainty and violations of the rights and legitimate interests of Ukrainian workers. New lists of productions, jobs, processes, positions and indicators, approved by Decree No. 461, only undermine the social protection of coal workers and other industries. Simply put, the Ministry of Social Policy, behind it and the Cabinet of Ministers, have come into the pocket of a worker who earns hard work for his bread in bad conditions, is a conscientious tax payer and has taken between 5 and 10 years to live along with pension payments. Those who remain in these jobs receive additional leave, reduced workdays, and other benefits, which depend on working conditions. Thus, taking into account the above, I call on you, Mr. Prime Minister, on behalf of the professions of the Ukrainian miners and the public organizations of West Donbas, to consult and discuss with representatives of the public changes in the reform of legislation.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-21-m0.u113	15 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-21-m0.u114	What is defined as the right to a retirement pension at the age of the benefits, as well as the requirement to consider at the nearest government meeting the issue of the annulment of Cabinet of Ministers Decision No. 461, by returning the principle of the creation of the right to retirement at the age of retirement on the basis of the right to a specific profession, the position.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-21-m0.u115	Thank you. At present, the national MP Moroko gives the floor to the colleague Yuri Derevyanco, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-21-m0.u116	Yuri Derevyanko, political party of Will. Dear Chairman, distinguished colleagues, respected Ukrainians. Why did the political party "Will" vote against the state budget in 2017? The Will Party believes that the 2017 budget is a conspiracy of valid authority and oligarchs, and it is not in the interests of the Ukrainians. We believe that the budget should be based on a new tax base, 20 per cent of the EU, 10 per cent of the income tax of the individual, 15 per cent of the VAT and 15 per cent of the income tax when paid as dividends, i.e. distributed. Instead, the government is doing everything to preserve the old tax system, in order to continue fiscally suffocating business, in order to keep the economy shadowed, in order to simultaneously tax, including from pensioners and other working citizens, but not to change anything. "Will" voted against the budget because the budget has the highest cynicism, cynicism is that the official subsistence minimum of 2700 dollars, the budget has 1,600 dollars, and such modest budget supplements as 3 and 4 have increased the salaries of the people's deputies to 40,000 dollars. "Will" didn't vote in favour of this budget because it's oligarchocentric, so it's concentrated all of the costs in the government budget, 60 billion dollars, and subsidies directly account for these elevated tariffs on gas, for electricity directly to the oligarchs in the pocket. This budget does not foresee a continuation of decentralization reform. "Will" requires the adoption of bill 3038 so that 5 per cent of the oil and gas rent is distributed among local budgets, one and a half percent in the district budget, and one and a half percent in the combined territorial community budget, and two percent in the rural or rural council where oil or gas is extracted. "Will" is opposed to educational and medical subsidies being distributed through ODA and RDA instead of going directly to unified territorial communities. We insist that they be cancelled, the cancelled benefits of what they want to take away now are a tax on the added value of small farms to keep it, so that the village can develop further. "Will" didn't vote in favour of the budget either, because it violates the Constitution as part of the freeze, the suspension of the standard that provides for the medical services of military personnel, which provides for the suspension of medical care to the police. And it's also a very important moment, because of Yanukovich's special confiscation. This budget foresees that ten and a half billion by hand will be distributed by the government in so-called different directions: agriculture, teachers, regional development fund, education, pensions, defence -- but it does not specify which proportion or what percentage. It's not exactly, like, why. So this government budget will not improve people's lives, but improve the lives of the oligarchs, continue robbing the Ukrainian people, and distribute these funds between them.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-21-m0.u117	15 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-21-m0.u118	We advocate that this budget be radically redesigned, so that we can have a budget for development, a budget for hope, not a budget for food and a budget for poverty next year.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-21-m0.u119	Thank you. Just so everyone will be able to speak, dear colleague, I invite you to the floor of the national deputy Svetlana Zlatchuk. Please, Mrs. Svetlana. Ah, Sergey Lechchenko. Please, Mr. Lechchenko. Three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-21-m0.u120	Good afternoon, my friends! Indeed, colleagues are told about the increase in the salaries of deputies. But let us not forget another innovation that has been going on since this year. It's funding the parties from the budget. We passed this law so that the parties would be independent of the oligarchs, so that there would be no corruption in the state, so that everything would be fair and transparent. And starting this year, the biggest parties -- the Dust Block and the People's Front -- are getting 100 million dollars from the government budget. Smaller parties get a little less. But what do we see? Corruption continues, and the viewers continue to work. And in the course of carrying out my parliamentary powers, I learned about the results of the tender from deeper the bottom in the port of South. The South Port is one of the largest ports in Ukraine. And a tender for this company was won by a company that, by the name, can be judged to be Belgian. It's called Ian De Zero. But if we look at the statutory documents of this company, it turns out that two months before the tender was announced, the stockholding structure of this company changed. And a 55 percent control package was given to two offshore companies in Cyprus. At the same time, the director of this company is changing, which, I remind you, won a 1 billion dollar tender. And the director of this company is an assistant national deputy from the People's Front, Sergey Firemarck. It would seem that a very strange coincidence. Then I'm going to learn that another participant in this tender, a Dutch company called Van Oord Ukraine, 100 percent of the business is owned by the Dutch investor, offered 90 million dollars less on this tender. It's 90 million dollars less than it is. And they were thrown out of this tender. And the winner was an enterprise that belongs to the influence of MPs from the People's Front. I will be asked by the National Anti-Corruption Bureau of Ukraine to verify this abuse. Likewise today, I personally submitted the documents on this to Prime Minister Vladimir Groysman of Ukraine. And thank you, there is one of the leaders of the party of the greatest radicals in the room. Today I want to propose a cover for this magazine, let the whole country see what this political power is living on, let it tell us about a Cadillac armed with $350,000, let the leader of this party, which you can see on the cover of this popular New Time magazine, tell us about the palaces, let him talk about the most expensive business center in Kiev, where a party of honest fighters are now based for the welfare of ordinary Ukrainian citizens. Of course, it is very easy to go to the rostrum and tear your shirt off while talking about the protection of the disadvantaged. I also recommend that everyone purchase this magazine and read the truth about this policy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-21-m0.u121	Thank you, Your Honor. Everyone's gonna come out, then the lines. Please, it wasn't called, it wasn't called. Now the national MP Sporish is referring the word to Solovia. Please, National Deputy Solovay. Honorable colleagues, the national deputy of Solovia, do not exist. Next. The national MP, Dubininin, gives the floor to his colleague, National Deputy Konstankevich. People's Deputy Constancewicz. People's Deputy Constancewicz. I very much ask that we listen carefully, this is the second performance from Mrs. Konstankevich's rostrum. Please. Please. Dear colleagues, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-21-m0.u122	Dear colleagues! Mr. Oleg, please allow me to speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-21-m0.u123	Mrs. Irina, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-21-m0.u124	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to address you on the subject of education, because yesterday the registration deadline for the Education Act has ended. And we registered, as a result of the discussion of the Education Act, almost 60 rights to the bill. What I'm trying to say is that these are revisions that relate to two of the most important topics. The first theme is that further funding for education will be done, not by means of educational subsidies, but by local budgets. And we think it's unacceptable that full secondary education is passed on to the local level in terms of financing the work of technical workers, staff, utilities. We believe that it is impossible for a professional to translate into local budgets because, as we know, 80 percent of the pseudo-decentralisation is left right here in the centre of Kiev, and the local budgets are 20 percent of the overall budget of Ukraine. So I can say in the case of the Volin region, other areas that do not have large local budgets, practically vocational education is doomed to a slow death. Funding for secondary education will also be a challenge, and extracurricular and other forms of education will be problematic. And it turns out, on the one hand, we're talking about quality education, but the question is, who is this education going to be for, we're not going to be going to teach anyone soon, because we're folding up all kinds of education and education. The second question that I have in the context of this is the question of social protection as schoolchildren who have been deprived of school meals. In particular, it's about the first and fourth classes, the fifth and eleventh classes, and the students at the trade schools. We, the Ukrainian Union of Patriots, believe that this social benefits must be preserved and the state must feed schoolchildren as it has done before. And the last thesis I was going to talk about is raising the salary that teachers are supposed to pay. But we think it's necessary to raise wages for first- and second-level teachers, and for third- and fourth-level teachers, that is, for workers who are defined as "scientific and pedagogical work." Because.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-21-m0.u125	15 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-21-m0.u126	You can't make a wage raise just for a certain segment of the education environment, it has to be gradual for teachers and science teachers, as well as for all those who serve this area. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-21-m0.u127	Thank you very much, Mrs. Irina, for the constructive presentation. And please welcome to the floor is Yuri Soloway, who returned to our session hall for this talk. Please, Mr. Yuri.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-21-m0.u128	Yuri Solovay, 89th Gutzulščina constituency, and Poksin. Dear colleagues, yesterday Parliament passed the Budget Act in its first reading. I believe that we have taken a very serious step forward and that the law has been passed in accordance with current legislation and, in particular, the Rules is a very large symbol, including for Ukrainian parliamentaryism. Besides, I'd like to stop at one segment of the budget that has a very important role to play in the functioning of our state. In particular, over 50 billion dollars next year will be spent on subsidies for socially unprotected populations. Clearly, today is such an element as the support of socially vulnerable populations today, absolutely in time. But besides, I want to make a number of comments about the system itself and the subsidy mechanism. Because the mechanism in place does not stimulate energy saving subsidies at all. Moreover, the current subsidy mechanism is, unfortunately, gradually re-energizing the Ukrainian economy. For example, I want to call the last meeting with entrepreneurs I've had in my community and I'm approached by people from business who say that their employees are making offers, and some people are demanding that they declare a minimum wage in employment contracts so that they can get a grant in the future. What I'm saying is that this path can lead to nowhere, and every year, it's going to tinnish the Ukrainian economy, it's going to tinnish the Ukrainian real sector. And that's why I'm going to the government, and especially to the Ministry of Social Policy, in the shortest terms, to develop and optimize the subsidy mechanism, to convert this benefit into a monetary form, so that people can get these funds into personal accounts, and that this mechanism can stimulate people to energy conservation and to energy economy. And by the way, we definitely need to solve the issue of how the subsidy mechanism stimulates and brings wages out of the shadows rather than throw them even more into the shadows. Please form my deputy speech as a parliamentary address to the Ministry of Social Policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-21-m0.u129	Thank you. You will be presented as a speech. And please welcome the national MP Borislav Bereza. I'm sorry, Mr. Silantiev instead of Oleg Lachka, and then you, excuse me, I didn't look there.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-21-m0.u130	Denis Silantiev, factions of the Radical Party of Oleg Laska. Respectable colleagues, respected citizens of Ukraine, respected representatives of the media. Once again, I would like to inform you of the indifferent, ambitious, neglectful policy of the State on human health, on the health of the growing generation, on the health of the nation. We adopted the budget, voted in favour of the budget, discussed the budget more precisely for 2017 and took into account the increase in salaries for teachers and doctors. I have a question, doesn't the government want our children to be healthy, successful and safe? And that's what those people who work in children's sports schools who work in sports clubs, sports institutions, because they're the ones who draw our children out of the streets, because they're the ones who take our children out of the backs, out of the basements, out of the backyards, out of the yard, out of the cracks, drunks, outlaws. In fact, where sport develops, where physical culture decreases crime, child attendance and child health increase. Therefore, the demands of the Radical Party of Oleg Ljaška to be taken into account in the budget for 2017 increased salaries for trainers in children's sports schools, sports establishments. Let's move on. Please call me the Ministry of Ukraine, which would voluntarily renounce its authority, its influence in the sector for which it is responsible. I don't think anyone will. I'll call it the Ministry of Youth and Sports. In accordance with the provisions of article 6 of the Law on Physical Culture and Sport, the Ministry of Youth and Sport of Ukraine organizes and provides for the construction and reconstruction of sports facilities. I am tired of fighting with the Ministry at a meeting of committees and subcommittees to ensure that it does not give up its powers to preserve the Ministry's influence on the control, how sports complexes are used, to control the development and promotion of physical culture and sport so that sports infrastructure can be restored, developed, rebuilt. Therefore, Oleg Ljaška's Radical Party will continue to guard the development of physical culture and sports, the preservation of the health of the growing generation and the preservation of the health of the nation. We will not allow the policies currently under way to be pursued — the genocide of the nation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-21-m0.u131	Thank you. Please welcome Borislav Bereza, a nonfractional representative of Kiev.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-21-m0.u132	Dear colleagues, I see you have less than 20 left. Oh, well! This is what I want to do in front of an empty hall. I'm telling you, you're very few, very few. It's an honor! That's why I'm going to tell you. What am I trying to say? A few days ago, I saw an illegal building dismantled in the center of Kiev. This included the participation of law enforcement officials. But what do I see? None of them had a number or any information to identify them. But they said they were cops. There were, in fact, two police officers with tokens. When we asked them who these people were, they kept quiet and said, "This is the police." How could we have known that these were not strippers, but really policemen? I don't have that information. When you write to Mrs. Decanoidze: Please tell me, why do the people who drive activists around buildings, anywhere, have no sign of identification? She says she doesn't know, she doesn't have information to identify. I want to remind her that after Maidan, we still can't tell who shot our people, who killed the Ukrainians on the field, because they weren't identified, they didn't have a number on their helmet or a number on their uniform. I feel that this shameful practice should be completed. I want to ask Mrs. Decanoidze to answer, and I ask you to consider this my official parliamentary request: when the police in Ukraine are identified by numbers, by which will it be possible to determine which of them did what, if they were acts, were they illegal? Otherwise, we'll never end it, it's the first time. Secondly, I'm tired of waiting for Mrs. Decanoidze's specific answers. Because she's saying, research is coming, circumstances are being clarified, something else is going on. But she never answers: who is to blame, who has done what? So I want to understand if Mrs. Decanoidze understands that she's the head of the National Police, whether she's still doing her credits. I will be very grateful to her direct supervisor, Mr. Avakov, if he is able to communicate with her so that she does not write anything like that at all, but specifically responds to the task. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-21-m0.u133	And thank you, dear colleague. The word is now given to the master Moses, to whom his colleague Didic conveys the word.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-21-m0.u134	Honorable National Deputies, reverend Ukrainian people! Oleg Musei, 124th constituency, Sokalska, Red City, National Control political party. I'd like to draw your attention to the raid. The raid that is taking place today following the assassination of the head of our government in the form of Ulysses Suprun, Ulysses ’ Health Minister. You know, you can understand everything, even if you don't welcome the Ukrainian raiders who ate their teeth on it. But imagine that a man with an American diploma who is not shown to anyone and a great deal of doubt whether he is, and with an American passport, decided to "screw" medical school No. 18, and this is the Majak factory, the Dnipropetrov State Medical Academy, an institute that was to be passed on to the Lviv National Medical University, the Institute of Hygiene. You don't put things like that in your head. Recently, this in an illegal manner appointed by the minister signed such a special Order No. 144 of 12.10, which gave the commission of the State Enterprise Medsandschein No. 18, which was handed over to the Ministry from the Microprome plant, which was obliged to leave it for the treatment of people and to provide medical care to all who work at this factory, she decided to transfer the newly created institution to where she assigned her leader, called the Center for Public Health. How do you understand that? Breaking all mental and unthinkable standards. Infringement, as a minimum, of the three articles of the Criminal Code, this article 206, this article 206. 2, this is article 211 of the Criminal Code, and no one responds to direct raids. The other one. The Dnipropetrov State Medical Academy. The acting minister issues an illegal and already cancelled order of 30.09 by the Dnipropetrov District Administrative Court, which unlawfully appoints the acting chancellor of such a Mr. Rodinsky Alexander, who is running for office as a rector of the university. How many suitcases have Mrs. Suprun brought in to give such an order? People’s deputies of the District Administrative Court’s decision are brought to the Ministry of Health, and no one cancels that order. You can imagine, even for such law - abiding American ladies.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-21-m0.u135	I call for the validity of everyone. Please, 15 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-21-m0.u136	He doesn't make the decisions of the courts. Therefore, please consider my statement to the Attorney General's Office, the NABU and the Ukrainian Security Service to be a violation and investigation of these things that I have claimed.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-21-m0.u137	Thank you. I appeal once again to the correctness of all those who speak and invite you to the word of John Rybak, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-21-m0.u138	Dear friends, Ivan Rybak, Chernivitetsk district, 202 constituency. An artistic community that came to me literally yesterday at the reception of citizens, which I held at the public reception of the Supreme Council, with the next very important question for her and probably for all of Ukraine. They asked about the protection of the constitutional right to work of professional creative workers, particularly the artistic and artistic staff of state and municipal cultural institutions, in connection with the application of the Ukrainian Act to amend certain Ukrainian legislation on the introduction of contractual forms of work in the field of culture and the competitive procedure for the appointment of heads of state and municipal cultural institutions, which we voted with you in January of this year. What really happened, and what was in these End Positions of this law that I just mentioned? In fact, the law actually introduced a procedure for the mass release of artists who entered into temporary employment contracts. In fact, this bill and this law now apply not only to managers in the cultural establishments of the population in settlements of more than 5,000, but to all without excluding cultural workers, actors, artistic workers of all cultural establishments. In fact, this law violates the Constitution, the provisions of the law do not comply with other laws of Ukraine, and the guarantees provided for in the Code of Guarantee are established for individual categories of workers: young people with regard to the first place of work, pregnant women and women who have children in the area of banning their release, workers selected for professional bodies, disabled persons, and so on. I want to ask the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Social Policy, Employment and Pensions and the Committee on Culture and Spirituality to amend this law and to abolish this shameful thing that is happening today in all of Ukraine's cultural institutions. We can't just fire people and send them all to a contest, they're actors. Why? Because a person either has a talent or he doesn't have one. In fact, in theaters we actually have real patriots working in Ukrainian theaters, which we're essentially throwing out on the street today. We have a disgraceful example today in Lviv, where theater workers announced a strike. Such strikes await all theaters throughout Ukraine. I'm going to the committees mentioned above, and I'm going to make changes to this law. And I think our Parliament will vote for that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-21-m0.u139	And thank you, dear colleague. Now the Greens national MP is handing over the word to our colleague Oleg Barney. Please, Mr. Oleg. Please, Mr. Olege, Mr. Olege, I have a word with you. We're still working 14 minutes. I think everyone who hasn't spoken will make it.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-21-m0.u140	Good afternoon, my greetings. I'm happy to know that the budget is going to help $5 billion, and the prospect is 10 billion to help the village. And we need to go back to the village more than ever, because this is our country's cradle. But first of all, when we talk about the village, we need to understand the small farmer, the medium farmer, not the agroholdings. And to do that, we need, first of all, to restore to the specifics the taxation that will allow them to continue the trend towards small and medium-sized farming, and besides the aid that will be allocated by the state to agriculture itself, the farmers should go in proportion to each region, coming out of the agricultural arrangements available to them, and be distributed primarily between small and medium-sized farmers. Not lobbying big agroholdings. In addition, the issue of VAT return for farmers needs to be addressed. And this return should not go according to the schemes that were before. And it has to go to every farmer, coming out of the agricultural area that he owns. So according to the hectare, according to the number of animals or plants. In addition, we need to pay particular attention to the programs for the development of the agricultural producer, namely, that this aid should go first to the development of vegetation, gardening, animal production, and also to the processing that will enable jobs to be created. Because the cheapest form of income on earth is the sowing of grains. Came, sowed, came, gathered. It provides very few jobs. And so we need to move away from this trend when Ukraine remained a raw asset for Europe, including the cultivation of agriculture. We need to export processed products. In particular, one such species is the alcohol industry. We need to put order in the alcohol industry. And if, in two years of my work in the Supreme Council, the Ukrispirt State Enterprise has failed to organize the work of the alcohol industry, if they haven't managed to run a number of factories, let's go back to being a legal person. So that factories can carry out their own economic and economic activities. If there is no conscience or mind to help, feel free to do so. Therefore, priority will be given to the government’s activities to raise Ukraine’s agricultural producer to the right level. And if such assistance is not appropriate, as they say, especially in this difficult economic situation, it is simply necessary to create the right conditions and the peasant himself will lift himself from his knees and lift the whole of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-21-m0.u141	Thank you. Now the National Deputy Igor Greene is handing the word to a colleague from the People's Front. Please. Then we have the national deputy Yuri Lewchenko. Semenchenko has already spoken. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-21-m0.u142	Whatever you're gonna be. Oh, no? I got it. Thank you. Bondar Mikhailo, 119th constituency. I want to ask the question again, which is further out of Lviv. My district turned out to be 119th -- Brodovščina, Radehovščina, Kamyanka-Buzka, Busk. It is said that garbage is taken out at night and disposed of unsanctionedly in the villages. I wish, Mrs. Irina, that my speech is also counted as a parliamentary address. The law enforcement authorities are in charge of the inspection and it is for them to control this unauthorized shipment of garbage, to sort it out and to bring the responsibility of the guilty persons, because as far as possible. I know they're suffering, it's a problem, it's a problem to solve, but it's not like that, it's not like it's quiet at night to come to the village, dump this trash and get out and go. So once again, I want my speech to be presented as a parliamentary appeal to all law enforcement agencies and to be resolved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-21-m0.u143	Thank you. And now, according to the records, we've got MPs Bondar and Musi to form their speeches as MPs. The People's Deputy Batenko is now giving a speech to the People's Deputy Levchenko. And then we have a final speech, a distinguished self-help leader, Oleg Bresük, who is handed the word of his colleague from "self-help" Simeon Semenchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-21-m0.u144	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223rd District, Kiev. Good afternoon, reverend Ukrainian people! I'd like to speak today, first of all, as the Kiev Mayor elected to the 223rd district in Shevchenkow district of Kiev. The thing is, in the last few weeks, we've been hearing firsthand lies and nonsense from our beloved mayor, Vitaly Volodymyrovich Klick. He keeps lying about the roadblocks, where he tells us that something has been stopped, but he continues to destroy the subway stations. Now he's lying about, as if all the Chinese had been warmed up, yes. Although there are tens of thousands of kyans all over Kiev reporting that they have no heat at all, and tens of thousands say that where there's almost an ice-cold battery, in fact, the temperature doesn't even rise above 17-18 degrees. Why such a lie? And this lie is due to the fact that the Kiev Bridge Head, the general executive power of the country, most of it in this Supreme Council, is cruising Mr. Rinat Leonidovich Ahmtov. Not only is he a monopoly on power generation in Ukraine (de facto a monopoly), but he is the owner of Kiev, for example. And here Vitaly Klitschko and Kiyevenergo and Ahmetov are telling the Chinese that it's supposed to be normal, that it turns out they've been warmed up, and in fact the reality is completely different, and everyone feels it on their own battery. That's why I'm addressing the city head first, although I'm not sure if there's any point in talking to him. I'm talking more to most people in this room, even though she's not here right now, but hopefully she'll hear. What it takes, however, is to do everything possible to get the appropriate heat-generating enterprises back to government property immediately so that the multimillion-dollar cities, the capital, are dependent on one private owner -- it's totally unacceptable in the 21st century. And I'm also particularly talking to the voters, perhaps the Ukrainian people, especially the Chinese. Think about it, people, think about the next time you go to the polls, ask who lied to you about the heat, who lies to you about the constructions, and who tells you everyone about the lies, and then tells you stories. And using the last 20 seconds, I would also like to draw attention to what little there is to be done on one subway station that wants to build a TRC. Recently, KMDA officials said that they are planning to do the same at the roadside station, also building near Baba Jar above the TRC subway. Think about it. People are good for who you vote for. And officials, think about not getting people to take you out of this KMDA and the Kyiv City Council. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-21-m0.u145	Thank you. Please, Oleg Berezuk. I invite you to my word.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-21-m0.u146	Your Majesty, the presiding lady, the honourable ladies and gentlemen! All business matters are very important and there are no smaller or larger ones. But today our state, as an institution, and the people living in this state, as those who depend on its functioning, is at the core of a very important decision, I would say a decision that will depend on the existence of this state. The events that have taken place, and the negotiations that have taken place in the Normandy format, speak of the tense situation behind Russia's aggression in Ukraine, which suggests that Europe remains in its barren position to please the Russian aggressor, unfortunately too. The Minsk agreements that were written in Moscow, not in Ukraine or in Europe, are agreements that lead to the destruction of Ukraine’s sovereignty and the destruction of its statehood. Therefore, all of us, people, parliamentarians, officials, military personnel, doctors, teachers need to be united in order to stand close to the President and support his efforts to preserve Ukraine’s sovereignty. This can only be done by having a very clear position, this clear position offered, including the Self-Help faction, the offer of reality, the recognition of territories that are occupied, occupied by an aggressor, their temporary isolation. Temporary political isolation, no elections, no status, because this destruction of Ukrainian statehood from the inside, failed from the outside, would take place from the inside. Economic isolation, but by no means humanitarian, will allow us to use international practice, the help of the same Red Cross. What's that for? It's for this institutional state that we represent today, on behalf of the people, to gain political power, to learn how to work together, to do so takes time and effort, economic effort. We've finally built quality economic institutions and a high-quality budget with lots of problems and no doubt social consequences. Because only we, as Ukrainians and Ukrainians, can free our territories, and Germany will never free our territories if Germany frees our territories, they will be German. For the first time in history, we have 25 years of Ukrainian statehood and this is the credit of the people of Ukraine. I hope that by our work these people will also give us the strength to endure the present aggression of our eternal enemy. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-21-m0.u147	Thank you, Mr. Oleg. Dear colleagues! Here among those who are still recorded in the speeches is the national deputy Galchenko, who insists on the word, we will give him that word, right, for courage? What are you waiting for? Please, Mr. Galchenko, but let's bet in two minutes, if we can, because we already have the Rules calling for the completion of our work.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-21-m0.u148	Thank you all very, very well-respected people. Andrew Galchenko, 32nd District. Dear people of Ukraine! Dear colleagues! As much as I have left, I will support my colleagues who today really say that you will look into the hall. Who's paying our wages? We're paid by taxpayers, and yesterday we voted, I'm sorry, not us who voted in favour of paying the people's deputies, that is, we were supposed to be sitting until the end of the day and actually earn that salary, and what do we see in the hall? We see an empty hall in the hall. In fact, I'm not wrong, because when we stay, I see the same faces, Friday, in fact, the same faces that are still in the room today, I think we should be very ashamed. And so far, it's the budget that. The budget that, the budget that. Which will be accepted, I think we don't have to raise our wages, raise those people who will pay us for it. These are the teachers who teach our children, the doctors who treat our children, the pensioners who gave us the opportunity, that is, our fathers and grandfathers who gave us the opportunity to live on this earth. I want to tell you that, so far, I see how the budget is being budgeted. But I would like to call you to your senses. This year, we had no pre-financing for health and education in the city of Krivo Rog. This year's 507, because there's an added trades and next year it's 700 million. I would like each and every one of you to look at their cities and make the right decision, because when you make a budget, everything is not done as we see it on paper today. It is important for us to protect those communities that are feeding our Ukraine today. You know, I want to thank each and every one of you and say that no matter who lives in the east, who lives in the west, who lives in the south, who lives in the north, we are all Ukraine. And we all have to do everything. We must do everything to ensure that this country is united, powerful, not pro-Russian, not pro-European, not pro-American, it must be pro-Ukrainian! Because we love our country, we love our people, we love our Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-10-21-m0.u149	Thank you. Dear colleagues, let me remind you that next week the national MPs are working with the electorate. Let's think about our colleagues well that they've already gone to the electorate to work in the districts, so maybe there aren't that many deputies left in the session room. The next plenary meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine will take place on Tuesday, November 1, at 10 a.m. And this morning's meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is announced. I'm calling it closed. Good-bye, everybody! Fruitful work in your districts.
