ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-13-m0.u1	Good morning, dear fellows! Please come into the hall and prepare for registration, please. Colleagues, please come in for registration. Please come into the hall and prepare for registration, colleagues. Colleagues ready for registration? Please register with the Ukrainian National Deputies. Please register. [[10:03:14]] There were 312 national deputies registered. The morning plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Colleagues, today is the birthday of our fellow national deputies. To Andrija Volodymyrovich Galchenka, welcome him. [[Applause]] At Peter Paulovich Sabashuk, we welcome a colleague. [[Applause]] To Yuri Igorovich Solovia, we welcome Mr. Yuri. [[Applause]] At Petra Vasilovich Jurchishina. [[Applause]] And Anton Volodymyrovich Yatzenka. Colleagues, in accordance with Rule 25 of the Rules, we have 30 minutes Wednesday for the national MPs to make proposals, statements, and messages. And I'm asking the People's Deputies to record the performance. Please record. Kodola Alexander Mikhailovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-13-m0.u2	Alexander Kodol, Montenegro, 209th constituency. Dear colleagues, information security during the Russian Federation's military aggression must be one of the top priorities in our country. At the same time today, with Russia 2,000 kilometers from the border, we cannot shield our citizens from its propaganda influence, the broadcast of domestic television channels. In particular, the northern regions of Montenegro, which I represent, where there are 120,000 people, are not covered enough by national television programs. There are population areas where Ukrainian channels are not available at all, as the power of available radiotelevision stations is lacking. A year ago, I raised this question the same way in the Supreme Council, I was paying attention to the leadership of the country, the Ministry of Information Policy, which resulted in a 10 kilowatt radio transmitter at Holma Radio Station. At the same time, the limited frequency of Ukraine's time did not allow our district television to obtain a language license and install its television broadcaster in Novgorod-Sversky. That's why, since February 2015, there has been no broadcast of Ukrainian regional television programmes in Novgorod-Sversky and in the whole region of Novgorod-Sver. At the same time, Russian television broadcasts on satellite television continue to spread Russian propaganda. The solution is possible by installing an additional 10 kilowatt television transmitter at the Holma Radio Broadcasting Station (the Coryukovsky region of Montenegro), as well as allowing the NTCU branch "Chernigiv Regional Directorate", which is our district television, to speak in Novgorod-Sversky. This will significantly expand the coverage of the analogue television channels and improve the provision of quality domestic television to the population of the border regions. That is why I turn once again to Prime Minister Vladimir Groysman, Minister of Information Policy Yuri Stetz, Head of the National Television and Radio Council of Jury Artemenko, asking to contribute to the installation of an additional 10 kilowatt TV transmitter in Holm and to take all necessary measures to allow the district television "Chernigian Regional Directorate" to speak in Novgrod-Sversky. I've already sent the right ones. I think we need to work together to protect our information space from the hostile propaganda of the Russian Federation. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-13-m0.u3	Thank you. The walker gives the word to the national deputy Kisse. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-13-m0.u4	Good afternoon, distinguished voters, dear colleagues, the leadership of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! First of all, I would like to welcome my countrymen who are here at the walls of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, which represent the southern Odessa Region, Bessarabia. Those who came today, expressing their opposition to the state's commitment to the Cabinet of Ministers to the reconstruction and major repair of the Odessa-Reni road. I would like to briefly inform you that the decision has already been taken over the past two years, tenders have been made, sources of funding have been identified, those organizations and enterprises have been identified to carry out the work. But unfortunately, apart from the conversations, except for the various boards and TV performances, and today's meetings have been held for half a year, six months, there have been no significant developments. Since the major repairs, we have moved on to the fact that 60 kilometres are major repairs and the remaining 226 kilometres will be partially repaired. But if you look closely at the funding that is almost gone, only 100 million are allocated from the regional budget and 134 million are allocated from the regional fund, it is the real money that is allocated. Today, at least one and a half million bracelets are needed to address this fateful issue linking Ukraine to Europe. I wish to emphasize that the construction of the ferry has begun, partners from Ukraine and Romania. But construction has been suspended today, as the road is not being properly repaired, and there is no point because all the transport that travels to Ukraine is already passing through Tudorovo, passing through Moldova and going to Romania. He's not coming. It takes more than 100 kilometers to avoid going to Bessarabia. I strongly demand to listen to the people today at the walls of the Supreme Council. In an hour they will pick up the Cabinet of Ministers. Yesterday I had a meeting with the Prime Minister of Ukraine, with our leadership of our "Resurrection" faction, where we specifically asked this question. The decision was to appoint Deputy Prime Minister Kistion, who would be responsible for the matter. Would you like to hear and really understand whether it would be curatorship or a solution? I am convinced that there is still time today if there is a wish. Nobody needs tents, no speeches. Work must be done on the reconstruction of this road, and the order must be carried out.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-13-m0.u5	Thank you. People’s deputies Silantiev and Moseschuk delivered the word to the national deputy Oleg Lášk. Six minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-13-m0.u6	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Dear citizens of Ukraine! The Radical Party faction, despite the fact that most of the "Panama Patriot Coalition" have long travelled to the Bahamas and the Canary Islands, we continue our protest in Parliament with very clear and understandable requirements for millions of Ukrainian citizens. Today, the authorities of Dustenka Groysman are running a tariff genocide against millions of Ukrainian citizens. As a result of the anti - state, anti - human, extortion policy of today’s government, millions of Ukrainians who have been led to poverty cannot make ends meet, cannot pay for basic things for the community, for medicines, and feed their children. To keep quiet and watch how the genocide of Ukrainian citizens occurs through a tariff genocide, through the genocide of the prices of the drugs of space, and all other forms of genocide, we, the Radical Party team, cannot and will not. That's why we've proposed a clear action plan that allows us to stop this tariff genocide. In Parliament, members of the Radical Party, together with members of other factions, we have registered a number of bills that will allow the cost of gas to be reduced, the cost of residential services to be reduced. Unfortunately, a coalition of Panamanian patriots, created in Parliament, cannot hear us, ignore our demands, ignore the demands of millions of Ukrainians. So there's nothing left for us to continue this protest that we're holding here in Parliament for the second month. Yesterday, a member of the Panamanian patriots reproached us for the fact that the Radical Party team was blocking the rostrum, demanding its demands, as if we were not allowing them to vote, make decisions, and so on. I'd like to make an official statement on this. President Dustenk's blue dream came true, and today he's got all the power in his hands. Dusty, according to Yanukovic's example, today has a monopoly on the government, the President, the law enforcement authorities, the Panamanian Patriots' coalition -- everything in the hands of Dustyenko. Then I ask: Who is responsible for the state of affairs in the country? You don't know, you don't know the coalition, you don't tell people who are members of the coalition -- I'll name you those heroes who are responsible for the country's robbery. This is President Poroshenko. This is Prime Minister Groissman. These are members of the Panamanian Patriot Coalition. Personally, Dustyenko is responsible for the tariff genocide conducted by his government and his coalition. So to pretend that he's not what someone else is responsible for, and he's only responsible for foreign policy -- that's a lie and that's a lie. Today, all the monopoly in the country is in the hands of Peter Poroshenko. So he's responsible for everything in the country, along with his coalition of Panamanian patriots, along with his government, along with his so-called law enforcement authorities, who don't see corruption in power, instead are being persecuted by members of the Radical Party for taking an opposition position with regard to today's power. When we talk about the fight against tariff genocide. That's half the case. In fact, the key is economic recovery, it's job creation, it's a radical increase in wages and pensions. So the Radical Party faction offered a long time ago an anti-crisis plan of economic action to support a national producer, to overcome the massive unemployment that we have today. What the government and President Poshenko do instead: they sign secret memoranda with the International Monetary Fund, where they promise to sell sacred Ukrainian land, raise the pension age, sell the rest of state property. When I ask Dusty why he doesn't sell his Roschen, he says, "He doesn't have a price." And when you sell domestic state-owned enterprises for half-priced property, for a penny, that's what they're going for. Why? So that the oligarchs could bury the land again, they buried the remaining property and took from the people the opportunity of the peasants even to drive their cows to pasture. Remember the classics? "Whose land? - It's potassium. - Whose land? - Kalytina. That is what this authority is leading to! They're through tariff genocide, through land genocide, because people can't get basic drugs, they're causing Ukrainians to die. Why? Because it's not the Ukrainians who run the country, it's the people who have their own money closer than anything else. When the President goes to Poland and kneels before the monument to the victims of the Volin massacre who died at the hands of the Ukrainians, what must he be like to kneel before the victims at the hands of the Ukrainians?Oh, my God! When the President goes to the Knesset of Israel and apologizes for Ukrainians who seem to be involved in the Holocaust, what should the Ukrainian President do? Ask the Israelite Knesset to recognize the Holocaust as a genocide of the Ukrainian people. What should the President do about his dealings with the Poles? It's historical truth, it's mutual reconciliation and mutual testing, not kneeling before the whole world. Stop humiliating the Ukrainians! Therefore, the Radical Party team continues to protest against our demands: to put an end to the genocide against the Ukrainians.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-13-m0.u7	Thank you. I invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy Vilkul. I'll be right back. Please, National Deputy Wilkul.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-13-m0.u8	Respectable colleagues, respected by the People's Republic of Ukraine. Our country's history is in many ways a struggle for our Orthodox faith. And I'm asking everyone to listen very carefully to what I'm about to say. During the most difficult periods of the history of our land, during wars, the Orthodox Church always spoke its own word during riots and satanic events. So it will be now, as it will be in our generation, no matter how much the party of war wishes. And it is very symbolic that early this month, with the blessing of the Chairman of the Ukrainian Orthodox Church of the Blessed Metropolitan Onufry, the Crusade began and began with two parts of our country: the Ternopol region of the Pochaev laur and the Donetsk region of the Holy Land. The pilgrims go under the rain, the pilgrims go into the heat, overcome themselves, overcome all difficulties, go, pray for peace, go, pray for unity in our country. And we must bow low to these people who are doing the spiritual work of our generation. And we strongly protest the insinuations that are being made today around this Crusade. We strongly condemn the statements made by Parliament Speaker Andrei Parubai, who calls the Orthodox people in the Orthodox country a group of believers. We strongly state the words of Minister of the Interior of Zoran Škirák, who says that there may be provocations, that there may be weapons. The only weapon of the Orthodox believers is prayer. There's no politics at all in the Crusade, there's no politics, there's no Opposition Block, there's no Fatherland, there's no Radical Party, there's believers. Last year, too, there was a Crusade, and there was no politics. And the Ministry of the Interior, Zoran Skyrak, we call on others to investigate the seizure of churches, the bloodtaking of churches. 39 churches have captured radicals with the help of power and the help of the militia over the past two years. This is reflected in all OSCE documents. On the contrary, when we saw the last few months, when literally a group of people holding their parades protected tens of thousands of policemen. On the contrary, it is necessary to help the believers to carry out the baptismal course well. Dear colleagues, no one prevents other religions from carrying out their activities, but Orthodoxy can protect itself. Dear colleagues, we call on everyone to join the Crusade in Kiev on 27 July and to pray together for peace and for it.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-13-m0.u9	Thank you. I'd like to invite you to the floor of National Deputy John Krulk. I'll be right back, thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-13-m0.u10	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear fellow countrymen, dear Ukrainians! My speech will be dedicated to the fact that on July 17th, there will be elections in the seven districts. It can now be said that the majority component of the electoral process has not merely discredited itself. Once again, we see that there's a bribe in these choices, there's an administrative resource, there's dirty black technology. The heads of the district commissions are being attacked, and there is virtually a force of opposition. And this is happening in Ukraine at a time when war is taking place in the east. I would like to state the position of Fatherland that we do not accept or agree with how the authorities organize these elections. With pro-powered candidates continuing that shameful practice when voters try to buy like potatoes in the market. It's a disgraceful practice. Because the simplest thing to do is to bring people to poverty, then set them heat and gas tariffs that they can't pay for their income, and then give them 200 dollars in elections. We call on the National Police, the Attorney General's Office this week to engage in their work, and those who bribe voters, those who include dirty technologies, to bring criminal responsibility under the Criminal Code, where there is a special article that provides for the responsibility to bribe voters. In this regard, we also demand that Parliament finally carry out its function and the obligations that all the factions in this Parliament have made with regard to the adoption of the new Electoral Law. We believe that there can be no major element in the new Electoral Law. The whole country must be chosen for a proportional electoral system that is the most honest and just and that completely excludes the corruption component, that is, the bribery of the electorate. We're going to vote for this electoral system. And we urge the Chief of the Supreme Council to work with the working group on election laws to put to the vote and vote, since Ukraine will be required to hold successive elections. This will take place either next fall or next spring, but the elections will be in Ukraine, and we should have a new electoral law. At the same time, with regard to previous speeches and appeals to the Crusades, I would like to say from the majority of the Ukrainians that we will necessarily go on the Crusade traditionally from the Council of Vladimir to the Council on 28 July.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-13-m0.u11	Please finish 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-13-m0.u12	To the Council of Vladimir, to the Hill of Volodymyr, our loving Ukrainian people, where we worship Prince Vladimir. But with the Ukrainian Church, with the support of our Eastern fighters, who do volunteer work, but most importantly, who prays every time in all the service for our Ukrainian army and prays that the Ukrainian authorities have a little more brains to think about the Ukrainian people. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-13-m0.u13	Paul Pinzenik gives a presentation to the Greeks. Please turn on the microphone, Jelenski, People's Front.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-13-m0.u14	Dear colleagues! Vladislav Dove. Andrew Volodymyrovich, you gave me your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-13-m0.u15	It's a deer. I said it very clearly, the Greek word. I note that Paul Pinzenic gives the word to Ellen. Yes. Is that true? Please turn on Jelenski's microphone. The Council's apparatus, I'm asking you to turn on the microphone carefully to the People's Deputy of Yelen. Please turn on the microphone, you can speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-13-m0.u16	Honourable Ukrainians, one of the great achievements of the Dignity Revolution was to strengthen the foundations of freedom of conscience in Ukraine. For two and a half years, the churches and religious organizations of Ukraine have been granted the privileges and commitments they have made to the authorities for 25 years of Ukrainian independence. The more unacceptable, if not repugnant, is the attempt to cover up the internal political situation in the country with a religious background. Moreover, attempts to carry out Kremlin and FSB projects under the form of religious activity are unacceptable. If the crucifixion that is so much spoken of today is designed to unite the country, if this crusade is committed and called for to pray for peace, why does it not turn to Kremlin rulers and Kremlin walls, where the threat of peace in Ukraine, Europe, and the world at large arises. If this is a move for the unification of Ukrainians, why does it go under the Colorado ribbons, which became a symbol of the bloodshed in Ukraine. If this is the course for the unification of Ukraine, why it goes under flags and under portraits of the cannibal and Ukrainianophobic Mikola II. If that's a move. [[Applause]] If this is the course for the unification of Ukraine, why would it be that millions of Ukrainians, millions of Ukrainians who believe in Jesus Christ and not in the Moscow Patriarchy and not in the Russian Peace, are branded? [[Applause]] Why this move, which is called to establish and pray for peace in Ukraine, never said a word to those who torture Catholic Ukrainians who torture Protestant Ukrainians who torture Ukrainians who do not belong to the Moscow Patriarchate. If Ukraine wants to be a country and not a territory, it has to protect itself. Including the FSB's ashes, including those.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-13-m0.u17	Please finish the minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-13-m0.u18	And including those who cover up Kremlin projects. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-13-m0.u19	Thank you. Please, Dove Vladislav Volodymyrovich, turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-13-m0.u20	Thank you, Vladislav Dove faction of Petar Prashenko, 197th constituency of Cherkaschina. You know, I'd like to dedicate my speech today to such a strategic enterprise in the Ukrainian state as Ukratranshimyak. This is a company that runs an ammonia pipeline that delivers ammonia from Tolyatti to Odessa. In recent years, the head of this company has been such an ominous former national deputy as Mr. Bondik. And thanks to the efforts of the new government, he was removed from this position, which was, in fact, an excuse, but an active cow for the former Janukovic family. On this issue, however, the business did not end, and it might have been positive if Mr. Polozov Viktor Aleksandrovich had not appeared there as the responsibilities of the company. I want to point out that this enterprise owns, more specifically, the circulation of it is billions of dollars, and this is really a strategic enterprise for our state. So this gentleman, apart from having a direct interest in the chemical business and so there is a conflict of interest in this gentleman, but this gentleman still has a management company in Moscow, the Russian Federation, an aggressor who is now going to war against our state. This master has enterprises in the Moscow region and also in Russia, which are also related to chemical enterprises. So I wonder why, at a time when the Russian Federation, the aggressor who kills our boys, our Ukrainians, is fighting our country, we have such ladies in our country. That is why I am addressing the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Minister of Economy, the Secretary of the Security and Defence Council, the Head of the Security Service of Ukraine regarding the master's activities, and examining how such persons can become performing duties in state-owned Ukrainian, I stress, state-owned enterprises. I want to show that this gentleman is still hanging as the head of the Russian enterprise, and he's now in charge. the executive responsibility of the enterprise. Therefore, according to available information, despite the efforts of the Ministry of Economics, which is trying to hold a competition open, honest to this office, through judicial procedures, they are trying to break this competition, which this gentleman has led forever this enterprise. I want my statement to be considered a question to the Prime Minister, to the Minister of Economics, to the Secretary of the Security and Defence Council, and to the Head of the Security Service for the activities of the state-owned enterprise.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-13-m0.u21	Please finish 10 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-13-m0.u22	With regard to the activities of the Ukrainian company Ukratranshimyak. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-13-m0.u23	Thank you. Now we have two performances from Rebirth, and I'm asking you to give the floor to Gollyava for the performance. I've been walking. Turn on the microphone for the deputy, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-13-m0.u24	Good day to you all! Vassili Gulyaev 140 constituency, Rebirth Party Group, Odessa Region. I would like to draw attention to this statement by our Attorney-General, the Minister of the Interior of the situation in Montenegro, formerly Ilicevsk, has always been a quiet and peaceful city. What's going on today? Some kind of gangbusters. To date, the police are virtually out of action, Ilicevsk, Chernomorsk is a resort town, with a population of 70,000. During the resort season, it increases by a minimum of three times. He used to work in the police force of 160, today he has 60 employees, he has 20 employees in the investigation, and today he has 8 employees. You can imagine, if you're always in these cities for the summer, I think the other deputies will agree with me, send some reinforcements, today the police are down three times. I'm not saying that every day, statistics, two apartments a week, day-to-day, cars, including MPs from Rebirth. It happened literally yesterday, the day before yesterday, a shooting was carried out on a city council member. And as a senior deputy, of course I can't keep my mouth shut, you know that this shooting was carried out under my windows, I live there, too, the city of Blackmores is a very small town. And I would like our leaders to pay attention to that. If we want our country and we want to be a resort town, at least Montenegro and all the other cities, we need to pay attention to this, and we need to increase the police force for at least a summer period, so that this divide does not occur, because people are already dying in Black Sea. It was a resonant murder, but no one's paying attention to it. I would like my statement to be considered a request by the Attorney-General, the Minister of the Interior, to be heard by anyone, to be sent by an investigative group, to be dealt with with with with the last shooting by the deputy of the city council, and to be placed on the spot! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-13-m0.u25	Thank you. Please, Mustafa Najem. Turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-13-m0.u26	Good afternoon, distinguished colleagues! I would like to refer to our voters for one big lie, which has now been published and spoken in Parliament for two years, virtually all factions, beginning with our faction and ending with the Opposition bloc. As early as 2000, Leonid Kuchma promised to remove the parliamentary integrity. After that, Yushchenko promised, after which Janukovic promised, by introducing a bill. That is what Timoshenko promised, and all the factions that are now in Parliament, by signing the coalition agreement, promised. Now our Attorney General, who was the leader of our faction, demands that people hand over their passports and not run away. I would like to say that, over the course of 25 years, Ukraine's parliamentary system has been removed with five or seven deputies, although everyone knows in the country that the biggest crime is in this room. Yeah, everyone's afraid someone's gonna be chasing someone. Please tell me, during Yanukovich, who was saved by the MP's inviolability? The MPs weren't? Billy! The owner was deprived of the mandate he needed, put in prison. Inviolability does not save us from persecution. What's she saving from? She saves us from stealing, she saves us from the possibility of escaping justice, and she saves the faction leaders who sit here from recruiting thieves and criminals on her list. No faction sitting here is ready to initiate the removal of parliamentary integrity. The bill is on the committee, and the committee has referred it to the leadership of the Supreme Council. We can put him in the Supreme Council Hall and vote. It is now hidden because the bill is supposed to be impossible to vote because the integrity of judges and deputies must be shared. I have a question for the deputies who sit here and honestly then go to the meetings and arrange for the baptism. What about our inviolability to the integrity of the judges? What difference does it make? Take off your integrity, then go to the people. If you're not afraid of being followed, if you're okay with your resume, if you don't steal, what's the problem? We'll protect you, people will protect you if you haven't done anything. We have, I'm addressing the Supreme Council, I'm addressing the leaders of all factions, we have the opportunity to divide the bills they are now introducing. Submitted to the Supreme Council, the inviolability of judges and deputies, and to vote on the integrity of the deputies. Otherwise, the President, who is now on television and who is always telling us that Parliament is not fulfilling its obligations, will throw the responsibility of the MPs at us. It's a dangerous story. Because we promised, once again, since 2005, and the democratic team, including Petr Alekseevich Poshenko and Mr. Yushchenko, standing on Maidan, we shouted that this was the most important requirement. I have a question for self-help for our big partners: why are you silent? Why do those factions who then go on television say that Kluev has escaped, and what a bad prosecutor, and what a bad police officer? Let's film this once and for all. If necessary, let's not do these sitting strikes that are for the pirates, but really do, block and force us to vote inviolability. It's the theme of our generation, we've been promised.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-13-m0.u27	Please let me finish, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-13-m0.u28	I went to school when the MPs promised to do it. I'm talking to the young deputies who were still students in this room, they knew this was what they had promised. Let's do this and put this point at least on our century. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-13-m0.u29	Thank you. Dear colleagues, pay attention! Now we have three coming out of the Opposition Block, but time is running out. And that's why there's only going to be one performance, colleagues, just one performance. Please, Matthew, and this will be the final talk of our discussion. Matvienkov, turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-13-m0.u30	Thank you. Matvienkov, 57th District, Mariupol. There has been a lot of talk recently about the difficulty of filling up the budget, and we hear it from both this rostrum and in the country at large. Unfortunately, no money. And we hear that only the International Monetary Fund can give them. But this requires unpopular measures: tariffs, pensions, social benefits. And usually, the question is rhetorical: where to take and how to share -- lately, to date. This is the question of developing production, supporting basic sectors of the economy, unfortunately, less and less we hear from both the rostrum and the government. Racers fly almost all over the world with their hands stretched out from Ukraine to fill the budget. Here are the unique enterprises that can self-replete the budget, which are unfortunately stopping the industrial power of our State. Just one example. In Mariupola there is the concert "Azumash" – the largest machine-building complex with more than half a century history. Freight wagons, rail tanks, metallurgical equipment, space equipment, defence projects, add here the enormous scientific and industrial potential that was in this enterprise. But today, unfortunately, all of this remains in history. Today, the enterprise is on the verge of stopping. Portfel Order is empty, 600 million debts that are almost on it. Of the 25,000 workers left. Wages in colossal debt, almost the entire social sphere. Why did this happen? I think someday someone will answer that question. There may also be objective reasons: the global crisis, the military opposition that exists. But if we want to have a strong state, such enterprises must work, and that must be understood by all. I'm sure the point of no return for Azumash has not yet been passed. I have repeatedly addressed both the Government and Groisman from this rostrum, and today, once again, I personally address Vladimir Borisovich, the State Property Fund, all concerned ministries and agencies: ensure that urgent decisions are taken at the State level to ensure that the enterprise is working, bring this issue to an expanded meeting of the Government, form a public commission that could carefully analyse, analyse what is going on, on the basis of the findings of the commission, develop and approve a financial recovery programme, state orders, restructure the accounts payable that is, within the framework of the current legislation, ensure strict control of the financial flows that are available on this enterprise. It requires some kind of legislative framework, a regulatory framework. We are prepared to participate, we are prepared to adopt relevant laws, relevant decisions. Well, let's give this company a chance to work! If we do not want Ukraine to lose a unique enterprise forever and take another step towards becoming a commodity colony of developed countries, we must save such enterprises, in particular Azomash. It should not be just a matter of goodwill; it should be a matter of honour for all the deputies in the Chamber today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-13-m0.u31	Dear colleagues, the time for discussion is over. Now, colleagues, I want to invite everyone into the hall and make an important announcement. We have draft parliamentary hearings. And as the representatives of the regulatory committee have explained to me, if these rulings are rejected, they will have to hold parliamentary hearings again. So our decisions will be very responsible. I'm asking you to come into the hall. Now I'm going to give my word to the factions so that we can advise on how to be in this situation and conduct a rating vote. Two decisions. Mr. Victor, I have the right to give factions the opportunity to express their position. So now I'm going to give every faction a word for the speech so that we can consult on what we're going to do. And I give the first word to Palatno Arthur Leonidovich, who is the author of the two decrees that stand in order of the day. And I'd like everyone to come into the hall. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-13-m0.u32	Dear colleagues, Your Honor Andriy Volodymyrovich. At the beginning of the day’s schedule, two parliamentary hearings are very important. These two decrees involved more than 1,200 people, it was the public, it was the local self-government of representatives, national deputies, sports representatives and young people. This is Decree 4709 and Decree 4782. But unfortunately, I don't see enough national MPs today to vote for these very important decisions, it's a tourism decree, and it's a decision on the area of physical culture and sports. I ask you to put these rulings to a vote before starting the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-13-m0.u33	Dear colleagues, therefore, there is a proposal by the author of the decrees to place the votes on the ratings if there are no votes. We need to be advised how we should be. Mr. Victor, I'll tell you, I have the right to give the faction a minute to speak out of any question, and now I'm doing it. I'm not starting to discuss the issue, I'm now dealing with the MP factions as to how to act. Please, Self-Help, Oleg Berezuk. Turn on the microphone, Oleg Barresuk. Give advice on how we should be.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-13-m0.u34	A proposal has just been made. Such an offer is acceptable.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-13-m0.u35	Yegor Sobolev, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-13-m0.u36	Mustafa, I think it's a very bad idea when people who have one value vote for one decision translate into one another's responsibility, all the more saying that someone is silent. I think we should be the only ones in this room. "self-help" voted and will vote in favour of removing the MP's in touch both with specific MPs and with Parliament as a whole. You know perfectly well that it takes 300 votes from the Supreme Council. From the fact that the rostrum will be blocked three days before the vacation, these 300 votes will not be found. How Can I Make a Normal Selection? How can normal electoral legislation be made? How can we make sure that we are not touched? It's all about where we're supposed to find a solution together. And the "I'm good and you're all bad" tactic has been used by old politicians. I don't think we should follow their example.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-13-m0.u37	Thank you. Opposition Block, Papiev, please. One minute. And whoever of the factions wants to speak, raise your hand, who has not yet spoken.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-13-m0.u38	Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine, Your Honor! First of all, I am addressing the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, so that when the Ukrainian national deputies take the floor, they will take the day-to-day part of the matter that has been raised, speak, not at all, life on Mars or not. Look, the Opposition Block supports these socially important draft regulations, and we're going to vote for them. But I'm paying attention to our television viewers and Ukrainian citizens in general. Sir, can you give us an update on the number of Ukrainian national deputies registered in writing for this session today? And each faction separately, so that people can see that the Ukrainian national deputies do not perform their duties today, that they do not support social laws today. And today to talk about continuing the session, we can continue. But neither will they go to the session room. We will vote in favour of these draft decrees.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-13-m0.u39	Thank you. Please, the People's Front, Maxim Burbak. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-13-m0.u40	Mr. Head, I'm asking you to support the previous speaker. And please announce the number of deputies from the Environment who are wearing their shirts for cross-walking and for all the protection of our citizens. Please give me a call right away. And the master who speaks and speaks to the television set. It's not a show, it's the Supreme Council, where important bills are passed. And the responsible factions are now in place and ready to vote. And don't make this show, don't rock the country. We won't let that happen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-13-m0.u41	Thank you, Your Honor. All the factions who were willing to take part in the discussion said their position. I'll put a rating vote on request and on demand of the factions. I'm asking all the national deputies to come into the hall and prepare for the vote. As long as the MPs come in. Please, Victor Pinzenik, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-13-m0.u42	Dear Head, dear colleagues! The rules allow for a signal vote, but on the question, not at all, that is to say, a question. But in this case, if there is a signal vote on the issue, the question still needs to be completed by a successful vote. I'm talking about the rules. Let us follow the rules of the Rules. And if there are no votes, show the MPs who are not present and who are not attending the meetings of the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-13-m0.u43	Dear colleagues, I want to say something important. We didn't start to discuss the issue. We can just agree that our signal vote will be published in the Voice of Ukraine. Can we make a deal? So everyone can see who's coming to the session. So, because neither the written registration nor the morning electronics will give us an answer. A lot of people come and sign and go. I, my colleagues, propose now if there is the agreement of all factions that we will now publish the results of the vote in the Voice of Ukraine. Is it supported? I ask you to come into the hall and prepare for the vote. I insist that we now have a draft Parliamentary Hearing Regulation on "The Ways of Developing Physical Culture and Sport in Ukraine under the conditions of decentralization of power." I am convinced that all of this will be supported. Next. Draft Resolution on Parliamentary Hearing Recommendations on "Development of the tourism industry as an instrument for economic development and investment attractiveness of Ukraine". I also want to let you know that we have two decrees on scholarships to the Supreme Council of Ukraine for the most talented young scientists. And we also have a draft resolution on parliamentary hearings on "State guarantees of social protection for participants in the ATO, the Dignity Revolution and their families." These are the questions that stand in our way. Some people think they're not important, but I think all committee members will confirm that these issues are of great importance and importance. I'm asking, by the way, our colleagues to take part in the signal vote. I ask everyone to prepare for the rating vote. If there are no votes. If there are no votes, I'll have to close the morning session. I will not put at risk the ATO and the members of the Dignity Revolution. I'm asking everyone to get ready. I can't function as the heads of factions and raise MPs, I can only put them to a vote. Colleagues, please take part in the vote. Please vote. [[10:51:20]] For-191 Colleagues, 191 for, 25 for.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-13-m0.u44	By factions, please include the factions. Colleagues, that means there are voices in the room. If I do. Attention, company! I want to tell you that there are 90 deputies from Peter Poshenko's Block, 55 from the People's Front, 23 from the Cloud, 15 from Self-Help, 4 from Fatherhood, 6 from Rebirth, 4 from the Will of the People. That's enough to make decisions. So we can fully decide to accept this because, as we've been told publicly, the Cloud will support it. Yeah? Colleagues, moving on to the issue, this is the draft Parliamentary Hearing Recommendation on "Development of the tourism industry as an instrument for economic development and investment attractiveness of Ukraine." Anyone who supports the consideration of this ruling under the reduced procedure please vote. Please, my colleagues, we're voting. Please vote. [[10:52:49]] For 176 176 for. Decision taken. I invite the head of the Committee on Youth Policy and Sports of the House of Arthur Leonidovich to report. Please, Mr. Arthur. From the spot, please turn on the microphone of the Palace Arthur.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-13-m0.u45	Dear Andrew Volodymyrovich, distinguished colleagues. On April 6, 2016, according to the Supreme Council of Ukraine regulation, another parliamentary hearing was held on the subject: "Review of the tourism industry as an instrument for economic development and the investment attractiveness of Ukraine". Over 700 attended the parliamentary hearings. Among them are the national deputies of Ukraine, representatives of the central government, local executive authorities, local self - government bodies, and, above all, the public. The draft recommendations for parliamentary hearings were discussed carefully during parliamentary hearings. Worked with taking into account constructive suggestions. Participants in the hearings and agree with interested government authorities and public organizations. The project contains specific proposals for improving the legislative provision of tourism. Clear jobs and steps have been defined. First of all, this refers to the need to develop and approve tourism strategies. The adoption of a state-of-the-art tourism and resort development programme that has been missing for more than six years. Thus, a project of recommendations by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine is proposed to take steps to create an acceptance regime for investment in the development of the tourism industry. Consider the possibility of setting an added value tax on hotels and other means of accommodation, speeding up the signing of the Agreement between Ukraine and the European Union on common aviation space. The draft recommendations also contain a number of specific recommendations to ministries: economic development and trade in Ukraine, foreign affairs, education and science, infrastructure, information policy, and local self-government. In this regard, we ask you to support the Committee's proposal and to adopt a draft Supreme Council Resolution on Parliamentary Hearing Recommendations on "Development of the tourism industry as an instrument for economic development and investment." I ask all factions to unite and vote for this very important decision. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-13-m0.u46	Thank you. I'm asking you to do a two-for-two, two-again. Please. Danchenko from Self-Help, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-13-m0.u47	Please pass the word to Romanov.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-13-m0.u48	Dear colleagues! There is no doubt that we must now vote for this important decision because the tourism community from all over the country has been waiting for it since March. And these were very mass parliamentary hearings, they took place for the first time in 15 years, they had representatives from all over the country who realize that it's the development of the tourism industry that's creating jobs, and that's an additional $10 billion in the economy of our country. It's a shame that there are currently few national deputies in the room, and now this decision that many, many people from all parts of our country are in pain for jobs, for the development of the interior, for the development of travel tourism, is about to fail. I have a great request to the Radical Party and personally to Oleg Laska. It's Chernigovishka, your family, and it's jobs that are currently missing in Chernigovishka, even though it may become a tourist pearl. And many, many of the deputies present now represent various interesting, competitive parts of Ukraine that can shine. I have a very big request that you vote for this decision and not put it down, because its people are waiting for it, it's jobs, it's an economy, I'm asking you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-13-m0.u49	Thank you. From the People's Front, Jemetz Leonid Alexanderovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-13-m0.u50	Please pass the word to Andrija Pomazanov. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-13-m0.u51	Andrew Amazanov's People's Front. Dear colleagues, we've all heard a speech by the head of the profile committee, Arthur Palatno, who supports the approval of this decision. We generally understand that many people in this room are not interested in the development of sport, not in the development of our young people, but I would still urge the entire room to support this determination. We see our athletes winning the Olympics, all kinds of competitions, and we see our achievements recently, and we get gold medals. So, Your Honor, I ask you to support this decision, and at the same time, I would like to address the head of Parliament. Mr. Andrey Parubay, I suggest, however, that we see that the hall is now a little relaxed, Wednesday is perhaps not enough, but I did prefer to continue our session of Parliament until September 6. And we definitely have to put to the vote tomorrow the extension of our work by September 6th, because many of our deputies, many of our Parliament's representatives are going on the air and they're saying that we didn't approve of something last week, we were going to outdo someone. So I think that let's not let anyone manipulate the trip to the Maldives and so on, and so on, we definitely have to put the extension of the session until September 6, and tomorrow we'll see who can support the decisions that are necessary for our sport, youth, culture, tourism, and who won't. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-13-m0.u52	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I just want to remind you that I first put 4782 on the development of the tourism industry, the next would be 4709. I put the first 4782, this is the same author, the same committee, to get you to know what you're doing. And I would like to give you my word from the Opposition Block of Dudenkov Alexander Valeriyovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-13-m0.u53	The distinguished presiding, respected colleagues, respected citizens of Ukraine, well, unfortunately, what we are currently doing is a speech room. Voting for draft parliamentary hearing orders will not improve our physical culture and sports, we will not develop tourism and appropriate infrastructure for tourism development, we will not develop an industry, it is a parliamentary hearing, it is a speech. The opposition bloc says that we should take concrete action and vote in favour of specific bills. It is very difficult to develop anything unless a system law is being considered. How to develop infrastructure, how to develop industry, how to develop the country's industrial capacity? By means of fiscal reform, fiscal reform. And how to develop physical culture and sport in a decentralization environment? This is a rhetorical issue because fiscal decentralization has led to the devastation of local territorial communities, which has led, inter alia, to the transfer of vocational schools from the State budget to local budgets, which is also true of local utilities that operate in the field of physical culture and sport. This is how we will develop youth, physical culture and sport. I therefore believe that we do not need to hold more parliamentary hearings in order to address these issues in an integrated way, but rather to adopt more laws. With regard to the relaxation in this room, I would like to say that the representatives of the coalition do not even number 150. The Opposition Unit is performing its work and will vote in favour of those bills that will indeed be aimed at improving, developing all areas of public life, supporting, inter alia, physical culture, industry. But parliamentary hearings will not lead to this, nor should the people be deceived by this declaratory norm. People will gather, discuss all these things, but there will be no specific implementation mechanisms, because they are only necessary if system laws are enacted that make certain changes or increase financing for the development of certain industries.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-13-m0.u54	Thank you. Cotsuba passes the word Kisse. We'll have a vote and a decision in three minutes, and I'm asking everyone to come into the hall. Now turn on Kisse's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-13-m0.u55	The distinguished President, the distinguished colleagues, our voters, the issues on the agenda for parliamentary hearings today, I believe that these are important issues that need to be addressed so that we can hear people's views on these issues once again. As far as physical and sports matters are concerned, you know, if you're probably not Arthur Palatno and you haven't been asking these questions all the time, many of our sports schools, sports facilities, sports societies have already gone down in history. And if we don't ask these questions hard today, we won't listen to people, and we won't look for ways to solve them, unfortunately, we can cross another area that today both makes our children feel better and helps us to become real citizens and decent citizens of Ukraine. As far as tourism is concerned, right away. You know, I would very much like to ask the organizer of parliamentary hearings not only to invite representatives from large tourist firms, hotels, from the town of Odessa, Lviv and other cities, but to invite those who today provide services in the Tatar area, in the Rhine region, in the Belogrod-Dniestrov region, in particular the Odessa region, so that those small and medium-sized entrepreneurs who provide services can share their problems. And at these hearings, we will come up with initiatives that will enable them to develop business and provide services. Perhaps there is no secret that today there is a very large flow of restable ones, particularly in Odessa, Zaporozhye and a number of other areas. And it is time for them to listen and see decisions that could strengthen their mood, especially in a financial way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-13-m0.u56	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please come into the hall and take your seats. I mean, I'm being tipped off by colleagues from Self-Help when I'm talking about Parliamentary hearings. Parliamentary hearings are one of the most wonderful forms of our work when they are able to express their opinion in this room from all regions of Ukraine, I stress: all of them! And in their speeches and in their decisions, they influence the making of key decisions in our country. It is a direct link and direct communication between the Supreme Council and our local officials, government officials, and public officials. So I'm asking you, colleagues, to support this decision. And even to our colleagues from the rostrum, I'm asking you to support this decision so that we can support all those people who have made recommendations to us in this room, how to develop the tourism industry, how to expand investment opportunities in Ukraine. I ask you to take your place and prepare for the vote, colleagues. Please. I am voting on the draft Parliamentary Hearing Recommendation on "Development of the tourism industry as an instrument for economic development and investment attractiveness of Ukraine" (No. 4782). According to the committee’s conclusion, it is proposed that a decision be taken in general. Dear colleagues, I ask you to vote 4782 in general. Let's vote, colleagues. [[11:05:53]] For 222 Three votes, colleagues. I see we haven't made it. Three votes. I'm begging everyone! I'm asking everyone to come into the hall, take jobs. Colleagues, I'd like everyone to take up their jobs. I ask everyone with understanding to approach the question under consideration. And I'm proposing to go back to voting for Law 4782. Colleagues, vote, please vote in favour of return to 4782. Vote, colleagues, vote. [[11:07:09]] For 232 Decision taken. And now I'm voting again on the draft Parliamentary Hearing Recommendation on "Development of the tourism industry as a tool for economic development and the investment attractiveness of Ukraine" (number 4782) as a whole. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. Colleagues, we vote. In general. [[11:07:44]] For 235 Decision taken. Welcome to the committee. By factions, please turn on the factions. Peter Poshenko's Block – 102 People's Front – 59, Opposition Block – 25, Self-Help – 15, Radical Party – 0, Fatherland – 6, Rebirth Party – 7, Will of the People – 5. Colleagues, the next decision is almost identical, please remain in place. And it deals with the ruling, the draft Parliamentary Hearing Recommendation on "The Ways to Develop Physical Culture and Sport in Ukraine under the conditions of decentralization of power" (number 4709). There is a proposal for a reduced procedure. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. Please, colleagues, we're voting. [[11:08:46]] For-179 Decision taken. And I invite the head of the Committee on Family, Youth Policy, and Sports of Palatno Arthur Leonidovich to report. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-13-m0.u57	Out of the way, huh?
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-13-m0.u58	Out of the way.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-13-m0.u59	Honourable National Deputies, in accordance with the ruling of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on 23 March of this year, held parliamentary hearings on the subject of "The Challenges of Physical Culture and Sports in the Conditions of Decentralization of Power". Some 500 people attended these hearings, including the national deputies of Ukraine, government representatives, central, local executive authorities, local self - government bodies, public and sports organizations. All participants in the hearings came to the only conclusion as to the need for recognition of State policy in the field of physical culture and sports. The draft recommendations for parliamentary hearings were discussed carefully during parliamentary hearings, which were assisted in taking into account the constructive proposals of all participants and agreed with all interested state bodies and public organizations. The project contains specific recommendations for improving the legislative provision of physical culture and sport, and for supporting children's, children's, and mass sports in our country. In particular, the draft recommendations are proposed to provide a subsidy from the State budget to local budgets for partial financing of children's sports schools, which by 2015 received support from the Social Insurance Fund from temporary loss of employment to organise the financing of such establishments. Approval of State social standards in the field of physical culture and sports according to the requirements of legislation. Increasing the material encouragement of trainers, especially those who work in the childish and spare sports system. Providing a comprehensive implementation. physical and health infrastructure in Ukraine. Improving the involvement of investors, metenates to restore and rebuild existing sports infrastructure. Broadcasting on TV channels and other social media advertising about the benefits of healthy lifestyles, motor activity, the formation of responsibility for health, the establishment of a national idea of a socially active, physically healthy and spiritually rich personality. Honorable national MPs, the health of our nation, the future of our nation, the security of our nation, and so on.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-13-m0.u60	Please, 30 seconds, finish. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-13-m0.u61	Thank you. I'm very, very much, I'm addressing all factions without exception supporting this decision unanimously. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-13-m0.u62	Thank you. Please two for, two for against. Alexeyev, People's Front. Igor Sergiyovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-13-m0.u63	Please pass the word to Leonid to Yemen.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-13-m0.u64	Thank you. Leonid Yemeni, People's Front faction. Well, first of all, we will definitely support this decision and we will vote for it. I have a question for the Opposition Block. I recall a meeting of the Conciliation Council this week, I remember your manager, Mr. Boyko, pointing out that you have to put together all 43 of your mandates. And I'm sure both our parliamentarians and the entire Ukrainian people are looking forward to it when you're still putting your mandates into place. And in fact, I'm sure we can now see how much you don't have to do with the word. So we're waiting for the folding of the mandates of the Opposition Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-13-m0.u65	You're arguing with Ivan Dmitrovich, Peter Dusty Block, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-13-m0.u66	Ivan Sporish, Peter Dusty Block. On such an important issue, I would like to convey the word to Paul Kishkar.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-13-m0.u67	Thank you, Your Honor. An extremely important question. Although the recommendations of parliamentary hearings are not binding on the committee’s work, they deserve respect and approval. And we're really going to support these recommendations. But so far, involving children in general sports from 5, in large cities, in large percentages, in large cities, in 20 percent, in medium and small. Therefore, we will not see a radical change in the implementation of these recommendations in sports. Please pay attention to the committee's bill on reforming the actual field of sport, where the tools of normal dialogue of business, sport and the state capabilities that we now have are being introduced, because they are limited enough. We really have this line right now in sports as Olympics. We hope that these accomplishments will be surpassed even in our expectations. But both the Committee and the entire Supreme Council must take a fundamental step towards reforming the sport sector, sharing mass sports with professional sport and providing maximum support to state resources for the development of physical culture and sport. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-13-m0.u68	Dear colleagues, there will be a vote in three minutes. I ask the secretariat of the Supreme Council to inform the deputies and the heads of factions, too, to inform the deputies, and there will be a closing statement. And I give the word to Dudenkov Aleksander Valeriyovich, "The Opposition Block." Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-13-m0.u69	Respectable citizens are evidence that the representative of the People's Front is separating the Hall. He, some accuses the opposition bloc, quotes the leader of our Jury Anatolievich Boyko. We're not afraid to impose mandates, believe me. But the people of Ukraine are not waiting for us to establish mandates, but the people of Ukraine are already awaiting elections to the Supreme Council of Ukraine because they understand that the Supreme Council of Ukraine is taking a decision in favour of the Ukrainian people. And this is what every citizen feels at the tariff, utility and inflation levels and at the level of devaluation, at the level of economic decline, the country has been driven into such a pit that it has not been in such a pit since 1994. So you don't have to say and speculate that the Opposition Unit, you're not waiting until we get our mandates. Of course, we urge not only that we do so to do so to all the factions that see the direction in which you are leading the country. As for the Opposition Block, we will now see how you vote without the Opposition Block. Let the Ukrainians see what a coalition we have, how many deputies are present from the coalition and whether they will make a decision today, and how effective the work of the Supreme Council will be today, and how responsible the factions will be for the coalition, and how far these decisions will be in line with the interests of the Ukrainian people.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-13-m0.u70	I'm asking you, dear colleagues, to come into the hall and take up jobs. One minute, finally, Arthur the Chamber Head of the Committee. Please come into the hall and take up jobs. Please, Arthur.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-13-m0.u71	Dear colleagues, I ask you very much when such important decisions are being considered, and when important laws are being considered for the health of our nation, we do not have a relationship with each other. In this situation, which has now arisen, our athletes should not suffer, nor should our children. I ask all factions to vote in favour of this decree. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-13-m0.u72	Thank you, fellow believers. We're getting ready to vote. People's deputies are coming in. I'm asking you not to come in. And I'm voting on the draft Resolution on Parliamentary Hearing Recommendations on "The Ways of Developing Physical Culture and Sport in Ukraine under the conditions of decentralization of power" (No.4709), according to the committee's recommendation, as a whole. Colleagues, please support the Ukrainian sport, please take part in the vote, please vote on the ruling as a whole, 4709 as a whole. We're voting on our colleagues, please. We'll support the Ukrainian athletes. [[11:18:10]] For 199 199. Let's see the factions. Is there any point in putting on a return? But before that, we need to discuss how we should be. Colleagues, I can put it back once. As far as I can remember, the Opposition Block has declared support for these bills. I'll wait for the deputies to come into the hall. Please come into the hall and prepare for the vote. Please come into the hall and prepare for the vote. I'll be back in a minute. Fellows, may I bet on my return? Can I put it, colleagues? So I'm proposing a return to the draft Parliamentary Hearings Regulation on "The Challenges of Physical Culture and Sports in Ukraine under the conditions of decentralization of power." I'm asking you to take up jobs, and I'm asking you to support all factions, regardless of political views. May I? Arthur, head of the committee. Yes, the committee head is back in place, the political consultations are held, and hopefully there will be a result. Colleagues, I'm asking you to come back to the Project Review, Decree 4709. Whoever supports this proposal for return, please vote. Please vote. [[11:21:52]] For 203 Let's see the factions. Dear colleagues, I'm sorry, when we started working day, we agreed that there would be support for these bills. Dear colleagues from the Opposition Block, I'm addressing you, we agreed there would be support. Please, one minute of Matvienkov. Debenkov, Debenkov one minute, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-13-m0.u73	Andrey Vladimirovich, I'm telling you again, it's not a personal account statement, you don't have to talk about it. We want to demonstrate that the actual agenda is empty. Those decisions that are now on the agenda are not in the interest of helping Ukrainian society at all. Parliamentary hearings may be important, but, again, the distinguished author of the draft regulation said that the recommendations recommended were budget funding. You are drafting an increase in budget funding, as said in the previous report, in your statement, passing more systematic and concrete bills, which will really help, they will simply be limited to words of error and moltology. Moreover, you have said that every MP is speaking on the subject of the communication, and the distinguished representative of the People's Front has allowed himself too much. So let the Ukrainian people see what the Supreme Council does? The Supreme Council is in charge of collecting political accounts, and I believe that this discussion should be closed for today.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-13-m0.u74	Let's exchange our thoughts. Please, Vladimir Ariev, one minute, Krivenko. Let's exchange thoughts, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-13-m0.u75	Dear colleagues, if we are unable to work, we must honestly say that we cannot make decisions. And that's why I'm addressing you, Mr. Head, let's do this, if we're going in principle, in principle. If yesterday's European bill is a European-reforming bill. The two bills, they tell me, were rejected because there were no votes, so let's now announce it to the rejected as ordered, and close the morning session so that we don't ask the Opposition Block to vote here. If we cannot bring the deputies into the hall ourselves, we must take responsibility for this, and we must not translate it into anyone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-13-m0.u76	I'll just give you a line. It's not me who's responsible, it's the factions that don't have deputies today. And I appeal to you to take personal responsibility for voting, including your colleagues. Here is the responsibility! Because I'm not responsible for the MPs being in the hall. I'm in charge of organizing the work of the deputies who are in the hall. Think about who to take on the lists, and see if they will attend the session. And please raise these questions with you, in faction congregations, not here. Please! Andrew Illenko, please, and let's get to work.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-13-m0.u77	Andrew Illenko, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. You know, it's just gone and crossed the line when the Supreme Council has to go to the Opposition Block today to make a decision on the recommendation of parliamentary hearings! So the coalition doesn't even have the ability to find votes for these decisions. I don't know what this is about! We have today. The traffic in the morning here is setting up a circus, talking about "praying for Russian peace," and now we have to ask them to help us vote! What has happened to the situation? More than 300 deputies from democratic parties today are in parliament -- a constitutional majority, and there is no way to vote without the Moscow 'fifth column'? What is this situation? What is the situation with discipline? What a situation with responsibility for the country! Each faction must be held accountable for its members who do not go to work doing their own chores, who sit on vacations instead of work. Shame!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-13-m0.u78	Thank you, Andrew. Only I'll do the same for you to look to the right-to-left, how many of your deputies are there. Just to get your attention, too. Please, the last performance is Krivenko, and then let's move on to the next job. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-13-m0.u79	Victor Krivenko, National Movement of Ukraine. It is a very good initiative, Mr. Chairman, to publish all the absent persons in the room today and to make it clear in all of our society that the costs will not be charged for these walks. And the factions' heads do the same thing by appearance, by their deputies. Next, education, medicine, sport is beyond politics, certainly Parliament is a place for discussion, but unfortunately, it has become a place for politics. Everyone tries to enjoy their narrow niche more. And it's very sad that we heard this manipulative statement today about the Crusade, which Mr. Yelensky responded very nicely to. And it's just as sad that individual majority MPs, in order to keep their ratings in their districts, come out with general criticism and sedition, not realizing that there are issues that society needs. You have to respect those hearings, those people who came and voted it out. Although we have registered, Paul Kishkar has registered a bill that radically changes sports. But now I urge you to put again on the return and.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-13-m0.u80	Colleagues, I'll bet you back once. Okay, I'll do it again, if I don't, the decision will be rejected. I'll put it again, if there are no votes, the decision will be rejected. Please, colleagues, take your jobs, come into the hall. I'm proposing a return to the vote in favour of decree (4709) "The Challenges of Physical Culture and Sports in Ukraine under the conditions of decentralization of power." Anyone who supports the proposal: to return to the vote in favour of the decision, please vote. Please vote. [[11:28:36]] For 202 The decree is rejected. Let us move on to the following regulations, which are in order of the day. Next, 4655: project of a decree to rename the village of Padalka in the Poltava region of Poltava. Anyone who supports its consideration under a reduced procedure, please vote. Please, colleagues, we're voting. [[11:29:09]] For 172 172 for. Decision taken. I invite you to report to the head of the Subcommittee on State Building, Regional Policy and Local Self-Government of Fedoruk Mikol Trochymovic. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-13-m0.u81	Honourable National Deputies, the Poltava District Council addressed the Supreme Council of Ukraine for a change of name of the village of Padalka to the village of Padalka, the Gožulov Rural Council of the Poltava District of Poltava to the village of Biological. According to the official calculation of the administrative and territorial units of Ukraine in the Poltava region of Poltava, the population of Padalka is located in the Gožulov Rural Council. At the local level in statistics and documentation, including birth certificates, passports of Ukrainian citizens, technical passports on the building, state acts on land, and so on, the name "the village of Padalka" is used in place of the name "the village of Biological", which relates to the activity of the Gožulov State Biofactory, which was transferred to the permanent use of part of the land of the Gožulov Rural Council. The question of the renaming of the village of Padalka was supported by the territorial community in the general assembly of citizens, agreed according to the legislation, reviewed and approved by Gožulski Selski, Poltavski district, Poltavsk district councils and Poltavsk district administration. The Committee of the Supreme Council on State Building, Regional Policy and Local Self-Government supports the submission of the Poltava District Council for the renaming of the village of Padalka of the Gožulov Rural Council of the Poltava District to the village of Biological. Let us ask the National Deputies to support the draft Decree No. 4655 and accept it as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-13-m0.u82	Thank you, colleagues. Are they willing to perform? Please, two for, two for against, please sign up if you want. Alexeyev Igor Sergiyovich, please, People's Front.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-13-m0.u83	Please pass on the word to Andrey Rach. Andrew Réci, please pass on the word.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-13-m0.u84	I have a request to the head of the Poltava District Public Administration, the head of the District Council and that community that has addressed the Supreme Council with a renaming, to support and give people the right to use as they have used in the people to do so: Biologically re-named as. the name Biological Village.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-13-m0.u85	Thank you. Please, Caplin Sergey. Please, Mr. Sergei.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-13-m0.u86	Once the Poltava community, the inhabitants of the village, had to be renamed for it, it was obvious that the Supreme Council of Ukraine should vote as ordered by the community of the village concerned. And I have no doubt that's what we're going to vote on. It was very good if, in the next, in the future, by renaming some of the settlements, they had also heard the position of ordinary ordinary ordinary citizens and their public hearings, the result was a final argument for us when we made decisions. At the same time, I would like to remind you that Sunday there will be a vote in the 151th constituency. And I'd like to draw the attention of Ukrainian politics and society and the power organs to this mess and just the godless manipulations and forgeries that are prepared by a separate political force. It's about one of the factions and parties in Parliament that I stress with all my heart, with all my heart, I hope they're hurting for our state and for the fair results of the 151 elections in the constituency. One of the women from Ukraine brought their candidate's papers in this district and along with these documents brought 20 more packets, imagine 20 packets of technical candidates! And when you talk about counterfeiting all over the country, tell the truth about the fact that you have a direct share in it. Tell the truth about the fact that you are organizing just as simply ungodly illegal, anti-Ukrainian actions that undermine the elections actually there, which discredit the Ukrainian Parliament, destroy Ukrainian parliamentaryism! I want to say that we have united the democratic forces and will be.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-13-m0.u87	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the discussion is over. I'm asking everyone to come into the hall. Ten seconds on the bill, yeah. Mr. Sergei, on the subject of this bill? Please have 30 seconds on the subject of this bill. Please come into the hall, take up jobs. 30 seconds, Mr. Sergey Kaplin.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-13-m0.u88	Of course, on the subject as usual. I want to tell you that we are now united by all democratic forces and we are preparing a special project. We will persecute every villain who puts his hand over Ukrainian law over the Ukrainian’s right to choose a worthy representative. Any TVC member or DVC who violates the law will sit in prison. For the first time in 20 years, we're replanting the entire gang that will take away people's voting rights.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-13-m0.u89	Colleagues Ready to Make Decisions? We're getting ready, please come into the hall, take jobs. And I'm voting on a motion for a decree to rename the village of Padalka in the Poltava region of Poltava, number 4655, according to the committee's conclusion as a basis and as a whole. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. Please, colleagues, we're voting. [[11:36:04]] For 185 The decision is not made. The factions, please. Decree 4655 has been rejected. Colleagues, we have the next ones in the daytime. One, draft Decision on appointment in the 16th year of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's named scholarships for the most talented young scientists. And decree 4860, condemning the Supreme Council of Ukraine's prizes to the most talented young scientists in the field of fundamental and applied research and scientific and technological development for the 15th year. Ladies and gentlemen, I will proceed with your permission to vote in accordance with these decisions, which is their level of support. I think it would be wrong if we turned them down, and we're taking big steps. Please. Do we exchange ideas before that? So, dear colleagues, I ask you to explain for one minute, Spiowakovsky. But it's not about the data. Do not go into the discussion, but simply explain. Please, Mr. Spiowakovsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-13-m0.u90	Dear Chief! Dear National Deputies! I'm talking to everyone who cares. Sitting, lying, sitting. Dear colleagues, I'm going to the Opposition Block. Now we have a catastrophic situation where young people and young scientists are going abroad. We have stagnation in this area. So I'm just asking you that the decisions that we're going to consider right now are about a very simple question -- the assignment of scholarships, and then it's the assignment of prizes to young scientists. I believe it is our duty to vote in solidarity for people who will build Ukraine’s future. I'm addressing everyone again, please let's leave our ambitions after that. And now we're going to vote for Ukraine's future for our young people. Vote!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-13-m0.u91	Ladies and gentlemen, I'll put you to a vote. If there are no votes, I'll close the morning session. The failure of such bills would obviously be wrong. So, please come into the hall, take part in the vote. I'm voting on the ratings vote, supporting the consideration of the Bills 4859 and 4860. So please take part in the rating vote. Please. Please vote. [[11:39:18]] For-195 195 for. Please include the factions. Peter Poshenko's Block – 92, People's Front – 61, Opposition Block – 0, Self-help – 13, Radical Party – 0, Fatherland – 1, Rebirth Party – 6, Will of the People – 8. Dear colleagues, there are not enough votes in the room to make a decision. I want everyone on the committees today to work, to have preventive talks on factions today. Tomorrow at 10 a.m., I ask that we, with another level of responsibility, step into the hall and be able to have a full day's work. At this morning’s plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I declare closed. Everyone, please work on the committees today. Tomorrow at 10 a.m., let's get back to work.
