ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u1	Dear colleagues, the time for recess is over. Please enter the hall, prepare for registration. Please come into the hall. So, are your respectable colleagues ready to register? Can we register? Then, dear colleagues, I ask you to register for the evening session. Please register. [[16:09:02]] There are 374 deputies registered, colleagues. I declare the evening plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine open. I would also like to inform you, colleagues, that the budget bills are still a number of committees, 5132 and 5131. At the same time, yesterday's Conciliation Council asked us to review draft decision-making decisions. These decisions may be placed on the agenda without a vote. As chairman, I have the right to bring them in at any stage. I have only, colleagues, a great request to support their consideration of the reduced procedure, my colleague. So I'm asking you to come into the hall right now, colleagues. Go into the hall and prepare for the decision, colleagues. We have a number of cancellation orders that can't work without bills. I am the first to review the draft Order repealing the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of 18 October 2016 on the adoption as a whole as a bill of the draft Ukrainian Act on the amendment of certain Ukrainian laws on the pension provision of individual categories of persons participating in an anti-terrorist operation (3252). Colleagues, a draft for annulment, without it, we can't sign the master law. I have a big request that we don't waste time, it's just canceling the decision, discussing it, and then supporting it when it's canceled. I have a big request so that we can get through these decisions quickly, support the proposal for a reduced procedure, colleagues. Without them, we won't be able to sign the laws. So I ask everyone to be disciplined and to understand. Now I'm going to put to the vote a motion for a reduced procedure, and I very much ask everyone to take part in the vote, colleagues. Please. Colleagues, I was informed by the Legal Department that they are automatically being considered for a reduced procedure, that they do not need a vote. So let's go to 3,252. And I invite you to report to the Vice-President of the Committee on Rules and Organizational Work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Phinehas Pavel Vasilovich. Please, Mr. Paul.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u2	The Honourable Head, the Honourable People's Deputies of Ukraine, the Committee at its meeting on November 2, 16th, reviewed the draft Supreme Council Resolution on the lifting of the decision of October 18 on the adoption as a whole as a bill of the draft Ukrainian Law on the amendment of certain laws of Ukraine on the pension provision of individual categories of persons participating in an anti-terror operation" (registration number 3252), introduced by the National Deputy of Ukraine Musak Alexii. The draft decree proposes that the decision of the Supreme Council on the adoption as a whole as a bill of the draft Law, registration number 3252, should be repealed, since the initiator considered that the bill violated the requirements of article 119 of the Rules, namely that the second reading of the bill was without an article vote. The Committee noted that, according to article 119, part of the first article of the Rules, and part of article 120 of the Rules, in the second reading of the bill, each article was discussed in the order of its numbering, in the form proposed by the Main Committee, unless a decision was taken to review the bill in another order in accordance with article 119. According to a transcript of the October 18th plenary meeting, the proposed draft law of the Committee on Social Policy of the People’s Deputies of Ukraine, Denisovo Ludmila Leontievny, was reviewed by the National Deputies of Shuhevich and Levchenk, and Bill 3252 was adopted in second reading and in general. "For" was voted by 237 people's deputies, including the national MP Musak, who is the author of the draft decision. No comments were received on the violation of the draft Law by the Ukrainian National Deputies. In particular, the Ukrainian national deputy Musak did not address the Head of the Supreme Council during the plenary meeting on violations of the Rules, as indicated in the explanatory note to the draft decree. The committee reached a conclusion and decided to recommend to the Supreme Council that a vote be taken on the adoption or rejection of the draft decision. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u3	Thank you, colleagues. The report invites the Ukrainian national deputy, the author of the decree, Musak Alexi Petrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u4	Good afternoon, dear colleagues. In fact, I would like to clarify my position clearly. Do those involved in the fighting need our protection and support? They do. Should the steps we take: elevated social standards, early retirement -- should they be real? Yes, they must be real. This bill is actually a little fiction because it doesn't solve the question for one simple reason. So if in the following year the people who will use this bill will be relatively few, in five years it will be tens of thousands of people. And in fact, the budget, the pension fund is already in deficit. And five years from now, he just can't take it. And accordingly we are going to have to cancel this bill in one way or another. So it seems to me that it would actually be more honest and honest to make the true promises of a participant in combat and not to make them happy with any illusions that they would not then be able to use. That's why I made this decision. And to draw your attention to the fact that supporting the participants in the fighting should be real, not illusional. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u5	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Please record two in favour, two in the opposite. Kishkar Pavlov, Peter Dusty Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u6	Paul Kishkar, "The People's Movement of Ukraine." I urge all my colleagues to listen to Mr. Musak’s words and to support the decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u7	Thank you. From The Radical Party Lensky is handing over Yuri Suhevich. Mr. Yuri. Please turn on Yuri Suhevich's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u8	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs! The bill is designed to restore justice. You see, the restoration is in justice. They have the right to retire for the term not only in Afghanistan but also in Kosovo, Iraq, Mozambique, Korea, Vietnam, God knows who. And those who fight, stand up for Ukraine today, shed blood in our sight, are deprived of it! In the name of such justice, the bill was drafted. I ask you to vote against Musak's decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u9	Thank you, Your Honor. The discussion is over. I would like to point out that in order for the law to be signed, the decree must be put to the vote. The authors of the law ask that the decree be rejected; those who uphold the law do not vote in favour of the decree; the authors of the decree ask for its support. And we can go to the vote, colleagues. I am voting on the draft Decree repealing the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of 18 October 2016 on the adoption as a whole as a bill of the draft Ukrainian Act on the amendment of certain Ukrainian laws on the pension provision of individual categories of persons participating in the ATO (number 3252-P). The committee shall request a vote. Whoever supports this decision, please vote. Anyone who supports it, please vote. Please. [[16:18:41]] For-61 The decision is not made. Decree 3252 has been rejected. Mr. Yuri, the law is in effect, and today I will sign it as we agreed on the Conciliation Council. Next order 3153. Draft Decision repealing the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of 03.11.2016 on the adoption as a whole as a law of Law 3153. And I invite you to the report of National Deputy Levchenk Yuri Volodymyrovich. I would like to remind you that these laws are being reviewed by the reduced procedure and by the rules. It does not require an additional vote. Please, Yuri Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u10	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223 District, Kiev City. Well, first of all, I'd like to point out that it's unfortunate that serious issues, and every question that's being considered in the Supreme Council is serious, is being taken so simply to close the time. Now, obviously, those who are in charge understand that there are no drafts yet ready for the second reading on the budget of the appropriate, budgeting ones, because we have everything not by the Rules, but by the way, asking other questions to just spend time. It's not the work of the Supreme Council, it's not even the work of the silage, it's the work of a congregation that thinks only about its pocket issues. And this is actually a problem that, because of this problem, we have this situation in the country that we actually have. But specifically on this issue, if he's already been asked. It's about the fact that we first had a law that was in violation of the Rules, it's about the fact that in the Law on so-called moratoriums on business testing, we put in an amendment to a vote that we didn't have the right to put in without a vote, and we made this moratorium twice as big as it was originally proposed. And I'm reminding you that this so-called moratorium on business testing doesn't actually introduce, for example, a moratorium on business fiscal checks. Yeah? In fact, it's an exclusive moratorium on the state's controlling functions, which are largely necessary, most of the time to provide consumers with unscrupulous practices of entrepreneurs. And unfortunately, we have a lot of large businesses in Ukraine that are just doing bad work. For example, this law proposes that a moratorium be placed on illegal forgetfulness and urban activity. This is the kind of thing that's proposed. We have the vachanalia of the building mafia in the country, especially in the big cities, especially in the capital city, and after that law this vachanalia will be total for six months. Although there was, by the way, such a moratorium after the revolution and it didn't bring anything positive, just a negative. But they try to force such decisions illegally. So I urge you to vote in favour of my decision, understanding that.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u11	Please finish 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u12	Realizing that, unfortunately, there are not enough deputies in this room right now, I still urge that I vote for this decision for all those people who really care about 99 percent of the Ukrainian people, not just 1 percent who abuse the Ukrainian people and charge their pockets. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u13	Thank you. I just want to point out that there's actually a full room of people and all the factions in the room, and I don't think there can be any reservations about putting these decisions in order of the day, and once again I remind you that we're putting them in order of the day. Also, colleagues, before giving the next speaker a word, I was asked to inform you that we now have in the Supreme Council a tour of the Kyiv City boarding school number 23 "Cadet Corps." They're on the balcony. Let's welcome them. Our future warriors, heroes, wish them success. [[Applause]] Congratulations, boys! I wish I had health. Thank you. You've won. And to my co-report, I invite the first deputy head of the Committee on Rules and Organization of Work of the Supreme Council of Pinzenic Pavel Vasilovich. Please, Mr. Paul.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u14	Honorary colleagues, the committee discussed the draft Order repealing the decision of the Supreme Council of 03.11.2016 on the adoption as a whole of the Law 3153, introduced by the Ukrainian National Deputies Levchenk, Chumak, Novak. The authors propose to repeal the decision of the Supreme Council of 3 November 2016 on the adoption of the draft Law on the Specificities of State Control and Control in the Field of Economic Activities, as they felt that the draft bill had violated the requirements of articles 45, 116 and 118 of the Rules, namely, the place for the introduction of votes and the inclusion of amendments to the text of the bill during the plenary session without voting for them and the voting for the bill as a whole with the rights indicated. The committee noted that, according to a transcript of the plenary meeting of November 3, this year, the head of the Committee on Industrial Policy and Entrepreneurship by Halasyuk Victor, a report on the above-mentioned issue, had two oral corrections that had not been included in the comparative table for the second reading. These are amendments to determine the date of operation of the relevant moratorium and to clarify the name of the authorities of the State architectural and building control. In addition, the National MP Drozdik also made a proposal to support his amendment, which was rejected by the Committee on Industrial Policy during its consideration of the bill. In doing so, the committee noted that, in accordance with part nine of article 89 of the Rules, an amendment could be made orally to a bill when it was considered in a second reading at a plenary meeting of the Supreme Council. The committee also noted that, according to the transcript of the draft law, National MP Lehchenko made comments when voting on proposals, amendments to the text of the draft justification for his amendments, and comments on the groundless integration of his three amendments by the Main Committee into one. The National MP Novak also suggested that her amendment be approved and not voted in favour of it. The committee also pointed out that the bill was being drafted.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u15	Please finish 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u16	With the oral amendments announced, it was adopted by the Supreme Council on second reading and in general, 235 people's deputies voted in favour. In doing so, the oral amendments declared were not separately put to the vote. The committee proposes that the Supreme Council decide by voting on the adoption or rejection of a draft regulation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u17	Thank you. Colleagues, please record: two for, two for against, please. Igor Lucenko. Please turn on the microphone. Igor Lucenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u18	Dear friends! In fact, under the wonderful slogans of deregulation, the elimination of business and all kinds of pressure, checks, fiscal checks, unfortunately, there are now openly humanoid norms that will destroy the environment, especially in our cities. Now, there's actually a building mafia in our cities, which, despite all the requirements of state building standards, the requirements of law enforcement, the legislation on the protection of historical and cultural heritage, unfortunately, is now this so-called business, and, in fact, the mafia structures, are carrying out their commercial projects, destroying the green areas, destroying the monuments, destroying the so-called public space in general. And in order to protect the community, there are actually certain institutions in our country, inspections, vetting, control bodies. Today, all of these organs are actually depriving themselves of top-notch powers and are actually opening up green light. "Green Street" for urban violations. That's just one aspect of what's being put under the terms, which basically sounds pretty good, kind enough about deregulation. Unfortunately, it's not deregulation, it's mere culpability, the destruction of the historical cultural heritage, the natural heritage and other important health, including the mental health of Ukrainians. So I urge you to support these decrees by the authorship of Yuri Lewchenk and others. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u19	Thank you. Please, Melniczuk Ivan Ivanovich from the Peter Dust Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u20	Dear colleagues, I suggest you not pay much attention to what the very first speaker of the Supreme Council spoke out of the rostrum, he has always said, as he has said, that he is not on his head. He dedicated half of his speech to the one who went to the Supreme Council and for what purpose, let him see for himself why he went here and voted. I propose not to support his initiative. If 200, more than 230 deputies in the Hall approved this bill, I suggest not to support the proposal of the speaker, let him go to the people, let people get this law and use it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u21	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the discussion is over. Let's move on to making a decision. So the committee suggested that the hall be identified by a vote. One was offered to support, the other to reject. And we can determine by voting. And I'm putting to the vote the draft Decree repealing the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of 03.11.2016 on the adoption as a whole. The law. Bill 3153. Whoever supports this decision, please vote. Who's in favour, P.R. vote. Please. [[16:29:42]] For-67 Project Regulation 3153 has been rejected. The decision is not made. The next order we have is the draft Order repealing the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of 03.11.2016 on the adoption, as a whole, of Bill No. 2418a. And I would like to invite you to the report of Ukrainian National Deputy Levchenk Yuri Volodymirovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u22	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223 District, Kiev City. First of all, I'm talking to the chairman again, because he said everyone was in the room. If there's a quorum in the room, put other bills in the vote, those anti-national bills that you propose to put in later, not put in. But obviously it's just a matter of time delay. I'm also addressing the gentleman who was here telling me something about going to the people, the representative of the Panamanian Patriot Block. Sir, you go to the people, you go to the people and tell them what you're doing here. Because you're very interesting, you know, working. You accept, excuse me, any horror, and then once every five years, you put up a school window, you put up asphalt, and you tease people, you bribe people. This, unfortunately, leaves you in power. If you talk honestly about what you're voting for, then people have honestly told you what they think about you, here's your line. And essentially this bill, this is the extension of this building vacchanal that we talked about 10 minutes ago. In the bill that some here have been talking about facilitating control for small and medium-sized businesses, some of the current norms that say that urban activity is regulated by individual legislation, much more serious legislation, why is this issue excluded, why now urban activity is also passed on under this liberal, ultra-liberal law. As a result of this, it's actually going to be impossible to carry out any illegal forgetfulness check, because, for example, it's sometimes going to take some documents that take two years to get them, it's going to take two years. cannot be obtained without the decision of the subject itself. And if he doesn't give you any information you ask, he's not responsible. How, then, can we examine the illegal structure if the outsider refuses to hand over the documents and is not responsible? Also. Please give me another 10 seconds. It's also a norm, it's a norm, it's called a norm.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u23	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u24	A rule on indulgence is included from the inspection bodies when the letter from the inspection body is of greater weight than the law of Ukraine. That is, if the letter of the examiner has already given that something can be done, it doesn't matter if the law says otherwise. Such things were voted for by the Supreme Council. Such things cannot be voted on, they go on to destroy Ukraine in general and to impoverish the Ukrainian people. I still urge to vote in favour of this decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u25	Thank you. The report invites the Vice - Chief of the Committee on Rules and Organization of Work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Phinehas Pavel Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u26	Dear Andriy Volodymyrovich, distinguished national deputies of Ukraine! The committee reviewed the draft Order repealing the decision of the Supreme Council of 3 November 2016 on the adoption as a whole of the Bill 2418a, the authors of the People's Deputies Levchenko, Novak, Chumak. The authors propose that the Supreme Council's decision of 3 November 2016 on the adoption as a whole of the bill on the Basic Principles of State Control and Control in the Field of Economic Activity (for the liberalisation of the State Oversight System) (registration 2418a) should be repealed, since the draft bill violated the requirements of article 28, paragraph 3, and article 37, paragraph 1, of the Rules, paragraph 1, of the Rules, namely: the continuation of the plenary session of the chairpersons, not for 15 minutes, but for 25 minutes, as well as the presence of non-personal voting by Ukraine's national deputies. The Committee noted that there had been some violations of the second reading bill procedure and that the 25-minute extension of the session had taken place within the morning plenary session, due to a break scheduled from 12 to 12.30. The committee also noted that, according to a transcript dated November 3, this year, the 2418th National MP of Ukraine, Lewchenko, addressed the project several times. on the text of the amended bill, as well as on the unreliable information in the table on its amendments, namely that its amendments 75, 82, 85, 87 relating to two verification periods are not taken into account. And it says here that these amendments are edited. The committee proposes that the Supreme Council decide by voting on the adoption or rejection of the draft decree for the authorship of the People’s Deputies Lewchenko, Novak, Chumak. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u27	Please record two in favour, two in the opposite. Yuszkova Tetjana passes the word to Halasyuk of the Radical Party. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u28	Thank you. Dear Andrew Volodymyrovich! Dear colleagues! First of all, I want to thank the speaker of the Supreme Council for putting this ruling to the vote today. Because the rejection of this decree will pave the way for the further signing of the Law on a new system of restraint and control that you and I have adopted in these walls, and it will be able to enter into force. And this is the first time in the history of Ukraine that is an unrepressive system of state oversight and control that is completely transparent and accountable to Ukrainian society. So that those controlling authorities don't use as a artificial mechanism of corruption pressure on business, especially small and medium-sized businesses. To make sure that all the tests are clearly planned, they're posted on a single website. To know why they're going to test what questions they're testing, what the results are from there, and there's no reason that one company is checked 100 times, and they don't come out of there, they're checking out, and they're forgetting that there's another one at all. The system of government oversight and control should not be repressive, not corrupt, not squeeze the last juices out of business. And it should protect the interests of society, but at the same time, it should not stifle the business. We need to do everything we can today to develop a small, medium-sized business. And this new system of government oversight and control is the smallest step that we can take with you today, because what we are now talking about is simply removing artificial administrative corruption pressure from the control bodies, and we certainly need to provide tax incentives for the development of Ukrainian production and entrepreneurship, to ensure the cost of credit, guarantee and insurance of expert contracts, and I hope that today we will also adopt the Law on Credit Agency for the first time in the history of Ukraine. So, honourable colleagues, as deputy leader of the Radical Party and head of the Committee of Prompolitics and Entrepreneurship, I appeal to you to reject this decision and to give way to reforming state oversight and control so that there is no pressure on business. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u29	Thank you. Novak Natalia Vasilovna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u30	Please hand over Chumaku.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u31	Chumaku please pass it on to Chumaku.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u32	Good afternoon, dear colleagues. I would like to highlight the essence of this bill. This was well reported by his colleague Lechchenko. I would like to tell you that parliamentary activity is first of all a procedure, a democracy, it was never a breakdown of majority/minority, democracy was, it was an execution, an exact implementation of regulations and procedures. Regrettably, the previous bill, which the previous decree, this one, was adopted with a breach of procedure. Please tell us why we have to keep 450-420 deputies here, if in principle we can agree that they will go all the way here, or faction leaders, or 226 deputies who will press the right buttons and all adopt the right laws, or the laws will be put to the vote and be adopted 5, 10, 15, 20 times, or in violation of the entire Ukrainian Constitution and Rules. I don’t understand why laws that are clearly lobbyist are viewed, rather than the laws that are necessary for society. I want to remind society that a coalition, a faction called "European Ukraine", adopted the Coalition Agreement on November 27, 2014 and set its task first, is to make very serious reforms in the political sphere: to change the Rules, to adopt a new Electoral Law. Why is the Law on the Election of People’s Deputies not at all viewed? Adopt the Law on Temporary Special Inquiry Commissions for impeachment. Why are these necessary laws not put into the order of the day? Why do we hear lobbying laws one by one that introduce preferences for one or the other sectors and spheres of business? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u33	Alona Ivanovna's scarves from the Fatherland faction. He's handing it over to Igor Lucenk. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u34	Dear fellow parliamentarians! While the whole world is moving towards urban development, i.e. improving the environment of cities, we're doing something here with you -- we're destroying urban legislation under beautiful, beautiful slogans of deregulation, the destruction of corruption pressure on business there, the reduction of pressure and so on, and so on. Instead of developing dispute resolution mechanisms, when there are millions of cities, when there is a building that is potentially conflict, and unfortunately there is a bunch of bloody conflicts in Kiev right now, where there are fights, where there are women colliding with ordinary people. Instead, what are we taking? Our control organs, our civilized dispute resolution mechanisms, we just cross-reference. And of course, I support Yuri Lewchenk's initiative that we should cancel all these decisions. Because unfortunately, we took them deeply wrong, we didn't understand what was going on around Parliament, what was going on at the border of Mariana Park. Do you know what illegal constructions continue to flourish here? What happens in literally two blocks from here that fights go on? And when we finally do that, we're going to return to the state's function of solving this kind of dispute. After all, it's also a business climate issue, where there's a controlling body that can warn all violations. Instead, we just say, "Let's build everything that's gone down." And then people come out, and then blood pours out. And then the city head, then the National Police go out and distribute with their hands, if you'll excuse me, we have this kind of legislation. The Supreme Council of Ukraine is responsible for everything that is currently going on in Kiev, Odessa, Kharkiv, Dnipropetrovsk, and unfortunately, all these building conflicts have been established in this room. I urge everyone to vote and support the decisions that are now taking place in this order of things. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u35	Thank you, Your Honor. The discussion is over. Are there no more speakers? And I'm moving on to making a decision. I would like to remind you that the committee has proposed to determine how to vote. He urged us not to support it. And Igor Lucenko called for support. But national MPs are determined by voting. And I'm putting to the vote a draft decree repealing the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of 03.11.2016 on the adoption as a whole as a bill of 2418a. Whoever supports this decision, please vote. Please. Please vote who supports it. [[16:43:17]] For-64 The decision is not taken. Order 2418a is rejected. So we rejected the three decisions we had prepared by the committee. As promised at the Conciliation Council yesterday, we fulfilled the responsibility of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And we're going to the next block. Colleagues! I want to let you know, we have the Committee's conclusion under budget law 5131. Already 51 copies of comparative tables are distributed in the hall and continue to be distributed. In addition, I would like to point out that all the people's deputies have access to the Committee's 5131 decision through the Supreme Council website, where the table is fully available. Fifty copies were distributed and continued to be distributed. And, colleagues, there's an offer that was before lunch. So as long as we're handing out the table to the first budget law, so that we can postpone the consideration of Law 4666, which stands immediately after budgetary issues, to now. This proposal was supported by all political factions. And I'd like to put her to the vote again. So, colleagues, we have a draft of the Society Law with limited and additional responsibility. A very progressive bill that is proposed for adoption in the first reading (4666). As far as I know, it's supported by all the factions. And in view of allowing more tables to be distributed under budget laws, I would now like to consider it in 15-20 minutes and then move on to budget laws. Colleagues, is there support in this room? Please go into the hall and prepare for the vote, colleagues. I ask you to come into the hall and prepare for the vote. As long as they're handing out tables to budget bills, we'll be able to look at it, and it'll be a very good and good sign for an expert public environment. All we need now is to concentrate on a positive vote. Please prepare for the vote and ask your fellow deputies to take their seats. So now I'm going to put 4666, transfer for consideration now. Colleagues, I know that there are still some committees, but there are enough voices in the room when the issue is unifying. I think it's a completely unifying question. Please, we're taking up jobs, we're getting ready to vote, colleagues, and I'm asking you to support everyone. Colleagues, there are requests from the national deputies who are currently holding discussions. Please, we will vote on the transfer and the form of consideration. Colleagues, please take up your jobs. So once again, while the tables are being distributed, there is a request that we consider 4666 associations with limited and additional responsibilities. Please, colleagues, concentrate. All factions support this bill as a progressive bill, a bill to unite the hall. Ready, colleagues? I would like to propose that the draft of the Limited and Additional Responsibility Society Act (number 4666) be put to the vote. The offer to move it and now consider it, colleagues. Please be supportive. Colleagues, please support and please vote. Please, colleagues, please vote 4666 for the hearing in the hall now. Vote, colleagues, please. [[16:48:19]] For 225 [[B in m in s a l in]] I see, I see, one voice, colleagues. I'll bet again. Please concentrate, take up jobs, I'm re-composing to move on to 4666. Colleagues, please concentrate, please vote and please support us, 4666, so that we can now proceed to the debate. Vote, colleagues, please support, vote, colleagues, please. [[16:49:05]] For 255 Decision taken. Indeed, the bill unites the entire room. Now I ask you to vote in favour of his brief procedure, colleagues. Please consider the simplified procedure 4666. Vote. Please be supportive. [[16:49:32]] For-191 Decision taken. And I invite the head of the Economic Policy Committee, Ivanchuk Andriy Volodymirovich, to report, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u36	Good afternoon, Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs! First of all, I would like to thank all the representatives of the MPs and the MPs, all the non-fractional MPs who have joined in writing this bill. What does that mean? A limited liability society is a very common form of farming societies in Ukraine. Today we have very old legislation and all the investors who came to Ukraine have formed their corporate relationships abroad, in Cyprus, in English jurisdictions. So today we've made decisions, we've looked at the entire world experience, we've all joined this work, and we've written a bill that's really revolutionary and it's reforming in the most popular form of society. If we now take the first reading on the basis of the bill, we settle all the points of view before the second reading, because we've already found a problem there, which is inherited things. We are working on the second reading to make it ideal and it will be a really good reform that will allow many shareholders to return to the form of limited liability societies and societies with additional responsibility. The Economic Policy Committee, at its meeting, unanimously decided to recommend to Parliament the adoption of the bill as a basis for the first reading. Thank you all very much for your support, please vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u37	Thank you. Two for, two for against, please. Romanova Anna Anatoliyevna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u38	I give the word to Roman Semensi.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u39	Please go to the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u40	Semenha Roman, "The Self-Help Union." Dear colleagues! Dear Mr. Head! Today, limited - liability associations are regulated by the Law on Farming Societies, which was still voted back in 1991, and must have been very progressive at that time. But today it's out of date and it's turned into a brake for developing Ukrainian business, and more importantly, it's a stopgap for foreign investment. And most importantly, because of today's gap in legislation, we have one of the most dangerous risks to business -- it's raiding. Ukrainian business has long needed to update the law that will ensure corporate governance, comprehensive regulation of activities. Today, every second subject in Ukraine chooses the very form of society with limited responsibility. The bill will touch about half a million legal persons. The bill provides for additional tools for the rights of members of the association, this is the establishment of an institution for the approval of significant rights, rights of interest and the institution for the solidarity of top managers for damage. All of this will primarily help to protect the interests of the owners of the company. The bill contains an additional tool to protect company owners from raids. In particular, mandatory notary certificates of decisions of the general congregations to change the statutory capital and the size of the members of the association are introduced. However, the bill requires a substantial revision to the second reading. In particular, in the matter of improving the procedure for disfellowshipping a member of the association, the competence of the Supervisory Board, which is blurred in that edition. Moreover, there is great doubt about the removal of the marginal number of members of the association. Because in our turn, the vast number of members of the association are unable to use such a tool effectively as the general congregations. So, colleagues, today it will depend on us to prepare this law for our second reading. Whether this law will be a shield for the protection and development of Ukrainian business or a sword for further destruction. So I encourage you to support the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u41	Thank you, Your Honor. Please, from the faction, let's sign up for the discussion of this bill: two for, two against. Belkova gives the word to the national deputy Saul. I'm sorry, our honourable chairman just handed me the right to lead, and I didn't.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u42	Yuri Solovay, 89 constituency, Gutzulščina, and Pocust. Dear colleagues, an extremely important law. Unfortunately, we are not often considering economic laws, although it is to my deep conviction that these laws should form the message of the day of the Ukrainian Parliament today. Small and medium-sized businesses in all developed countries are the basis for development. Today, unfortunately, we have a situation where 75 percent of all tax revenues form only 15 percent of all companies in the country. And of course, this trend needs to be changed. And one of the things that needs to be changed today is the reform of corporate legislation, because the legislation that was adopted in the early 1990s is totally not in line with the challenges that participants face today, particularly those of limited liability societies. And so throughout the year, experts on the committee have been doing methodological and systematic work to improve corporate legislation, particularly in part of the legislation on limited liability societies. I want to stop at a few points that today clearly need to be decided, and these points are laid down in the law. In particular, it is envisaged that the registration mechanism of limited liability societies will be simplified. An extremely important instrument of agreements between the parties is introduced, the introduction of a procedure of exclusion of the participant only in court. In particular, this document allows the entity to convert its debt into part of its statutory capital and removes the rules that allow participants to block its activities. Of course, it is a serious law, a system law, and today it must be adopted in the first reading, correcting some of the points that draw attention to the national MPs. But this law is clear.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u43	15 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u44	This law, of course, today in time, is required by all the professional associations that work in the field of small and medium-sized business. And I'm asking the MPs to support this bill as a basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u45	Please, Nestor Schuffritch will be speaking. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u46	Thank you. Madam Chairman, honourable colleagues, surely with great caution, we had great doubts about the draft of this law. But after such a fiery speech by the author of the bill, which convinced us that this law would really serve the development of entrepreneurship, it would protect minority shareholders, that is, small shareholders, better than one of the predecessors wanted to protect small Ukrainians. So after studying all the novels of this bill, we came to the conclusion that perhaps we should support it not only on the basis but also on the basis of the law as a whole. And we're surprised why coalition representatives are now talking about voting as a basis. Perhaps we should not waste time, vote on the bill as a whole as a law and not be afraid to take responsibility. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u47	Thank you, Mr. Nestor. And from Fatherland, Alexander Coogel will come out of the rostrum. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u48	Dear colleagues, given the need for this bill, I would like to make those warnings that we consider impossible to adopt if we don't have a transcript of the force and observations that I am about to make on second reading. First, well, purely technical in very many cases the content of individual articles does not match the names of the corresponding chapters. I won't stop, but we've got a letter, I've been showing the Head. The position of article 24, the anticipated possibility, listen to the exclusion of a member of the association by decision of his general congregation in the event that he does not systematically perform or interferes. You can imagine that three of you were gathered together and one just threw away by changing. They need to be changed. Third, the issue of inheritance in this bill. This bill foresees that members of society may not include me in society but rather decide whether or not I come in or not.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u49	Please finish 15 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u50	. And buy me those shares. It has to be changed. Four. It's a corporate contract. A corporate agreement between all or more members of societies regarding the realization of the rights and obligations of participants is permitted.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u51	Thank you, Mrs. Alexander. I understand it's everyone. He's asking me to finish the committee head. We can't refuse. 30 seconds, please, Mrs. Alexander.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u52	..to collect the right to create a corporate right for only a few or all participants, so that decisions cannot be made without others. And it is not possible to allow in part four of article 26 the alienation of wealth and capital belonging to society of irresponsibility. Only in the first reading, if these remarks are made.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u53	Thank you. Dear colleagues, there were four factions. Are they yet desirable to those who have not signed up?
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u54	Dear colleagues, Mrs. Alexander, I would like to report that this bill is proposed only as a basis. Can you hear me or not? Just on the ground. And so I'm asking everyone to prepare for the decision now, to go into the hall. In one minute, we'll go to the vote. The discussion is over. Now, one minute, he's still the head of the committee, so he can answer the questions that sounded. And in a minute, let's move on to making a decision. Please turn on the microphone of Ivanchuku Andrija Volodymyrovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u55	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs! I would like to say that all the remarks of the national deputies I have heard in the Hall today do not contradict the Rules, and we can all take them into account under article 119 of the Rules when preparing for the second reading. And we will. And I thank you all very much for your support.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u56	Thank you. So the discussion is over. Let's move on to making a decision, colleagues. Please take up the jobs of the National Deputies. Colleagues, please, we are moving on to making a decision. Colleagues, let's concentrate. Please, colleagues, come in, come into the hall. There will be a decision to make. Mr. Secretary, don't delay the deputies! Colleagues! In a government bed, national MPs! You're ready, aren't you? So I'm voting on the draft Society Act with limited and additional responsibility (number 4666) as a basis, colleagues. On the ground, just on the ground. Please vote and please support base 466. Basically, just on the ground, colleagues. Please vote and please support, colleagues. Vote. On the ground, Mrs. Alexandro. And you asked for a basis. [[17:03:22]] For 271 Decision taken. It really united the hall. It had warnings. To me. One faction writes letters to international institutions about violations of the Rules. And that's why I don't have to yell for "in general" when you're comfortable with it. So, colleagues, so we can now move on to budgeting. I was informed that the tables were distributed to the draft Law on amending the Ukrainian Budget Code (for improving budgeting and budgeting) (5131). In addition, the Committee's decisions and all the amendments are on the site of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Thus, we move on to the next issue, which is in the order of the day in the box of issues related to the approval of the State budget, the second reading, the draft Law 5131. And I invite you to report to the head of the committee's subcommittee on the budget of Ischeikin Kostin Evgenovich. Please report.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u57	Dear Andrew Volodymyrovich, distinguished colleagues! Draft Law 5131 on amending the Code of Budgets was adopted on December 6 on the basis of the Committee's proposals and with the task of redrafting it to the second reading by a reduced procedure, i.e. by shortening the deadline for submission of the proposal by half. The bill reached 233 proposals and amendments in the December 13 deadline set by the Rules. The proposals made by later national deputies are not included in the comparative table. The Committee on Budgetary Questions today, at its meeting with the Ministry of Finance, considered such proposals and determined to take 25 into account and to reject 208. The main criterion in the committee's handling of the proposals was, of course, compliance with the principle of budgetary system balance, and thus with the indicators based on the 2017 State Budget project. The most controversial proposals on the basis of the public budget arrangements for local education and medical subsidies, the transfer to finance from local budgets of compensation for citizens' tax travel, the maintenance of vocational and technical education facilities, the inclusion of local environmental tax budgets in the income of the general fund, the establishment of new tax regulations for individuals' income. However, only individual proposals were supported in view of the need to balance and reconcile the state budget project. In particular, it is proposed to clarify the position adopted in the first reading of the local government budget recalculation order, 13.44 percent of the excise tax on fuel provided to them instead of the local excise duty on fuel. At the same time, at the suggestion of the national deputy Siroid, who was heard at the committee meeting, such an algorithm was supported. Counting these funds into local self-government budgets in 2017 automatically, in the first half of the year proportional to the share of the local excise tax for 2016, in the second half of the year proportional to the amount of fuel implemented in the respective area. At the same time, at the meeting of the Committee at the request of the Ministry of Finance, there is a provision for the expansion in 2017 of the road financing experiment in all areas and the city of Kiev. It is determined that 50 percent of this belief should be directed to regions in proportion to their share of such overstatement if the monthly payment schedule is to be overwritten. In general, it should be noted that the decision to take into account rejected proposals is made.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u58	Please complete the report for one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u59	Thank you. In general, it should be pointed out that the decision to take into account rejected proposals will lead to a balance between the indicators and the non-adoptive state budget for 2017. Taking into account that the adoption of Bill 5131 in second reading and in general as a basis for the adoption of the State budget for 2017, it is proposed to support the conclusions of the Committee on Proposals and Amendments and the decisions adopted by the Committee. To recommend to the Supreme Council Bill 5131 to adopt in the second reading and generally as a law in the final edition, which is proposed in the comparative table that is given to you. Thank you, please support the committee's decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u60	Thank you, Your Honor. Thank you for the report. You're staying in the rostrum, Mr. Constantine. Let's go to the right, dear fellows. So I'm going to announce the remedies that were rejected. Amendment number two. Is the National MP Spiowakovsky insisting? No, it doesn't. 3 redundancies. Siewakovsky doesn't insist. 5th, Drevyanka. Don't insist. Six o'clock, Bird. He insists. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u61	Dear colleagues! I would like to point out that the changes to article 24. 1 The budget code that is proposed has significantly worsened the status of the Regional Development Fund. In particular, if article 24.1 is adopted as adopted in the first reading, the funding of this fund will lose its stability. Yes, according to the current text of this article, the State Fund for Regional Development is being established as part of the general fund of the State budget. In the case of the first-reading edition, the Regional Development Fund will be created at the expense of the state budget, including perhaps at the expense of the special funds. At the same time, the difference between the general fund and the special fund, we realize that from the special fund, it's the source of their filling. So we ask you not to aggravate this status and support my amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u62	Thank you. Let's put Amendment 6 to the vote on the demand of the People's Chamber of Birds. Please. [[17:10:50]] For a hundred and Unfortunately, 159 votes. And the next amendment is the 7th People's Deputy Kulichenko. National MP Kulichenko, do you insist? I can't see. National Deputy Timoshenko Julia Volodymyrna, 8th Amendment. Is he insisting? I can't see. 9th Amendment, People's Deputy Levchenko insists. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u63	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223 District, Kiev City. My amendment relates essentially to the same question raised by a fellow birdcatcher. This is about further subjugation and destruction of the mechanism of the State Regional Development Fund. Instead of using this mechanism to reverse, instead of using this transparent mechanism to allocate funds to specific objects in the region, this mechanism is being proposed to continue to level, and in fact to ignore this mechanism, instead of moving more and more into the manual mode that we see today. Now, if you look at this, I'm calling on our TEDsters, the radio audience, the Ukrainian people, to open up all the documents that are related to the budget that we're going to be looking at later today, and you'll see how much there is, if you'll excuse me, for the word "hotels" of the different deputies is taken into account, where every major, many members of the budget committee, each of them is pushing their own stuff. So instead. In order for this not to happen, in fact, to require the State Regional Development Fund. And you're going to suggest that we continue to level it. Please support my amendment to correct this absolutely negative influence.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u64	Thank you, Mr. Yuri. Please, at the request of the People's Deputy Levchenk, put his amendment number nine to the vote. [[17:12:43]] For 113 Sadly, 113 deputies were the only ones who supported her. Next amendment to the 10th People’s Deputies of Buhariev. Is the Bulgarian National MP insisting? I can't see. Then it's amendment 11. Murayev, do you insist? The Murayev National Deputy does not insist. Amendment number 12, People's Deputy Bird. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u65	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to point out that the current edition of the Code of Budget determines that the State Fund for Regional Development is foreseen in scope and is further defined as what the volume should be. We're proposing changes to the Budget Code to replace the word "predicted" with the word "determined," which says that we're not going to have any planning process, no forecasting process, no fund allocation. And that's why the term "determined" is not valid. In order to do this in advance with regard to the Regional Development Fund, we propose leaving the term "predicted" without making any changes. So I ask you to support my amendment and delete the word "definable" and leave the previous line active.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u66	Thank you. Please put to the vote Ms. Bird, Amendment 12. Please vote. [[17:14:16]] For-138 138 deputies, not supported. Next up, 13th. Are you insisting, Victoria? Please, Victoria Bird's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u67	Again, the changes proposed in part two of article 24.1. These changes are unjustifiably giving priority to only one sectoral approach to the use of State Regional Development Fund funds, namely sports infrastructure. In order to make an adequate use of the Regional Development Fund, it seems to me that we need to be able to decide exactly where they are going to be used. And the idea of this fund is that we know that there's support for investment projects. That's why we're proposing that one sector-specific approach should be eliminated and left behind the previous one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u68	Please, let's put the number 13 amendment to Mrs. Bird's vote. [[17:15:33]] For-123 Not supported. Next up, 15th. People's MP Kulichenko. Is he insisting? Don't insist. Thank you. People's MP Pinzenik Viktor Mikhailovich. Please, the microphone. Amendment number 16.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u69	Dear colleagues! My correction is consistent with what Victoria the Birdman said. It refers to the competence for project selection. The changes proposed are proposed to form a project selection working group of not less than half of them are members of the budget committee. It's not a function of MPs, it's right to put it in place, as Victoria the Birdman suggested. It's a function of executive power. So my proposal to remove this hole from the draft law is to support this proposal.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u70	Thank you. Please vote in favour of amendment No. 16 of the People's Deputies of Pinzenika. [[17:16:39]] For-152. 152 people's deputies. Not supported. 17th. Kulichenko is a national deputy. Don't insist. 18th. A bird. He insists, turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u71	Dear colleagues, we are all here in this room supporting the reform of decentralization, and we are talking about giving additional powers to our local governments. At the same time, however, we suggest that we give our own Committee of the Supreme Council on Budgetary Questions additional powers and commit ourselves to agreeing to the allocation of funds by the Regional Development Fund with the Committee of the High Council on Budget Issues, which is obviously undervalued, seems like some of the Committee's efforts to have an excessive impact on the distribution of budgetary resources. That's why I'm actually proposing to exclude this agreement from the Committee on Budget Affairs and allow the territorial communities to really feel the authority, and maybe support for the funding that we're constantly declaring with you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u72	Please vote in favour of amendment No. 18 of the People's Chamber of Birds. [[17:18:03]] For 131 131 people's deputies, Mrs. Victoria, supported you. No correction. The 20th Amendment, the Nedali People's Deputy. Are you insisting? Not you. Don't insist. 21, People's Chamberlain Pisarenko. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u73	Dear colleagues, my amendment proposes such things, in line with the changes proposed by the Cabinet of the Ministers of Ukraine, that local budgets will be translated into commitments to finance public services and energy-efficient health facilities, to maintain education, to compensate for the benefits paid to individual categories of citizens, and to finance vocational schools. For example, according to the planned changes in the funding redistribution system, the budget of Kharkiv in 2017 will be additionally charged to 2.5 billion dollars, with only 590 million dollars to be added. In this regard and in order to avoid the imbalance of local budgets, as a result of which critical areas such as medical, educational, and social spheres may be affected, I propose that a tax deduction of at least 85 percent be made for the income of natural persons for the cities of regional importance. Thank you. Please vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u74	Thank you. Colleagues, please support the amendment made by the People's MP Pisarenko, this is Amendment 21, please support. [[17:19:47]] For a hundred and 156 votes, Mr. Pisarenko, so your amendment is not supported. 22nd National MP Melnik. Is he insisting? Please turn on your college microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u75	Dear colleagues! The point of my amendment is also to redistribute the portion of the subsidies that we give 14.9 billion to maintain education, health care, and to district budgets, it's a vocational education. I propose that some of these costs be transferred through the income tax, namely, 5 per cent for the united communities and 10 per cent for the district budgets. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u76	Please vote in favour of Amendment No. 22 of the People's MP Melnik. [[17:20:48]] For 135 135 votes, not supported. 23 Amendment, People's Deputy Oksana Prodan, Oksana insists? No, it's not. Amendment 24, Yulia Timoshenko, requesting the word Krulko from the faction, please, the national deputy Krulko.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u77	Ivan Krulko, the "Fatherland" faction is an amendment made by the Fatherland faction and signed by the leader of the Yulia Timoshenko faction. Regarding the return of 60 percent of VAT to rural and urban areas. And so that we have equality between all the local governments and the local communities. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u78	Please vote for the proposed amendment. [[17:21:49]] For-136 Your amendment is not supported. 136 votes. Next issue is 25 People's Deputies Sold. Don't insist, Mrs. Oksana. 26th, Mr. Markevich, National MP. Is he insisting? Don't insist. 27th National Deputy Nesterenko. Is he insisting? Don't insist. 28th, Mrs. Belkova. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u79	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, I'd like to draw your attention to this amendment that we're going to vote on right now is the equivalent of the 3038 bill, in which we asked for 5 percent of the rent to be paid. I'm paying attention to all majors who today represent those gas-producing districts, without this amendment, your regions won't get the long-awaited funding to develop your regions. Individually, please comment from the committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u80	Please support Olga Belkovy's amendment. Vote. [[17:23:07]] For 158. Unfortunately, Mrs. Olga, the amendment is not supported. Next amendment to Oleg Berezuk 29th. Are you insisting? Don't insist. Thank you. Next, your honor, the amendment of the People's Deputy of Spiowakovsky, 31st. He insists. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u81	Dear colleagues, I've been calling your attention to nonsensence since Soviet times when schools can't be funded from different budgets. For example, the University is located in the city of Herson, why can the local authority not finance, for example, a dormitory or the development of this university? Dear colleagues, the university that receives, is a state property, must be able to diversify these revenues. And that's why we need to remove this precautionary mechanism and allow the funding of educational and scientific institutions from different budgets. Thank you, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u82	Please support the amendment by the 31st People's Deputies of Spiowakovsky. [[17:24:37]] For-157. You're not getting your amendment, my dear colleague. Next amendment of the Odarchenka People's Deputy. Turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u83	Yuri Odarchenko, Fatherland faction, Hersonian. Dear colleagues, my amendment concerns the financing of vocational and technical education. The proposed project proposes putting almost all the costs of vocational and technical education on local budgets. I suggest in my right hand that vocational and technical education be returned to full funding from the State Budget. No local budget is able to fund vocational and technical education on its own, they just don't have the necessary resources. As a result, the mass closure of the PTU, the destruction of the capacity to prepare labor. It is now almost impossible to find a young person who has a job. We're just destroying our country's future by refusing to finance vocational and technical education from the State Budget. Please vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u84	Please, Your Honor, if you would please press the "yes" button to support the amendment of the 32 People's Deputies of Odarchenka. [[17:26:12]] For-144 Correction not supported. 33rd People's Chamberlain. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u85	Semenha Roman, "The Self-Help Union" faction. Dear colleagues, the law also applies to the financing of vocational and technical education. If we really want to rebuild the economy, we are obliged to provide appropriate professionally trained personnel. And today, the Association of Ukrainian Cities notes a reduction of 70 percent of the government's demand for real labor jobs that our economy is in dire need of today. That is why the State has to love money education, and that is what this work says. We therefore propose that the Budget Code should be supplemented by the rule that the Minosvets should make proposals to the government on the list of occupations of public importance to form an advisory commission consisting of members of the Supreme Council's own committees, Mert's representatives, other representatives of the entire country's organizations. Please support this revision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u86	Thank you. Please vote for those deputies who support the national deputy, Simeoniche, as amended by 33, please. [[17:27:28]] For-141 141 MPs supported the amendment, it's not coming through. 34th is the people's deputy Murayev. Don't insist. 35th National MP Pisarenko. Turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u87	Thank you. Valerius Pisarenko, Kharkiv. Dear colleagues, proposed by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the wording of sub-paragraph "b" in paragraph 7 of the first part of article 87 of the Ukrainian Budget Code includes expenditure for the provision of services for the preparation of qualified workers in vocational and technical institutions under the conditions of public procurement for the professions of state importance, which are approved by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. First of all, it is doubtful that the term "profession of state importance" is itself. And secondly, the Code does not have clear criteria for the qualification of professions that are of general significance, which, according to practice, allows for arbitrary interpretation by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, which is based on the authorization of the approval of a list of such professions and thus leads to a high volatility in the financing of the training of personnel and such professions under the terms of government procurement. Please support the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u88	Thank you, colleague. Please vote for Mr. Pisarenko's amendment number 35. [[17:29:00]] For 124 124 votes. This is not enough to support correction. The next amendment is the people’s representative, Derevyanka. Please turn on the microphone. Thirty-six amendments.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u89	Yuri Derevyanko, political party of Will. Dear colleagues, this amendment applies precisely to the exclusion of this rule, so that the Cabinet of Ministers, by approving this list of professions of state importance, does not reduce the state procurement and funding of the PTU itself, our colleges. Because we understand very well that local budgets cannot attract funding for colleges and PTUs, and shortening this kind of profession will further reduce funding for vocational and technical education. So I'm asking you to support this amendment so that we can save vocational and technical education. We don't have enough footage for industry today to produce. And this amendment will allow the government not to reduce funding to this important area and to have at least the opportunity to teach children, not to shorten PTUs and have normal personnel, manufacturing and work skills. Thank you. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u90	Please vote in favour of amendment 36 announced by the People's Deputy. [[17:30:27]] For 133 133 national deputies supported it. It's deflecting. Next, the 37th Amendment, the People's Deputy Levchenka. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u91	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223 District, Kiev City. Amendments to the Budget Code propose that the Cabinet of Ministers be given the highest authority of the Supreme Council. It's suggested here, in this section, that the Cabinet of Ministers approve the list of professions, quote, "national importance." It's not written in the bill, it's based on which criteria he's approved, and what is the profession of state importance in general. Accordingly, the Cabinet of Ministers will juggle the establishment of vocational schools, particularly, and decide who, where he has, what kind of profession to teach, and where children can learn. It's absolutely wrong, these things have to be regulated at the level of law, not at the level of Kabminu regulations. Accordingly, I urge you to vote in favour of my amendment and to remove the transfer of such powers to the Cabinet of Ministers so that we do not suddenly have very strange professions that seem to be of state importance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u92	Thank you. Please support the amendment announced by National MP Lewchenko, 37th. Who's in? 37th Amendment. Voting, please. [[17:32:18]] For-100 Only 100 deputies supported her. Next amendment to the 41st People's Deputies of Odarchenka. Are you insisting? 41st. Don't insist. Then 42nd People's Deputies Pisarenko. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u93	Thank you. Valerius Pisarenko, Kharkiv. With regard to this proposal. The position on the possibility of spending on the maintenance of vocational education facilities located in cities of district importance, district centres in the area of the preparation of qualified workers under regional budget conditions, are not in line with the provisions of the second article 85 of the Code, according to which local governments of executives of local councils are obliged to ensure the implementation of such expenditure. In addition, according to the Constitution of organ authority. Article 143, the authority of local governments is divided into their own and delegated organs. And it is authority such as this that the State participates in the formation and is obliged to compensate. This is going to be unconstitutional, and so please support my amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u94	Thank you, colleague. Please, who supports the amendment of the 42nd People's Deputies of Pisarenko, please vote. [[17:33:53]] For 105 105 deputies, that's not enough to support your amendment. 43rd People's Derevyanka. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u95	Dear colleagues, this amendment refers to the need for vocational and technical education to be financed from the State budget rather than by the drafters of the bill, so that this funding can be made from local budgets, including budgets of cities of regional importance. Because we are well aware that these costs will be and may not be enough in a large number of cities of regional importance. So I propose to support my amendment in order to continue to finance vocational and technical education at the expense of the state budget. It's not enough that children who are working in vocational and technical education have completed full secondary education, which is the norm guaranteed by the State. I therefore propose to support this amendment and to provide funding from the State budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u96	Thank you. Please, Your Honor, we vote in favour of the proposed amendment No. 43, who supports it. [[17:35:08]] For-143 143 people's deputies have been supported, that's not enough. Levchenko People's Deputy 44 Amendments. Are you insisting? Mr. Yuri.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u97	I'm looking at what's going on in the hall and I'm kind of wondering, although there's nothing to be surprised about. But when the state is actually going to develop a vocational education, it's really centralized, because we don't have enough jobs, because we, I can say, have this in my district in Artema and other factories, people over 60-65 years of age, because young people simply don't have young professionals who could replace these people. So instead of developing a vocational education, they're trying to transfer everything that's relevant to the trade, to the local budgets, thereby essentially continuing the destruction of trade and technology. You know, this actually proves once again that the policies of an active government and the policies of most of the Supreme Council are the policies of an horde. Which she came in, called out all the resources and went on, not interested in the development of our country with you. So I urge you to vote in favour of my amendment, so that you still have a little support for vocational education.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u98	Please, Your Honor, we vote in favour of the proposed amendment of the Levchenk People's Deputies. [[17:36:40]] For 122 122 national deputies were not supported. Now, a minute. Next amendment, your honor colleagues, the 45th National Deputy of Spiowakovsky. Turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u99	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to point out that my amendment concerns the possibility of diversifying the financing of vocational education not only at the expense of the regional order but also at the expense of the state. If we don't write at the expense of state or regional, that means that we ultimately give control and influence to the development of vocational education at the local level. In my opinion, this is not normal, this is not a national approach. And so it doesn't need any extra funds, it's just an opportunity for the state to say at any time, "This is what we're going to finance." So, dear colleagues, please support this amendment. It's not about the cost, it's about the ideology of the attitude and the impact on the development of vocational education. Thank you. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u100	Thank you. Please vote for the proposed amendment. [[17:38:05]] For a hundred and Colleagues, we have almost three hundred amendments. So if anyone doesn't insist, give me a signal, please. But I can see that Capplin insists on his amendment 46. Please turn on his microphone, National Deputy Kaplin.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u101	This is another ideological amendment that the Federation of Ukrainian Trade Unions insisted on. And it also applies to the question of maintaining a vocational institution in our country and regulating the possibility of providing a government order for Ukrainian citizens. We demand, on behalf of the trade unions, that we do not violate a valid constitution that guarantees, especially children, the right to free education. And we ask the hall to support, pay attention, and support the appropriate amendment. The other one. I note the need for the development of a national project, a separate National Project for the Development of Vocational Training and a centralized state-wide scrutiny of the development of this sector and control that, at the local level, due to the non-voting of such amendments and the non-imposing of such changes, the property of the local princes should not be torn apart. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u102	Please confirm this amendment, noma 46, please vote. To support, more loyally. It's not for confirmation, it's for support. [[17:39:44]] For 114 114 only supported your amendment, it's not coming through. Next 47th National Deputy Markevich. Is he insisting? No, it's not. Thank you. 48th, the People's Chamber of Commerce doesn't insist. 49th, Baloga's national MP is not insisting. 50th, Capplin doesn't insist. 51st, Constance doesn't insist. 52nd, Berezuk doesn't insist. 53rd. You didn't signal it. I've now announced 53rd, and the tree girl will announce it. And then you're 50, I'll go back to her. Please, 53rd Mr. Derevyanco, and then Kaplin. Because they raised their hand.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u103	Yuri Derevyanko, political party of Will. 53 The amendment refers to leaving the financing of the State Social Protection Programme, compensation to persons who, in accordance with articles 43 and 48 of the Ukrainian Mining Law, are entitled to free coal or peat briquettes for consumption Please support this amendment so as not to invalidate this social standard. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u104	Thank you. Please, 53 amendments, who's in favour, please vote. [[17:41:11]] For-103 Not supported. Please return to the 50 amendments after the insistence of the national deputy Sergio Kaplin, who did not hear us announce him before.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u105	Madam Vice-President of the Supreme Council, I would like to point out that I hear everyone very well. All your text. And I think that we should also vote on Amendment 50, which again takes a step towards preserving the state order guaranteed by the Ukrainian Constitution for Ukrainian citizens. And once again, with this opportunity, to address the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the professional vice-premiers and ministers, on behalf of the Federation of Ukrainian Trade Unions, we have a separate national project to preserve and develop vocational and technical education and vocational technical institutions in Ukraine. Thus, while preserving the opportunity for our future restored enterprises to be staffed and to gain the right competitive potential compared to our European counterparts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u106	Thank you, colleagues. We heard Sergey Kaplin's proposal, his amendment to 50. I'm asking you to support who's in favor. [[17:42:52]] For-92 92 national deputies supported your amendment. Let's move on. Next up is 54th People's Deputy Levchenka. Are you insisting? Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u107	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223 District, Kiev City. At a time when we see in the draft state budget a desire to raise billions of expenses on a repressive apparatus, on a state apparatus, expenses that will essentially protect the active oligarchic kleptocracy of their own people, and we see that in the draft changes to the budget code that we are currently considering, it is proposed to exclude from the list of state social protection programmes compensation in a large number of unprotected, socially vulnerable persons. This is a continuation of the same totally anti-national policy of an active oligarchy. That is why I call on the normal members of the Supreme Council to show their position and vote in favour of repealing such proposed changes in the format of my amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u108	Please vote for the 54th amendment announced by the People's Deputy Levchenk. [[17:44:23]] For-89 89 votes, that's not enough. Next amendment 55 of the Royal People's Deputy. Don't insist. 56th, Singakowski. Singakovsky, do you insist? No, it's not. 57th, People's Deputy Capplin. Are you insisting? Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u109	This amendment provides for the possibility of retaining benefits for mining workers in compensation for the purchase of briquette coal. I think we should vote and support it. Similarly, the Federation of Ukrainian Trade Unions has been involved in the development of an appropriate amendment and insists, and asks you to vote in favour of this amendment, it refers to a large number of our fellow citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u110	Please vote for the proposed amendment. [[17:45:32]] For 101 101 deputies only supported her, she doesn't pass. 58th People's Deputies, Pisarenko. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u111	Valerius Pisarenko, Kharkiv. This is probably the last attempt to save vocational and technical education. What will happen after you and I have adopted this bill as a whole? The expenses will go down, you and I will get what vocational and technical education depends on the local budgets. We know that the local budgets today have not so many opportunities for development and for financing most of their expenditures. I wanted to go back to the example that I've already read to you and I've been giving you. Which, for example, according to the planned changes in the funding redistribution system for the budget of Kharkiv in 2017 will add to the burden of 2.5 billion, with only 590 million additional revenues. And this will be in most of the cities of Ukraine. So if we have a system of seeing that vocational and technical education should be in the education system of Ukraine, we need to save it. Please support such an amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u112	Please support those colleagues who have heard this offer and consider it appropriate. [[17:47:05]] For-99 Correction not supported. Next up is 59th People's Dereviant. Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u113	Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? I understand that corrections are boring, but we're actually making another attempt to save vocational and technical education. Because we understand very well that local budgets and district budgets, including those that now have a slightly better form this year, will not be able to channel these costs for other important purposes, if we charge these district budgets with vocational and technical education costs, these costs are part of public secondary education and those of children who receive professional jobs. So let's now get away from all of our discussions in the hall, and let's try to support this amendment in order to save vocational and technical education, not to charge the district budgets with these expenses, let the district budgets handle these costs for other important things that 25 years couldn't be funded. Please support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u114	Please vote. [[17:48:25]] For 106 My colleagues, I want to inform you that we still have about 200 amendments left for information. So please give a signal if someone insists on their amendment. 60 amendment, Royal People's Deputy. None. 61 amendment, People's Constance. Don't insist. 62nd, Odarchenko. He insists. Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u115	Yuri Odarchenko, Fatherland faction, Hersonian. Dear colleagues, now a very fashionable topic of decentralization and those communities that are going to unite today, the government has promised very many benefits, promised that they would have very much tax revenue. No one told them that the majority of the benefits promised by the State today relied on their budgets. The bill actually destroys local self-government, the state guarantees people benefits, the benefits of veterans, by the way, the benefits of the disabled of war, the benefits of many families, including transportation. And now by this bill, you're relying on local budgets, at the same time taking away their financial resources. What can be the development of the community if the state takes almost all taxes, but the financing of education, medicine, and aid rests on the state? I'm asking you to keep the benefits to the state, which is the whole point of my amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u116	Please vote. [[17:50:20]] For-94 It's not coming through, your amendment. 63rd People's Deputies, Pisarenko. He insists. Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u117	Dear colleagues, I want you to hear again about what will happen if these amendments are not approved. I want to fully support my colleague who told me that we have decentralization now that can become regional degradation. Much of today’s spending is translated from the national budget to the local budget. I was just giving an example of Harkov, where the difference is that the city gets from having to spend 2 billion dollars, it's just one Ukrainian city. I want us to be very careful about this question that I've just made an amendment to. We should not translate into the budgets of cities and regions the costs of the state today. If not, if you want to pass it on, show me where the extra revenue of the regions is, then decentralization is not going to be a degradation. On the contrary, you're doing it now, you're destroying regions. Thank you. Let's vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u118	Thank you, colleague. Please vote. [[17:51:53]] For 115 115 deputies. Let's move on. People's MP Levchenko, 64th, do you insist? Yes, please, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u119	Yes. Thank you. What he's trying to fix here is, in fact, in these proposed changes, it's a great illustration that we today have the central government in Kiev that doesn't have the will to rule, to run the country, but he has the will to do his own self-sufficient work, and all the real problems that he has to do with the local governments, the local budgets. This is so huge, I'd like to read out this list of benefits that are proposed to be passed on to local budgets, and actually cancel, because local budgets are not going to be able to finance it. But unfortunately, this list is so huge that it takes me two minutes to read it, here's questions and veterans, and many families, disabled people, and what's not in this list is all transferred to local budgets, but funding is not passed on properly to local budgets. The result will be essentially, de facto, the cancellation of these benefits. This is what, in fact, we today have the government that we have today in Kiev. It's oligarchic.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u120	Please vote, Your Honor. [[17:53:25]] For-92 92 deputies. Correction not supported. Next amendment to the 65th National Deputy Krulka, please microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u121	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. In the past weekends, the election was the first in the united territorial communities. You and I have chosen those people to whom a very serious responsibility will now be placed. They need to be supported as much as possible right now. That's why we're going to take this amendment, and this should be compensated by the state, the benefits for a whole range of categories of people who have these benefits according to the legislation and are guaranteed by the Constitution of Ukraine. Of course, when these benefits are translated into local budgets, it will seriously undermine the self - sufficientness of those united communities in which the elections have just passed. So I propose that we support this amendment and recompensate to all the tax categories, compensation for the passage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u122	Please vote for the proposed amendment. [[17:54:42]] For 109 Only 109 deputies supported her. Let's move on. National MP Musai, please microphone. 66 revisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u123	Dear National Deputies! Oleg Musei, 124 constituency, Sokalstina, Red Town. I ask you to support my amendment, which relates to a completely unconstitutional translation into local aid budgets, especially with regard to soldiers and veterans. You know, we've been voting in the Supreme Council for the last two years, and then everyone's telling us beautifully how they're improving social assistance for ATO participants, war participants who have become disabled. Look what you're voting for right now. In fact, all these laws that support the disabled support those who have suffered injuries that have suffered disabilities as a result of the war, canceling their benefits -- but it's just some kind of abuse of our military, of our army now. This is also true of repressives. I believe that the antisocial law is not only non-vote, but it is a catastrophe for our social protection of the military. That's why I'm asking you to back me up.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u124	Please vote on the proposed amendment, who supports it. [[17:56:14]] For-100 It's deflecting. 67th Amendment, Royal People's Deputy. Don't insist. 68th, Murrayev, don't insist. 69th, Sold, doesn't insist. 70th, Spermackowski. I can't see. Don't insist. 71, Baloga, don't insist. 72rd, Ruddick, the National MP, doesn't insist. 73rd, walking, not insisting. [[B in m in s a l in]] I'm sorry. People's MP, Golovajev. Excuse me! Please turn on the microphone. 73rd Amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u125	Vassili Guljava, group "The Rebirth Party." It's just a very simple amendment. It is that whoever gives the benefits must pay for them as well. To date, all benefits have been transferred to local councils. What's going on today? The budget seems to be in the village council or village council, but in the end, it will be gone because the benefits have been passed on. What's going on in the area today? They're making district budgets, but the villages are taking all the money, they say you're going to pay for both the children's food and the roads and everything. I would, of course, like my amendment to be supported. All benefits must be paid from the State budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u126	Please, colleagues, we are voting for the proposed amendment. [[17:57:58]] For-125 125 deputies supported it, so we move on, it doesn't pass. 74th National Deputy Markevich does not insist. 75th, Wooden. Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u127	Yuri Derevyanko, Political Party of Will. Dear colleagues, this is an important amendment in the country in which the war is taking place. Think about what you're offered: it's proposed that the benefits that apply to both the services of communication and other legally provided benefits to war veterans, the persons on whom the Act on the Status of War Veterans is extended, guarantee their social protection so that they can be financed from the local budget. It's not enough that it's also about widow benefits, those that children died on the front, that it's also about military veterans, internal affairs veterans, militia veterans, and it's about the fact that these benefits can't be funded by local budgets. Today, dozens of people are being landed, hundreds of people from transportation, because the local authorities say there is no funds, so we can't pay any benefits. The same will be done with a huge number of categories of people that this amendment wants to leave behind these benefits, which were previously funded by the State budget. Please support this amendment and do not allow it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u128	Please vote for the proposed amendment, colleagues. [[17:59:34]] Z-91 Ninety - one deputies. Let's move on. 76th National MP Melnik. Please, Mr. Melnik's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u129	We have just removed the responsibility of the State for the financing of the benefits. But I want to remind you that the benefits are set by other laws and from whether there are funds in local self-government, the person who has a licence is entitled to free passage. Mine. The essence of my amendment is to leave a valid version of the Budget Code. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u130	Please vote for the proposed amendment. [[18:00:26]] For-98 Ninety - eight deputies supported her, so we move on. 78th is the People's Deputy of Guljeva. Are you insisting? No, it's not. 79th is Ruddick, national MP. Don't insist. 80th, Odarchenko. He insists. Turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u131	Yuri Odarchenko, Fatherland faction, Hersonian. Dear colleagues, well, I'm asking you to take a closer look at this. In this law, the government is engaged in a particular form of cynicism. He cancels the benefits even for miners who have worked hard for many years under very difficult conditions. My bill removes mines and coal miners from the bill. I want you to look at this question from a point of view that today much of the mines are in the area's controllable fighters. If we're giving them up forever, we're now refusing coal miners' aids to show those people in occupied areas that the state in Ukraine is not going to give benefits to coal miners who worked. I would like to support my work and save the benefits to miners who have worked hard in mines for many years.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u132	Please vote for the proposed amendment. [[18:02:06]] For a hundred and 107 deputies supported it. It's deflecting. 81 Amendment, Melnik People's Deputy. Are you insisting? People's MP Melnik doesn't insist. 82nd, Derevyanka. Are you insisting? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u133	Dear colleagues, 82 revisions. This amendment is proposed to leave the State budget subsidy to the local budgets in order to support miners, the miners themselves, who are entitled to compensation under Ukrainian Mining Law for free coal and peat mining. It's not such a big expense, but that hard work of miners, I think the state should respect it and not translate it into a local budget that can't finance it all. Therefore, I would like to support the continuation of this expenditure at the expense of the State budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u134	Vote, please. [[6:03:13]] For-99 99 votes. They didn't support your amendment. National MP Rudik insists on returning to his 79th amendment because he didn't hear us announce it. Please, microphone to the people's MP Rudik.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u135	Dear colleagues. I ask you to leave the article. paragraph 1 Excuse me, article 102 of the Budget Code in its original form, by deleting paragraph 8 of the first bill: respect for constitutional rights and guarantees for the population by the State. It will leave substantial benefits to those who have special merit before the Father: veterans of work, victims of Nazi persecution, persons who have been released from military service who have become disabled during military service, and citizens who have suffered as a result of the Chernobyl disaster. Please put to the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u136	Please vote for the proposed amendment. I remind you, this is the 79th amendment. [[18:04:25]] For 121 121 deputies, that's not enough. The correction is being rejected. Please proceed with the amendment of the 83 People's Deputy Levchenk. Are you insisting, Yuri? Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u137	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223 District, Kiev City. This amendment relates to what we discussed earlier. This is about the slow cancellation of the benefits and the transfer of the corresponding expenses to local budgets. This is specifically true, this amendment, the question of miners -- what was mentioned, in fact, earlier. When we have a whole field of coal right now, well, for objective reasons in particular, we might as well not abuse those people who have already given up. The best years of their lives have put their health on coal. It's actually not a lot of people, it's not really. It's not about hundreds of thousands, it's about tens of thousands. Yet, they are still offered the same benefits. Regrettably, I have to say about the continuation of the antinational policy taken by the active oligarchic kleptocracy. Please support my amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u138	Please vote for the proposed amendment. [[18:05:52]] For-92 92 deputies. Let's move on. The 84th People's Deputy of the Royal. Don't insist. 85th Capplin. Don't insist. 86th Constantavich. Don't insist. 87th Pisarenko. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u139	Thank you. Valerius Pisarenko, Kharkiv. I wanted to go back and my amendment is about this and it says that the individual positions of this bill, they're unconstitutional, that's what many of my colleagues are talking about here, and I need to understand that if you see on the table that, although there's no support for this bill, there are 226 votes to be submitted to the Constitutional Court today. I would like to remind you that according to the requirements of part three of the 142 Constitution of Ukraine it is established that the State participates in the formation of local government budgets, financially supports local self-government, and the costs of local self-government bodies resulting from government decisions are compensated by the State. Today, the State places a great deal of responsibility on local self - government, which cannot then be compensated from the state budget. If we go with you now and we don't support a city like Kharkiv and many other cities in Ukraine, we may have a major social collapse by the end of the year. Thank you. Come on.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u140	Heard your offer. We vote, please, on the colleagues who support it. [[18:07:37]] For-95 95 votes, that's not enough. Let's move on. 88th Murray's People's Deputy. Don't insist. 89 amendment, People’s Deputy Zubac, to introduce a group of national MPs who tabled the amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u141	Lubomir Zubac, Self-Help faction. In fact, changes to the Budget Code remove the State’s responsibility for granting subsidies for the transport of benefits to citizens. Self-help thinks it's wrong, because it's a social function, and even when it's delegated to local self-government, it has to be supported by funds. But I would like to quote the words of the present Prime Minister Vladimir Groysman, who said on February 18, this year when he was still head of Parliament. He said the following. When the government introduced a package of laws, it stated that free travel benefits could be compensated by local budgets. So there was a translation element from the state budget, but it's a government benefit to local budgets that's definitely unacceptable. I have a question: what has changed in the world view of the current prime minister of Ukraine in six months in terms of local self-government? Guys, let's think about this. Now it's a dwindling fiscal decentralization, and tomorrow we'll start usurping power -- economic and political.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u142	The position is clear. Dear colleagues, we vote. Who supports this amendment by a group of national deputies? [[18:09:23]] For the 180. This amendment is not supported. 90th Amendment of the People’s Deputy Musia. Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u143	Dear National MPs, Oleg Musei. The People's Control political party advocates leaving 102 articles in the budget code. And that's why we're proposing to cancel the amendment, to reject it more precisely, the changes to this article. You'll see what you're up to. You go to the feast for children and children with disabilities. Well, is it the end of the cynicism of the current government that the children with disabilities take away the last? These are disabled children, these are the most vulnerable categories. In addition, you take care of yourself and tell us that Ukraine is to flourish. And family homes, family houses that have foster children, you take the basics for living and for living. People are good, think! But that's not something to vote on at all. So that's why I'm asking you to confirm my amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u144	Thank you. Please vote for the proposed amendment. [[18:10:49]] For-94 Not supported. 94 votes. Baloga, National MP, 91st. Don't insist. 92nd, Spermackowski. Don't insist. 93rd, Markevich. Don't insist. 94th, Melnik. Don't insist. 95th, Derevyanka. He insists. Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u145	Dear colleagues, I would like to continue with my colleagues' speech to explain to whom this will apply. This will apply to subsidies to all local budgets. And in every local community there are people who have taken children, who have become guardians, who have taken children from family houses, who have created these houses that have taken children, and they have been living in them for over a year now. It is these people and these children who want to help and do not want to give them money. They also want to avoid financing the benefits of those people who have become veterans who have become war invalids, who are now thousands, tens of thousands. So, dear friends, if the government thinks the government thinks it's all financed by local budgets, it's not, they can't finance it. Let's support my amendment so that we don't take away all our people, the heroes of the people and the work and the wars and those who are fighting for our children today, don't take away those benefits. Please support my amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u146	Do you insist on voting? Please vote. [[18:12:34]] For 106 The amendment is not supported by you. Next amendment to the 96th, People's Deputy Levchenka. Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u147	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223 District of Kiev. This amendment is the last attempt to amend, however, not to pass on a colossal list of benefits, social benefits to the most socially vulnerable populations to local budgets. So essentially the last attempt to keep these benefits, the payments, they don't cancel, because if they're passed on to the local budgets, they're actually going to be cancelled. I call on the Mayors, I now call on the conscious people's deputies to vote for it. But I'm talking to our TVs and radios. I ask you very much to record who is voting for the amendment. Find out who's voting for this terrible bill in its final version when it's in general, if this amendment is not taken into account. Because when these people come to you and tell you that it's not their fault that it's so bad in the state that you remind them that it's their fault. And to draw conclusions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u148	Please vote for the proposed amendment. [[6:14:07]] For 106 Not supported. The next 97th, National Deputy Krulco does not insist. He insists. Please, microphone to the People's Deputy Krulke.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u149	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues! Once again, I would like to remind you that all benefits to socially vulnerable groups are guaranteed by the Constitution of Ukraine, guaranteed by appropriate legislation. And we cannot remove these benefits from the government budget by transferring them to local budgets, leaving all these liabilities in other laws. This is totally unfair in relation to the territorial communities, to the united communities. And so I would ask the MPs to support this amendment and thus restore the Constitution by returning the guaranteed compensation benefits from the state budget of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u150	Please, 97 revisions. Vote. [[18:15:22]] For-98
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u151	The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, I'd like to address the entire hall. We've only been through half the amendments. I very much ask you only where the very principles of positions are, where it is very important, to insist. We can be both by the fifth and the sixth mornings. There's no question we'll all be out by five in the morning. I'm just asking for responsibility. This is the first budget law. We already have law 32 ready, and the table is comparatively distributed. I simply urge the national MPs very much only to insist on voting. Next 98th, Royal. Is it insisting? No, it doesn't. 99th, Sold. Don't insist. 100th, Odarchenko. Don't insist. He insists. Please, Odarchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u152	Yuri Odarchenko, Fatherland faction. You know, I'm going to the city heads and city council members right now to take a close look at what's going on in the hall. There is a majority in the room that is today voting on this bill, which translates most of the benefits into local budgets. The bill also relies on local budgets to finance energy carriers, to vote on trade and technology. Look, Groissman, by covering up the words "decentralisation," is now trying to budget the republican budget by transferring all expenses to local budgets. Local budgets can't finance it, the benefits will disappear, and the guilty people will consider it not Groysman, but Dustenka, but the local councils. I am a national MP, but I have never seen such cynicism in the past, and I have had the courage to admit that it is they who cancel the benefits and shut down schools. A.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u153	Dear colleagues, I would like to remind you, during the talks, to speak in essence of the amendment, essentially the amendment. Do you insist on voting? I'm putting to the vote the amendment of 100 of Odarchenk's people's deputies. Whoever supports this amendment, please vote. Please vote. [[6:17:55]] For 1052 The decision is not made. Colleagues, let's move on to a more intense chapter. 101st, Spermackowski. Don't insist. Is Sieowakovsky insisting? Very good. Please, the singer's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u154	Dear Andrey Volodymyrovich! Dear colleagues! I'm just paying attention, I understand, there won't be any votes. But that's the point of 101 revisions. It's simple. The hybrid financing system, when part of the community in the school receives funds, wages for government budget subsidies, and part at the expense of the local community, will be the situation that has taken place with the vocational education sector when the part of the group does not receive a payday at the right time. So I'm just talking to Kabmin, realizing that the amendment won't work. That if there is no appropriate mechanism, in January large groups of people in educational institutions will not receive their wages at the proper time. In order to avoid social tension, it is a very big request to work out the mechanism as a 14.9 billion dollar bill to finance people who do not receive state aid. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u155	Do you insist on voting? I am voting on amendment 101 of the People's Deputy of Spiowakovsky. Whoever supports this amendment, please vote. Please vote. [[18:19:33]] For the 120th. The decision is not made. 102nd, Derivyanka. He insists. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u156	Yuri Derevyanco's Will Party. Dear Andriy Volodymyrovich, your colleagues, you say that to respond only to the important amendments that apply to this law. You know, I don't know if there are any more important amendments that relate to education, when the government proposes to finance today from an educational subsidy solely to pay the billing. But not to fund all the necessary other expenses that enable teachers to have normal conditions for teaching and to have the need to finance these additional costs that exist today. So can this local budget be funded? Of course he can't. This means that we're predetermined when this quality of education is not sufficient, when power or heating is down, or something else. So, Your Honor, I ask you to support this amendment, not to allow this state of affairs. And I suggest that the electorate be closely monitored for which factions, which MPs, how they vote. Because the problem will be that education will not have enough money, we will face it next year. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u157	Do you insist on voting? Those who support the amendment of 102 people’s deputies, please vote, colleagues. Please vote. [[18:21:08]] For a-117. It's not a decision you make, colleagues. 103rd. Rudik. Don't insist. 104th. He insists, doesn't he? Rudik. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u158	Dear colleagues! The substance of the amendment is simple enough. We've excluded "nepededagogical workers" from those who have the opportunity to get the necessary payments. Please leave article 103.2, delete "pedagogical workers" from it, and this will make it possible to get a salary for all the people working today in the education system. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u159	Thank you. I put to the vote the amendment of 103 people's deputies Rudik. Whoever supports this amendment, please vote, colleagues. [[18:22:04]] For the 110. The decision is not made. 104th. The miller. Don't insist. 105th. I've been walking. Melnik insists. Yeah? Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u160	Dear friends, by introducing the term "pedagogical workers," we have really created a problem. So there are two ways to solve this problem: either do it the same way as in health care by removing the term "pedagogical workers," or give a protocol commission to the Ministry of Education to confirm the list of pedagogical workers. So we're dealing with this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u161	Do you insist on voting? He doesn't insist on voting. 105th. I've been walking. Don't insist. 106th. Davidenko. Don't insist. 107th. Moses. He insists. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u162	Oleg Musei, 124th District, Sokalshina, Red Town. Dear National Deputies! I'm asking you to support my amendment to the effect that translation is so completely irresponsible and completely apheristic, I think, a way for the local budgets to finance the technical staff of our public education schools and their entire utility costs will lead to the destruction of all schools, only in a different way. You know, I'm particularly talking to those who were, members of the Maidan Dignity Revolution. If any of the current government leaders who have come to Midan's waves and are now trying to run the state said at least one word about what they're going to do, I think they'd probably run away just like the one we're looking for, Victor Fedorovich Janukovich. So I think that fate will probably catch up with you sooner or later. So please support my amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u163	Thank you. I'm betting on an amendment to the 107th National MP, Musia. Whoever supports this amendment, please vote. [[18:24:18]] For 112 The decision is not made. 108th, Odarchenko. Don't you insist? He insists, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u164	Dear colleagues! Yuri Odarchenko, Fatherland faction. I'm asking you to vote for my amendment and make one more attempt to preserve vocational education. See what's happening today, the law proposed by the Cabinet of Ministers suggests that the state will finance exclusively the payment of teachers in part of secondary education. Who's going to pay for the public services of PTU, the salaries of teachers who actually study the labor professions, doesn't make sense? I am responsible for saying that the adoption of this law in today's edition will simply destroy the professional world. I don't know where, in what area, is there enough money to fund these facilities? I ask you to vote on the amendment and to stop this affair of Kabmina, when it is guaranteed benefits, the guaranteed right of the Constitution to education of the State translates them into local budgets that do not have funds, effectively cancels them.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u165	I'll bet you an amendment to the 108 People's Deputy Odarchenk. Whoever supports this amendment, please vote. [[6:25:49]] For-99 The decision is not made. 109th, Dekhtyarczuk, does not insist. 110th, Pisarenko, insists, turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u166	Dear colleagues! Still, I want to continue with our suggestions to listen to local communities and, in particular, to Kharkiv. According to the proposed wording, the portions of article 103 of the Ukrainian Budget Code refer only to the payment of work by teaching staff, rather than the payment of current expenses by appropriate educational institutions, as provided for by the valid requirements of the Code. I believe that under such conditions the funding of educational institutions will have considerable difficulties in paying their other current expenses, taking into account, inter alia, a significant increase in tariffs. For example, in Kharkiv alone, the extra pressure on the city’s budget is 850 million dollars to pay for the workers’ work. In addition, 433 million more will be needed to pay for the use of electricity. Let us support this amendment and prevent the destruction of local communities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u167	Thank you. Those who support the amendment of the 110th People’s Deputies of Pisarenko, please vote. Please. [[18:27:15]] For the 180. The decision is not made. 111th, Berezuk. Semenha, please, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u168	Semenha Roman, self-help faction. Dear Ukrainians, first of all, I'd like to address you to what's going on in the hall today. The bill provides for the looting of the budgets of cities, communities, and villages. Kharkiv's development budget alone will be robbed in 2017 by a billion 200 million dollars. The budgets of small cities and villages will simply be destroyed. Instead, what does the government tell us? The budget provides some 15 billion dollars, which will be distributed manually. Colleagues, this is primarily a financial usurpation of power, because tomorrow these city heads, village heads, will become slaves to the heads of government, government officials. You can't let that happen. Because today the government is headed by Mr. Groissman, in fact, as Go Great for budgetary decentralization: I gave birth to you, and I will kill you. The Self-Help faction calls on the government, a fellow member of the MP's corps not to allow today's budget collapse. Only the power of the state is in the power of powerful communities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u169	Thank you. I'm putting to the vote amendment 111 here is a group of deputies. Who will support Amendment 111, please vote. Please. [[18:28:51]] For 1052 The decision is not taken. 112th, Levechenko. Is he insisting?
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u170	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223 District, Kiev City. Now this bill is essentially proposing to destroy vocational and technical education. Now these standards that I have and that I'm trying to correct, they want to start or get secondary education, of course, when it's proposed that education subsidies apply exclusively to work without current costs. It seems that Mr. Groissman and Finance Minister Daniluk and other co-workers have not actually entered school, of course, in Ukraine in the last few years. We have not seen the situation in which this school is not aware of the problems of these schools. If they think that you can just simply transfer huge amounts of money to local budgets that can't bear that kind of cost. This will, of course, result in further degradation of secondary education, destruction of the material base. Under no circumstances should you vote for such things if, of course, you are a normal MP.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u171	Do you insist on voting? Anyone who supports the amendment of the 112 People's Deputies of the Levchenk, please vote. [[18:30:18]] For 101 The decision is not taken. 113th, Krulko. He insists. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u172	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues, look what we're about to have two classes of school workers. One class is pedagogical workers who will be funded by the State Budget education grant, and the other class is all technical workers who are equally important for schools, but somehow their salaries will be paid from the local budget. That's what this amendment is about. Let's re-establish what was in the State budget when educational subsidies financed both educational workers and technical staff in educational institutions, without which these educational institutions simply cannot function. Just like the pay of utilities and the maintenance of educational institutions. Then it will really be the realization of the functions that the Constitution of Ukraine stipulates that education, secondary education is guaranteed by the State. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u173	I'm putting to the vote the amendment of 113 people's deputies Krulka. Whoever supports this amendment, please vote. [[18:31:39]] For-95 The decision is not taken. 114th, Kugel, turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u174	The Fatherland faction, Kugel. Mr. Groissman, we're on the phone right now with this bill, the Association of Cities and the Association of Rural and Rural Councils, and they're asking you to remind them that they told you that they can't be transferred without money. You were the mayor, and you know it. There's a plumber going through here: 100 people are yelling for funding local councils, for preserving local self-government, for decentralization, for your reform, and the rest of them for the corridors of the State Budget. This is the price of today’s vote. The Fatherland faction claims, after each vote, to print out who, like, in which districts did not vote for local self-government, for the country council, for a united community, and lead to the electorate. Please confirm, just like Krulka: save school retention at the expense of the state budget.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u175	One minute, Prime Minister, he was approached. And I'll give you an answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u176	Thank you very much. Mr. Head, honourable colleagues of the people's deputies, I would like to state with full responsibility that the system of full financial decentralization is being preserved. And I want to remind Fatherland, not in 2015, not in 2016, not in 2017, you didn't support or support decentralization in the country. Decentralization is supported by all the other political forces that are present in Parliament, for which I am very grateful. Now, as far as I'm concerned. You look at your vote. And now for the local budgets. Local budgets were increased by 44 billion dollars compared to the previous year, in 2016. Each is increasing more than 50 percent of each local budget. In addition, a sound financial base and a basis for self-sufficient budgets have been established today and are development budgets. That's why we think it's from. Changes in the excise system will allow local budgets to include about two billion extra dollars, 7.7 billion from the minimum wage increase, and there are enough of these. We expect that from that base there will be an increase in local budgets by another 25 percent, at least, in 2017. I hereby declare as co-author of financial decentralization in the country, the local budgets will be completely filled, they will allow for the development of the territorial communities, and I declare this responsiblely as co-author and as prime minister of the country. Thank you very much and ask all the national deputies to support what has been done on the committee. I have a personal responsibility for this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u177	Thank you. I'll give you a chance to say it when it's fixed. 115th. Yeah, 114th, we haven't voted yet. Who supports the 114th amendment of the Kugel People's Deputies, please vote. [[18:35:20.]] For-97 The decision is not taken. 115th is Ilyuk. Don't insist. 116th, Constance. It's Chewchenka, Batenka. They don't insist on making any adjustments. 117th, Timoshenko. Turn on two minutes. The substance of the amendment, please. 117th.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u178	Dear colleagues, I'm not addressing the room we're in right now, because unfortunately, in this room, a hundred people, one hundred national deputies, are now just fighting to stop local self-government. Everyone else, I'm sure, will vote for the most cynical bill I've ever remembered while I'm in Parliament. What does this bill do? Basically. First, villages, villages, and cities, which have not been united into united communities, are deprived of their own income on the basis of a tax on the income of individuals. They have zero, you know, zero. This means that they are thus totally forced into united communities because without income the budget cannot live. And if the community is said to have not voluntarily united in paws, it is not given its own income base. But at the same time, they're giving up some of their funding obligations, including technical education workers, including residential services, energy services, but they don't give it any money. Plus the benefits, including orphans, children with disabilities. Would you please tell me the more immoral law you've ever seen in the walls of the Supreme Council?Oh, my God! And that's why we demand that, first of all, villages, villages and cities of district subordination give a tax on the income of individuals as their own base. And secondly, if you're giving authority to budget places, give up your financial resources. This has never been the case with local communities — rather than decentralization of their destruction. Don't vote for this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u179	Are you insisting on a 117-seat vote? Anyone who supports the 117th draft of the People's Deputy Timoshenko, please vote. Please. [[18:38:23]] For-97 The decision is not made. Next. Guys, I'm talking again. First of all, to act essentially as a fixer. Secondly, I ask only in principle questions when you see that this is a matter of principle for you to take the word. Next. It's a royal one. 118. Don't insist. 119th. Muraev. Don't insist. 120th. Rudik. Don't insist. 121st, Melnik. Don't insist. 122nd, Walking. Don't insist. 123rd, Levechenko. He insists, doesn't he? Turn on the Levchenko microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u180	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223 District, Kiev City. First of all, I'm talking to the chairman. I remind the relevant rules of the Rules that, in the second reading, only deputies who have amended or who insist on the confirmation of an amendment may speak. Groissman, Daniluk, or anyone there -- Wasa, Petya, Feda -- can't actually speak, because it's the Supreme Council of Ukraine, yes, not some brothel. It seems that this would be the case, although unfortunately the conduct of most deputies tends to lead to a different opinion. My amendment, in fact, concerns once again the issue of educational subsidy, which cannot be passed on to the places where public payments to secondary education are financed. This is totally unacceptable, this is going to lead to further degradation of secondary education. And this will also result in tremendous pressure on the budgets of local communities. It's a load that's not covered by the funding that it's passing on. This law about what Mr. Groissman is saying is not really a transfer of this funding. It's totally not a mere song, it's a mere arithmetic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u181	Whoever insists on amendment 123 of the People's Deputy Levchenk, please vote. [[18:40:29]] For-97 The decision is not made. 124th, Barresuk. Don't insist. 125th, Krulko. Don't insist. 126th, Kugel. He insists. 126th, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u182	With this right, I propose to delete the editorial that allows for the continuation of the following provisions of the Budget Code, which, in the case of the provision of the full amount of the current expenditure for the budget period at the expense of the said subsidy and in the absence of and time-consuming budgetary debt for the protected expenditure of the listed educational institutions, this subsidy may be based on their capital expenditure, the stated subsidy, the subsidy may be directed towards the implementation of measures to optimize the network of the listed educational institutions. So once again we say this so that we don't destroy it personally in the village of the school, we don't have the right to transfer it completely to the local budgets. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u183	Thank you. Whoever supports the amendment of the 126 people's deputies, please vote. [[18:41:52]] For-99 The decision is not made. 127th, Ilyuk. Don't insist. 128th, Pisarenko. Don't insist. 129th, Ruddick. Don't insist. 130th, Melnik. Don't insist. 131st, Sold. Don't insist. 132nd, Derevyanka. Don't insist. 133rd, Pisarenko. Don't insist. 134th, Melnik. Don't insist. 135th, Beresuk. Don't insist. 136th, this is Chevchenko, Batenko. Don't insist. He insists, doesn't he? Who will act? Constankevich, please. Turn on the microphone, Konstankevitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u184	Irina Konstanovic, Ukrainian Patriot Union of UCROP. Dear Mr. Head and honourable MPs, I wanted to emphasize the antisocial, anti-human and anti-Ukrainen nature of the law, because today we have buried a trade union with you today. We're doing this now with secondary education, when we're dividing the teachers and not the teachers. And when we talk about the change being only 17 years old, I want to inform you that local officials are now preparing orders to reduce workers. And especially in Volina, Manevicki district, there is already an order to shorten only one area of 70 technical workers. We destroy secondary education in villages, towns, and cities. I'm asking you to take into account the changes that have been prepared by the Ukrainian Union of Patriots: UKROP. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u185	Thank you. Do you insist on voting? Whoever supports Amendment 136, please vote. This is a group of authors. Anyone who supports it, please vote. [[18:43:59]] For-88 The decision is not made. 137, Rudik. Don't insist. 138th, Odarchenko insists. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u186	Yuri Odarchenko, Fatherland faction, Hersonian. I want to prove to the reformers who said that they were responsible for decentralization, that schools are now closing down in villages after the unification of communities because there is not enough money. And my amendment says that, under any circumstances, the amount of education subsidies should ensure the functioning of a network of educational institutions that existed on September 1, which precedes the year of adoption of the budget. I'm asking you to introduce an additional guarantee for the education community. We have to make it clear to the government that the amount of education subsidies should be sufficient for the functioning of all educational institutions that exist today. Elections took place in the so - called united communities, and the next day after the elections, the process of eliminating schools outside the community center began. People are now being told that their school is closing down because there is no money.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u187	Thank you. Anyone supporting amendment 148 of the Odarchenka People's Deputies, please vote. [[18:45:36]] Z-91 138th amendment is not made, you don't make a decision. 139th, Kugel. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u188	Alexander Kugel, Fatherland faction. The Fatherland faction continues to save local budgets, and we're going to put every correction on confirmation, because whether there will really be self-government in Ukraine, it's a confirmation of whether there will be a democratic country here, whether there will be a centralized dictatorship and the destruction of local self-government and villages. What I'm saying is that the school they want to transfer to the village council today, where they have 21 children, yes. But take them 40 kilometers to another school. You didn't do anything about it. And the state doesn't help. You're saying you gave them everything. We've just passed all the villages, and they're horribly waiting for this bill to be passed. I demand support.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u189	Whoever supports Amendment 139, please vote. [[18:46:54]] For-93 The decision is not made. 140th, Constance. Don't insist. 141st, Pisarenko. Don't insist. 142nd, Levechenko. He insists. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u190	Today, the Supreme Council of Oligarchic kleptocrats has dealt with the trades of the world, and it has already dealt with secondary education. Now number three, he wants to deal with medicine, because it's also proposed in this bill that the medical subsidy exclude expenses on utilities and also on current expenses. Also, leave essentially only the payment of the work of medical workers. At the same time, the Cabinet of Ministers can distribute a reserve of medical subsidies and determine the direction of the use of such expenditure by hand. I mean, who's going to run, who's going to make a deal, who's going to promise this oligarhat eternal loyalty, so they're going to get something, and they're not going to get it. Well, actually, what does the Supreme Council do? Of course, such changes cannot be made, no doubt the medical subsidy should remain the same as it is in terms of the expenditure it is referring to. You can't cut the cost of medical subsidies because it'll lead to further degradation, and thus to our completely debilitated medicine.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u191	Thank you. So I'm betting on a vote of 142. Whoever supports the 142th amendment, please vote. [[18:48:45]] For 109 The decision is not taken. 141th Pisarenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u192	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! 141. Amendments relating to the financing of municipal and energy services. This is going to be a big problem for the city, for the regions. So please support my amendment. For example. The additional pressure on Harkov’s budget in the case of the adoption of such a rule will amount to 135 million dollars. In addition, count what I told you before, that only in Harkov's example, we're going to get billions of dollars of unfunded government budget. It's anti-constitutional, it's not normal, it's not supporting regions, it's total regional degradation. So I would like to support this amendment and still take a stand for local self - government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u193	Whoever supports Amendment 141, please vote. [[18:50:03]] For-123 The decision is not taken. 143rd National Deputy Timoshenko insists. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u194	The next item of this immoral law is that all Ukrainian medical institutions funded by local budgets will be given new powers, a new obligation to finance all housing services and the payment of all energy services. And the government doesn't give money to do that. In other words, the commitment to finance from the state budget is transferred to the local budget, and money is left in the central budget. This will mean the underfunding of all Ukrainian medical facilities funded by local budgets. It's not just a budget balance, it's essentially a health blow to Ukraine. I think that after this law has been voted on, we will print and pass it on to every literal apartment that voted in favour of this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u195	Whoever supports Amendment 143, please vote. Please. [[18:51:37]] For-119 The decision is not made. 144th, Kugel. Don't insist.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u196	I insist, I raised my hand! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u197	You can't see much behind the tree. Please, Kugel.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u198	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we're out of the world, all the benefits to the warlords, to the disabled, to the orphans. Now we have completed general education. Now we have approached health care. The question is whether there will be at least a hospital service center, the FAP, as they call them, in the village. Will there be at least a hospital in the local community? Because it's more expensive to keep utilities than it is to pay the entire community. And that's why we're calling for an amendment to keep medical institutions on the state budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u199	Whoever supports the amendment of the 144 people's deputies, please vote. [[18:52:52]] For 104 104, you don't make a decision. 145, National Deputy Krulko insists, turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u200	Ivan Krulko faction of Fatherland. Ladies and gentlemen, let us, at least in this context, proceed according to the State principle. Well, how can you keep these medical facilities in place to transfer them to local budgets. I am fully supportive of my colleagues who have come to this conclusion and have sought to preserve the medical subsidy in its entirety not only for the payment of medical workers but also for the maintenance of medical facilities. And I believe that if the State guarantees free medicine for Ukrainian citizens, the proper maintenance of medical facilities and the payment of employees of these facilities should also be from the State budget, not from the local budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u201	Thank you. Who will support the 145th Amendment of People's Deputy Krulka, please vote? [[18:54:19]] For 105 105-za. The decision is not made. 146th, Murray. Don't insist. 147th, Royal. Don't insist. 148th, Odarchenko. Don't insist. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u202	Yuri Odarchenko faction Hersonian Fatherland. Dear colleagues, my rights allow me to refund the subsidy to medicine in full measure, including energy. Look at the strange logic that Prime Minister Groysman expressed in this room. In fact, he destroys the rights guaranteed to the people of the Constitution by his actions. He stated that the payment of energy supplies should be put on local budgets. And he said, under this logic, he was eliciting the following arguments that the construction of local communities, the heat energy of local communities, means they have to pay the tariffs. In fact, he transferred inconsequential costs to local communities on their shoulders, he said nothing at the time that gas belonged to local communities and electricity, and then local communities would have to set tariffs on electricity and gas, and then its requirements would be fair. Please support my amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u203	Who supports Amendment 148, please vote. [[18:55:52]] For 106 The decision is not made. 149th. Rudik. Don't insist. 150th. Tree tree. He insists. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u204	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues! Yuri Derevyanko, Will Party. This law not only destroys education, it destroys medicine. I want to remind you that according to the 149th article of the Constitution, it is forbidden to shorten the network of medical facilities. But it seems that this law is designed to make it easy for the lack of funding, including the financing of utility services that have "flighted into space" and to raise tariffs to be a question of maintenance, including medical facilities. I mean, all the national deputies, when they took an oath, swore to uphold the Constitution. Thus, the Constitution provides that we must ensure that all citizens have access to medical services, and that public and municipal services are provided free of charge, that local governments cannot pay municipal services at such cosmic prices. So I propose to support my amendment, and I propose that these expenses, which have been protected by this year, remain the cost of medical subsidies and that they be paid from the state budget. Thank you. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u205	Thank you. Those who support Amendment 150, please vote. [[18:57:24]] For 109 The decision is not made. 51st. Beresuk. Don't insist. He insists. Irina Sisoyenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u206	Dear colleagues, by transferring hospital maintenance to local budgets, in fact, local budgets may not have the financial capacity to maintain large hospitals. District hospitals are particularly at risk, which can simply run out of light and heat because the district budgets will have no income. I would also like to draw the attention of the government to the agreed order of 30 November of this year, which provides for payment in the following year of the guaranteed government medical aid package for payment for medical services. If we're talking about paying for medical services, we understand that there's going to be a cost, the cost of such medical services, so the price is going to be self-sustainable. The cost of medical care, including the cost of work, will be included in the cost of depreciation.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u207	Please finish 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u208	And including the cost of health care, the cost of utilities and energy services will be included. So we need to understand that, in essence, hospital utilities will be financed, both from local budgets, by such a bill and, in particular, by the state budget, by paying for medical services.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u209	Thank you. Whoever supports amendment 151, please vote. [[18:59:29]] For a hundred and The decision is not made. 152nd, Ilyuk. Don't insist. 153rd, Neda. Don't insist. 154th, Walking. Don't insist. 155th, Spermackowski. Don't insist. 156th, Musi. Is he insisting? Musi, 156, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u210	Dear colleagues! Oleg Musei, National Control political party. I'm clearly asking you to support my amendment, but in my comment, I want you all to look at the honourable national MPs, at the conclusion of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Legal Department, which is added to the material we've been given. So I want to make a very serious statement about the attempted constitutional coup on the part of the government, which violates these legal conclusions of the ten articles of the Constitution of Ukraine. See, in a legal conclusion, this law violates ten articles of the Constitution and two decisions of the Constitutional Court in 2005 and 2010. People are good, but come on, finally! This is definitely not a vote for him! Please support my amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u211	Thank you. Whoever supports amendment 156, please vote. [[19:00:53]] For 109 109-yes. The decision is not made. 157th, walking, not insisting. 158th, Sold, doesn't insist. He's been walking all the time, isn't he? Please, 157th, walk.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u212	Vassili Gulyaev, Rebirth Party. Today, it is not possible to leave one medical institution alone and to pay for these insurmountable utilities. We are in a very short time if we now vote back on this issue when the hospital will be closed, because the local authorities today will not be able to cope with the huge tariffs that we are proposing to date. That was to say, energy-efficient technologies had to be implemented, which was proposed by the Rebirth Party in its bill, and then the payment of public services could not be transferred to the localities, and today it is not possible in principle. Today, utilities must remain at the state level and the State must pay. And once we've made all the energy efficiency, of course, we'll have to put it in place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u213	Thank you. Who supports Amendment 157, please vote. [[19:02:16]] For 121 The decision is not made. 158th, Sold, doesn't insist. 159th, Melnik, don't insist. 160th, Rudik doesn't insist. 161th, Ilyuk doesn't insist. 163, Krulko, don't insist. 164th, Royal, does not insist. 165th, Drevijanka, does not insist. 167th, Neda, don't insist. 169th. Rudik. Don't insist. 170th, Walking. Don't insist. 171, Odarchenko. He insists. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u214	Dear colleagues, I ask you to support my amendment, which will ensure the financing of all health care facilities that exist today. Dear colleagues! I call on the local councils and the city heads: I very much ask you when you adopt the budget at the local sessions, you have to be aware that you have to make absolutely clear demands on the central budget to be funded, including energy supplies, to be funded. Because today the government of Groysman has done everything he can to budget the republican budget to translate the costs of the state budget into local budgets. And citizens must realize that in local budgets there is never enough money to provide the benefits and guarantees of the Constitution that people in our country are given. Please support my amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u215	Whoever supports Amendment 171, please vote. [[19:04:09]] For-97 The decision is not taken. 172nd, Derivatives. Don't insist. 173rd, Seminy. Don't insist. 178th, Dennis doesn't insist. 179th, Pinzenic insists. 179th, Pinzenik, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u216	Dear colleagues, this is about the amendment to the rule of law, which essentially provides for the transfer to the Committee of Budgets of approval of the Pension Fund and Social Insurance Funds, because the government cannot accept the budget without approval, without agreeing with the Committee of Budgets. First of all, I want to say that this is not a function of a budget committee. If it is to be delegated to Parliament, Parliament should do so by considering the budget and, together with the budget, approve the budgets of the Pension Fund and other social funds. And secondly, the budget is a legal basis for spending. Imagine there's a delay in the budget of the Pension Fund. What is the basis for the financing of the Pension Fund’s expenditure? So I ask my colleagues to support my amendment, which removes the relevant rule of law and leaves the right to approve the budget of the Pension Fund for the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u217	Thank you. Who supports Amendment 179, please vote. [[19:05:41]] For 121 The decision is not taken. 180th, Drevijanka, insists. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u218	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues! Yuri Derevyanko, Will Party. I propose this amendment to improve the financing mechanism for rural (rural) and district-valued cities that spend part of the maintenance of educational complexes – when schools and gardens together, also rural and rural, urban and cultural palaces, leisure centres and other club facilities and libraries. In particular, I propose that the rural or village council be asked to make appropriate budgets. The appropriate district council has decided for a month to fund such expenses, because today this is not provided for by existing legislation, and there are huge delays in maintaining our clubs, our libraries in rural areas in particular. And I'm asking you to back me up. This rule in the Budget Code is not fully implemented, and district councils sometimes have no reason to count the cost of maintaining such facilities, which is extremely important for every village, village where such institutions exist and need funding. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u219	Those who support Amendment 180, please vote. [[19:07:04]] For 106 The decision is not taken. 181, Davidenko, don't insist. 182nd, Royal, does not insist. 183rd, Markevich, does not insist. 184th, Melnik, don't insist. 185th, Sold, doesn't insist. 186, Baloga, don't insist. 187th, Pisarenko, don't insist. 188th, Murrayev, don't insist. 189th, Davidenko, does not insist. 190th, Timoshenko. He insists. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u220	Julia Timoshenko, "The Fatherland" faction. This article of the bill that we are considering is actually a threat to Ukraine's national security. According to the Budget Code, a standard has been established — no more than 60 percent of the gross domestic product can be the government debt of Ukraine. If government debt becomes higher than 60 percent, this is essentially considered by the legislator to be a direct threat to Ukraine. What's Groisman doing? It wants to remove the government debt limit, or 60 percent of GDP, and puts almost 90 percent of GDP in the budget for 2017, a government debt. If we want our future generations to be counted for the happiness of Dusty and Groysman, we have to leave it in this order, if we don't - we have to vote for our amendment now and leave 60 percent of GDP.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u221	Do you insist on voting? Those who support Amendment 190, please vote, colleagues. [[19:08:59]] For 1052 The decision is not taken. 191st Levchenko. He insists, doesn't he?
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u222	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223rd District, Kiev. Look what's going on, again, in the absolute irresponsibility of the active oligarchic kleptocracy, it's not thinking how to raise the country, it's thinking only how to get rich in this country. It's not really interesting to fill a budget, it's not interesting, for example, to cancel a deal with the Republic of Cyprus which. Which is why hundreds of millions are out, it's not interesting to deal with transfer pricing, it's not interesting to introduce luxury taxes. You don't have to do all of this, because then Groissman himself will have to pay for it. Instead, it is proposed during an anti-terrorist operation to allow absolutely uncontrolled, without Parliament's knowledge, without Parliament's permission as much as possible to raise government debt. I mean, what's being proposed? What is the model of economic development? You don't have to build anything in the country, let's just borrow it from foreign uncles, who then give absolutely stupid instructions that this Parliament is doing foolishly. It's totally unacceptable. We don't know when the ATO's gonna end, but it's too bad. So essentially, these changes allow us to uncontrollablely increase government debt. These are irresponsible policies of an oligarchic kleptocracy that is abused.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u223	Whoever supports Amendment 191, please vote. [[19:10:30.]] For 114 114. The decision is not made. 192nd, Siroid. Don't insist. 193, Siroid. Don't insist. 194th, Derevyanka. He insists.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u224	Dear colleagues! Yuri Derevyanko, Will Party. I propose to delete paragraph 26 of the Final Provisions of the Budget Code, which, contrary to the Constitution, establishes the suspension of laws that apply to the least protected groups of the population. Who they are: they're also coloreds, they're war veterans, they're labor veterans, they're older people, they're participants in mass public protests, and they're members of their families. Little by little, this law has halted funding for health and education institutions, as well as cultural institutions that carry out scientific and scientific and technological activities. And these standards seem to be being looked at every year by Kabin, and Kabin doesn't fund anything every year. I therefore propose to exclude this paragraph and to support the very fact that this is, by law, provided funding is made from the State budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u225	Thank you. Whoever supports Amendment 194, please vote. [[19:11:51]] For 111 111. The decision is not made. 195, Semenha. Don't insist. 196, Capplin. He insists. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u226	This amendment applies to nearly 50,000 of our fellow citizens who work on the Web of Ukrainian Libraries. The amendments to this law provide that they are deprived of the right to material assistance, they are deprived of the ability to stimulate their work and stimulate the work of cultural workers as a whole. On behalf of the Federation of Ukrainian Trade Unions, I demand that this amendment be voted on. And we've drawn attention to those people who serve almost 12 million citizens every year who still go to Ukrainian libraries. We demand that the government, the current government, pay attention to how the employees of these libraries are living today, and we will be in pain for them to still get an increase in the minimum wage of up to 3,000 200. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u227	Whoever supports Amendment 196, please vote. [[19:13:15]] For 124 The decision is not made. 198, Konstanovic. Don't insist. 199, Singerkowski. Don't insist. 200th, Levenchenko. Don't insist. [[B in m in s a l in]] Lechchenko insists.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u228	This amendment actually, although it seems to be so small, and in fact, I think it's a quintension of what's happening in the state today. So today we're going to be looking at the state budget, where we're going to see billions of dollars spent, going further to the police state, after, for example, funding for the National Medical Academy of Sciences is shrinking, yes. So for medicine, it's shrinking, it's increasing to the police state. It's the same story here. This is, in fact, part of all of this when it comes to spending under the Ukrainian Law on Science and Technology to do it manually under the available funds, as the Cabinet of Ministers will decide. Not according to the law in force, the law in force, the law in Ukraine, but according to the way Kabmin paints himself. This is, in fact, the whole policy of today's power -- to pay attention to laws, to spit on people and to spit on medicine, to education, and to think only about your pocket. I address the Ukrainian people. Take a good look, people who are good enough to vote for this anti-national law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u229	Whoever supports the 200th amendment, please vote. [[19:14:48]] For-119 The decision is not made. 201th, the walker doesn't insist. 202th, Murray. Don't insist. 203, Pinzenic. Don't insist. 204, Medunica. Don't insist. Who? Medusa. One minute, turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u230	Guys, I'm just going to use the moment to draw attention to the specifics of the discussion right now in the budget room. From her. You see, this faction one sitting next to the Bureau is now crying about local budgets, instead she wanted to take 30 percent of the one tax from the local budgets this year, and even we have a letter on the Budget Committee from this faction, where there's a leader of the faction with the initials of U.V. She signed that 30 percent of the single tax I want to take from the local budgets and consult with the state. You never voted in favour of the Budget Code when financial decentralization began. That you're crying about these local community finances, and they've got over 20 percent in each local budget, look at the documents, they're now visible on every local budget, you see all these figures.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u231	Colleagues, I'm voting on amendment 204. No, it doesn't. Okay. Colleagues, 209, Derevyanco. Don't insist. 209, Derivyanko. Don't insist. 210th. Don't insist. He insists, doesn't he? Please, 209th, Derivyanka.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u232	Dear colleagues, Yuri Derevyanko, Will Party. 209, the amendment, it refers to what the government is proposing, the government is proposing that subsidies be abolished to local budgets for the preparation of occupational subsidies for the provision of health care to individual government programmes and complex programming measures. So the government wants this amendment to cancel all the expenditure that the approved programs provide and which relates to the financing of local budgets for such programs. I ask you to support my amendment so that all the programs approved today in accordance with current legislation can function and have financial support, not finance from the local budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u233	Thank you. Whoever supports the 209th amendment, please vote. [[19:17:49]] For the 180. The decision is not made. 210, don't insist. 211th. Odarchenko insists. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u234	Yuri Odarchenko, Fatherland faction. Dear colleagues, we have this rule of law that makes Ukraine a police state. You propose that the Ministry of Finance be granted unconditional access to bank accounts of all Ukrainians without the need to obtain consent or a court decision. In doing so, access will not only be for those receiving subsidies, it will be for all citizens of Ukraine. Trust in banks after yesterday is gone, so you tell people that every penny of it will be available to officials. I ask you to leave the previous edition of this rule, access only to verify the declarations made by applicants for subsidies, and only for their consent. Please support my amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u235	211 amendments shall be put to the vote. Anyone who supports it, please vote. [[19:19:16]] For-89 The decision is not made. Dear colleagues, I want to inform you that there are literally 10 amendments left. We'll be moving on to the decision-making process in five or seven minutes. I'm asking the factions and heads of factions to invite deputies into the hall, in five to seven minutes we'll move on to the vote. So 212th, Murray. Don't insist. 213, Timoshenko. Don't insist. Is he insisting? 213, Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u236	Dear colleagues, I don't know if we can go to most of this room. Well, at least read this law. This article, which I'm asking you to cancel now, gives the Ministry of Finance the right to take without any human permission all of its personal data, to intervene in bank accounts, to completely cancel the whole secret of personal data, which is provided for in the Constitution. I think you all remember well on January 16, when the laws that destroyed the rights of people who destroyed democracy were voted by their hands. Now absolutely in this, you know, neglect, a key human right to its private property is being destroyed, on its personal data. And this will apply to all Ukrainians. I want to ask these buttonheads what you're doing, stop. Please put the amendment to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u237	Whoever supports Amendment 213, please vote. [[19:21:06]] For-103 The decision is not made. 214th, Derivyanka. Don't insist. 215th, Levechenko. Don't insist. 216th Semenha. Don't insist. 218th, Derevyanka. He insists. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u238	Dear colleagues, this amendment applies to the united territorial communities that have now held elections last Sunday and this Sunday. In fact, this amendment provides for the government to start funding the unified territorial communities, starting with the new year, on January 1. Instead, the date is postponed until March 1st. And I think we need to support united territorial communities if we want them to be equally confident that we are ready and financially to do this decentralization. And I will no longer take the floor to confirm the amendments, because I see that the hall is not set up today to support education, to support medicine, to support the organs of local self-government at all. But I want to go to all the major MPs who I understand perfectly that most, most of the spending local budgets will not be able to finance. Like most people who would simply be doomed to die because they would not receive medicine or help, even though they were deserving people who served and worked for the State. And all of these benefits will also be cancelled and transferred to local self - government. So please don't uphold this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u239	Who Supports the Amendment? Do you insist on voting? Whoever supports Amendment 218, please vote. [[19:22:49]] For the 120th. 219, Pinzenic doesn't insist. 220th, Baloga doesn't insist. 221th, Markevich doesn't insist. 224th, Podlisecki doesn't insist. 223rd? Four o'clock, right? Yes, Podlisecki, 224th. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u240	Dear colleagues! Self-help faction, Leo Podlisecki. We know that the budget changes to the Tax Code have abolished the local retail tax on petroleum products and translated into the general excise duty on imports and decommissioning. This was done to ensure payment by all the operators of the excise. But unfortunately, if we don't support 224 revisions, there won't be an increase in revenues to local budgets, because the previous bill provides for 13 percent of the budget. Actually, you have to take 226. Then 17 percent of all excise duties will be directed to local budgets. And this will ensure the effect of the decision on the tax committee. So I propose and support this 226.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u241	Thank you. Who supports the amendment 224, please vote. [[19:24:30.]] For 131 The decision is not taken. 219, Pinzenic doesn't insist. 225th, Beresuk. Look, 225, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u242	Lubomir Zubac, Self-Help Unit. The question of the excise assembly is another know-how from our authority and an indicator of the attitude towards local self-government. If it's about education and medical subsidies, where responsibility is just translated into local self-government, and I think it's an open robbery, then it's more, you know, it's a tricky scheme when the authorities are trying to get a hands-on regime and then figure out what communities to give money to and not to give money to. I would like to point out that for many villages, villages, and cities of the district, the excise congregation is one of the few who is largely filling their local budget. Please leave them alone, let them work and develop properly.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u243	You insist on voting, 225? Who supports amendment 225, please vote. [[19:25:57]] For 118 118. The decision is not made. 226th. Please, Berezuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u244	Oleg Berezuk, Self Help Union. Two years ago in this room, maybe now it's thought, wrongly, but a historic event, we started budgetary decentralization, this Parliament as a result of the rebellion, the second Ukrainian rebellion in 10 years, let people go and give them the opportunity to develop. It was the success of this Parliament and it was the success of the people. During this year, the poorest communities built their roads, repaired the FAPs. Today, this budget and the Budget Codex robs them of this opportunity. And that's not right. And that's why we're not going to support this just because the power of this state is in the smallest village and in the smallest city, not in an empty oligaric Kiev environment.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u245	Do they insist on voting? You insist. Whoever supports Amendment 226, please vote. [[19:27:25]] For 121 121st, you don't make a decision. 227, Ostrikova. Don't insist. 228, Odarchenko. He insists. Colleagues, the three amendments remain, and in five minutes we move on to the vote. I'm asking everyone to come into the hall. Please, Odarchenko, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u246	Yuri Odarchenko faction of Fatherland. The minimum wage of 3,000, 200 dollars will mean total loss of access to justice. To charge the clerk with refusing to respond to a request for $1,200 of salary, to charge illegal property arrest, and to pay $3,000 of $200. You've lost a lawsuit to collect 51 fines, pay 1,280 fines to the court. Consider that when a citizen loses a bank lawsuit, he pays a court-martial the size that is set for banks. So it's at least 3,000, 200 dollars. Therefore, I ask for 2017 to untie the minimum wage and leave it at 2016 level. Otherwise, we deprive people of access to justice. Please vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u247	Who will support amendment 228, please vote? [[19:28:54]] For-119 119, you don't make a decision. 229, Markevich. Don't insist. 230th, Odarchenko. Don't insist. He insists, doesn't he? 230th, Odarchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u248	Dear colleagues, I propose that this law be postponed until 2018 and that this year we deal with the filling of local budgets, for example, by putting into local budgets or taxes on added value, or taxes on the full income of individuals, or what the least we can do for all communities, rural communities, and rural communities as well as for the united communities. And then go back to looking at this bill. Please support my amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u249	Who will support Amendment 230, please vote? [[19:29:58]] For-98 The decision is not made. 231st. Please turn on the microphone, Mikola Kucher, turn on the Kutcher microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u250	Puppy Mikola, 17th District. Amendment 231 is not supported by the Tax Committee and I ask that 231 amendments do not conflict with the Tax Committee, put this amendment to confirm.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u251	Yvchenka, one minute, turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u252	Vadim Yvchenko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues! First of all, I wanted to thank the budget committee for the state's position, for supporting the bill. I very much hope that the Hall of the Supreme Council will do the same. The evolution of the agricultural sector has shown that between 51,000 and 44 and a half are the same farms that process up to 500 hectares. We've passed a revolutionary Family Farms Act with you, but the government is cutting off a special tax regime today. Our amendment tells us that we're proposing to limit these grants in one hand to 50 million a year, or, let's say, 4 million a month, it's going to be the right approach and we can do that for every crop. I want to remind you that for all budget programs, small and small, which now have 86 percent of registered producers, they only have 2 percent of the total budget. Please support and Fatherland has spent quite a lot of time.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u253	Colleagues! 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u254	And Fatherland has held quite a number of agrarian forums, and we've studied the questions and in principle, that's what agriculture says. Let's face it: 1 hectare, for those small farms, we'll give them this support and grant directly. And that's what this is all about. And thank you again for the budget committee and please support the hall. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u255	Colleagues, I'm betting on confirmation of amendment 231. Anyone who supports this amendment, please vote. [[19:32:35]] For-126 The decision is not made. Colleagues, last amendment 232, walked. Don't insist. And we, colleagues, can move on to making decisions. Colleagues, it's been a long discussion, and now I'm asking all the national MPs to come to the hall of those who are in the towers. Please inform the High Council Secretariat that we are now moving on to a decision-making process, colleague. I ask the factions to invite deputies to the Hall, and there are many questions and references to the Prime Minister. I give the floor to Prime Minister Volodymyr Groissman of Ukraine, after which we move immediately to making a decision, colleague. Please invite the deputies to the hall. Vladimir Borisovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u256	Thank you very much, Mr. Head of the Supreme Council, distinguished fellow members of the National Deputies! There was a lot of talk about this bill, which was carefully considered by the committee, and I thank the committee for the very balanced and professional work with this document, because it has to be balanced. I would like to be heard now by all those who have a bearing on local budgets, because he is one of the factions that I have heard a great deal of wrong information. This speaks only of what they have either not read or do not understand or are doing it on purpose to disrupt the budgetary process itself. The budgetary process itself is important because all priorities, including raising social standards for Ukrainian citizens, can only come into force if the budget itself is voted on, but the budget is preceded by a number of laws. For example, one of the false information is that it seems that the judicial congregation and other payments to the ICC are linked. Dear friends, there is a need for some to read the laws correctly, 5130, which is supported by the state’s position of Ukrainian deputies, which allows and opens the way for us to make a minimum wage in the country of 3,000,200 just foresaw the commitment of these payments and no increase for such categories of citizens will take place. And now, dear friends, I'd like to tell you from the local budgets the figures, not the slogans, not the conversation that's gone, but the figures. The numbers you have a bearing on, because it's you who voted for budgetary decentralization. And now I'm going to show them to you. Please show me 14 slides, please. Dear colleagues, look. The financial resources of the local budgets for 2017 will be equal to 424 billion dollars. Growth versus 2016 is 86 billion plus 28 percent. In 2015, local budgets increased by 132 billion, which is plus 45 percent. The forecast revenue for the local budgets for 2017 is 185 billion, 25 percent more than we are this year. In addition, by 2015, more than 153 percent were growing. It's about resources. And now, dear friends, I want to emphasize one more thing. And now for expenses, especially those who don't know these numbers. Look, expenses. You know, when there's costs, when there's nowhere to spend them, they go to deposits. Right? Look. The city of Zaporozhye is 724 million dollars. The city of Kharkiv is 520 million dollars. The city of Lviv is 496 million dollars in deposits. The city of Winnica is 270 million. Mikolai is 300. The White Church is 100. And so on, and below, below, below. What are we talking about? There are resources there today, but for all communities that can get certain deficits, they will be covered by a special grant of 14.9 billion dollars. And in addition, the regional subsidy we have is equal to another 9 billion. Once again, I want to assure you that all those who support this decision will be able to continue financial decentralization in the country and make it a success, and I am speaking as a co-author of this idea, which was only possible in 2015. And one more thing. Now, please show me slides 31 and 32. Friends of the State are making a wage increase. And this was possible when we distributed the budget according to the competences that belong to: the local council -- infrastructure, to us -- medical services and wages. So, look, we have a doctor's salary in 2017 that's going to increase by at least 36 percent. And the next slide, please. And for a Ukrainian teacher, 49.6 percent. The Ukrainian teacher will receive from 1,000,672 bracelets to 2,000,140 bracelets each month. This means financial decentralization and social justice. Thus, this law opens up opportunities to raise, including the minimum wage in the country. So I would ask you not to listen to nonsense, to support this bill now, and to continue our work of raising minimum social standards. This report is based on figures that are absolutely real and balanced in the Ukrainian budget. Thank you very much for your understanding and for your support, dear fellow national MPs.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u257	Dear colleagues, please come into the hall and prepare for the vote. This is the first budget bill, and I'm going to use your permission to put the first rating vote on this bill. Everyone, please prepare for the vote. [[19:39:35]] For 244 Colleagues, we move immediately to making a decision. I'm asking everyone to take up their jobs. Please come into the hall. And I'm voting on the draft bill amending the Ukrainian Budget Code (for improving budgeting and budgeting) (5131) on the second reading and in general on the proposal of a committee with technical and legal rights. Please vote for my colleagues and please support me. Let's vote, colleagues. Please be supportive. We vote responsibly and in agreement. Vote. [[19:39:35]] For 244 Decision taken. The first budgeting bill was passed. Congratulations, colleagues, everyone! Colleagues, the law is passed. One minute, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u258	Dear friends! Dear friends! It's absolutely the right law, and you won't be ashamed of it. This law will enable us to start a real economic development in our nation. It's a professional law that we've prepared with you. I want to emphasize once again that there are people who are taking a state position, and there are people who are taking the position of our bad past. Thank you and ask for further support so that we can approve the budget today. Thank you so much!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u259	Thank you. Dear colleagues, 5131 accepted. Now, colleagues, pay attention! There's 5132 in hand, the next budget bill. But before I go to his consideration, I'll put it to a vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] Colleagues, I'll bet. Colleagues, we now have a bill that we have included in the morning's agenda -- this is a bill amending the Banking and Banking Act of Ukraine to guarantee the state's investment of individuals. Everyone understands how important this bill is today so that we can accept it and consider it. Colleagues, please stay in your seats. I think we'll get through it fast. And I'm now looking at Bill 5553, 5553-1 and 5553-2. And I would like to support his consideration of the reduced procedure. Please vote. [[19:41:54]] For 230 And I'm betting. And I invite you to the report of the President of Ukraine on the Supreme Council of Gerasimov Arthur Volodymirovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u260	Mr. Chairman, Your Honor, your attention is drawn to the draft Act amending the Banking and Banking Act of Ukraine to guarantee the State's contribution of individuals (room 5553), submitted to Parliament by the President of Ukraine and defined as urgent. The bill is aimed at ensuring confidence in Ukraine's banking system by guaranteeing the state's security of the funds of public banks. The bill thus proposes to amend article 57 of the Ukrainian Act on Banking and Banking, according to which the State undertakes to guarantee compensation to natural persons, the investors of the State banks of that part of the contribution, which exceeds the maximum amount of compensation set in accordance with the Ukrainian Act on Guaranteeing the Investments of Individuals. The adoption of the bill will help protect the rights of investors of all state banks, as well as strengthen confidence in state banks and the further development of Ukraine's banking system as a whole. In view of the above, please support the legislative initiative of the President of Ukraine and adopt the draft Act amending the Banking and Banking Act on guaranteeing the State's investment of individuals (room 5553) on a basis and in general. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u261	Thank you, Mr. Arthur. Please report to the National MP of Ukraine, Derevyanco, who will present an alternative bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u262	Yuri Derevyanko, Political Party of Will. Dear colleagues, dear Ukrainians! Last night on St. Nicholas Day and on the first day of the National Bank National Bank of Ukraine nationalized 15 billion dollars to prevent panic and demonstrate that the bank is functioning normally. In general, the amount to be allocated from the government budget is about 148 billion dollars to keep the bank stable and to keep investors from getting their money and to keep us from collapse in the banking system. In support of the initiative to save the costs of Ukrainian private bank investors, the political party "Will" has developed, and now I propose to support an alternative bill, the essence of which is that, in addition to all of the President's proposals, we propose to arrest all the assets of former private bank owners that should be arrested until full and objective investigation has been carried out, how the funds were derived from PrivateBank, whether abuses have been committed. And only after the court's decision will the funds and assets that will then be confiscated be directed towards compensation for the costs of the state budget associated with the reformation and the financing of the refinanced and now transferred to the state. I want to point out that this nationalization, or this transfer to a private bank, has created actual losses of 148 billion dollars, which means that our funds, taxpayers, will be spent to support this bank. It is not enough that these funds will not go to infrastructure, will not go to pensions, wages, will not go to other important things, but will be used in connection with the fact that former owners, former managers, may have misused, and that is why this bill needs to be supported by the arrest of their assets. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u263	Please invite Mrs. Kugel, a national MP who is referred to by Sergey Sobolev, to report on the alternative bill. Please, Mrs. Alexander.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u264	Dear colleagues, we support the President's initiative to protect all private bank investors. But in our proposal, in an alternative bill, we stress that the basis for budgeting and democracy in Ukraine is the existence of small and medium-sized businesses. Thanks to the failure of the National Bank, more than 100 billion were consumed in small and medium - size business by the liquidation of the bank. Our proposal offers natural persons - entrepreneurs, who since January 1st, we have already passed the law, will be guaranteed 200,000 per deposit to compare, as the President suggests, natural persons of citizens, that the state guarantee them money in the bank, Private Bank, because it's half a million entrepreneurs. But unfortunately, (I want to make a point) on the committee, we didn't get any support, although I was reminded on the committee that the two Maidans made entrepreneurs. And 500,000. Half a million bills today is a small business called Private Bank. And that's why I'm offering you, distinguished entrepreneurs, over 2,000 on these accounts do not keep. Open accounts in other banks. And our second offer is this. implement the Constitution and compare "Savedbink" to all banks in Ukraine, so that, like all banks -- and state-owned ones -- he would pay to the guarantee fund. Unfortunately, this proposal was not supported strangely on the committee either. And that's why I'm sorry. We note that in this way, the bill is partial, like "rapid assistance" to support only natural persons of citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u265	Thank you, Mrs. Alexander. From now on, the committee on financial policy and banking is headed by the committee of Sergey Rybalka to present the position of the committee on these three alternative bills. Please, Mr. Sergei.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u266	Dear Mr. Head! Dear colleagues! The stable work of the Ukrainian banks is a guarantee of the stability of our country's bracelets and trust and development. For a year now, we've been calling for a special committee and a faction of the Radical Party to solve the problems in the financial and banking sector. Please tell me, do we have confidence in banks today, in the banking sector? Answer: No. Has the Bankdown Ended? Answer: No. Is there credit for the real economy? Answer: No. Who from the heads of the National Bank today will be responsible for a 148 billion-dollar hole in the Nationalization of the Privatbank and other abuses? Who will be responsible for our bill, which we voted for the personal responsibility of the owners of all the fraudulent banks, of the people who have been deceived. But the main thing, I think, today, is that power and you, as parliamentarians, is to save the money of investors, as well as the costs of all businesses, regardless of the high cost or the low cost. That's why today, at our committee meeting, we discussed the draft Ukrainian Act amending the Banking Act "On Banking" to guarantee the State's contributions of individuals (number 5553) and recommended that this bill be adopted on a basis and in general. This decision, we believe, is extremely important for restoring confidence in the entire banking system of Ukraine. Therefore, we offer to support him as a whole. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u267	Thank you for your clear position on the committee, Mr. Sergei. Dear colleagues, according to the Rules, we are now having a discussion from factions. I'm asking you to sign up for factions: two for, two against, but of course all the factions that want to speak out, all the factions, will be able to come forward more faithfully, considering the importance of this bill. Please sign up. Please, the Radical Party of the People's Deputy Artemenko conveys to the faction leader the word Mr. Laszko. Out of the rostrum, please. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u268	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Dear Ukrainians, the Radical Party will support a bill that will allow you to save money, save those people, almost 20 million Ukrainians who have accounts in Private Bank. We're going to do everything we can to make sure that no private bank investor gets hurt so that each of them gets their money without any restrictions so that the funds of businesses, legal institutions and organizations don't go missing. We think that the task of saving Private Bank is a key task for the government, for the President and for Parliament, because it's not just about saving Private Bank, it's about protecting Ukrainians, protecting their savings and their funds. And I think that politics can't be done in any way, but it must be voted in order for the Ukrainians to receive their money in a guaranteed way. But at the same time, I have a question for the President, for the head of the National Bank and for the law enforcement agencies. The hole in Private Bank is 150 billion dollars. Now we're going to pay this 150 billion dollars out of the budget. I ask why the Ukrainians, because everyone will pay for the budget, why should Ukrainians be counted for corruption and underprivileged, unprofessional management of the National Bank? That's why I'm calling on President Prashenko to submit an application to Parliament immediately for the release of the Head of the National Bank of Honduras and the election of a new head of the National Bank. Finally, I have a personal appeal to the President. Dear Peter Alexiyovich, yesterday you called for peace and support for Private Bank. I'm asking you to take this first step: transfer all your bills to Rochen's Private Bank, as I did yesterday by opening an account in Private Bank and putting the funds there. It'll be the best.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u269	Thank you, colleagues. I still urge you to discuss the bill. And now the national deputy of Tchakouk is giving the word to a colleague of Mr. Demchak. Please, Ruslan, we invite you to your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u270	Dear colleagues, this bill, drafted by the President, 5553, is supported by our committee. And this is one of the links, the coordinated actions of the President's team, the government team. And we can set up our shoulders here to avoid panic, so that people get the right kind of messaging, which is the same thing as Savings, which is now under the Banking and Banking Act, a 100% guarantee on the investments of natural persons. And since January 1st, 17th, I'll remind you that this is a guarantee given to entrepreneurs, that the same guarantees have to be obtained by the state banks that are being introduced today, namely Ukreximbank and PrivatBank. So we have to be, we have to be balanced in making decisions, and we have to be unanimous in this decision today, because this will allow us to balance the situation and not allow for the proliferation of the banking market. Please be supportive. The B.P.P. faction will vote in favour of the president's office.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u271	Thank you for the faction's position. Please welcome a national deputy from the Rebirth Group. He's giving up the word. From Self-Help, National Deputy Wesselov.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u272	Please pass the word to Semensi Roman.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u273	Please, Semenha. From where I'm standing, I understand.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u274	Semenha Roman, self-help faction. Dear colleagues! Dear Mrs. Chairman! Of course, the problem of nationalization of Private Bank and the stability of the financial system is very important. But in the self-help faction, there are a few questions about that. First. Why is it that today, for negligence, and perhaps for the fraud of private bank shareholders, particularly Igor Kolomojski, every Ukrainian should be counted today. [[Applause]] The other one. Why the government, knowing about all the problems of Private Bank, didn't nationalize it a year ago, two years ago, maybe even earlier, because it cost a lot cheaper for the state budget. Next. In the history of Ukraine’s modern financial system, this is the fourth case of nationalization. We've already nationalized the Kiev Bank, Rodowdow, the Krugazbank, which we, by the way, promised to sell. The budget was spent on nationalization, on capitalization of about $4.5 billion, which is roughly the same figure as the private bank losses today. But most importantly, where are the owners of these banks called to account? When will the Ukrainians experience justice? When will the circular message be broken? The other one. Two-thirds of the loans issued by private bank shareholders, the more loyal management of private bank, are not actually confirmed by any mortgage. We demand today from the National Bank of Ukraine, from the Cabinet of Ministers to take all possible steps to ensure that private bank shareholders confirm within six months with their assets, their own property, those pledges, those loans that have already been issued today. And we by Parliament, in particular the Self-Help faction, will be watching this closely. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u275	Thank you, Your Honor! Comrades, my friends! Three factions took advantage of their right to speak. Please, one minute to Fatherland, Sergey Sobolev. Other unrecorded factions are willing to speak after this? Just to get a sense of where you're I can't see. So, Sergei Sobolev. I'm sorry, one minute after Sergio Soboljeva's speech, there will be a vote, and I ask everyone to return to the session room. Please, Mr. Sergei.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u276	Sobolje, Fatherland. Dear colleagues! If you look at all the speeches and the alternate bills, I think we'll find the answers there. But the first answer we have to find here is this bill by Mrs. Gottareva and not only by Mrs. Gottareva, but by the one who answered Mrs. Gottareva, and she admitted it, Mrs. Rizkova, for the control of Private Bank. And then it will be very clear to everyone what was going on in the so - called telephone talks. And how did billions of dollars go through the National Bank's officials' pockets? Because would anyone believe that the money that was spent directly was given to "for beautiful eyes"? But what's the solution now? Our proposal is to compare individuals, private entrepreneurs, who should receive a minimum on the same basis.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u277	15 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u278	The same individuals if there are no deposits. I think the answer to that question will be found in our bill as an alternative. And with this bill, the bill could be voted on as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u279	Dear colleagues! The discussion is over. I ask now all the heads of factions to invite deputies to the hall. I ask the Secretary of the Supreme Council to invite members of the House. Please prepare yourself for making a decision. Please, colleagues, everyone understands the weight and importance of this bill. Everyone understands that we can't postpone the decision, it's the fate of our citizens, of ordinary citizens, and it's a reckoning that the state can make responsible decisions. And so I'm asking everyone to take up jobs, get ready to make a decision. Please, I'll wait, I'll wait 30 seconds, we'll go into the hall and take jobs. Colleagues Ready to Make Decisions? Please come in, who hasn't come in yet. So let's move on to decision-making, colleagues. I'm voting on the draft Act amending the Banking and Banking Act of Ukraine to guarantee the State's contribution of natural persons to the Committee's proposal (room 5553) on the basis and generally with technical and legal rights. Please vote, colleagues, please support me, colleagues. Please vote. Please vote. Please be supportive. [[20:01:11]] For 276 Law 5553 adopted. Colleagues, let's move on to the next question of order of the day. Let's move on to the next question of order of the day. This is a draft law amending the Ukrainian Tax Code for the Balance of Budget Revenues in 2017 (5132). Second budget law. And I invite you to report to the head of the Tax and Customs Committee of South Carolina's Nina Petrovna. Nina Petrovna, please report. Please prepare for discussion. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u280	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues. Today, in our second reading, we are considering a draft Ukrainian Law amending the Ukrainian Code of Taxation and some Ukrainian laws on budgetary balance in 2017 (registration number 5132). I would like to remind you that this project proposes amendments to the Ukrainian Tax Code and some Ukrainian legislation on resource security and the balance of the State budget for 2017. This includes an increase in the rate of tax fixed in absolute terms. The project also introduces changes in the implementation of budgetary dating, support for agricultural producers, and liberalisation of certain regulatory procedures. Dear colleagues, in general, came to a second reading of 129 suggestions. Of these, a total of, in part or in fact, 54 offers were rejected, 75 offers were rejected. All the national deputies who wanted to comment on their proposals, including those discussed in the working groups, were present at the committee’s working group. The table for the second reading is given to you, dear colleagues. In the simplifying table, there was a brief acknowledgment of changes in the substance of the proposals and motivation of the committee’s decisions so that you could get a better perspective. As a result of the committee’s meeting, the committee proposes that the bill be adopted in a second reading and as a whole as a law of Ukraine. We would also like to request the commission of the Committee and the Chief Legal Authority of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the technical and legal processing of the adopted law if it is adopted. Please support the committee's proposal and proceed to the second reading procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u281	Dear Mrs. Nina, you stay in the rostrum, and we're moving on to the amendments, your honors. And if you don't want to bet on confirmation, let's know. So amendment number 2 of the People's Deputy Krivenka. Are you insisting? Krivenko doesn't insist. Correction number. What do you insist on? This is the People's Deputy Krivenka, 2nd Amendment. Excuse me, excuse me, please. Please give me your word, Mr. Krivenko. And I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u282	Dear friends! The substance of this amendment refers to one drink that is very popular in Ukraine, namely leaven. Acid is really a fertilization product that, by all standards, still has Soviet guests, throughout technology, has an alcohol content of between 0.5 and 1.2 percent. Since we have adopted European standards that do not drink leaven, we have an upper limit on nonalcoholic beverages — 0.5 percent. In view of what leaven would be likened to alcoholic beverages, or its producers would be forced to make an inadequacy product. So the suggestion is to raise the standard right to leaven, up to 1.2 percent alcohol, alcohol. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u283	Thank you, Your Honor, Mr. Krivenko. And please support this amendment to those who want to vote in favour. [[20:06:04]] For 139 Thank you, Your Honor. 139 votes, which is why this amendment was not accepted. Next, so is National Deputy Krivenko, 3rd Amendment. Are you insisting? Don't insist. Thank you. Amendment No. 6 of the People's Deputy Davidenko. Are you insisting? Davidenko. Don't insist. Amendment No. 7 of the People's Deputy Kozachenka. Are you insisting? I can't see. Medusa, 8th Amendment. Are you insisting? Don't insist. Thank you. Now, I haven't gotten to nine yet, dear colleagues. Wait a minute. The 9th is an amendment, it's accounted for, by the national MP of Solvar. For confirmation? Please confirm, National Deputy Halasyuk. Victor Halasyuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u284	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the 9th amendment cannot be supported in any way, since it essentially degrades the profession of independent evaluation, introduces an entirely artificial electronic system of values related to the definition of value, which will automatically be checked for an independent evaluation, as they call it. I would like to point out that, today in Ukraine, there is an Independent Evaluation Institute, certified evaluators that match their certificates, their reputations that can be accused in court, an evaluation report can be cancelled either by the results of the relevant expertise, or by the court when there are judicial experts. So the court can only accept that this assessment is not justified, not adequate. And there's a completely artificial, potentially corrupt norm that destroys the independent market. I propose not to support this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u285	Thank you, Your Honor. Please, Mrs. Jujanina, your reaction to these words.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u286	Dear colleagues, we've been working with you for quite some time in the task force, you know, she's been ambiguous, she's been sent by the committee secretariat. And it's written that there's no way that it can affect the destruction of the real estate valuation market and, more importantly, it doesn't put any obstacles in order for this activity to be regulated. If we are now, first of all, I said in my speech that most of the amendments were discussed extensively and discussed, that was the decision taken by the committee. If we put and vote all the amendments now, we can destroy the whole concept of the bill. Dear colleagues, I ask you to support this amendment, it has been voted by most members of the committee and supported. Please support amendment number 9 of your esteemed colleague Solvar.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u287	My colleagues, so I would like to draw your attention to the amendment that Mr. Halasyuk is asking for confirmation from the Radical Party. This amendment was taken into account by the committee and the committee head is asking for a vote in favour. We put to the vote for confirmation, at the request of the committee head to support "yes." Please vote. [[20:09:53]] For 114 114 votes. Let's move on. Sadly, this amendment was essentially canceled. Let's move on. Amendment No. 10 of the people's deputy Yatzenka. Do you insist? I can't see. Amendment No. 11 Trees. Amendment No. 12 Trees. Amendment 13 Yatzenka. Correction number. Now, for a second, I'm watching. Amendment 14 for confirmation, who requires it? Kishkar, please, National Deputy Kishkar.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u288	The explanation, the request, for confirmation of amendment No. 14, is that this amendment reduces the excise duty rate from 20 percent to 12 percent for alcohol and beverages containing 2206, 2207, 2208. We insist that we keep that bet that was laid down in the draft law. Thank you. Paul Kishkar, National Movement of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u289	Please give the floor to the head of the committee, Mrs. Yuzanini. Mrs. Nina, your reaction, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u290	The 14th amendment was taken into account by the committee, and quite a lot of evidence and calculations were provided that last year we raised the rates of the excise assembly by 240 percent. This year we can only use the consumer price index because the industry has given down to 17 percent. So we can have milk, not interest in how much cow can give. [[B in m in s a l in]] And the absolute value is going to be plus 0.2. To plus 0.2. So we've made decisions to keep the sector safe and to keep it going and pay even if it pays what we have this year, we have to at least give it a year to survive.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u291	Dear colleagues, Mrs. Yuzanina explained the logic. We don't have any debate here, but we only have if there's communication and the committee's reaction. Are you insisting that this is confirmed? So, dear colleagues, this is about the 14th amendment that the committee has accepted. People’s deputies demand that it be put in place for confirmation. The committee and Mrs. Jujanina, as chairman of the committee, are asking to support this amendment. I'm putting her to the vote for confirmation. [[20:13:11]] For-88 88 deputies have only supported this amendment, so it is cancelled. And the next amendment is 15, People's Deputy Ednak. Are you insisting? Gopka, she's in there with the co-authors. Please, Mrs. Hopko, a word.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u292	Dear colleagues, Amendment 15 suggests that in 2017 beer excises and fixed playing wine be increased by 50 percent, by 25 percent, to strong drinks. That's an extra 1 billion and a half dollars of revenue. But we see how specific lobbyists work, who want to neutralize and lower excise rates. I have a specific experience in 2008, when we were able to convince Prime Minister Timoshenko, as well as the deputy head of the Committee on Budgets, Oleg Láška, who trusted activists, and thus raised excise duties on tobacco and increased the budget in the last few years five times, in 2008 alone in four months, by an additional billion. So the strategy of tobacco companies is to keep, and alcohol, excises are as low as possible while billions are not budgeted, the nation is singing. And the tax committee has been lobbying for the last 25 years of our independence. So a huge request is to stop lobbying tobacco and alcohol companies, advertising, and so forth. And I demand that we put this amendment and vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u293	The position is clear. We put to the vote Amendment No. 15 of the People's Deputies of Edna and Gopko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u294	The replica.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u295	We don't have foresight, Reverend Oleg. [[20:15:01]] For 135 Dear Mr. Oleg, I promise you at the end of the discussion to give a word for the rep. Now, dear fellows, amend the number 16 of Musia. He insists.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u296	Dear National Deputies! Oleg Musei, 124th constituency, Sokalstina, Red Town. You know, just last year, when they were raised by 100 percent and 50 percent of the excise congregations, the government budget went up by almost 4 billion. Nobody's saying anything about it, it doesn't say that we've saved the same thousand human lives that had merged before, and we've been in traffic. Injury from alcoholism has declined by almost 20 percent. That is why the increase in the excise congregation for alcoholic beverages, which I propose, will allow for the preservation of human lives that are far more valuable than the ephemeral income of an alcoholic company. And I would also support my colleague, Mrs. Hopko, and I would suggest that the budget committee and Mrs. Southanini not lobby alcohol and tobacco lobbyists. Please confirm.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u297	The position is clear. Colleagues who support this amendment of the people's MP Musia, please vote. [[20:16:37]] For 128 128 deputies. Edit is not valid. 17th National MP Parasuk. Is he insisting? I can't see. Let's move on. National Deputy Lucenko Igor, 18th Amendment. Turn on the microphone, please. Your microphone is on.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u298	Dear friends, I urge you to stop making profits on Ukrainian health. The fiscal system has one of the most important functions: it's stimulating. The stimulating function in this case should be that we have to reduce the consumption of alcohol. The profit should not be at the top of this situation, because every bracelet made by businesses in this situation is tens of thousands of dollars of damages to the Ukrainian people's human capital. I call for this amendment to be put to the vote. I urge you not to go into the lobbying of health - care companies, alcohol companies, that we now have an increase in health spending and things like that. Please put this to a vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u299	Please put this amendment to the vote. It's not a confirmation, it's a vote for a rejected amendment. [[20:18:19]] For 121 121 deputies. Correction rejected. Next, the 19th People's Deputy Sugonako. Is he insisting? I can't see, Sugonyako, to insist. 20th National Deputy Kishkar. Is he insisting? I don't see him insisting. Next. 21st National Deputy Kozachenko. Don't insist. Come on, colleagues. 26th People's Deputy Sold. Don't insist. 27th National MP Rudik. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u300	Dear colleagues, I ask you to adjust the excise duty: not 40 per cent, but the price segment should be reduced by 3 per cent, so as far as the expensive segment is concerned, increase. This is not going to change what comes from this part of the excise, but it will allow us to detinize the sale of the most recent kinds of cigarettes in our country. This is broken down into two parts in the 27th and 30th. I'd like to take this opportunity to support both the 27th and the 30th when she goes to the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u301	Thank you. Please bet on confirmation. to support the non-confirmation of Amendment No. 27 of the People's Deputy Rudik. Please vote. [[20:19:59]] For-76 76 deputies, correction denied. Next 28th Cossack. Is he insisting? We can't see. 30th. Rudik asked for a vote. I'll put the 30th amendment to the vote right away. Please, colleagues. [[20:20:26]] Z-70. 70 National Deputies. Your amendment, Your Honor, is not supported. Next 31st. Markevich is a national deputy. Is he insisting? No, it's not. 32nd, Sold. Don't insist. 33rd, Baloga. Don't insist. 34, Cossack. Don't insist. 35th Medunica. Don't insist. Let's move on, fellows. 42nd. People's deputy saints. It doesn't matter how much I see. [[B in m in s a l in]] 38th? Now, just a minute. I'm looking for what's going on. Now. 38th National Deputy Vojcicka, she's partially counted. Please, Your Honor, give me your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u302	Thank you, ma'am. And I want to point out that this revision predicts that the oil rent is going to stay at the level that it's currently operating. If we look at this rate and confirm how the committee proposed, the loss of the budget from the proposed formulation of the committee itself would set up 1.7 billion dollars. So just so you know, it's 1.7 billion dollars that we don't keep from the main oil company, the Crucibles, that has all the possibilities to pay taxes in full on the rents that are currently in effect. So still lobbying the interests of the private oligarchs, let's finally defend the interests of the state budget, 1.7 billion dollars worth it.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u303	Please, Mrs. Wojcitsicka insists in full. Mrs. Wojcietzka, they're asking what you're suggesting. Mrs. Wojcietzka. Please, 30 seconds what you're offering.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u304	I propose to support 45 percent of the current oil rent.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u305	She suggests leaving 45 percent, Mrs. Vojcecka, of an active oil interest rate. Please, who's in favour, vote. [[20:22:49]] For 115 Unfortunately, 115 votes, your amendment, your honourable colleague, is not supported. We're moving on. 42nd, Saints. Wait a minute. What's that? Fellows, I'm betting on confirmation, but we can keep an eye out for each other. 39th. Now. 39th, People's Deputy Krishin, the amendment of the People's Deputy Krishina. And Deputy Lewchenko demands confirmation. Please allow time to express your position.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u306	Thank you. Lewchenko, Freedom, 223 District, Kiev City. First of all, Madam Chairman, I was just going in order and I was able to say 39th, so I demand that this amendment be confirmed, because this amendment proposes to reduce the interest rate for oil production. This works specifically for one famous gentleman whose bank has recently had to nationalize, because instead of supporting his bank, the bank's money was being spent in the unknown, and now in this room the non-honest is being offered to this gentleman to make a reduction in oil production, from which the state of Ukraine will lose. So, of course, I demand that this amendment be made for confirmation in order not to continue giving the oligarchs who control today’s authority such tax deductions. You're saying there's no money, you've just adopted the Budget Code, where you've completely squandered the local budgets, saying there's no money, and you're giving taxes to oil oligarchs. I'm going to ask for confirmation and put down this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u307	We heard the position. Mrs. Nina, do you have a reaction from the committee to this observation?
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u308	As for the rent, we've had a lot of offers in general. And there were those that would lower all the interest rates to 12 percent, and there was a justification for that for those people who are now talking about returning the bets to 59. to 51 and 29. So bet on confirmation. With regard to the policy on rent payments, we have already discussed more than once. So stand up for confirmation and vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u309	Dear colleagues, so 39 amendments accepted by the committee are requested by the self-help deputies. Excuse me, Deputy Levchenko is asking for confirmation. The committee wants to vote in favour. Please make up your mind about your decision. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u310	Vote green, please. [[8:25:30.]] For-86 Unfortunately, this amendment, which I hear was accepted by the committee, is not supported by the hall. Now they're asking 40 to bet on confirmation and 41. And who's the 40 calling for this? Wojcietsky, please. Mrs. Wojcietzka, you have the floor. You're going to say 40, 41, maybe? And then I'll bet, okay?
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u311	Yes, please place a check for confirmation first, then a check for the 41st.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u312	Thank you. Mrs. Jujanina, will there be a reaction? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u313	It's the same thing as the last one. With the proposal to lower the rate literally to all resources. Now this is a reduced rate of condensation. You want to return the condensate by 29 and 14. Your policy has not been understood at all. I propose to take into account the committee's proposal, because all of the stakes discussed have been chosen from the lowest, from the highest, average rate for which are the budgets of the Ministry of Finance. These calculations were confirmed at a committee meeting. And all of us here have heard about the numbers we're talking about.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u314	Thank you for explaining from the position committee. Dear colleagues! So our self-help colleagues are asking for two confirmations -- 40 and 41. The committee requests that these amendments be supported, voted in favour. I'm going to put the 40 amendments that were included first for confirmation. Please vote. [[20:27:23]] For-98 Ninety-eight votes alone, deputies gathered in the hall. Deputies! You might ask for a meeting in the hall, because the amendments go to a dramatic vote on the amendments. Please return to the session room. And the next amendment is 41. Please, please, I'll give you my word. But 41 revisions, is that your amendment? This is your amendment. Please, Your Honor, Mr. Kobtsev. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u315	Dear colleagues! I thank my colleague Vojcick for her right to vote, of course. But I'll tell you what this is all about. In fact, Vojcicka wanted 12 per cent of the rent on gas. And that leaves 14 percent. That's why I'm asking you to fill in the budget and not lower the rents for gas companies. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u316	Dear colleagues, you said your position. We heard the self-help faction's position on this amendment. My dear colleague Kobtsev said it sounds different. You've heard two positions. And I'm betting now on the Vojcitsky 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u317	I'd like to answer Mrs. Yuzanini. We need to distinguish between oil and gas. Because we're demanding exactly the return of 45 percent on oil that's being extracted by Scrooge and controlled by a private owner. That's the first one. And second of all, Mr. Kobtsev, I want to point out that this is about new wells that are more likely to be drilled by Crushing, by the state company. We want to support the state and make Ukrainian gas cheaper, do we want to buy import gas from Europe and Russia? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u318	Thank you. No! No! Dear colleagues, if we are a reptilian, we will be voting on this law by Friday. Actually, let's go by the book. I urge the hall not to mention names. Let's honor each other, please. So at the demand of the Self-Help faction, we're putting this bill on confirmation of the 41st. In doing so, please consider the position that we have heard, the committee and the author of the amendment, which is 14 percent of the rent. Please vote. [[20:29:57]] For 104 103 deputies. 104. Not supported. Now, look, the National Deputy Musai is raising his hand, asking to return to the 23th Amendment, which is partially counted. Hall against that. Let us listen carefully to the Chief One, and I will follow all the amendments, honor one another, for we will consider this law for five hours. The next amendment is 43rd, Krishin. 30 seconds, please, Mrs. Wojcitsky. She was counted, so I understand that Self-help wants to put her on the stand. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u319	Yes, we're asking you to apply this permission for confirmation because it sets an absolute precedent, it's going to set 2 percent of the rate that we didn't even have this approach to extract heavy-duty decks. Who's going to figure out which ones are going to be hard to figure out, how many are going to be hard to figure out? The loss will be for the state. It's corruption, I'm sorry, it's such a beautiful corruption scheme.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u320	Please note that this amendment is based on the insistence of the Vojcitsky People’s Deputy. Please. [[20:31:20]] Z-71 71 deputies supported the amendment in the hall, and the committee supported it. So let's move on. 44 revisions, Matuzko. Don't insist. 45th People's Deputy Matuzko. Don't insist. 46th, Matuzko. Don't insist. 47th, Matuzko. Don't insist. 48th, Yatzenka. Don't insist. 50th, Krulko. Don't insist. 51st, Kulinich. Don't insist. 52nd, Sold. Don't insist. 53rd, Sold. Don't insist. 54th, Derevyanka. Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u321	Yuri Derevyanco's Will Party. Dear colleagues, my amendment concerns that the single tax rates for payers and groups I and II of the group are set in percentages, which will be set accordingly by the council, the local council, but that these percentages be set not by the minimum wage as the government wants, but by the minimum wage. We understand very well that when you look at the minimum wage of 3,200 and the minimum wage of 1,600, that means that the government is offering twice, twice, I emphasize, to increase the amount of taxes for the payers of the first group and the second group. And I suggest for the next year that you keep the same size that you did this year. So please support my amendment and vote in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u322	Please vote in favour of the amendment of the tree, those who think it is worth it. Please. [[20:33:10]] Z-87
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u323	The decision is not made. The next one is the 55th Amendment. People's Deputy Levchenko. He insists. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u324	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223 District, Kiev City. This is what the Cabinet of Ministers said, specifically Mr. Groissman, that when the minimum wage was raised, nothing bad would happen. In principle, this could be done if we were to get the legal process right. But somehow here, in this bill, they kind of forgot about the second group of single taxpayers, that's it. I'm reminding you that it's a second group. In fact, they are entrepreneurs who receive no more than one and a half million dollars of income per year and whose employees are not more than 10 people, they are very small entrepreneurs. Thus, for some reason they were not transferred for tax purposes, they did not transfer the base from the minimum wage to the minimum wage, but they left the minimum wage. Accordingly, for these entrepreneurs, for the smallest small business that needs to be supported and nurtured, tax doubles on 1 January. So where is the logic of the not-honored Prime Minister? I also urge them to transfer the tax base to a minimum of living. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u325	Whoever supports the amendment of the 55th People's Deputy Levchenk, please vote. [[20:34:49]] For-80 The decision is not made. 86th. Tree tree. Don't insist. 57th, Sold. Don't insist. 58th, Drevyanka. Don't insist. 59th, Levenchenko. Don't insist. 60th, Matuzko. Don't insist. 62nd, Derevyanka. Don't insist. 66th, Davidenko. Don't insist. What's that? 63 amendments, please, Yvchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u326	Vadim Yvchenko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues, cynicism is that in the past, we have given 4 billion to several animal companies. But in this context, we now offer these companies in the Tax Code to have 5 years of these subsidies. Let's do at least a year and then go back to that question next year and see what, how are we going to do with these companies? So against today, we're saving this kind of tax and this section of the grant distribution, directly, by the producers for five years. And believe me, it's the right way to take it for at least one year and then go back to that question. I propose to reject the amendment and leave it with one year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u327	If you support Ichchenk's proposal to reject Amendment 63, please vote. [[20:36:32]] For-65 The decision is not made. 66th, Davidenko. Don't insist. What's that? 67th, Derevyanka.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u328	Yuri Derevyanko, Will Party. Dear Andriy Volodymyrovich, honourable colleagues, with this amendment, I propose to extend the deadline until 1 July 2017 to all non-profit organizations that should bring their statutes into line with the legislation in force. You know that today the standard that applies to matching works until January 1st. But unfortunately, there are great queues in the large number of registration services, as well as in the administration of justice, there are artificial obstacles to this procedure being carried out peacefully and without any influence of corruption. So I would like to support this rule so that the appropriateness of bringing all non-profit organizations to effective legislation is up to July 1, 2017. Otherwise, all these non-profit organizations are charities, any social organization, any political organization will become profitable organizations and will pay taxes in full from 1 January. Please support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u329	Thank you. Dear colleagues who support the proposal made by the People’s Deputy, I ask you to vote. [[20:38:14]] For-86 86. The decision is not made. 71st, Polakov, don't insist. 72th, Sold, doesn't insist. 82nd, Krivenka, don't insist. 83rd, Ensign, don't insist. 87th, Sold, doesn't insist. 89th, Krivenka, don't insist. 95th, Drozdick, don't insist. 96th Opanasenko, don't insist. 97th, Drozdick. I'm sorry, is the author supposed to talk, insist, or not? 97th, Drozdick, don't insist. Drozdik, '97. 95th, Drozdick. Turn on the microphone, Drozdik.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u330	This right is proposed to create competitive conditions in the beer market, which is the right for all absolutely small brewers to set the wholesale license fee of 50,000 bracelets, and for all large factories with thousands of times more production, the plan at the level of the existing law, the size of 500,000 bracelets. Unfortunately, the committee did not support the amendment, and the committee generally supported a position that was wrong and applied only to individual private brewers, not all. And this creates corruption and causes private entrepreneurs to have to circumvent the rules of the law. So I'm asking you to support my very proposal to create a normal competitive environment for small businesses and to create competitive conditions with large companies. Unfortunately, the committee does not support this position but supports interests.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u331	Anyone supporting Amendment 95, please vote. [[20:40:32]] For-95 The decision is not taken. 96th, Opanasenko. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u332	Dear colleagues, my amendment is basically the same. Now if we accept this bill without our amendment, we're only going to have two wholesale licenses. 30,000 dollars and half a million dollars. My proposal was to make a more differential approach, depending on the volume of production of small and medium brewers: to license 50, 100, 200, and half a million dollars. Let's finally make sure that the market is open, that all people pay taxes rather than avoid. We have a wonderful opportunity. By the way, it's estimated that it could add an additional 10 million to the budget. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u333	Thank you. The supporter of Amendment 96, please vote. [[20:41:43]] For-88 The decision is not taken. 93rd Cobbs, turn on the microphone. 93rd Cobbs.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u334	Yes, yes! Dear colleagues, my amendment number 93 consists of two parts. The second part was adopted by the Committee, and I would like to ask you to support the first part, which regulates the spill of low-alcoholic beverages into all kinds of packaging, including plastic packaging. Since Soviet times, we still have regulations to pour our drinks into. If we are going to Europe and we are going to set these rules free, which are incomprehensible, we need to be free of this unnecessary regulation. Thank you very much. Please support the first part of this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u335	So, the 93rd amendment, the offer of Koptsev, who supports the proposal made by Kopts, please vote. [[20:42:58]] Z-70. The decision is not taken. Colleagues, I want to inform you, I've been informed by Deputy Georges that there's some kind of imbalance. All the issues of non-regulation at the end of the committee head will sum up and we'll put them to a vote as I said before voting for the law as a whole so that we can see all the irregularities that are in the bill. 97th -- Drozdik. Don't insist. 99th: Opanasenko. Don't insist. 100-a is a pawn. Don't insist. 101st is High. Don't insist. 102nd is a pawn. Don't insist. 103rd High. Don't insist. 104th, Davidenko. Don't insist. 107th is Yvchenko. He insists. 107th, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u336	Vadim Yvchenko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues, I'll try to explain my amendment in two words. We're talking about farmers again. But here we limit the income of a farmer to five million a month. And we're also saying that it's the grant that receives the company that collects, recycles its produce that is being grown, well, according to this enterprise, and we're also limiting the enterprises that will receive the subsidies directly in the head. And in my line of work, we offered, for example, to the big cattle -- that's up to a thousand heads, that's up to 5,000 pigs, and that's 50,000 heads to the bird. This will limit the large birds that will receive the lion’s share of donations today. I would still like to focus on small-scale, small-scale farmers and appropriate enterprises that have the right areas and produce the right products.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u337	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u338	Please, colleagues, support this amendment -- and yet focus on small and small-scale manufacturers instead of large integrated oligarchic holdings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u339	Do they insist on voting? Who supports the 107th amendment, please vote. [[20:45:37]] For-65 The decision is not made. 108th, Yvchenko. Don't insist. 110th, Yvchenko. Don't insist. 113th, Claun. Don't insist. He insists. 113th Wave, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u340	Dear colleagues, I insist on heading 113, and I propose to exclude from Bill 5132 a position on the right to a budget grant for the producers who are producing and producing meat for the domestic bird. Colleagues, we're talking about state support, we're talking about a government grant that has the primary goal of supporting a small and medium-sized producer. Why, then, should such support be given to economically powerful companies that are now in a significant economic development and are in fact in a monopoly position on the internal market for the production of bird meat? We realize that a few powerful enterprises will actually get half of the total grant basket. So what support is there for small and medium-sized households? I realize that the grant fund is the most cost-filled enterprise, but I'm proposing to make a higher rate for small and medium-sized enterprises, not to return money.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u341	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u342	Structure. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u343	113th Amendment, right, did you just report it? That's a good point, isn't So whoever supports the 113th amendment, please vote. [[20:47:38]] For-67 The decision is not made. 115, Claun. Don't insist. 119th, Davidenko. [[B in m in s a l in]] 118th, Yvchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u344	Vadim Yvchenko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues! In this direction we're once again proposing the distribution of the budget grant, again we're going to put the "150 million" number, which is going to go to one agricultural producer, taking into account the individuals involved. Colleagues, let's finally figure out who we support. Do we support the small ones? That's what the government was talking about. And all the deputies. Do we support 9 farmers? 9, which has 96 percent of all poultry production, or do we directly support those who practice porking and have more than 9 billion? I'm asking you to put it on confirmation and determine with this. Please do not vote for this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u345	I'm betting on confirmation of the approval of the 118th National Deputy Krishina. Whoever supports this amendment, please vote. The committee supports it. Please vote. [[20:49:11]] Z-77 The decision is not made. 119th, Davidenko. Don't insist. 120th, Krivenko. Don't insist. 128th, Solvar. Don't insist. Dear colleagues, now the committee head will sum it up and tell us where we have our differences. Now, I'm asking the deputies to invite all the faction heads into the hall, invite the deputies into the hall. And I'm asking the faction secretariat to invite the deputies into the hall. I now give the floor to the head of the Southern Nina Petrovni Committee to tell us what our differences are and how we can resolve them. Please. Please turn on Nina Petrovney's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u346	Dear colleagues, for what I reported at the beginning of my speech, that the committee had proposed a bill with budgeted positions that had allowed the budget to balance the income part of the budget, to accept in a second reading with that right column that was proposed for the second reading. We now have a few suggestions that are important and supported by the committee, which is Amendment 9, which was supported by the committee, 14 amendments and so on.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u347	Please, Nina Petrovna, continue.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u348	So I suggest you go back to consideration of Amendment 9, which was agreed upon on the committee, and first of all, what do you want to do with some statements, I want you to figure out, or even if you want to know what a certain norm means, just like a colleague just said about support not reading the law at all, in general. Just for the little ones and the ones you said in your amendment, there's 2.1 billion, and what you've been complaining about is the limit for the big ones, and you've spoken the other way around. The 14th Amendment of Kozachenko must be returned to confirmation. 39th, 40th, 41st, 43rd, 63rd and 118th. This is a committee proposal to return these amendments to the hall for confirmation. Dear colleagues, I ask you to gather and vote in favour of returning these amendments to the voting room because you were not in the hall, and some colleagues suggested putting them on the stand. The income part of the budget is balanced. Please return to the hall and let us vote in favour of all these amendments because the amendments have been rejected, regardless. No one was interested, not even reading the text of the bill. Basically, they're just rejected.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u349	Dear colleagues, please come into the hall and take your jobs. I mean, there's only room to decide here. The chairman of the committee and the committee, who has given many hours to order this law, suggests that we do not balance it with some amendments to go back. If this is the will of the hall, only the hall can make decisions. So I ask everyone to come into the hall and take jobs, colleagues. [[B in m in s a l in]] So, colleagues, I'm asking everyone to come into the hall, take jobs, please. Colleagues, I would like to stress, this can only be the decision of the hall. I'll make an offer to go back to those amendments. () [[B in m in s a l in]] Colleagues, please come into the hall and take up jobs. Colleagues, pay attention! Please listen carefully. Colleagues, I'm asking everyone to listen to me carefully. The chairman of the committee offered to return to part of the amendments.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u350	I'll put each of them to a vote, each of them. I ask you to prepare for the vote. So the committee head proposed.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u351	Dear colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u352	Yes! Yes! My colleagues, I'm going to make it clear again, and I'm going to ask you to consider the head of the committee. The chairman of the committee offered to return to amendment 43. 43rd, 41st, 40th, 39th. Count it again, Nina Petrovna, count it. () [[B in m in s a l in]]
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u353	Please start 9, 14, 39th, 40th, 41st, 43rd.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u354	Thank you, Your Honor. () [[B in m in s a l in]]
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u355	No, no. 63rd and 118th. These are the amendments that have been confirmed by the committee. Therefore, I ask that you return to the hall for consideration, since there have been more colleagues. Return the amendment to the vote and then vote down or take into account the amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u356	Dear colleagues, I'd like everyone's attention! Please, the committee has been working on this bill for a long time.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u357	Dear colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u358	Colleagues, pay attention! Now, if there's the will of the hall, I'll put each one back on the table, and I'll fix each one. Let's focus, please. I see there's some adjustments, some there's no agreement, some there's no agreement, that's going to decide the hall. I'm asking you, colleagues, to prepare for the vote now. I'm making the first proposal, please be careful now, the 9th amendment that supports the return to the vote for the 9th amendment. Anyone who supports it, please vote. Please return to consideration of the 9th amendment. Anyone who supports it, please vote. We're in charge, colleagues. Please be supportive. The committee's asking for support. [[20:59:39]] For 172 172, you don't make a decision. 14th Amendment, committee asks her to support it. Who would like to return to consideration of the 14 amendments, please vote? If you'll excuse me, I'd like to vote. [[21:00:05]] For a hundred and 150 bucks, you don't make a decision. My colleagues, I ask again, Nina Petrovna made her offer. Now the colleagues, the amendment, are going to be 39th, 40th, 41st, 43rd, 63rd and 118th. The government's asking them to support it. Colleagues, we threw out these amendments that had the most reconciliation. And I'm betting on who will back up the proposal to go back to Amendment 39, please vote. Please support your colleagues, please support, return to 39th. [[21:00:55]] For 226 We're back. Colleagues carefully, and please enter the hall and take up jobs. Next up, who's to go back to repairing the number. Oh, well, confirmation, okay, we'll go one at a time. So, colleagues, we went back to her. Please take up jobs, now the committee is asked to confirm amendment 39, colleagues. Please vote, please support this amendment by 39 colleagues. Please vote, please support, for amendment of 39 colleagues. Vote, please. Voting in favour, the government is asking for support. [[21:01:39]] For 248 248, supported. 40 amendments please, please support the return to Amendment 40, please vote for your colleagues. Please support, the government is asking to support up to 40 amendments to the return. I'd like to vote on my colleagues. Please be supportive. [[21:02:08]] For 238. We're back. Now I'm asking you to support Amendment 40 as proposed by the committee. Please support Amendment 40, please vote and please support, colleagues. Let's vote, colleagues. Please vote. [[21:02:32]] For 247 We've got it. Now I ask you to return to Amendment 41. Please support me, please vote back on Amendment 41. Vote, colleagues, please support, please vote. [[21:02:55]] For 229 Returned to amendment 41. Colleagues, please be careful! Let's go into the hall, I'll bet on confirmation of Amendment 41. The committee's proposal to support Amendment 41. Please vote, please support, colleagues. Vote, please. The government's asking for support. Please support Amendment 41, colleagues. [[21:03:22]] For 234 Decision taken. Next. The committee requests to return to amendment 43. Please support, and the government is asking to support the return to amendment 43. Please come back, please support me, colleagues. Let's vote, 43 amendments, please support, vote. The government's asking for support, colleagues. [[21:03:50]] For 242 We're back. Please support Amendment 43. The government's asking for support. Please vote in favour of Amendment 43. Please vote, colleagues. Let's vote, colleagues. The government's asking for support. [[21:04:14]] For 249 Decision taken. 63 revisions. The committee requests to return to its consideration of amendment 63. Please vote for the return. The government's asking for support, colleagues. Please carefully vote back to 63 amendments. Please vote, colleagues, please support. [[21:04:43]] For 234 We're back in. 234 for. Decision taken. Until 63rd. I am now voting on amendment 63. The government is asking for support, please, colleagues, to vote. Please support 63 revisions, colleagues. Vote, please. We are voting for 63 amendments for 63 amendments to the Committee's proposal. [[21:05:11]] For 231 Decision taken. Confirmed. And the last 118 amendment. I'll bet the vote on the return of Amendment 118. Please vote. Please support your return to 118th. Let's vote, colleagues. Please vote. The government's asking for support. Let's vote, colleagues. [[21:05:38]] For 252 Decision taken. We now vote in favour of amendment 118. Please vote in favour of amendment 118. Vote please, colleagues. Please be supportive. Please vote, please support. [[21:06:02]] For 253 Decision taken, colleagues. Some of the amendments were not supported by colleagues. Colleagues! Colleagues, there's a 43rd requirement, the government doesn't support it. Colleagues, the government doesn't support it. I'll bet 43. Please, Nina Petrovna, there's a discussion at 43rd. Please, Nina Petrovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u359	Dear colleagues, let's make about 43 adjustments. When our colleague explained that it was two percent for mining from hard mining, she said that there was no information, no record. Just as this rule exists in the Tax Code, it exists, and these wells are determined by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. For those who own. And please tell me, who is issued with this two percent permit, if it's corruption, please call it? You don't have that kind of fact, you tell it all by generalizing it. If the Cabinet of Ministers, if you are.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u360	Colleagues, let's give the floor to the Cabinet of Ministers. Do you have a deal? Please, Vladimir Borisovich Groissman. All right, Nina Petrovna, finish up. Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u361	Why did we have exclusive support for this standard? Because others are truly all corrupt. Others allow it on layers that are already being developed. where wells work, open new wells, and get oil from the same debet under 12 percent. That's why they weren't supported at all. And here's the extra control of the Cabinet of Ministers, which can actually have accurate information that's this difficult well. And this standard already exists, Mrs. Victoria. And you're saying you're coming up with something on the move.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u362	Thank you. So, now, Prime Minister of Ukraine Vladimir Borisovich Groisman, please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u363	I, my dear colleagues, am definitely against that there were any possibilities for any corruption. It's categorical. So you don't have to put these things on the government, and then the government will determine what is the hard hole that is not. I'd like to take this amendment off now, not counting it. And if you want to sit separately, please do round tables, make arrangements to make it public and normal. I'm ready to work with everything else. I ask then for the exclusion of 43 amendments to the adoption of this law in the second reading and in general.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u364	Colleagues, don't make noise in the hall, colleagues. Now I'm going to put to the vote one more time, "self-help," go back, and then I'm going to say no. We vote for her return. Deal, colleagues, common ground. So, colleagues, I'm voting for a return to 43 amendments. Please vote for the return. Please support this position of government, the committee does not object. Please support the return to 43 corrections. Please vote, colleagues. Please vote. Please vote. [[21:09:40]] For 230 We're back. Now I'm putting her on the stand. The government is against us confirming it. Against that, colleagues. And so, colleagues, I'm asking for confirmation right now, but the government is asking her not to confirm. I'm betting on confirmation of amendment 43. Please vote. The government doesn't ask for support. Vote please, colleagues. [[21:10:14]] For-27 The decision is not taken. Colleagues, we're done talking, we're moving on to making decisions, colleagues. I ask everyone to take up their jobs and prepare for the vote, colleagues. [[B in m in s a l in]] Please take your seats and prepare for the vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] Colleagues, the closing word of the Prime Minister, and we move on to the vote. Please invite everyone to the hall. [[B in m in s a l in]] No, no, no! One minute, Graceman, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u365	Stop! Stop-stop-stop, fellows! We have 29 percent on the well. 29 and 14, do I understand? Have you now made up your mind that 12 percent is for new wells? So let's put it this way: with the exception of 12 percent for the new wells, in general, in the second reading. Come on, Nina Petrovna, comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u366	Please, Nina Petrovna, comment so that we know we're voting.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u367	You're not ashamed! That's a 12 percent rule, and we voted it off! See, on the first reading, we took 12 percent for new wells. And now they've voted, they've returned the amendment that takes away these percentages, it's deflecting, it's deflecting.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u368	What's the bet now?
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u369	29 and 14 are extraordinary. New ones. 29 and 14. And that's exactly what we took 12 percent of it was rejected by Vojcitsky, and we went back to that. to this Kobcev amendment to cancel 12 percent for new wells. That's it. [[Noise Nodes]] 29. Once again, the first reading was 12. The Kobtsev amendment that we've just returned to, open it, please, 41 amendments cancel 12 percent. But she was rejected in the hall. So we went back to her, we voted. So we have the only bets 29 and 14.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u370	All right, fellas, you got it? Is the situation clear? The discussion is over. It's been an emotional discussion, we're moving on to making decisions, colleagues. I ask everyone to take up their jobs and prepare for the vote. I ask all national deputies to return to their jobs. Nina Petrovna explained all the conflicting points. Colleagues, please finish the discussion. Let me put it. Colleagues, to see if there's a balance in the room, I'm going to set up a rating, or if we've agreed on all the points. So please participate in the rating vote in support of Bill 5132, my colleague. Please vote the rating vote, please support. Colleagues, we're voting 5132, we're voting. Please vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u371	Of course, what Nina Petrovna said under. Please vote. [[21:14:07]] For 243 There are voices. All agreed positions. So I'd like you to prepare. I am voting on draft Law 5132: amending the Ukrainian Tax Code to ensure the balance of budget revenues in 2017 on second reading and in general. Please vote. I'd like your support, colleagues. With the committee's technical legal regulations. Please vote. Please be supportive. Let's vote, colleagues. Vote for it, please. [[21:15:01]] For 235 Decision taken. The law is passed. [[B in m in s a l in]] Colleagues! Colleagues! Stay where you are, fellows! Colleagues, please remain seated. I've already announced that the law has been passed. After that. I made it clear, colleagues, don't shout in your ear. I made it clear with the Legal Department: once the law has been declared "adopted," please, an application to the Regulatory Committee, and the Regulatory Committee will consider all applications. That way we can vote endlessly. Colleagues, pay attention! We have now completed our consideration of the second budgeting law. We've got it for today. Now we have a demand for two factions, a request for a recess, but they're willing to replace it with a statement from Self-Help and Fatherland. I'm asking you to stay put. Now there's a word for two factions -- who? Self-help, who? Who is given the word? - Aloni Shkrum. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u372	Dear Head, the honorable government! We would like first of all to thank the Fatherland factions and the Self-Help faction for the opportunity to express positions under a very important draft law. This is the following law: 5368, which was prepared for the second reading in the edition of the first reading, which was not voted in the Supreme Council of Ukraine on December 8. I'll remind you that this is a government draft decision that was voted on December 8th, which was amended by the committee. But it is the law that governs the vote. I'd like to read my colleagues an excerpt from the transcript. "I am voting on the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Tax Code to ensure balance of revenue in 2017 (number 5132) on the basis of amendments announced by the committee head from the rostrum." This is about the previous law that we just voted on. He voted with amendments. As far as the law in question is concerned, the transcript: "I am voting on the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Tax Code to improve the investment climate in Ukraine (number 5368) on the basis of colleagues. Just for the basis." That is, the first reading voted on the draft law in the form of a government that the MPs supported. A few words, in essence, of this law. Why were such violent emotions last time? Because there was an attempt to implement standards that created a special investment climate for selected structures, freeing them from the sale of goods from the value added tax. In these circumstances, the norm, the name of the law, which says in parentheses, is the improvement of the investment climate. You have to change the name: improve the investment climate for the chosen. A group of deputies insists that this bill from the Supreme Council comply with the rules of the law, which is called the Supreme Council of Ukraine Regulation. And in the second reading, a draft of the Law was considered, which was voted here in the Hall, which was taken as a basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u373	Thank you. Dear colleagues, in fact, there is not yet a decision and a table under the 68th law. And I, colleagues, have a request for you. Since there is not yet yet another budget bill to consider other laws that are in order, especially the proposal is now that we consider the draft Act on the Provision of Large-Scale Export Expansion of Ukrainian Producers by Insurance and Costing Export Credit (2142a). He's all right. But there's a general proposition that we should consider it now, colleagues, so that we don't waste our time. I very much ask all factions that we don't waste the time we've agreed to consider all those bills that require. So it supports the proposal and the government, it supports both the committee and it supports all the factions, the law that relates to insurance and the guarantee of a loan for export, the colleague. I'm asking you now to vote that we put him on the table right now, he's all right in the daytime, so we can move him on for now, colleagues. Is it supported, do we support it, colleagues? Are we supporting everyone? Then I'll put it to the vote. I'd like your support, colleagues. I'm asking you to support the transposition of the bill, and I'm going to put the other bills in the same way that are still there. I'm going to make an offer so we can move on to 2142a right now, and I'm asking you to support this proposal, colleagues. So I'm putting it to a vote so that we can now go to draft Law 2142a, the draft Act on ensuring the large-scale export expansion of Ukrainian producers through insurance, insurance and export credit. Please vote and support us not to waste our time. Colleagues, please support, everyone in the room, please vote, please include the voting system, please support, colleagues. All the factions are supporting him so that we don't waste our time so that we can vote. [[21:20:57]] For 226 Set. So, colleagues, 226 decisions taken. Here we go to the draft Act on the large-scale export expansion of Ukrainian producers through insurance, insurance and export credit. This is the second reading, the colleagues, the table has long been distributed to everyone and I invite the head of the Committee on Financial Policy and Banking of the Fishing Committee, Sergio Viktorovich. Please, Sergey Viktorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u374	Dear Mr. Head, my dear colleagues, the technological degradation of Ukraine has accelerated in recent years, all the causes of our poverty. As long as we're selling overseas routes, metallurgy, wood and roundwood, we're going to live in poverty. The competition in the world is growing, and no one in the world needs a strong and independent Ukraine, just you and me. Metallurgy, which has been shrinking over the last 25 years and has brought us the left side of the currency, will continue to lose markets. Last year, exports of goods from Ukraine decreased by almost a third. We must unite our efforts to make a fundamental change in the situation. The main objective is to stimulate the export of Ukrainian products with a high value added. We're not going to create similar tools, and we're going to stay in unequal conditions. I want to give you a simple example. For example, our A.N. planes. Nice planes, good prices, good quality, but tell me how they're going to compete, for example, in the Embraer tender, when Embraer gives 4 percent of the annual loans. Our commercial bank, for example, today accounts for 15, 16 percent of the age. Our project is fully in line with the relevant directives of the European Union. Titanic work has been done to complete his second reading. The group included representatives of our committee, the Committee on Industrial Policy and Banking, a large number of experts, as well as deputies from different factions, and I want to thank them for that. This bill is included in the legislative reform plan and in the Coalition Agreement. The authors of the project are representatives of virtually all factions. Let me give you an example of how much work has been done. The second reading included 148 suggestions, 139 of them fully included, 1 parted, 2 edited, and only 6 amendments rejected. The key tasks of the credit-export agency are the development of exports of Ukrainian goods, jobs and services, and their competitiveness in world markets. We have reached our only consensus with the Cabinet of Ministers and Prime Minister Groissman. I want to read under the transcript what we worked together with the Cabinet of Ministers. In part one, part two, the word "take" changes to "maybe." The second part of Part Four should be supplemented by a new paragraph of the following content: "The way in which the tasks and main directions of the activities of ESA are carried out, taking into account the active strategic and programming documents that form state policy in the area of export development, are determined by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine." In part 5, the words "these signs are approved by the ECA government, which are the main government of ESA activities, including by taking into account the existing strategic and programming documents that shape state policy in the field of export development" are excluded. And article 8 should be supplemented by the following paragraph: "The Cabinet of Ministers should approve an additional list of raw exports that are subject to support.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u375	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u376	Given the specificity of ECO, we've looked at it on the committee. And our committee is proposing to adopt this bill in a second reading. I'd like to support you. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u377	Thank you, Mr. Sergei. Please remain in the rostrum. We're moving on to the amendments. Amendment No. 1 of the People's MP Melniczuk. Are you insisting? Melniczuk doesn't insist. Let's move on, dear fellows. Here almost all the amendments are included, I see, in this bill by the committee. Which makes it good and easier for the session hall to work. Amendment No. 102 of the People's Deputy of Doubov. The Dove People's Deputies, are you insisting? We can't see. Amendment No. 116 of the People's Deputy Levchenka. Lechenko, are you insisting? Please turn on your college microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u378	I'm sorry, please give me some time to prepare. Because given that you're jumping in the daytime like a rabbit in a field, I can't have it all in my head at the same time. So if you'll excuse me. I have time to prepare. Then please return to my amendments in the end. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u379	Dear colleagues! So you're suggesting that you take a look at your correction right now? I'll read it to you. You're suggesting. Okay. Let's move on. Amendment No. 141 of the People's Deputies of Doubov. Are you insisting? No, it doesn't. Dear colleagues, these are all the amendments to the bill that we are discussing. We have asked the Lewchenko People's Deputy for one minute to come to their senses. I'm asking you very much to come back. We don't have a line. I'm asking you to return to the session room. I'm going to go to my colleagues who are now out of the session room, and in one minute we're going to have a vote in favour of the 2142a Bill on ensuring the vastly expert expansion of Ukrainian producers through insurance, insurance and export lending. When the chairman speaks, it is very difficult to listen when someone is talking. Mr. Levchenko, did you find your amendment number 116? Did you find your amendment? Please, Mr. Levchenko's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u380	Thank you. Well, actually, I don't have a few amendments here, not just 116. I'd like to begin with an amendment of 93 of my own. I guess so. Now, a minute. So I propose part five of article 5 of the bill to supplement the second sentence with the following sentence: “External audit of the institution is conducted by an exclusively independent international or national audit firm which is recognized and has a high business reputation in the relevant market in Ukraine.” The International Audit Company is obliged to report to the institution and the Ministry of Economic Development and Trade of Ukraine on the external audit of the activity of the institution, which is published on the official website of the institution and the Ministry of Economic Development and Trade of Ukraine within 10 days of its receipt. The form and content of the institution’s external audit report is approved by the Ministry of Economic Development and Trade, taking into account the requirements of this law. This is about not simply being written as it is now written in this law simply: "The establishment is subject to mandatory external audit every year." (dot). This is a little sentence that doesn't have any real load. It's about being specifically written.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u381	15 seconds, please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u382	The point is to write down which specific audit is to be agreed upon by such an institution. Who has such an audit to conduct, and what principles to ensure that this institution is indeed under control and accountable, rather than simply, excuse the toy in someone’s hands. So please support my amendment to a real, independent, transparent audit of the institution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u383	Thank you. Colleagues, we're voting for 116 amendments. I'm again addressing all the colleagues who are now out of the session room. We have a final discussion of the amendments, there is now a very important vote, and I ask everyone to return to the session room. This was the 93rd Amendment, the Levchenko People's Deputy insists that we return to it. Please vote on amendment 93 of the People's Deputy Levchenk, then return to 116 and vote in favour of the law. Please, 93 revisions. We're voting on our colleagues. [[21:30:04]] For-86 Thank you. Right now, Amendment 116, please, People's Deputy Levchenko, turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u384	Thank you. Levchenko "Freedom" 223 District of Kiev. The bill proposes that specific exports of which goods of the manufacturing industry should be supported by an appropriate institution for which we approve the bill. But it's not really logical to write these things in a bill, because the needs of the economy can change. And to be honest, this clearly resembles a certain lobbyism. So I suggest that article 8 be used in the next edition. In carrying out its core activities, the agency supports the export of high - value goods and services. The list of exports and services supported by the institution is approved by Kabmin. So that we're not limited to a narrow list according to UKTZED, so that we can adjust support according to the economic realities of today. In particular, it is important to keep in mind services with high added value, not just those of the manufacturing industry, as is suggested today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u385	Colleagues, next amendment, Krivenko one minute, please. Oh, we haven't voted yet. 116, right? Whoever supports the 116th amendment of the People's Deputy Levchenk, please vote. [[21:31:54]] For-74. The decision is not made. Colleagues! 30 adjustments, right? This is the last one, isn't it, Mr. Yuri? So that I can be oriented. Colleagues, there'll be a vote for the law in three minutes. I very much ask all the heads of factions to invite deputies to the Hall and ask the secretariat of the Supreme Council to invite the deputies into the Hall, we'll move on in a few minutes to the decision-making process. Please, 30 revisions. Lechenko, turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u386	The law proposes that the statutory capital of the institution be at least 100 million dollars, at least 100 million dollars. But in fact, for the tasks and purposes of the institution, 100 million dollars is very little. This is very small, and no real export support is actually going to happen. In fact, I think we should talk about billions, but at least I would suggest in my amendment, even if we were to increase this proposal, this number by three times, to 300. Excuse me, increase by 5 times, to 500 million if it's half a billion. It's at least something that can really stimulate export. Because 100 million -- sorry, please, it's not serious stuff. If we're talking about serious exports, a few shipments of certain goods could actually cost 100 million. So I do propose to support my amendment and increase it to 500 million, to half a billion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u387	So 30 amendments. You're demanding a vote, aren't you? Mr. Yuri, you're calling for her to vote, aren't you? So whoever supports Amendment 30, please vote on who supports the 30 amendment. [[21:33:43]] For-100 The decision is not made. Colleagues, I'd like to invite everyone into the hall. I ask all the heads of factions to invite MPs into the hall. Krivenka, please, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u388	Victor Krivenko, National Movement of Ukraine. Dear colleagues! This is a wonderful system law that has no political coloring whatsoever. I truly believe, and I hope that the whole room will be green. Since 1994, there has been an attempt to create an expert credit agency in Ukraine. This is the sixth attempt, the sixth attempt that the lobbyist of the agro-syrovina scenario is doing to make our main positions of expertise human beings, our grain and our metal rotorate, our ore. Only three countries in Europe don't have such a tool, it's Moldova, it's Albania and it's Ukraine. So, Your Honor, I urge you, all those who want to have a highly technological, highly developed economy, support this law. Call all your colleagues who are now out, I understand the heavy rhythm and the break, we need to burn people, even though we have to fight it, but vote for this bill, it's impeccable. And I thank the government that supports this, and I want your Prime Minister to express his position as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u389	Thank you. I now give the floor to Prime Minister Vladimir Borisovich Groisman of Ukraine and invite everyone to the Chamber. Please, Vladimir Borisovich, there will be a vote after the speech. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u390	Thank you, Mr. Head. Ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the Government of Ukraine, I would like to express my support for this important bill on the establishment of an export credit agency. In fact, we have an approach that will allow us to build a sufficiently competitive economy. But we've already said not once that we don't have to be a foxtail, we don't have to be a country that has a raw type of economy. The added value needs to be created in Ukraine, and there are a number of tools that will allow us to create enough quality conditions, including the export credit agency. We have an investment support and support office, it's an investment tool. We have, we've recently created the Industrial Recovery Committee, we want to create added value in Ukraine, we need to conquer new markets in our quality Ukrainian production. And a tool like ECO will enable us to do export support. So it's very important that we vote on this law today, so that we can support it, and this instrument is also created. So I'm asking all my fellow members of the national MPs, this isn't a government draft of the law, this is a parliamentary draft of the law, but I would like to support it. Thank you so much for your support.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u391	So, colleagues, please, we're taking jobs, we're moving on to making decisions. Colleagues, please come into the hall, we take up jobs. Colleagues, I'm asking the committee to set up a rating first so we can see the readiness, please, to enter the hall if there are no deputies to wait for. So I'm putting a rating vote on draft Law 2142a. Colleagues, the rating vote, please vote, please support us to see the mobilization resource in the hall. Please vote, please support. Please vote. [[21:37:40]] For 231 There are voices, please prepare to proceed to making a decision. Colleagues, I'm putting to the vote the bill on the large-scale export expansion of Ukrainian producers by insurance, guaranteeing and losing export credit number 2142a on second reading and generally, colleagues. Please vote, please support. Vote, colleagues, 2142a in second reading and in general. Vote, please. [[21:38:28]] For 237 The law is passed, the decision is made. Dear colleagues! I'm asking everyone. By factions, turn it on. Please turn on the factions. Fellows, I want to give you one message right now, as we prepare the budget bills now, I have a proposal that we move on to those that are beyond budget. Colleagues, pay attention! Now I'm going to propose that we look at the following laws that stand after the budget while the budget prepares. This is 4970, a bill amending the Ukrainian Budget Code (for the payment of the services of guardians). It's right after the budget. The next, 3038 – which Bilkova has told us so many times. 3038 – on amendments to the Ukrainian Budget Code (on the organization of the system of income and the use of income) and 3457 – on "Transitional. amending Chapter XX "Transitional Positions" of the Ukrainian Tax Code. [[B in m in s a l in]] I am. Colleagues, I would like to emphasize to all those who have misread the Rules: at any stage, the chairman may propose to put and move the issue of the agenda.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u392	Yes, of course, by voting. I'm asking you to back me up. 68. There is no committee decision at this time, and I'll tell you individually: no. And that's why I'm calling to support this room right now to look at this block that we have right after the budget. We have two things: either we take a break now, which is going to be wrong, or we can adopt important laws. So I'm asking everyone to focus and work, colleagues. I'm asking you, colleagues, to come into the hall and support this proposal. Please support this proposal, colleagues. So I'm putting it to the vote right now so we can move on to the chapter that's in the order of the day next, but let's look at it now, while there's no committee decision on the 68 bill. And I'm asking you to support everyone. It'll be right, colleagues, it'll be fair. So that we don't waste time working. Ready to vote? Please take up jobs. This is a bill that is supported by everyone. So I'm going to propose that we now move on to the second reading block -- 4970, 3038 and 3457. Please vote, colleagues, please support. They're short and important. Please vote and please support, colleagues. Vote. It's the pay of foster parents, it's the rent for local budgets, it's important bills, it's colleagues. [[21:41:46]] For 185 I'd like to see the factions who want to work, who doesn't. "Block of Peter Poshenko" – 95, "National Front" – 55, "Opposition Block" – 0, "self-help" – 3, Radical Party Lachka – 15, "Fathership" – 0, "Party Rebirth" – 3, "Will of the People" – 3. Colleagues, that's how we are now. I'll do it again if you do it. I'll tell you again, colleagues. So my colleagues, I'm going to re-suppose that we use time effectively and work on bills that are supported by everyone. If I don't have that will, I'm just gonna have to call it a break until there's a decision on the budget committee. Then I ask you to vote. Please invite everyone into the hall, colleagues. Please come into the hall, prepare to make a decision. Colleagues, let's talk for a minute about how we should be in that situation. I'm saying my logic again. Colleagues, pay attention! Please come into the hall, take your jobs. Please don't distract the deputies. So we should now have the following budget bills. In view of the fact that we do not yet have the final decision of the committee under the next budget bill, I propose that we consider the following bills. Move them now. I'm going to count them again, and I'm going to remind them again. This is 4970: draft Law amending the Ukrainian Budget Code (for the payment of the services of guardians). This is where all the changes are accounted for. This is just one vote and the support of our protective educators. The second is 3038. I want to remind you that every Conciliation Board in Belkova raises this question. This is the arrival of funds in local self - control agencies from the rent for the use of nadrama. This bill is supported by all. There are only a few left-handers here, colleagues that we can accept very quickly now, and make a big contribution to the country. Third, colleagues: Draft Law on Amendments to Chapter XX of the Ukrainian Tax Code (for support of the aviation sector). Everyone's being supported, too, colleagues. I am very much asking you to put aside political things. These are laws that are necessary today for the economy, for the production, for the support of our educators. Let's drop it, because we have two choices: either we're on a break, or we're taking important laws for people. So one minute from the factions we're going to share thoughts, and I think we're going to meet in a common position. So from BP, let's give the first one who raises his hand. From the Radical Party, one minute. Then from "self-help" Wojcietsky. One minute at a time, colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u393	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Dear colleagues, you know, all those who work with local communities, how many times have we been asked to keep part of the rent from using the nadrama that are located in local communities in order to develop these local communities. It is this law that now proposes that the head of parliament vote. I want all the local communities to hear that if we don't now vote on this law, that means they won't get the long-awaited part of the rent from the use of the nadrama. The Radical Party supports this law. We now propose to vote on it so that local communities can leave 15 percent of their rent in local budgets from the new year. It's a very important law. The second law is to raise the salaries of security workers who are currently receiving cash. The one who does not vote is against the working people and the enemy of the Ukrainians.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u394	Please, Vojtsick of Self-Help. One minute. You're out of town, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u395	The self-help faction unreservedly supports 3038, a bill that will actually allow Ukraine to secure its energy independence from import gas by stimulating local communities in granting appropriate permits for exploration and natural gas production. Therefore, we unreservedly support it. And I would like to stress to everyone that in order to ensure our independence, we need to create appropriate competitive conditions for the involvement of investors. So, reverends, in Romania, the rent rate is 1 percent, in Poland 15 percent. They've become independent of any import gas. And we need to do everything we can to make our plan 2020 and our output of 27 billion cubes work. And to do that, we have to have competitive fiscal conditions.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u396	Colleagues, I see, all of them. Please, Maxim Burbak, one minute from the People's Front.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u397	Dear colleagues, I'm addressing all the national MPs so that we can finally do what we voted for this morning. We voted that we would work until the day’s order was exhausted. Then let's just work hard. Our boys in the East are standing for nothing and protecting our country. And once a year, we're going to work out the order of the day. [[(Noise in the hall) (Applause)]] So I encourage you to sit and work, not choose who wants to vote faster. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u398	Thank you. From Peter Prashenko's Block, please, Bilkova. Please turn on the microphone. It's a protein microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u399	Dear Mr. Head, I would like to remind my colleagues that bill 3038 stood as a front for 5131 and 5132. We have given up our place to draft budget bills. I very much ask you, given that there are many factions that support this, there are majorities in the hall who promised their districts money for the development of local communities. I insist that he be put in the hall right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u400	Thank you. Please, from "Fatherland" Bogdan and let's move on to making a decision. Bogdan, please turn on the microphone. It wasn't a card, it's already there, and it's already on.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u401	Good afternoon, colleagues. The Fatherland faction, Bogdan Ruslan. If I'm not mistaken, Andriy Volodymyrovich, I came to you personally and asked how soon this bill could be put into consideration and you promised me on that Thursday. It's just a reminder. The Fatherland faction was looking forward to this law and will vote for it. Unfortunately, only 5 percent will be left for the community, but in the district that elected me as a national deputy, that's the problem. That's why the "Fatherland" faction of this bill insists and co-authorizes it and will support it accordingly. Thank you for tipping the faction to the neighbors.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u402	Thank you, colleagues. I ask you to maintain your position by voting in the hall, by voting. Colleagues, I'm asking everyone to come into the hall, prepare for the decision-making process, colleagues. I ask everyone to come into the hall and prepare for the decision. My colleagues, once again, I want to remind you of our conversation on the Conciliation Council when everyone called for the adoption of the bill, and I said, "Let's work until the end," now we have a chance, just please invite all the deputies into the hall. I'm going to make a proposal and count it again. So 3038, so we can look at it now. The next 49, the foster parents, raising wages so we can look at it now. The next is support for the 3457 plane building, so we'll look at it now and it's adjacent to the plane building, 3458-d. So, colleagues, I'm asking you to support everyone right now so that we can look at this block right now, colleagues. Please vote and please support, colleagues. Let's be responsible and unanimously supportive, colleagues. Please support this proposal so that we can now move on to these issues. Vote please, colleagues. Please, support me, colleagues, we vote. [[21:51:48]] For 256 Decision taken. It was an important and responsible decision, and I welcome it all. And we're going into the sequence that we were in. Thus, the first question, 3038, is the draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Budget Code (with regard to the organization of the system of arrival and the use of rent for the use of naphtha, natural gas and gas condensate). I invite the head of the committee's subcommittee on the budget of Ischeikin Kostin Evgenovich to report. Please, Mr. Constantine.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u403	Dear Andrew Volodymyrovich, distinguished colleagues! This bill is widely known, so very briefly the main questions. In accordance with the decision of the Supreme Council, the Committee on Budget Affairs prepared Bill 3038 for the second reading under the reduced procedure. According to the committee’s proposals, it is proposed that the committee should be finally drafted, such as to provide for the validity of the relevant law of January 1, 2018, in order to avoid the loss of revenue from the State budget in 16 and 17 years, and to comply with the requirements of Article 27 of the Budget Code. Leave the government budget's income in full pay for the use of nadrama within the continental shelf and the exclusive (sea) economic zone. This rent is difficult to distribute among local budgets, considering that it is paid, not for the location of the area of the nadr, but for the location of the wager. To clarify the distribution of the corresponding rent between local budgets of different levels, including an increase of up to 2 percent to district and district budgets, from one and a half percent to the budgets of the united territorial communities and the cities of regional importance. As a result, from 2 percent to 1 percent of the city’s budgets have been reduced by district value, villages, and villages with the aim of stimulating the unification of the territorial communities. To specify the location of the corresponding remuneration in the local budget at the location, the location of the relevant natural resources. In general, the Committee on Budgetary Questions adopted the following decision. Take into account 19 suggestions, of which 8 are partial. And take away 15 suggestions. But recommend to the Supreme Council bill 3038 to adopt in second reading and generally as a law, taking into account the supported proposals in the final edition proposed by the committee, as outlined in the comparative table. Dear colleagues! Please support the committee's decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u404	Let me finish 15 seconds, please. I'm sorry, colleagues. So we don't have a co-reporter on this bill. This is our second reading. And we're starting to change things, dear colleagues. Please remain in the rostrum. And we're going after the repairs. Amendment No. 6 of the Matkov People’s Deputy. Do you insist, Your Honor? Please turn on the microphone of the people’s deputy Matkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u405	I would like to say immediately that I ask you to remove the following amendments, which were not supported, I will not put them to the vote. But at the same time, note that the bill in question needs to be put into effect since 2017, January 1, 2017. Take, for example, the city of Borislav, which contains the street of Cranowola, 12. There's a residence. And there's oil in the apartment building, right in the basement. No one spends a lot of money on coping with this ecological disaster after oil production. The same is true of gas pollution. But no one pays attention. There's no spending. So in 2017, this is not allowed to continue. Please accept it from 2017. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u406	We would like to vote in favour of the amendment of the people’s representative of Matkovsky to those who support him. Please. I'm sorry. I'm sorry, my fellow Members, they just distracted themselves, they came up with questions, the people's MP Matkowski just expressed his position, he didn't ask for confirmation. Let's move on. We do not vote on its amendment number six. The 7th amendment of the people’s deputy Matkovsky. Do you insist? Yes, you knew her. Okay. Okay. Thank you so much for this information, dear colleague. The 10th Amendment of the Lubinz People's Deputy. Is he insisting? Don't insist. 11th People's Deputy Levchenka. Are you insisting? Levchenko, National Deputy, are you insisting on 10 amendments?
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u407	Yes. I insist! I insist.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u408	Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u409	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223rd District, Kiev. You know, this bill reminds me of another attempt to introduce some kind of federalization on the part of the government. The thing is, I'm going to remind everyone here that oil, gas, and all the useful fossils are the acquisition of this Ukrainian people. And no one would be able to get gas in any village if there wasn't a country in Ukraine that would protect that village from foreign invaders. It is logical to leave partly the income of such rents only to cover the damage to the infrastructure in question at the time of such production. So it's on environmental issues, and it's on infrastructure. So it's logical to leave this kind of money, not just that, because it's not clear why a village that has gas under it has more coming than a neighboring village that doesn't.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u410	15 seconds to complete, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u411	That doesn't have that gas under it. So I'm proposing these costs that this project is proposing to stay in place, and I'm proposing that they only deal with environmental issues and the restoration of the infrastructure that's affected by the mining. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u412	Colleagues, National Deputy Levchenko insists on voting for Amendment 11. Please, who's in favour, please. [[21:58:46]] For-73 Colleagues, 73 deputies supported your amendment, it doesn't pass, it's rejected. Next 12th, People's Deputy Kulinich. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u413	Dear colleagues, I insist on 12 to the right. The point is that by this regulation we offer 5 percent of the rent of oil and gas production to refer not to the general fund, but to the special fund of local budgets. I think if these funds go to the general fund, they're just going to dissolve. These funds should serve the needs of the community. So, I think so. And spend on capital costs. Therefore, they should be directed to a special fund of local budgets. I believe that this amendment must be supported. I'd like my colleagues to do that.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u414	The position is clear. Colleagues, we're putting to the vote the amendment of National MP Kulinich number 12. And who's in favour, please vote. [[22:00]] For-83 83 deputies supported her. Unfortunately, she's turning away. Let's move on. Further rejected were the rulings of the national MP, Matkovsky, but he withdrew them as the discussion progressed. And that's why we're moving to amendment number 19 of the Lubinz People's Deputies. He does not insist on this amendment. Next up is 30th People's Deputy Ishtajkin. Ischakin, 30th. I've already announced 30, I'll be right back, I heard you. We've already announced the 30th, then we will. I heard there was no deflection. Now we're going to vote this one, and then we're going to come back. We've already announced the '30s. Isaikin, please, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u415	Dear colleagues, I don't insist, let's move on. I say don't insist, let's move on.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u416	You don't insist. So just now, the national MPs, I'm asking you to listen carefully so that we don't go from one right to the other, ask you to return to the 16th for confirmation. Right? It's partially accounted for. Mrs. Belkova, please give me your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u417	Dear colleagues! Actually, I'm not going to bet on confirming this amendment. And I wanted to invite Mr. Prime Minister for consultations because, indeed, the most crucial issue of this bill is the date from which he will begin to work. We made a promise together, and I would like to consult with him and with other factions not to overthrow him, but to conduct and not balance the budget. Please, if the Prime Minister is here right now, in the room, if you please, invite him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u418	We heard. I think at the end of the discussion of the bill there will be an opportunity for the government to express its position. 26 readout included. It's counted, 26 revisions. What else was the readout? 29th. Please, 29 revisions. Wait, now. 29 revisions, it's counted. For confirmation? Please stand up for Podlisecki. A teenager asks for confirmation. Turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u419	Dear colleagues, this is actually what Matkovsky was talking about, which she was probably talking about. This is a question that has been asked since we introduced this norm and since when does this law come into force. Actually, if we subtract 29, the law will start to work as of January 1, 2017. In fact, me and the Self-Help faction are calling for us to give local communities the opportunity to get money from oil and gas production in the community's territory in 2017. This will be true, since we have made many additional commitments to the local budgets by our previous vote on the amendments to the Budget Code. Let's at least give them an opportunity, some of the communities where the wells are located get some extra money. So I suggest you put 29 amendments on confirmation and don't support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u420	The author of Matthewnko’s amendment, a national MP, asks for the word as the author of the amendment. The committee supported the amendment. Please, Mr. Matvienko.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u421	Dear colleagues, I am deeply grateful to Mrs. Bilkovi for this project and I believe that we should have accepted it in 2014 and 2015. But I want to draw your attention to logic that MPs have no right to ignore. The logic and requirements of the Budget Code and the Tax Code should be amended at least six months before the new fiscal year. What's in violation, I'm not talking about it right now. If we now vote since 2017, it's 2 billion dollars that balance the budget. And we have a great understanding, more than that, if we put 2017 on the table, it might put a blow to the adoption of this law as a whole. Because I personally understand that there is no balanced budget, which means that we will not adopt the law at all. So I ask you to be law-abiding if we adhere to this principle. As far as I'm concerned.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u422	30 seconds to complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u423	I didn't break it once, you'll see after my vote. And so, I beg you, don't knock down the law to eliminate this amendment, because you won't get 226 and we'll crash the law. I'm in favour of the law, but we've been following logic since the 18th, and we're solving the rest of the problems through the regional development funds and through the socioconomy, if we have to solve it somewhere. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u424	Please comment from the committee on this subject. Now, we see everything, we see everything.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u425	Dear colleagues, we wanted this law to take effect as of January 1, 2017 and to negotiate with the Ministry of Finance throughout this time. The question of 2.4 billion dollars, in order to really not balance the budget, is the proposal to support it now since the 18th year, but it will probably be possible to make changes if it is accepted. After the deadline, if you'll excuse me, additional arrivals.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u426	Thank you. So, colleagues, what's going on now. The Self-Help faction is requesting 29 amendments to confirm this law in 2017. The amendment insists, Mr. Matvienko, that it should be introduced into this law since 2018, the standards of this law. The committee also supports this amendment. I ask you now to place the vote on this amendment. There are no people, so we're asked not to set up, we're left with. Ah, your bet, right? There's no people there, no bets, no people here, bet. So Self Help asks to bet, you command not to bet. What are you? A suggestion was made that. I understand what's going on, one half of the room wants us to take down this amendment, and the other wants us not to confirm it, we understand everything that's going on. Then we have to go to the vote on this bill, and I'll pass the word to the chairman, and he'll put the bill to the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u427	Dear colleagues, we're finalizing the discussion. Excuse me, Mr. Constantine, can you give us information on how we're formulating our final vote? I'm asking my fellow national deputies to come into the hall in two minutes to make a decision. I ask all the national deputies to enter the Hall and Secretariat of the Supreme Council. Another one, okay. Colleagues, let's do this now, now I ask everyone to come into the hall and ask all the heads of the faction to report it will take two minutes to make a decision. Next, colleagues, now the head of the subcommittee will announce the formulation if you disagree with him I will give you my word. Perhaps he will declare it compatible with your vision or not? [[B in m in s a l in]] Irina's been through all the paperwork. Please turn on the microphone for 30 revisions, Yvchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u428	Dear colleagues! Vadim Yvchenko, "The Fatherland" faction. We're co-authors. But look what you want us to understand. Why do we decentralize the rent of oil, gas and gas condensate to local self-government? To rebuild the roads, the infrastructure that these miners destroyed. And first of all, I'm concerned that a colleague from another faction is suggesting that we put the funds in a special fund to make use of infrastructure projects. We're putting them back on food to spend on wages. That's the first one. And the second, of course, is the entry into force of this law. I agree with you, you need to ask the government right now not to fail, are they ready to support the decentralization of the rent next year? And let's put a proposal to the vote with you directly to start this decentralization from 2017. And believe me, this will be the right way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u429	Dear colleagues, I'd like to remind you of the session room, the honorary, perhaps someone just forgot after a while, but we've already passed this. And this is the amendment of Deputy Ischeikin. We've already spoken to her. We can't go back to the same question three times. Then we have the last amendment, the amendment, that's 31st. National MP Lopushanski, he's not in the session room, I understand, at this time. And he doesn't insist, he's out, yeah. 32nd, Kulinich, don't insist. And 33rd, the author. The author of the law is the national deputy of Bilkova. [[B in m in s a l in]] Aah! I'm sorry, Mr. Kulinich, I'm sorry! Please, your microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u430	I want to support my colleague and insist on the 32nd. This law stipulates that the law takes effect on January 1, 2017. We can't, and the local communities can't wait another year, as the committee suggests, because they have to rebuild the infrastructure that the oil and gas companies have broken. This year and the following year, we are heating up local budgets. So we have to give compensators, just this right, she would do it to make the law come into force as of 1 January 2017. I'd like you to support my colleague.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u431	The chairman of the committee insists that he be given the floor for this amendment. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u432	Dear colleagues, we are all interested in adopting this bill, which unites the hall. But I'm asking you very much not to support 2017, because 2.4 billion is not in the budget right now. So when you vote, think about it so that you do not overwhelm it.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u433	So, at the request of Deputy Kulinich, his amendment is made. Please, who's in favour, vote. The Prime Minister will be given the floor at the end of the discussion, necessarily by his colleagues. Please, 32 amendments, vote in favour. [[22:12:15.]] For a hundred and 107 deputies. Mrs. Kulinich, your amendment is not supported. The last is the 33rd author of the bill. Are you, Mrs. Bilkova, insisting on 33 corrections? Don't insist. Now, at the request of the deputy corps, we give the word to the Prime Minister, which will sum up the position of the government regarding the bill discussed in the second reading. Colleagues, I ask everyone to return to the session room, and we will now proceed to the vote for this bill. Mr. Groissman, Mr. Prime Minister, please, all deputies are waiting for your explanation now, not just the representative of one faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u434	Vladimir Borisovich! Dear colleagues, so now the summary word will be given by a government representative so that we don't overthrow the bill, so that we can balance it for good purposes, so that we don't lose it. Colleagues, please invite everyone into the hall. We'll go to the vote in a minute. Now Prime Minister of Ukraine Vladimir Borisovich Groisman. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u435	Dear colleagues, Mr. Head, this is actually a very important law and we have considered it, including not once in the field meetings. What is the question now? The question is, if we're redistributing the budget now in 2017, we have a budget of 2.4 billion. It's a huge problem, and it's just very difficult to approach. Now we have consulted with the Ukrainian people’s deputies. I propose that we now assume that this rule is effective as of 1 January 2018, and until then that you and I work with real compensatory mechanisms so that we don't lose this law because it's important. Every territorial community, the district, the area is entitled to a share of the profit. And we think it's a completely objective partnership when we have to develop gas gains in Ukraine, not destroy them, as some have destroyed them for many years and put us on the Russian Federation. So I'd like to support you since January 1, 2018, but you and I need to work on maybe getting closer to the input date. I think there'll be consensus. Unless there's a budget balance problem. I think it's a perfectly acceptable design and the right approach. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u436	Thank you, Vladimir Borisovich. Colleagues, I would like everyone to meet at this compromise: January 1, 2018. Otherwise we'll just lose this bill. And actually, that's how I'm going to put the committee to the vote. I'm asking everyone to come into the hall. We're moving on to making a decision. I'm asking everyone to take a seat. We're moving on to a decision, colleague. And I'm voting on the draft Law amending the Ukrainian Budget Code (on the organization of the system of revenue and the use of the money from the rent for the use of oil, natural gas and gas condensate) (No. 3038) with a bill that has been issued under the stenogram that it has been introduced since 1 January 2018, in the second reading and in general at the suggestion of the committee. Please vote. I'd like your support, colleagues. Vote. Please be supportive. [[22:15:56]] For 259. The law is passed. Decision taken. Welcome both to the committee and to Bilkov himself. Colleagues, the next bill has no law. Stay where you are, fellows! There's no correction. And we're going to consider the next bill. Draft Act amending the Code of Budgets for Ukraine (for the payment of patronage services) (No. 4970). There's no regulation. I invite the head of Ischeikin Constantine's subcommittee to report. Please report in a very concise manner. 4970. Ischeikin Constantine Evgenovich. Ischeikin Constantine Evgenovich. 4970. Very concise, colleagues. There's none. There's no rejected correction.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u437	Dear Andrew Volodymyrovich! Dear colleagues! The Committee on Budget Questions prepared for consideration in the second reading a bill of 4970 on amending the Code of Budgets that sets out the mechanism for paying for the care of caregivers and the payment of social assistance for the maintenance of a child in a foster caregiver’s family. Two proposals have been put forward in the Rules, which are of a technical and editorial nature. In doing so, proposal number one refers to the payment of amendments to article 89 of the Code in accordance with other provisions of the bill to avoid legal uncertainty further. The committee took these proposals into account and adopted the following decision: To recommend to the Supreme Council Bill 4970 to adopt in the second reading and generally as a law in the final edition of the Comparative Table to the Bill. Please support the committee's decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u438	My colleagues, thank you. All the changes have been taken into account, so let's move immediately to making decisions. I'm asking you to come into the hall, take jobs, colleagues. It's a social law to raise the pay of services to protective educators, a colleague. I ask everyone to prepare for the vote, we move on to the decision. I'm asking all the deputies to come into the hall. But let's get people in position, colleagues. So I'm voting on the draft Law amending the Ukrainian Budget Code on the Paying of Caretakers, Number 4970 on second reading and in general. In the second reading and in general. Please vote, please support, please vote. [[22:19:29]] For 278 The decision is taken, the law is passed. Colleagues, the next we have two laws to support the aviation sector, that's 3,457 in the second reading and then 5376. Colleagues, I'm just asking, who's going to report 3457? Mr. Arthur Gerasimov, who will report? Arthur Gerasimov. Is that right? Okay. So let's move on to 3457. This is the draft Law on Amendments to Chapter XX "Transitional Positions" of the Ukrainian Tax Code (for support of the aviation sector) (3457). Let us proceed to his consideration, and I invite you to the Berezenko report, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u439	Dear Head, honourable national deputies, we began to reanimate the aviation sector a year and a half ago, by voting on a very important law of 4809. Thank you, for your part, to the head of the Halasyuk Committee, which allowed airlines to be founders of joint ventures with other nations. In many countries of the world, this requirement is one of the basic conditions of contract signing. In addition, in October of this year, the Law of Ukraine on the Restructuring of the Debt of the State Enterprise Antonov was passed. By the laws of 3457 and 3458d, we for the first time in the history of an independent Ukraine create the conditions for our aircraft to be released into serial production. The state-owned Antonov company has already received the first direct contracts from foreign states to build a large number of planes. The cost of contracts is hundreds of millions. Today, the whole country witnessed the execution of the first Ukrainian cargo plane AN-132D, which was received by the president of Ukraine by Peter Poroshenko with the prince of Saudi Arabia. And this is the first plane out of the '80s that was contracted by Saudi Arabia. And most importantly, we're starting to release cargo planes without any Russian equipment. Ukraine all over the world is proving that we can build a cargo plane designed by Antonov's design office without using any Russian components. At all of Antonov's meetings with our potential counterparties, the Russians are trying to convince them that the Ukrainian plane will not just fly into the sky, and that the Russian Federation is capable of blocking any such possibility. But Antonov's team today presented a new AN-132 in just about a year and a half. Ukraine's draft Law on Amendments to Chapter XX "Transitional Positions" of the Ukrainian Tax Code (for support to the aviation sector) (registration number 3457) proposes, inter alia, to continue the exemption from the value added tax until 1 January 2025, to exempt companies from income tax, until 1 January 2025, the exemption from land tax, which was effective until 1 January 2016. Dear colleagues, please support this law. Almost all the factions in this uniform. And we're going to start our aircraft building in a new quality and we're going to get back to our claims and understanding that Ukraine is an airline state. Thank you very much, please support everyone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u440	Thank you, Your Honor. Please don't leave your workplace because we're moving on to the amendments. We're moving on to the amendments. Sergei, please stay on the rostrum, because the committee may have questions for you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u441	We urge Berezenka to return to the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u442	Mr. Lazko, please do not distract Mr. Berezenko from the report of this bill, to which questions may be raised. Please, we're moving on to the amendments. And the first rejected amendment is now 3rd. Mrs. Ostrikova, Mrs. Ostrikova, do you insist? Don't insist.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u443	Colleagues, now. Colleagues, therefore, are from the Southern Nina Petrovna Committee. She's already in the hall. And now she's going to report from the committee on the bill. Please, Nina Petrovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u444	Dear colleagues! We're looking at this bill for a second reading. Let me briefly remind you that the drafter has just reported on the substance of the bill. The second reading of the bill included 15 rights of Ukrainian national deputies, of which 7 are included -- taken into account in part or in substance. 8 rights turned down. These amendments relate to the clarification of the numbering of the Tax Code and the numbering of the Ukrainian Customs Code, to which reference is made in the bill. Amendments 1, 2, 4. Releasing the Act from 1 January 2016 to 1 January 2017. Amendments 12, 13 and 14. Unaccounted for. Cancelling VAT benefits for research and engineering operations for aircraft industry and zero VAT rates for sales of products produced by aircraft construction entities at the expense of Ukraine’s state budget. Next unrecorded amendment. Shorten the duration of the benefit. Reducing responsibility for the purposeless use of exempt revenue tax. These are not supported corrections. Replacement of the term "aircraft" to "aircraft" or "aircraft" The Committee's proposal to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft Act amending Chapter XX "Transitional positions" of the Ukrainian Tax Code on the support of aviation (Registration No. 3457) to be adopted on second reading and as a whole as a law.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u445	Thank you, dear colleagues. We explain what's going on in the hall because everyone's tired. The author simply once again reported this bill to the second reading, although this is not the procedure. After that, Mrs. Yuzanina of the Committee took her stand. Now we're going to the table of amendments, very few of them. That's why I'm asking no one to leave the room. The 1st amendment of Mrs. Southanine is taken into account, but the Radical Party insists on the Replica and that they want to put it on confirmation. Please, Mr. Light Mike.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u446	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. I want to welcome the 12th-thousandth Antonov and all of Ukraine with a remarkable event. Today a new Ukrainian AN-132D plane was launched. And the opportunity to create this plane was given, including by our support. Because the support of high-tech industries, which, in particular, is an aviation sector, will allow Ukraine from a raw country to transform into a modern, modernized country. Now we've voted for the Expert Credit Agency, the same Antonova can use the support of this agency to make Ukrainian planes fly in the markets of Saudi Arabia, Iran, Latin American markets, Asian markets. That's what's going to give the currency to Ukraine, the jobs for Ukrainians, it's supporting the country's science and the country's technology. Therefore, the Radical Party faction supports the modernization and development of the Ukrainian state. I.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u447	I think without doubt, we will support Anton's success today and the new plane. And let's move on to the revisions. Amendment No. 3 of the Ostrikov People's Deputy. Mrs. Ostrikova, don't insist. 3rd, 3rd, Mrs. Tetjana, don't insist. 5th. He insists. Please turn on Mrs. Tatyani's microphone. Please turn on Mrs. Ostrich's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u448	Ladies and gentlemen, five amendments. First of all, I have a claim about the duration of this benefit by the age of 25. Because such benefits are usually granted temporarily for five years. If you think it's going to work since the 17th year, it would be logical to limit it to three or five years, as it says here, by January 1, 20th. Secondly, the bill concluded that it was essential to provide that the amount of income tax that would not be paid to the budget should be used exclusively to modernise the material and technical base, to increase the amount of aircraft production, and that the use of such funds should be directly linked to the activity of this aircraft-building company, which is being set free. So I insist on this amendment, and I ask you to write down the purpose of using these released funds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u449	The chairman of the committee insists on commenting. Please, Mrs. Nina.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u450	Dear colleagues, I've already told you, Your Honor, Tetjana Georgievna, that it is precisely that the funds that are being allocated exclusively for modernisation and what control is being exercised, and that these funds that are being released from income tax will be accounted for as targeted funding in accordance with the national accounting standards. This is shown in the text of the law in the right column. Your amendment only applied to the shortening of this rule. We didn't support the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u451	Colleagues, please, under Mrs. Ostrikov's insistence, we put the 5th amendment to the vote. I ask you not to leave the hall, because there are literally two amendments left in the law, and we will vote on it. Please, 5 revisions. 5th now, Mr. Levchenko, Mrs. Ostrick's 5th. [[22:31:02]] Z-87 Let's move on. I can hear you. Mr. Levchenko insists that his amendment, which is included in part 6, should be fully put to the vote. Let's put on confirmation 6 of the amendment in full terms as formulated by Mr. Lewchenko. Let's put it to a vote. He requires words. Please give me a minute, Mr. Levchenko's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u452	Still, I asked to follow the rules. Thank you. Because we have to follow the law. So my amendment here isn't really counted at all, it's written "partially." The thing is, in this bill, generally positive and really necessary, there's a very strange norm that has a major corruption factor. According to the Ukrainian Air Code, flying machines are any technical equipment that allows you to fly in the atmosphere or in space. Thus, the use of the term "aircraft" is too broad on the body of this bill and allows to avoid essentially paying the corresponding taxes to entities that are totally unrelated should not apply to this bill. I propose replacing this term with "aircraft and aircraft engines." Article 2 of the Ukrainian Law on the Development of Aircraft Construction stipulates that this is the kind of production that is produced by the aircraft - building entities covered by the bill. So there's no way to use this bill as a target, for example, to reduce. Some sort of flying tourist technique, please support my full-scale amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u453	Please put to the vote Amendment No. 6 of the People's Deputy Levchenk. [[22:32:57]] For-97 Let's move on because this amendment is not supported by a session hall, a session hall. 7th. People's Deputies of Gulyev. People's MP, is he insisting? Don't insist. 8th. People's Deputies of Gulyev. Don't insist. 9th. People's Deputy Levchenko. He insists. Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u454	The amendment relates to the manner in which fines and fines are granted in accordance with this bill. The word association, starting with the first month in which such a violation is served, is unsuccessful and ambiguous. The tax period for corporate income tax is fixed as follows: this is either a quarter, a half year, a cycle and a year, this is according to article 137 of the Ukrainian Tax Code. So I would suggest, in fact, putting this paragraph in a new edition, where the tax period is clearly stated, not as written, starting with the first number of months in which such a violation has been committed, in order to avoid any different reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u455	Please put to the vote this amendment No. 9 of the People's Deputies, please. [[22:34:27]] For-80 Correction rejected. Next 10th People's Deputy Ostrichov. He insists. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u456	Dear colleagues, the bill paragraph suggests that aircraft companies be exempt from land taxes. At the same time, according to article 10 of the Tax Code, land tax is a local tax. And it is the local councils who have the authority to set local taxes and determine who they are exempt from paying that tax. This article 103 of the Ukrainian Budget Code provides that the State's provision of tax benefits that reduce the income of local budgets should be accompanied by an additional grant from the national budget to local budgets to compensate for the corresponding losses, the revenues of local budgets. Unfortunately, however, this bill does not provide for any compensatory mechanism, loss, income of the local budget from land tax exemption. That's why I suggested that this piece of the bill should be deleted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u457	Please vote for the amendment of the Ostrikov People's Deputy. [[22:35:50]] For a-117. 117. Correction rejected. Colleagues, we have two amendments left, please go back to the session room. This will be the best present today for the ANTONOVA factory. And the amendment is now number 11 of the People's Deputy Levchenk, are you insisting? Are you insisting? Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u458	I insist. I'm stressing again on the subject, in this bill, that the right bill is, but somehow the terminology is deliberately inserted, which allows it to be used to avoid paying taxes on such groups of goods, such as, in fact, those who are absolutely not supposed to have such preference under this bill, according to the logic of this bill. Because we're in support of aircraft building, not support, for example, for Delta plan dealers. Yeah? So I'm going to suggest that I replace the words "aircraft" with the words "aircraft and air engines." So there won't be any readouts here. Because frankly, there is a constant impression that, as always in this room, they want to push softly into a good project, not very good things. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u459	Thank you. Please vote on this amendment for those who think it supports it. [[22:37:27]] For a hundred and Your offer, Your Honor, is rejected, 107 votes have only been given to the MPs. And the final amendment of the People's Deputy, Pinzenic Viktor Mikhailovich, please also rejects it. Dear colleagues! Please all return to the session room, and now the honourable Andrew Volodymyrovich will announce the vote for this bill. And once again, I emphasize that this is about supporting our aviation, and this is going to be a gift from Antonov's best factory, including. On this important day when the new plane was launched by our legendary company.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u460	Colleagues, please come into the hall and take up jobs. Let me know, colleagues, if you'd like to come into the hall, not come out. The discussion demonstrated general support for the bill. I ask you to come into the hall and prepare for the vote. I'm going to set up the first rating to see what the atmosphere is in the room. So, colleagues, please come in and prepare for the vote. I'm voting on draft Law 3457. The rating vote. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to vote. Please, colleagues, we're voting. Please be supportive. [[22:39:00]] For 248 240, it's okay! The aviation sector is safe with this support. And I'm voting on the draft Law on Amendments to Chapter XX "Transitional Positions" of the Ukrainian Tax Code (for the support of the aviation sector), Number 3457 in the second reading and in general. Please vote and please support, colleagues. Vote. [[22:39:42]] For 253 The decision is taken, the law is passed. Hello! But, colleagues, there is another adjacent bill – this is a draft law amending the Ukrainian Customs Code and some Ukrainian legislation (for the support of the aviation sector). Colleagues, he's no less important. We also have to accept it to provide the financial basis for the bill. This is the first reading. So I'm asking you to support the proposal for a reduced procedure. Please vote, please support the reduced procedure. Please vote. [[22:40:33]] For-198 Decision taken. And I invite you to report to the head of the Tax and Customs Committee of South Carolina's Nina Petrovna. Only Eugene Nina Petrovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u461	Dear colleagues, the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Tax and Customs Policy at its meeting on 2.11.2016, discussed the draft Act on Amendments to the Customs Code and some Ukrainian legislation on support for the aviation sector (registration number 3458-d). You know what the last pink was like. Now this bill exclusively contains all the processed codes of those ingredients that can be imported to make airplanes. for the aircraft industry. Therefore, taking into account all the codes of goods and materials that are currently available in the table, the Committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft Act amending the Customs Code of Ukraine and certain legislative acts of Ukraine in support of the aviation sector (registration number 3458-d) to adopt as a basis and as a whole as a law. Please support the decision, before the ugly first reading, all the product codes were developed and tried to avoid all the mistakes that had been complained about last time.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u462	My colleagues, I hope everyone has heard a proposal from the committee that we are proposing to accept as a basis this bill as a whole. There is no accomplice to this bill. I'm asking the factions to sign up: two for, two against. There is a proposal: Vote immediately. Is there a wish?? [[Noise Nodes]] Right now? Right away. Let's do a rating vote, please, to see if there's room mobilization. Please, Your Honor, vote (3458-d) to amend the Ukrainian Customs Code and some Ukrainian legislation on aviation support. Please vote. Mobilization of the hall please and vote on it. [[22:43:17]] For 230 Colleagues, I see that this bill has been well worked on, processed. So I'm voting on the basis and in general bill 3458-d: draft law amending the Ukrainian Customs Code and some Ukrainian legislation on aviation support. We would like to vote on the basis and in general. [[22:43:52]] For 246 Thank you, dear colleagues. And we welcome the drafters of the bill, because today we have a number of important laws to support the aviation sector. We now await the return of the Head of the Supreme Council in order to continue on the order of the day. I would also like to point out that among our debts that we have accumulated over the course of today, we still have Bill 5473, which is a bill amending some of Ukraine's legislation on the use of apartments in multiple apartment buildings. We looked at it, but there were no more factions and committees. And that's why it didn't vote. Dear colleagues, is there a mobilization of the hall? I refer primarily to the Radical Party and to the members of the Committee on Tax Policy, who were not present during the consideration of this bill. This is Bill 5473. In principle, the factions all expressed their support, but there was no committee in the room -- 25 deputies -- and factions. Is there now mobilization to support, vote for this bill? Let me bet the ratings to understand, okay? Thus, the 5473 rating vote: the draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on the use of apartments in apartment buildings. He was supported by everyone during the discussion, but committee meetings were held. Please vote now, colleagues. [[22:45:53]] For-170. We see that we need more advice here. We wait for the Chief of the Supreme Council to make a decision. Yes, it is. People's Deputy Gerasimov. Is the Gerasim People's Deputy in the Hall? Hall invites you as the author to vote in favour of re-reading. Dear colleagues, the drafter of the bill, National Deputy Arthur Gerasimov, does not deny that we will now put this bill to a re-reading vote. I'm placing ratings. Likewise, to see if there are enough deputies in the room. Rereading the first reading. Mobilizing the hall, watching the ratings vote. Please. [[22:46:56]] For 219 Once again, let's re-read the first reading, the rating vote. So my colleague, I want to give you an example that we've just voted on a bill to support the aviation that's been completed, and after the re-first reading, yes, it's good to vote on the ground right now and in general, let's just support it in this case. Again with the ratings. I'm asking you to go back to the session room so we can move on, because it's late enough and we've done our routine today. So the rating vote for this bill. Please. [[22:47:43]] For 218. We wait until both the Chief of the Supreme Council and other colleagues return. We're back. Now, just a second.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u463	Colleagues, pay attention. I want to make a message. Let's stop for now. Head of the Budget Committee, may I have your attention? We don't have a 68 decision yet, and we don't have a 68, we don't have a 68, we're now preparing a multiplication of documents and a distribution table. Now, colleagues, the budget committee can go and prepare the budget, yes, the budget committee has enough of the legislative base that was adopted to prepare the budget. We'll set it up. Pay attention, Nina Petrovna, to your head. Now we're going to do two things, and then 68th and the budget. So now that 68 is being prepared by the Legal Department, as long as it's multiplying, while the Committee's preparing the budget, I suggest we call it a break, after this break we're going to go straight to 68th and there's going to be a committee decision in the budget. Is that supported? My colleagues, once again, I'm going to explain to you, if you can listen to me, not say the same thing 10 times, I'm going to explain the logic again. So now the budget committee has enough legislative base to go and prepare the budget for the decision-making process, and then we have a break, because the legal department is working on the 68th. In the Higher Council of Justice, there is no legal administration, no committee reproduction. I'm saying, no, I just talked to Tepluk. I just got off the phone with Tepluk. I'll be right back, colleagues. Fellows, so I propose now for a fixed period of recess, while the budget committee will be able to review the budget. [[B in m in s a l in]] Colleagues, pay attention! I'm sorry, I'd like to make my decision again. This decision is important because people simply need to go and eat. Now we can announce a recess, this break will be completed, and the High Council of Justice. Please. [[B in m in s a l in]] I'll take an hour. Okay? So, colleagues, I'm calling a break to 12, to 24 hours, to 24 hours. I very much ask everyone to come to the conference room at 24 hours to consider the following questions. I would like to stress that we have a day-to-day High Council of Justice, 68 and a budget, colleagues. And we have to make a decision under those laws today. So I ask you very much at midnight, at 00.00, that no one confuses or errs, I'm waiting for you all in the hall. We'll rest for an hour and work at midnight. At 12 o'clock, we'll continue our work.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u464	A meeting is still under way with the Head of the Supreme Council, and a budget committee is under way. And we continue our break for exactly 20 minutes. The meeting will begin in 0 hours, 35 minutes. So there's still 20 minutes left for the meeting to end, and we ask for this time to be used as we please, there to rest a little bit. And then return to the session room in 20 minutes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u465	Colleagues, please come into the hall. As far as I know, there's already a significant portion of the 5368 table in the hall. And we can move on to the consideration. But for that to happen, we need deputies to be in the hall. And that's why I'm inviting all the deputies into the hall. I'd like the faction secretariat to invite the deputies to the hall. And I ask the Secretary of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to invite deputies to the Chamber. Please come into the hall. Colleagues, I am very persuasively asking to enter the Chamber. Now we're going to continue our work. I'm asking you to come into the hall and take up jobs. Colleagues, please come into the hall. Dear colleagues, please come into the hall. I'm asking the head of Nina Petrovna Jujanina's committee. Is there a committee head? My colleagues, once again, I'd like to invite a fellow MP into the hall, please. Colleagues, I would like to announce in part that today is the birthday of the National Deputies: Helen Sergiyovni Sotnik. Welcome to Helen's Sergey Captain's birthday. [[Applause]] And Eugene Yuriovich Ribczynski. Welcome to your birthday. [[Applause]] For their courage, for their endurance, that we continue to work. But, colleagues, we're going to have to start by voting. So I urge you to invite everyone into the hall and take jobs, colleagues. Please come into the hall. Colleagues, before we wait for the deputies, I'd like to invite you now to announce the author of the committee, Eugene Nina Petrovna. Is Juliana Nina Petrovna in the hall yet? Eugene Nina Petrovna, please report. We're not in 5368 yet, it's just for Nina Petrovna's announcement, please. Please give Nina Petrovni a message. Please, for three minutes, please elaborate on all the difficulties with Bill 5368.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u466	Dear colleagues, at first I would like to find out and report such circumstances. Last time we were looking at Bill 5368 in the first reading, we were looking at the committee's decision, which was that the committee's proposal was to support a bill in the Supreme Council amending the committee in the first reading as a basis and as a whole as a law. When you started voting, it was really a decision to make as a basis. But all this time, we all understood that as a basis, that's taking into account the committee's proposals. It's a different thought. The proposal of the Head of the Supreme Council that we are voting on the basis of, but it was not clear, on the basis of the Committee's proposals or the Committee's proposals. I want to ask you to look at the table prepared by the committee for the second reading. If there's your understanding and consent, please support my proposal and go to the table for second reading as it is prepared by the committee and is now distributed. Because in fact, all 10 days in the short-term amendment procedure, all the national MPs were amending the bill with committee proposals. No amendment came to a text that had not even been given in the hall. When you and I were looking at the first reading, there was a single table, where there was text with committee proposals, one table, and there was no other table. So I ask you very much to consider in the second reading a table prepared by the committee for the second reading. Dear colleagues, I ask you to support such an offer if you will.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u467	So the honourable colleagues made a proposal to the head of the committee. I ask everyone to enter the hall, prepare for the vote, colleagues. The chairman of the committee asked the hall to confirm the consideration of draft Law 5368 on a table prepared by the committee for second reading. Colleagues, I'm asking everyone to come into the hall and prepare for the vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] I ask everyone to come into the hall, prepare for the vote. So, colleagues, this is a position and a government, this is a position and a committee. A great deal of work was done. The amendments were made to the text prepared by the committee. Dear colleagues, I am very grateful to respond respectfully to the offer made by Nina Petrovin Jujanin and to her support, colleagues. I'm asking everyone to focus. I ask everyone to come into the hall and prepare for the vote. And, colleagues, I'm voting on Nina Petrovna's proposal: to consider a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Tax Code (to improve the investment climate in Ukraine) (number 5368) on a table prepared for the second reading by a profile committee. I very much ask you to support this proposal, and I ask you to vote, colleagues. Please, let's vote. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to vote. This is the position of Prime Minister, this is the position of the committee, this is the position of the government, and I ask that this position be supported by a vote, colleague. Vote, fellows! If you'll excuse me, I'd like to vote. Vote! Please, colleagues, we're voting. [[00:55:46]] For 236 Decision taken. And Nina Petrovna, we solved the conflict that arose in us. This situation was in a way that we actually adopted the bill. I didn't sign any. I decided to go to the auditorium. And the Hall has just made a decision on this point that we will consider the proposal that was made by the committee. And I'm asking you, then we're going, in accordance with the agenda, to the draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Tax Code (to improve the investment climate in Ukraine) (5368). And I invite you to report to the head of the Tax and Customs Committee of South Carolina's Nina Petrovna. Please, Nina Petrovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u468	Dear colleagues, thank you for understanding. All the amendments were made, once again, to the committee’s proposals. So let's start looking at the amendments. I want to tell you that the essence of the bill has been discussed with you over and over again. When we ask if we were able to include everything in this liberalization bill, really, tax administration, we didn't count everything, and we have more to work on. I think that most of us here do help simplify tax administration, reduce fiscal corruption, create a favourable tax environment as a result of the adoption of this law. And I think it's a huge and important step that we can take. In general, 356 suggestions came to the second reading. Of these, 261 are rejected as a whole, partly or essentially 95 offers. The table for the second reading is given to you, dear colleagues. Once again, in all the working groups and committee meetings, all the national deputies -- members of different factions, non-fractional ones -- were able to prove their point of view and take part in the discussions of one or the other proposals. Once again, please do not balance the standards that are adopted in the budget and, if possible, accept the bill as proposed by the committee, taking into account the amendments that are taken into account by the committee. Thus, at the last meeting of the committee that considered all the issues that remained to be considered. The Committee proposes that this bill be adopted as a second reading and as a whole as a law of Ukraine and that it be delegated to the Committee and the Chief Legal Authority of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the technical and legal processing of the adopted law. Please support the committee's proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u469	Thank you, dear Nina Petrovna. Dear colleagues, we are moving on to the amendments. There are many of them, so please let us know who does not insist. Are we voting on the law as a whole? There is a proposal for a law as a whole without amendment. [[B in m in s a l in]] Okay. Dear colleagues, so now we have a position, a consolidated position of factions that we are voting on this bill as a whole without rights. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, we still have time until the meeting is over, and that is why we are following up on the amendments. Right now, we're going to the repairs, but I'm asking you then. [[B in m in s a l in]] So we're moving on to the amendments. There is an insistence on MPs. Four o'clock, Sobolev. Are you insisting? He insists.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u470	Sobolje, Fatherland. Dear colleagues, what is happening here is to invite the director of the NABU, to handcuff those who have forged the law. And this is the Head of the Supreme Council, who signed the law, knowing directly that there were no votes on the committee. Moreover, about a dozen times this law was put to the vote. He went through it only because of those deputies who believed that the Supreme Council was putting the vote to the vote, and he confirmed it as a government option. What is now being proposed is not an option for the government. This is the surrogate voted for by the Opposition Block. And look at whose voices you have now extended this decision. It's an option that allows you to avoid taxing a whole range of gears, and I think that's why the ranks are so active. Therefore, our faction demands that every amendment be voted on.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u471	We heard you. Dear Mr. Sobolev, we're going after the amendments. And now we're talking about your fourth amendment right now. And I'm asking the MPs to talk about the amendments. Do you insist on voting or do you just want to speak? He insists on voting. Please. Please put to the vote the 4th amendment of the People's Deputy Soboljeva. Please, Your Honor, we have a vote. [[01:01:57]] For-76 Correction rejected. 5th Amendment of the People's Deputy. The system's not working. Are we going to vote on this amendment? Let's move on. Amendment No. 5 of the People's Deputy Krishina. Don't insist. Okay. 6 o'clock, George. Don't insist. Seven o'clock, Murray. Don't insist. 8th, Chekita. Don't insist. 9th, Chekita. Don't insist. 10th, Chekita. Don't insist. 11th, Levenchenko. Don't insist. 12th, Sergey Sobolev. He insists. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u472	Sobolje, Fatherland. I'm calling the chairman again right now, please pick up what was voted in the first reading. It was clearly stated that the voted version prepared by the Cabinet of Ministers had not been voted on. That is why all the amendments that have been tabled must be voted solely for by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, and there can be no other option under this bill. That is why I demand confirmation of every vote that has changed the text given by the Cabinet of Ministers. My amendment goes back to the version that was given. That's why I insist on voting.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u473	Dear Mr. Sergei, we can put your amendment number 15 to the vote right now, but I would like to remind you that literally three minutes ago, the Supreme Council of Ukraine voted in favour of the committee's editing, and that's why I'm doing it as the presiding decision of the session room that supported it. Thank you, please. I have no right to deviate from the decision of the session hall because it was and has gained more than 226 votes. Please fix Soboljev, who's in favour? [[01:04:24]] Z-70. Your amendment is not supported. Next Mushak, 14th. Don't insist. Sobolev, 15th. Is he insisting? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u474	Sobolje, Fatherland. If this is the case, a different version has been voted on today, please vote on either the reduced procedure, or give it two weeks for the amendment. Ukraine’s Rules cannot be violated. The Rules clearly determine how voting takes place in the first reading, and how voting is followed. That is why all the amendments made today cannot be made to the text voted in the first reading. That is why I insist on voting on this amendment, which renews the previous edition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u475	We heard you. Please vote in favour of this amendment. Who's in? [[01:05:43]] Z-71 Let's move on. Your amendment has been rejected. 16th. Are you insisting? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u476	Sobolje, Fatherland. Unfortunately, this bill radically changed the essence of the Cabinet of Ministers, taking into account the proposals made by a number of factions, including our faction. For example, in this amendment, I insist that the changes to sub-paragraph 14.1.45 have been excluded, since this allows for the actual change in the text we have been offered. I demand a vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u477	We are voting on a bill that has been carefully worked by the committee. And now, please, this amendment, the honourable Sergey Sobolev, who was rejected by the committee, we're putting it to your request for a vote. Amendment No. 16, please vote. [[01:07:02]] For-72 The next 17 amendments. Are you insisting, Sergei? Please, Mr. Sobolev's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u478	Sobolje, Fatherland. Unfortunately, in fact, we are now following a scheme that is proposed to make amendments to the original text of the bill. That's why in this amendment I propose to go back to the original text, which unfortunately was corrected at the committee meeting and placed in the room as if editing the first reading. I demand to vote for my amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u479	Please, Your Honor, at the request of Mr. Sobolje's amendment number 17. Who's in? [[01:08:00]] For-80 Correction rejected, 80 votes. Next. Let's move on. Sold to a national MP on the 19th. Don't insist. Rizanenko, 20th. Don't insist. Rizanenko, 21st. Don't insist. Sobolev, 22nd. Are you insisting? Don't insist. 23rd, Sobolev, do you insist? No, it's not. Twenty-four, no insistence. 25th, not necessarily. 27th, we're 27th! You weren't in the session room! I can't go back if you, the session room, are we going back to the 11th amendment? Stay in the workplace! 27th.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u480	I'm sorry, you weren't in the session room. Please. We've already passed 11th. 26th, this. You're holding me back. You're distracting me. I have the right to have a normal session of the Supreme Council now. 26th. 26th? 26th. It's not yours to fix. For confirmation. Please, 26th floor, please, People's Deputy Pinzenik.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u481	Ladies and gentlemen, I have taken the floor to vote in favour of amendment 26. I would like to point out that in the history of Ukrainian parliamentaryism I do not yet know the case where the second reading casts a vote on a law that was not voted on in the first reading. But it's obviously very difficult for me to grow up to understand this level of parliamentaryism. This is not only a brutal violation of the Law of Parliament, it destroys the tax field, for it allows one to fail to pay taxes legally. And it's not an investment climate, it's the destruction of the investment climate in Ukraine. I urge MPs not to vote in favour of this version of the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u482	Thank you. Let's move on. 27th Amendment of People's Deputies Krishina. Don't insist. 28th, Krishina. Don't insist. 30th Sobolev. He insists. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u483	Sobolje, Fatherland. Dear colleagues, we are just approaching the substance of the bill, where all offshore spending schemes will in fact be legitimized, where in fact, because of the vagueness of the definitions of offshore jurisdictions, all of our revenue that will not be taxed in the middle of the country will be obtained. And that's why I'm proposing this option in this amendment and the next two ways to re-establish the Transfer Price Act in order for taxation to take place exclusively in Ukraine's jurisdiction. This amendment gives a clear interpretation of what offshore jurisdiction is, what types of operations fall under it, and allows for a return to real taxation of those who avoid taxation within the country. That will bring billions back to Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u484	The position is clear. Colleagues, just as Sergio Sobolev has expressed his position after three of his subsequent amendments, I will put them to the vote. Please, 31 revisions, who supports? [[01:12:05]] For-93 Rejected, 93 national deputies supported it. Next, 32nd, which Sergei said in his speech. Please put it to the vote. [[01:12:28]] For-90 90 only supported, it's rejected. Mr. Sergei, when there's the third one you've talked about, you'll say, please. 33rd, Krishin. Don't insist. 34th, Jurassic. He insists. Please turn on the mike, Oksani Jurinec.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u485	Please put to the vote an amendment that is not supported by the committee, but this is the first attempt at partial philanthropy in this tax law. If that were the case, at least I'd start a discussion and propose to support that kind of amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u486	Dear colleagues, Mrs. Jurynec asks for her support for an amendment regarding philanthropic activity. I'd like to vote in favour. [[01:13:27]] For 122 Unfortunately, 122 are only national deputies. I understand that the next 35th is the one that Sergei is talking about. No, Sergey Sobolev insists. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u487	Sobolje, Fatherland. Two of the following amendments, even three, are actually amendments that essentially changed the original government edition. What is the effect of this change? In fact, in this sub-paragraph that came into existence, we demand that it remain in force because the conclusion is, since the exclusion of fines from the structure of the tax debt is absolutely allogeneic. That's why I insist that there be a previous edition that was given in the government's version and the next two amendments are just deciphering how to do it. I ask all three amendments to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u488	All right, Mr. Sergei. And so, at the request of Sergei Sobolev, at first 33 amendments, sorry, 35, I talked about 35 amendments. Vote. [[01:14:51]] For-84 84 national deputies supported it. 36 The following amendment, colleagues, Sergija Soboljeva, spoke about its contents. Please vote. [[01:15:16]] For-83 This amendment is not supported. And the next is the 37th Sergey Soboljeva. Please vote. [[01:15:36]] For-72 72 national deputies supported it, it's rejected. 38th. Mr. Sergey? Don't insist. 39th. Don't insist. 40th. National Deputy Davidenko. Don't insist. 41st. Davidenko. Don't insist. 44th. Sergey Sobolev. What's that? I didn't hear. Is the national deputy Davidenko in the hall? You don't? Yeah, no. Your amendment, they want to bet on confirmation now. I give my word then. I give you, I'm just looking in the Davidenko People's Chamber. Dear Mrs. Vojcitsick, I'm very careful with what's going on in the hall. Now I give my word to you, then to the author. Now you have the word, then the author. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u489	Thank you very much, ma'am. But what I'm saying is that you're not talking to that MP, because we're going to have two 43 amendments in the document. The first is on page 25, and the second is right on page 230, between 270 and 271. It's actually called falsifying information. So I'm going to ask you to confirm that my colleague Krishna's amendment to once again is 2 percent on the wells that we canceled, and the government didn't support it. I'm asking you to put 43, as indicated in this paper, the Krishna amendment for confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u490	Comment, please, head of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u491	I don't see the 43 amendments you're talking about.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u492	Dear Mrs. Vojcitsick, we're talking about 43 amendments. Dear colleague, we are now talking about Davidenko's amendment, because while we're moving on, because. Now we're talking about the Davidenko amendment and it's about. So we're going to move on, and then we're going to be, when we move on, we're going to vote on. I'm sorry, but let's solve the question of how they go in our table. It's 44th. I'm asking very much that we follow the chart. 44th Sobolev. Is he insisting? Don't insist. 45th, Krishin. It insists on the confirmation of the people's deputy, Georges, please. We're going around the table, I'm just asking us to walk on it. Okay?
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u493	Comrades, good afternoon! The 45th revision is one of the rights in the complex. The government came and presented very seriously this year, and together with the head of the Southern Committee, a reform called "the transfer of databases from the DFS to the Ministry of Finance." To avoid abuse, to avoid manipulation of information, including VAT. But it turns out that everything that people said was good and business-supported, all that was supported by the government, by the MPs of the People's Front, by the regional MPs today was voted out and eliminated. It turns out that no one needs to be transferred anymore, it turns out that there are no problems left, it turns out that Mr. Nasirov is working very well, and nothing needs to be passed on. So this is manipulation, this is the backdrop of the reform that Mrs. Southanin has supported, and now she's giving up. And we demand confirmation of this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u494	Please comment, Mrs. Jujanina. Please, Nina Petrovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u495	Dear colleagues, first of all, behave yourself, please, quietly, because for everything. During the committee meeting, there was nothing to say. You know, and we explained to you at the last decision that it's the only option to work well to carry out a technical audit of the databases of the information systems, as recorded, by 1 July.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u496	I ask you to listen to the head of the committee, please, Mr. George, you are an intelligent man.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u497	Listen! You knew that the last week we got a denial from the IMF about the transfer of databases, because technically it's impossible to do that. Now we've taken the first step, we've written a lot of articles that will gradually lead to that. Do we have the ability to take these bases technically or not? This is the first time. You're so funny. Please take steps on your own, and then you will see how they can be implemented. We're taking it one step at a time.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u498	Thank you. My colleagues, look, it's the first hour of the night, and this time needs special peace and mutual respect. As far as I can tell, this is a project. The bill in this form supports a large part of the hall. And now, at the request of colleague Jury, we're putting 45 amendments to the confirmation. The committee's asking her to support, vote in favour. So let's just get together, please, and support the committee's position. Ah, Mr. George, we're putting what you're asking. 45th for confirmation, colleagues, please support the position of the committee. Vote. [[01:21:51]] For 131 This is the position of the committee. 131 votes, so far this position is still in the hall. [[Noise Nodes]] Now, I hear, I hear, now. 47th, the honourable colleague of Georges is asking for confirmation to set up and he will now make a very correct statement of his position. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u499	Colleagues, I'll be honest, very correct, but the question is that the Ministry of Finance can accept everything calmly, there's no problem with it, there's no problem. The problem is, we don't want to pass. The problem is that the coalition factions that say on the air that they stand up for business rights have put this business's rights into the Nasir and Billan Accords, that's the problem! [[Applause]] The problem is that the person who represents the so-called liberal reform gave up entrepreneurs, not only in this norm, but also in other standards, is the problem, my friends. We're correct, we all understand that you need votes for the budget, we understand, but you don't have to justify it. If you've supported this position, stand up to it with honor, say, "We can't, we can't." So the amendment -- to confirm that the request for non-support of the database needs to be removed from the DFS if we want order in this state.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u500	Thank you for your validity. Mrs. Jujanina, will there be a comment?
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u501	No more comments. Because, like no one else, Andrew knows how much effort has been made to move the problem away. And now these are going to make loud statements, and then you're going to regret it.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u502	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the committee's request, please listen carefully to the committee's request: do not balance this bill. So the national MP, Georges, is now asking for 47 amendments to be made for confirmation. The committee's asking her to support, vote in favour. And I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please support the committee's position on behalf of the committee. Please. [[01:24:18]] For 128 So far, it's the decision of the hall. Let's move on. Let's move on. 48th is Krishin. It's Krishin, the national deputy! Please. I'm in a hurry to confirm.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u503	Colleagues, it's also an amendment that relates to databases that I'm asked not to confirm or to let the People's Front conspiracies with the former regions come true. But I would like to speak to the chairman about Mrs. Jujanina's statement that I would regret some of my statements. I ask you to consider this my official request for the threat of a national MP.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u504	No, it wasn't a threat. It was, I think, just thinking, thinking out loud. Dear colleagues, we're asking National Deputy Jury to confirm Amendment 48. [[B in m in s a l in]] One minute to the show. But let's use this minute correctly. Please. 30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u505	I, as a national MP, once again appeal to the presiding officer to consider my address official, because just from the Supreme Council's rostrum there was a threat to the national MP in exercising his authority, precisely as he regrets his statements, on which the Constitution guarantees him full rights and freedoms. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u506	Dear colleagues, please, Mrs. Jujanina requests that the committee head not balance this bill and support the 48-amendment committee's position, vote in favour. I ask you to vote, Your Honor. [[01:26:24]] For-125 125 votes. Let's move on. 49th is requested by the National Deputy of the Georges. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u507	Please put it on confirmation and don't support it. The same applies to databases and not passing them on to the Ministry of Finance.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u508	Please confirm the committee’s support for amendment 49. Let's vote yes. For! [[01:27:07]] For a hundred and Let's move on, dear fellows. 50th. Please, a national MP. He's just asking for confirmation. We're voting 50 for confirmation. The committee is asked to vote. I'll bet. I understand that you are. Just to save time. "For" please vote on behalf of the committee. It's for confirmation. [[01:27:43]] For-123 Let's move on. 51st for confirmation. Please vote. The committee wants to vote in favour. It's for confirmation. [[01:28:02]] For-127 They don't insist on the performance. 127 votes. Not supported. Next. Let's move on. 52, National Deputy Sold, does not insist. 54th. Krishin, a national MP, does not insist. 57th, Levenchenko. Please, Mr. Levchenko. And we agreed to go back to the 11th amendment at the end of the discussion. Please. 57th.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u509	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223 District, Kiev City. Well, first of all, I'd like to point out how we have this horribly organized work, when the committees are in parallel. Actually, I was running from the budget committee here, and I barely made it to this bill. You see, such an impression is that this is done specifically in order to avoid a normal discussion and to get active deputies out of the discussion. Well, it's such a separate trailer. In this regard, this amendment. Unfortunately, this bill proposes, in fact, to strengthen that mechanism of transfer pricing, to strengthen this hole, this gap in tax legislation, through which billions of dollars are derived from Ukraine. This is one of the main instruments, one of the main mechanisms through which billions of dollars are being spent from Ukraine without a single penny in the budget. It is proposed to increase from 50 million to 150 million thresholds to understand those controlled enterprises, from 5 million to 10 million, to increase the level of controlled operations. Ten seconds, please. I mean.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u510	Mr. Yuri, let's vote now for your amendment, for the 11th, we remember, we'll come back to her in the end. Dear colleagues, please vote for Mr. Levchenk's 57th amendment, please. Who's in? [[01:30:03]] For-96 Ninety-six deputies supported you. 58th, Dudenkov. Don't insist. Male, 59th. Don't insist. Man, 60s. He insists. Which one? It's the '60s. Please, Mr. Musak's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u511	Dear colleagues, please support my work, it provides opportunities and more to combat transfer pricing. And with the opportunity, I wanted to express my faith in the firmness and consistency of Prime Minister Vladimir Borisovich Groysman, who in the previous bill did not support 43 amendments to the 2 percent rent on oil production. I'm more than confident, and I believe that in this bill he won't support the 43 amendments that are on 230 pages between 270 and 271. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u512	Please, 60 amendments to the Musak People's Deputy, please vote. [[01:31:13]] For 101 Correction rejected. 61 revisions, Dudenkov. Don't insist. 62nd, Muschak. Don't insist. Oksana Sold on 63rd doesn't insist. There's no insistence on the 64th. There's no insistence on the fly on the 65th. Sergey Sobolev on 67th insists. Please, Mr. Sergei.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u513	Sobolje, Fatherland. Sadly, this amendment, which appeared in the committee’s bosom, once again distorted what had been submitted by the government. In fact, the committee introduces a new terminology that has not been applied before. The so-called gross profitability, the reselling of the price of reselling, which is directly from the Transfer Price Act, distorts the absolute text of the law. That's why I insist that my amendment be supported, which makes it impossible to sell products abroad in offshore jurisdiction for no price, then to make a profit and sell them abroad, that's when the Ukrainian budget is going to lose billions. That is why I propose an amendment that fully corresponds to the original text of the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u514	Mr. Sergei, I'm sorry. Is this about the 66th or the 67th? 66th, you don't insist. 67 Amendment of the People’s Deputy Soboljeva Who's in, colleagues? Vote. [[01:33:09]] For-94 Rejected amendment. 70th, Sold. Don't insist. 72nd, Dudenkov. Don't insist. 73rd, Dudenkov. Don't insist. Let's move on. Sergey Sobolev, 76th. Don't insist. Thank you. Let's move on, fellows. We still have plenty left. 67th, Sergey Sobolev doesn't insist. Thank you. 78th, Krishin doesn't insist. And 79th, Krishin doesn't insist either. 81st, Krishin doesn't insist. 82nd, there is no insistence on the national MP Hirschfeld. Thank you. 83rd, the sale doesn't insist. 85th, Krishin doesn't insist. 86th, Krishin doesn't insist. Next. Ah, Krishin, 88th. Don't insist. 89th, Sales doesn't insist. Let's move on, dear fellows. 92nd, Musak doesn't insist. Sometimes he insists. 93rd, Krishin doesn't insist. Sobolev, '94. Sergey Sobolev! His national MP, Vlasenko, is distracting from the amendments. There is no insistence on the Soboljev people's MP. 97th, Krishin doesn't insist. Let's move on. 98th, Krishin doesn't insist. 99th, Krishin doesn't insist. 100th, Musak doesn't insist. 101st, Sobolev. Don't insist. 102th, Krisheen doesn't insist. 104th Sobolev. He insists. Please, Sergei Sobolev's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u515	Sobolje, Fatherland. I propose to support a 104 amendment that actually makes it impossible in manual control. In fact, this amendment does not allow tax authorities to use corruption mechanisms to carry out such checks. It regulates a clear order that allows checks to be carried out solely according to the normative acts that exist today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u516	Thank you, Mr. Sergei. Please correct Sergey Soboljeva Number 104 for testing. Please be supportive. Who's in? [[01:36:01]] For-96 The correction is being rejected. 106th, Burgundy People's Deputy. Are you insisting? Don't insist. The 107th, Semenha. Is he insisting? No, it's not. It's just that we can't really see it, I'm sorry. 108th, Krishin. Don't insist. 109th, George. Don't insist. 110th, Krishin. Don't insist. 112th, Dudenkov. Don't insist. 113th, George. Don't insist. 114th, Sold. Don't insist. 115th, Sold. Don't insist. 116th, Sold and 117th. Don't insist. 118th, Sold. Don't insist. 119-Journey. Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u517	My colleagues, I'd like to draw your attention to 119 revisions -- one example of obviously falsifying a document, because all the time, my amendment was 116 and it was supported by a committee. But in the evening, a couple of hours ago, on some concoction that I accidentally went through, they rejected it. Although she supported herself at all times, including the head of the committee. The editor tells us that the test materials cannot be transferred to the investigating authorities until the time of reconciliation. This is a norm supported by the Council of Business Ombudsperson, which is supported by the Prime Minister, the President of Ukraine and the head of the committee until tonight. Unfortunately, the People's Front forces, the factions, parts of the BP and the heads of the Committee on Entrepreneurs' Rights have just merged and said that we can continue to violate criminal cases without cause and no one will take care of business rights. I'm asking you to put this right to confirm and support, because by the committee's decision, it's been supported, and now it's a forged document.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u518	Thank you. Dear colleague, we can't put it on confirmation because it's marked as rejected in the table. And that's why we're putting her to the vote. Please vote in favour. But it's for the vote, not for confirmation. Please vote. [[01:38:30]] For a-117. 117 votes, your amendment rejected. National MP Sobolev on 120th, do you insist? No, it's not. Let's move on. Sold, 121st. Don't insist. Sobolev, 122nd. Don't insist. Next. 125th. The National MP, Georges, insists that the 123 amendments taken into account by the Committee be amended by the national deputy Krishina for confirmation. Please vote for confirmation. Ask for a word. Please give the People's Deputy a word for a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u519	So today, a colleague of mine found that I would bet on confirming my colleague Krishina’s amendment. First of all, it's not his work, it's the DFSU's rights, they're made through the National MP. What are you talking about? The point is that today, if the state breaks the debt, the tax rate is applied from the moment the decision is made. What the norm is offering. She suggests that there may be a decision to dissipate the debt, but tax evasion has been in effect since the conclusion of the Disturbation Contract. A decision on frustration may be appropriate, and a contract may not be made, as it has been for certain oligarchic companies. And there's not going to be any conservation asset, of course. Therefore, the request for confirmation is not supported.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u520	This is about amendment 123, respected colleagues supported by the committee. Please vote in favour at the request of the committee. Vote, please. [[01:40:23]] For-125 Sori, 125 votes. Let's move on. 125th People's Deputy of Semimenah. Is he insisting? Don't insist. 126th Sobolev Sergei. Is he insisting? No, it's not. Debtenko, 127th. Don't insist. Krishin, 128th. Don't insist. 129th, Krishin. Don't insist. Sold at 130 doesn't insist. 131st, Sold. Don't insist. 132nd, Krishin. Don't insist. 133rd. Krishin doesn't insist. 134th. Sobolen. Don't insist. 135th. A fly. Don't insist. 1360. A fly. Don't insist. 137th. A fly. Don't insist. 138th. Sold. Don't insist. 139th. Sold. Don't insist. 140th. Sold. Don't insist. 141th. I'm in a hurry. Don't insist. 142nd. Debtenko. Don't insist. 143rd. Sold. Don't insist. 144th. Sold. Don't insist. 145th. I'm in a hurry. Don't insist. 146th. Debtenko. Don't insist. 148th. Krishin. Don't insist. 149th. Krishin. Don't insist. 150th. Sold. Don't insist. The 151st. Krishin. Don't insist. 152nd. Sobolen. Don't insist. 155th. A fly. Don't insist. 157th. Sergey Sobolev. Don't insist. 156th. I missed it by accident, but the sale doesn't insist. 159th. Sold. Don't insist. 160th. Sold. Don't insist. 161. Sobolen. Don't insist. 162nd. Sobolen. Don't insist. 163th. I'm in a hurry. Don't insist. Thank you. 164th. Rizanenko. Don't insist. 165th. Sold. Don't insist. 166th. Debtenko. Don't insist. 167th. Sergey Sobolev. Don't insist. 168th. Dowbenko. Don't insist. 169th. Sold. Don't insist. 170th. Rizanenko. Don't insist. Let's move on: 171. Sergey Sobolev. Don't insist. 172nd. Sergey Sobolev. Don't insist. 173rd. Sold. Don't insist. 174th. Dowbenko. Don't insist. 175th. Rizanenko. Don't insist. 176th. Sold. Don't insist. 177th. Sold. Don't insist. 178th. Sergey was sore. Don't insist. 179th. Sold. Don't insist. 180th. Rizanenko. He insists. Please, microphone to the People's Deputy Rizanenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u521	Dear colleagues, I would very much like to draw your attention to amendment 180, which actually applies to paragraph 14112 of the Tax Code. After Majdan, we cleaned up the tax pit that was used before 2014, which was when the premiums were taxed, and the insurance premiums, the insurance costs included conditionally to the cost and only the delta was taxed, and the insurer, as was the pit, was essentially laundering money and no taxes ever paid. But unfortunately, the draft law, here the paragraph, suggests that such treatment be returned as before. And so, I'm sorry, we're going to return the tax pits through the insurance companies. I'm asking you very much to support amendment 180 in order not to let that happen.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u522	Dear colleagues, National MP Rizanenko carefully explained his amendment to 180. Who's "for," please support our colleague and his correction, please. [[01:44:54]] For the 110. The 180 amendments were rejected because only 110 national deputies voted. Let's move on, 181 amendments to the People's Chamber of Commerce. She doesn't insist, she's rejected by the committee, she doesn't insist. 182nd, Dovbenko. Don't insist. 183rd, Dovbenko. Don't insist. 184th, Dovbenko. Don't insist. 185th, Sold. Don't insist. 186th, Risanne. Don't insist. 187th, Sold. Don't insist. Sergey went mad in 189th. Don't insist. Next Sobolev, 191st. He insists. Please, Sergei Sobolev's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u523	193 amendments that allow for destruction.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u524	Mr. Sergei, it's 191.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u525	No, I don't insist.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u526	Don't insist. Let's move on, Mr. Sergei. Now 193. Please, Mr. Sobolev's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u527	193. An amendment that makes it possible to clearly identify transactions that have been made with government securities. We understand very well how Janukovich’s team and his environment were laundering money through government securities. That's why my amendment is that the incomes received by natural or legal persons from government securities are equal to, in fact, debt liabilities, and these securities, they pay taxes just like they pay off from any other income. This will in fact allow for the recovery of the illegally spent funds of Yanukovitch and his environment, and not only of Yanukovitch and his surroundings, but of the costs that have been incurred over the past three years because of the same schemes. And this scheme will be over for good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u528	I see. Dear colleagues who support the sounding of the amendment of the People's Deputy Sobolev, please vote. [[01:47:25]] For-90 Your amendment was rejected, 90 votes only. Moving on, 194th National Deputy Davidenko, does not insist. 196, Soboljeva Sergia, does not insist. 197, Jurinian Oksana, does not insist. 198, Soboleva, don't insist. 2000th, Soboleva, don't insist. 2001 Soboleva doesn't insist. [[B in m in s a l in]] Oh, I'm sorry! 201th. 200th and 201th, not 2000. Thank God we don't have that many amendments. 203, Georges, don't insist. 204th, Davidenka, does not insist. Sobolev, 205, doesn't insist. 206th, Alexeieva. Alexiev, don't insist. 207th is Evlakhov. Don't insist. 208th - Sold. Don't insist. Debenkov, 209th. Don't insist. 211 - Dudenkov. Don't insist. Sold - 212. Don't insist. Sobolen. 213th Sobolev. Don't insist. 214th – Debenkov. Don't insist. Debtenko, 215th. Don't insist. Debtenko, 215th. 216th. Don't insist. 217th Dove. He insists. Please, microphone to the People's Republic of the Pigeon.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u529	Thank you. Vladislava Dove, 197th constituency, Cherkashina. Dear colleagues, we recently passed Bill 4496 — amending some Ukrainian laws to remove administrative barriers to export services. However, the need for amendments to the Tax Code is called upon solely to bring its standards into line with the legislation in question in part to amend the Ukrainian Accounting and Financial Reporting Act. That is, the definition of the term "first document." Thus, separate articles of the Codex Codex contain not only references to original documents. But they also require the original document to confirm the farm operation. This is a typical body of legislation that will allow tax authorities to demand primary accounting documents and, as a result, the main purpose of the law, which has been widely supported by society, is simply to distort it. Therefore, I would like, my fellow Members, to support the above-mentioned amendment and to bring it to the standards of the existing legislation of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u530	Dear colleagues who support the amendment of the 217 People's Deputies of the Pigeon, please vote. [[1 :50:20]] For 104 Your amendment was rejected, 104 votes cast. Next, 218th People's Chamberlain. Don't insist. Then 219th was sold. Don't insist. 220th - Sold. Don't insist. 221st - Sold. Don't insist. Juryntz is 222nd. Don't insist. Burgundy is 223rd. Don't insist. 224th Sobolev. Please, Sergei Sobolev's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u531	Sobolje, Fatherland. Here we came up with another standard for which the committee was meeting. In fact, a merciless trade is introduced not only in the outing but also in the country. As soon as it ended in the mid-1990s, perhaps Mrs. Yuzanin didn't know. But I'm going to remind you of a company like Bison, which, in the form of a merciless trade, brought in huge volumes of oil products and traded non-taxable oil products in Ukraine. Only the official budget losses, which were then determined, amounted to about 5 billion dollars, is at the rate of $5 to the dollar. Now all the dirty schemes that were then in operation are returning to Ukraine. And this will be on your conscience, Mrs. Jujanina, and your committee, because in the original edition of this, the government has not made such proposals. Why are you doing this? I think they're going to investigate the proper organs.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u532	I heard your position. Now we're voting for the sound. Mr. Sobolev's amendment, 224th. Who's in? Vote, please. [[01:52:21]] For-100 Your amendment has been rejected. 100 votes. Mr. Saints, you've raised your hand. Did you miss something, your amendment? Please let me raise your hand when I really missed something. 226th, Sergey Sobolev. Don't you insist? 226th? No, it doesn't. 227th, Dudenkov. Don't insist. 228th, Muschak. Don't insist. 229th, Muschak. Don't insist. 230th, Muschak. Don't insist. 231th, George. Don't insist. 232th, George. Don't insist. 238, George. Don't insist. Now, colleagues. 244th. 243, Hirschfeld, National Deputy. Don't insist on 243. 244th People's Deputy Krishin. Don't insist. 245, People's Demczak. Don't insist. 248. Mushak, national deputy. Don't insist. 249, Muschak. Don't insist. 248, 249. 250th, Krishin. Don't insist. 251, Hirschfeld. Don't insist. 252, Dudenkov. Don't insist. 253, Muschak. Don't insist. 254, Sold. Don't insist. 255, Dove. He insists. Please, dove microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u533	Thank you. Irina Volodymyrically. Again. Dear colleagues, I would like to remind you that Bill 4496, which we allow to allow the ITshniks, lawyers, designers, architects and any other frilants to provide their services to non-residents, and thus to create among others, as a positive moment, a currency proceeds in Ukraine, we can now completely distort this law, which is already an active law and which, by the way, allowed us to go to Ukraine in a 30-point business rating. It's my bill. By the way, if it's rejected, we're just going to let the authorities of the State Fiscal Service just manipulate the original document. So once again, my dear fellows, I would like to urge you once again to support the above-mentioned amendment that will, indeed, allow our Freelancers completely in the various sectors of agriculture to roll over Ukraine and make currency gains in Ukraine and not allow the DFS to fight them.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u534	Ladies and gentlemen, please vote. It was a 255 amendment. [[01:55:39]] For 132 132 votes only, my dear fellow, unfortunately, your amendment is being rejected. 256th People's Deputy of Semenah. Don't insist. 258, Krishna's National MP. Don't insist. 259, Krishin. Don't insist. 260th, Muschak. Don't insist. Burgundy, 261. Don't insist. 263, George. Don't insist. 264th, George. Don't insist. 265-Journey. Don't insist. 267th, George. Don't insist. Let's move on, fellows of honor. 268, Oksana Sold. Don't insist. 269, Vlad Dove. He insists. Please, Mr. Dove's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u535	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Once again, I propose to bring the bill in question to the requirements of existing legislation. But what I want to say for the transcript is that we're in front of the 270-and-a-half or not 271, which is the 43rd line of the People's Deputy Krishna. And I would like us to support Prime Minister Vladimir Borisovich Groysman, Prime Minister of Ukraine, who asked for the inclusion in Bill 5132. That's why I'm insisting on confirmation of license 43, which is between 270 and 271, for confirmation by the National Deputy Krishina. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u536	Are we voting for your 269, now? We don't vote. And then there's 270 on my chart. Here we go. 270, then after 270 goes 43, I see everything, and now I give you my word, Mrs. Vojcitsky. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u537	In addition to what my colleagues have already said in accordance with the Peter Prashenko Block and for confirmation, and in support of Mr. Prime Minister Groissman's call for the non-support of the proposed concepts, please reject Krishna's application under number 43. I want to remind you that the principle of applying two percent works for companies where a part of the state was more than 25 percent. This was actually an incentive for mining for state companies. It is now proposed that this rule be extended to all companies, including private companies. And add a towel: determine who to give such a standard to, to whom not to add such opportunities. So this is totally unacceptable, this is a corrupt scheme. And I'm asking my colleagues not to support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u538	Mrs. Vojtsick's position is to support this amendment. The committee wants to vote in favour. Please make up your mind about this amendment. [[01:59:08]] For-47 Fellows, you see, we go by the table. That's why I'm asking us to walk on it. Let's move on, please. 275th People's Deputy Krishina. Don't insist. 277th, Matkowski, National Deputy. Don't insist. 278, Yatzenko, MP. Don't insist. 279, Miroshnichenko. Don't insist. 281, Antonistak. Don't insist. 282nd, Musius. He insists. Please turn on Musia.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u539	Dear People's Deputies, Oleg Musei, 124 constituency, Sokalstina, Czervonograd. You know, this one, and I ask you very much to support this amendment. It refers to the remnants of cattle that remain in Ukraine. If we leave an active stake of 3 percent, it will lead to the total slaughter and destruction of all cattle. In fact, the reasoning of the committee, which is written there, that this reduces the availability of local budgets, doesn't exactly correspond to reality. Today, these revenues are zero, because those agricultural enterprises that still support livestock do not pay any bets at all. They make long - term or long - term contracts that reduce the cost. Instead, it was a position and a request to me and to many members of the agrarian committee who supported the bill in question — 1 percent. The Association of Farmers of Ukraine and the entire Association of Farmers of Ukraine have requested adjustments. Please support this revision.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u540	Dear colleagues who have heard Mr. Musia's argument and support Amendment 282, please vote. [[02:01:28]] For-84 84 deputies supported your amendment, Sir Musius. That's why she's refusing. And we're moving on. 283, National Deputy Bondar does not insist. Miroshenko, 284, doesn't insist. Easy, 285, no insistence. Muschak, 286th, does not insist. 287th, Sold, doesn't insist. 288, Solvar, don't insist. Yvchenko, 289, does not insist as far as I can see. Jacenko, 290, doesn't insist. Sold, 293, not necessarily. 294, Davidenko doesn't insist. 295th, the sale doesn't insist. 296th, Krishin doesn't insist. 297th, the sale doesn't insist. 298, Davidenko doesn't insist. 299th, Musak doesn't insist. 300th, Davidenko doesn't insist. 301, Davidenko doesn't insist. 305th, George doesn't insist. 307th, the sale doesn't insist. 310, Dennisenka, don't insist. 311, Dudenkov doesn't insist. 316th, George doesn't insist. 317, Musak doesn't insist. 318 Musak doesn't insist. 319, Musak doesn't insist. 320th, Krishin doesn't insist. 322, Hirschfeld. Don't insist. 323rd, George. Don't insist. 25th. People's MP Lavric. Don't insist. 327th, Sold. Don't insist. 328th, Krishin. Don't insist. 329, Hirschfeld. Don't insist. 330, Levechenko. Please, microphone to the People's Deputy Levchenk.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u541	Unfortunately, my previous amendment 57 on transfer pricing is not that it was not supported or even allowed to negotiate and conclude the discussion. As you can see, this room is afraid to discuss the issue of transfer pricing. So much so that they want to make this process easier, that they continue to extract billions from Ukraine without a single penny into the government budget. Well. It's on your conscience. The next time he tells people he doesn't have any money. And in this case, what is now relevant to my amendment 330. You're proposing to create an internal one for a certain period of time, to name so-called tax vacations as if for a small and medium-sized business. But, in fact, it's not tax breaks for small and medium-sized businesses, it's a way to avoid paying taxes for big business by breaking legal persons into a few shallow legal persons. And then they won't pay the income tax at all. You've raised taxes for the second group, for small entrepreneurs and middle-sized people in Bill 5132 a couple of hours ago, and here you're talking about some tax holidays. It's just a lie and a manipulation.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u542	Thank you, dear colleague, for explaining your correction. The 330 amendment of the People’s Deputy Levchenka is based on the vote. [[02:05:17]] For-94 Your amendment is rejected, and only 94 votes. Next, 333rd People's Deputy, Dobrenkova. Don't insist on Dudenkov. 335, Musaka. Don't insist. 334th National Deputy Davidenko. People's deputy Sobolev is required for confirmation. Please, Mr. Sobolev. Not Sergei Sobolev, but Yegor insists. Please, the People's Deputy Soboljevo.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u543	It's really shameful and unconscionable. Why are there people in this room who want to simplify taxation, reduce the tax burden not for business, but for the owners of lottery companies? What is good about this besides corruption for specific people? "self-help" is asking for this amendment to be confirmed and not voted for. It's pure corruption, it's tax cuts for lottery owners.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u544	Dear colleagues, the committee has supported this amendment of the People's Deputy Davidenko and has asked to vote in favour. I ask you to vote in favour of this amendment. [[02:07:07]] For-56 Let's move on. 335 amendment, People's Deputy Musak. Don't insist. 336th National Deputy Musak. Don't insist. 340th National MP Neda. Don't insist. Excuse me, fellow officers. 346, National Deputy Georges. Don't insist. 347th National Deputy Georges. Don't insist. Again, I didn't hear. The National MP, Georges, insists that an amendment supported by the Committee be made. Do you want to talk or just put it on confirmation? Speak. Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u545	Colleagues, this table shows that the adjustment is partially counted. There's no right-hand side, but what's the right-hand side? Why I had a warning about this amendment, we spoke on a committee. Because it is noted here that in fact companies operating in occupied areas are exempt from certain procedures. We talked about that we can't do anything about the companies that are supporting terrorists that finance terrorist organizations. And on this issue, the committee was unanimous and said that we had to rule it out, in which case, it didn't count. So I'm asking 348 for confirmation and not to vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u546	We've heard the position of Deputy Jury. Once again, I stress that this is for confirmation, the committee supported this amendment, and the committee head is asking for a vote in favour. I'm putting an amendment to the vote, and I'm putting it to "yes." [[02:09:19]] For-86 It was 348th. Let's move on. 350, National Deputy Zhurzyi requires confirmation. This is the amendment of the national deputy Krishina, who was supported by the committee. Vote now, do you want to speak? Microphone, please, National Deputy George.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u547	I want to argue why this amendment cannot be supported and why I'm putting it on the stand. We're talking about tax evasion and suspension, and we're introducing a fairly progressive rule that, above a certain threshold, decisions should be made, not by the DFS, but by agreement with the Ministry of Finance. But for now, my colleague is correcting the rule and he's saying that, because of the debts that came before the bill came into force, this rule is not distributed, and the DFS can still make decisions. Why do I object? Because I have repeatedly asked the DFS to provide information to whom, in what way did I dissipate my tax debt? The DFS manager's answer is very simple, we don't control this process, each institution takes tax on its own judgment, and we don't have information. There was a lot of information in the media about the fact that Oneshchenko and other oligarchs were upset about their tax debt, they didn’t pay it for a year, and then he got upset again, that is, the oligarchs don’t pay the tax on the budget. I'm not going to support or approve the standard.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u548	Colleagues, position is clear. It's an amendment by National MP Krishina 350, supported by the committee. Ask for confirmation now. The committee wants to vote in favour. I'm putting the vote to confirm this amendment. [[02:11:38]] Z-77 Let's move on. People's MP Zhurzy 351st. Don't insist. 353rd. There is no insistence on the people's deputies, Georges. Dear colleagues, these are all corrections. I remember, Mr. Levchenko, I have no sclerosis. And now, at the beginning of the discussion of this bill, Mr. Lewchenko stressed that he was on the budget committee, so he could not be present during the 11th amendment. So now we give the word to Mr. Levchenko to announce his 11th amendment. Please, Mr. Levchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u549	Thank you. My amendment refers to the fact that this bill proposes to increase the criteria that the enterprise is considered to be a large enterprise. It is thus proposed to create another gap in legislation in order to avoid payment, fair payment of taxes, and fair, in fact, the level of taxes. So I would like to leave the rules in place to define the criteria for whether an enterprise belongs to large enterprises in order to make such processes impossible. On the other hand, I would like to take advantage of the opportunity to address the Head of the Supreme Council, and he is present. According to the Supreme Council Rules, according to the Ukrainian Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council, the Head of the Supreme Council has two days. He has no right to sign a bill within two days. This is specifically prescribed for deputies to register a restraining order in the event of a violation of the Rules. That's why I'm saying that there's a violation of the Rules of Procedure for the Adoption of this Bill because the first reading, which was not actually voted on, was taken into account. And please, I am asking the Head of the Supreme Council, to comply with the Rules, not to sign.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u550	15 seconds to complete, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u551	Thank you. So I am addressing the Head of the Supreme Council, to comply with the Supreme Council's Rules and not to sign this bill within two days, so that national MPs will be able to register the relevant decrees. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u552	Thank you. Colleagues, you've heard the amendment number 11 of the People's Deputy Levchenka. Anyone who supports it, please vote [[02:14:13]] For-89 Your amendment is dismissed, Your Honor. And National Deputy Zhurzyi is asking for confirmation of the last amendment, 355th National Deputy Krishina. Mrs. Jujanina, 355th Amendment is still requested. You'll have to check it out there for confirmation. Please turn on the microphone to the National MP, George.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u553	Colleagues, this amendment also applies to the non-transfer of DFS databases to the Ministry of Finance. That's why I'm asking for confirmation, not support.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u554	Please, Your Honor, so the 355th amendment of the People's Deputies has been taken into account. [[B in m in s a l in]] 355, Mrs. Nina! 355, she was counted by the committee. Now the national MP, Georges, is asking for confirmation. The committee wants to vote in favour. We're betting on confirmation of this amendment. Please. [[B in m in s a l in]] We're on our way. Please. We vote yes. [[02:15:36]] For 109 Similarly, a colleague of Georges now insists on confirming the 356 amendments. Let's bet on confirmation, 356 amendments still apply to the vote on confirmation, on the requirement of self-help. Please vote. For confirmation. The committee's asking for a vote. [[02:16:11]] For 104 Dear colleagues, we have considered 356 amendments. The chairman of the committee believes that there is a balance between the bill and the bill. So now, first of all, I'm handing over the word for holding a meeting to the honourable Head. We urge all deputies to return to the session room, because a decision on Bill 5368 will now be taken. And now the head of the committee, Mrs. Jujanina, will ask for a summary word. Please, Mr. Andrey.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u555	Dear colleagues, we have concluded our discussion. I'm asking all the national deputies to come into the hall, and I'm asking the Secretary of the Supreme Council to invite the deputies into the hall. And the factions' heads invite deputies to the hall. Colleagues, a very difficult bill, went through very long and difficult discussions. And I'm going to ask the committee head to summarize our work. We're just like the 32nd bill, after the amendments that the committee head will ask me to come back, I'm going to put it to the vote, every single one of us, just like we said, so we can get a balanced final bill. Colleagues, this is the last bill we have before the budget is adopted. So I'm asking for a lot of attention, and I'm asking for discipline in the hall. Nina Petrovna, may I have your word? And the heads of the factions please invite the deputies to the hall. Please, Nina Petrovna, three minutes. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u556	Dear colleagues, regarding the unconfirmed amendments adopted by the committee. First of all, I would like to say to my distinguished colleagues that according to TCO, most of the recommendations were taken from the OECD guidelines. This is exactly the TCO block that we should be implementing in the next few days. That's why we put this whole block into this bill. There's nothing new about it, there's a definition of everything in the OECD guidelines, and there's no new idea. So please read everything it says. Next: about suggestions. You're saying it wasn't taken into account by the government. All proposals taken into account by the committee are supported by the government. No offer that was supported was taken into account. That's the main thing. Now for the rejected amendments. I ask you to go back to the 26, 45, 47, 48, 49, 50 revisions to the database transfer. In order to move to a vote of 330. The last amendment that we've also put to the vote to accept the conceptual option of conducting a technical audit of all databases by July 1st, taking control and monitoring of these databases that are in the DFS is better than nothing, it's the first step towards controlling the State Fiscal Service. And you can't tell me, for 25 years, no one's even tried to control it, and what's in the database? And now we're proposing technical audit -- and monitoring and monitoring databases, because technically, we can't take the server from the DFS and transfer it to Minfin. Then this body needs to be eliminated altogether and fully transferred to the Ministry of Finance. It's a decision until it's made. If it's accepted, that's exactly what the norm will sound like. As long as we can't put it in that way. The whole explanation. So, dear colleagues, however you wish, I ask you to return to Amendment 26. Return to the consideration of Amendment 26. I ask you to vote in favour of returning to Amendment 26. [[B in m in s a l in]] I know it's this one.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u557	Nina Petrovna, I ask you to repeat the amendments that you propose to put on return. [[B in m in s a l in]] Nina Petrovna, repeat. I haven't been able to write down all the corrections.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u558	Please go back to the 26th amendment in order to make a decision on it.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u559	Call everyone!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u560	These are all the amendments that were lifted when our colleagues voted on the databases. But once again, I said that we have a general standard for databases. And that's why we're cleaning up what's relevant to the entire transmission of the functions of the State Fiscal Service. This has to be done because nothing works, nothing will change.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u561	Nina Petrovna, I repeat my request. I ask you to repeat all the amendments that have been made. you are requesting to return to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u562	I can't say it all again right now. Let me call it then.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u563	You call. Colleagues, pay attention! I ask you to prepare for the vote. The chairman of the committee responsible for balancing the bill, and the committee has spent a lot of hours discussing it, will now list what amendments she intends to return to give us a balanced bill. I ask everyone to come into the hall, prepare for the vote. Nina Petrovna will call, I'll put it to a vote. Those who will be supported will be supported, fellow workers. Please, we're taking up jobs. Nina Petrovna, call me. The first is the 26th amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u564	26th Amendment One.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u565	Dear colleagues, I'm voting on the proposal to return to the 26th amendment. Whoever supports this proposal is supported by the committee, and the committee is asking for back-up to the 26th amendment. I ask you to vote and please support me, colleagues. Please vote. Please support the return to the 26th amendment. Let's vote, colleagues. The committee's asking for support. Vote. [[02:22:47]] For 251
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u566	Yeah, that's right. Next amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u567	Excuse me, we're back. Now we need to confirm it. Dear colleagues, I would like to vote in favour of confirming the 26 amendments. Please vote, please support 26 amendments, please. [[02:23:19]] For 235 Decision taken. Next, Nina Petrovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u568	Amendment number 45. Please return to Amendment 45.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u569	Dear colleagues, please return to Amendment 45, please support, the committee is asking to support the return to Amendment 45. Please vote, colleagues, vote. [[02:23:57]] For 242 We're back. Now I'm betting on confirmation of amendment 45. Please vote in favour of Amendment 45 and confirm it as proposed by the committee. Let's vote, colleagues. [[02:24:20]] For 239. Amendment 45 was supported. Next, Nina Petrovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u570	Please return to Amendment 47.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u571	Colleagues, the committee is asking to return to amendment 47. Please vote in favour of the return to Amendment 47, please support, please vote, colleagues. Vote. [[02:24:53]] For 236 Decision taken. We're back. Now I'm betting on the confirmation of Amendment 47, please vote, please confirm Amendment 47, 47. Please support, colleagues, the committee is asking for support, we are voting. [[02:25:18]] For 240 Decision taken. Nina Petrovna, move on.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u572	Amendment number 49.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u573	Colleagues, I'm voting on the proposal to go back to Amendment 49. Please vote, please support. Let's vote, colleagues. [[02:25:43]] For 242 Decision taken. Please confirm Amendment 49. Please vote and please support Amendment 49. Let's vote, colleagues. [[02:26:06]] For 236 We've confirmed 49 amendments. Next, Nina Petrovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u574	Amendment number 50.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u575	Please return to correction 50. Let's vote, colleagues. [[02:26:29]] For 239. Please support the 50th amendment, colleagues. Please vote. Support for 50 corrections, please support, vote. [[02:26:47]] For 240 Decision taken, supported. Nina Petrovna, move on.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u576	51 revisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u577	Please return to correction 51. Please vote, colleagues. Please return to correction 51. [[02:27:09]] For 233 Decision taken. Please confirm amendment 51. Please vote, please vote, colleagues. [[02:27:28]] For 235 Confirmed. Nina Petrovna, next.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u578	The next amendment is 123. The solution.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u579	Puts the vote back to amendment 123. Please vote, please support the return to Amendment 123. Let's vote, colleagues. [[02:27:55]] For 232 Decision taken. I'm betting on confirmation of amendment 123. Please vote, please confirm. Please support, colleagues, we vote. [[02:28:15]] For 230 Decision taken. Nina Petrovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u580	334.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u581	I'm betting on the return of amendment 334, colleagues. Please concentrate. Please vote 334 returns to consideration. Please be supportive. Vote please, committee secretary. [[02:28:44]] For 229 We're back. Now I'm betting on confirmation 334 for support, colleagues. Please concentrate, please vote. 334 for confirmation. I'd like your support, colleagues. Vote. Please be supportive. [[02:29:14]] For 234 Decision taken. Nina Petrovna, 334 revisions confirmed.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u582	Amendment No. 348.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u583	348, please vote in favour of her return to consideration, 348. Let's vote, colleagues. [[02:29:40]] For 237 Decision taken. Please vote in favour of amendment 348. Please vote. Please be supportive. [[02:30:09]] For 233 Decision taken. Nina Petrovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u584	Amendment number 350.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u585	350. Anyone who supports the return to amendment 350, please vote. Please vote [[02:30:33]] For 230 We're back. 35. What's that? What's that?
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u586	355.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u587	355, please. Who supports 355, please vote. Please support the vote. [[02:31:08]] For 203 Colleagues, please concentrate. 355, we're back to her. I'm betting, colleagues, committee members, please vote. I'll put 355 on confirmation. 355th. Please vote. Please be supportive. [[02:31:41]] For 205 Not supported. Next, Nina Petrovna. We're back up to 350, but we're not backing up. So I'm betting 350 on support. Please vote for 350, we're back. Please vote, please support. Vote, fellows! [[02:32:13]] For 234 Supported is 350. Yes, Nina Petrovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u588	We have one amendment that is not supported in summary, which says that the database is being audited, 355. I ask you to go back to her consideration, vote, and then vote. 355.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u589	Colleagues, the final amendment, and we move on to the vote. I'm asking you to return to the hall. I'll bet we get back to her. If there's room will come back, if we don't, we'll bet without it. Anyone who supports the return of 355 to the vote, please vote, please support the colleagues. 355th vote, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u590	Vote, because we've cancelled everything and without this amendment, we'll have nothing to do with the databases. [[02:33:08]] For 243 243 are back. Now please put 355 to the vote for confirmation, please vote, please support. 355 for confirmation. Please vote. [[02:33:33]] For 248 248, decision taken. So we went through all the amendments that were introduced. And my colleagues, I want to tell you, we're talking all the budget laws by full procedure, colleagues, by full procedure. We put every amendment to the vote. Colleagues, I very much ask you to respect your attitude towards the work and committee and the Parliament. We've been through all the amendments of the colleague, and we can go to the vote. Please, will the Prime Minister speak or not? Please, colleagues, prepare for the vote, please take your seats. And I am voting on the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Tax Code to improve the investment climate in Ukraine No. 5368, second reading and generally, my colleague. Please vote, please support 5368 in second reading and in general. We're voting on our colleagues. Please vote on technical law, please vote. [[02:34:58]] For 240 The decision is taken, the law is passed. Colleagues, we're holding, please turn on the factions. "Block of Peter Poshenko" – 106, "National Front" – 69, "Opposition Block" – 26, "self-help" – 0, Radical Party Ljashka – 16, "Bakkovščina" – 0, "Rebirth Party" – 0, "Will of the People" – 8. The law is passed. And, colleagues, I beg your attention! I would like to stress once again that all the budget laws we talk about in full procedure, every amendment goes to the vote. And here, I think, there's a lot of merit, and there's a committee, and there's a Parliament -- every decision is made. And, colleagues, now I want to consult with you. We now have the next one on a daily basis, the bill on the Higher Council of Justice – the next one on a day-by-day basis. And I wish, colleagues, that we were on the same page right now. The committee's decision-making is now being handed down, it's being prepared, the committee's making a decision, and they're handing out decisions to the committee on the High Council of Justice. But you and I need to decide together how we make our decisions. Now, please, I'm about to get a report on whether they gave out all the materials, just a second. The Supreme Council of Justice, the Supreme Council of Justice. The next thing we have in the agenda, I remind you, this is the next one we've foreseen, this is the draft of the Law on the Supreme Council of Justice -- 5180. As far as I know, all the factions expressed their support for the bill. Colleagues, let's now consult on how we should be with him, get into his consideration. Yes, Ruslan? Let's go in. Colleagues, I'd like to make a signal vote now, if we have 5180 votes now. I'm asking everyone to take their seats, I'm asking you to prepare for the vote so we can understand if we have votes under the next draft of Law 5180. Please prepare for the vote, please take your seats. I'll get the rating vote first. Colleagues, can you tell me if there's any support? Fellows, the Committee on Budgets has not yet prepared the budget, yet it requests half an hour's budget committee, colleagues. So please don't panic right now, we're still waiting for the budget. Colleagues, signal vote 5180, please support the rating vote. Please vote 5180, please vote, please support, colleagues, vote. [[02:38:56]] For-200 200 votes, not all of them. I'm going to put up another rating vote, colleagues. Let the Prince rest his case. Please, Mr. Ruslan. We're not in it yet. I emphasize once again, we're waiting for the budget, it's not there yet. Ruslan, please explain the need for this bill. Turn on Ruslan Knyazevich for three minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u591	Thank you. Dear Mr. Andriy Volodyrovich, honourable colleagues, on the matter, I would like to point out that our committee, within almost three weeks of the daily regime, has participated in all the subjects involved in the law-making initiative, representatives of the public, representatives of political parties, civil society, the High Council of Justice, the subject of the law-making initiative and the initiator of the law has been working on the entire text, and the entire set of amendments, and as a result of today's discussion a committee has been sitting for several hours, and we have reached a full consensus on the proposals set out in the table for voting. All members of the committee, without exception, all representatives of the public at the meeting unanimously supported these proposals and recommended that the session room be properly defined. If, please, we ask that this decision be made because you know that we are now, in fact, on the run of the selection contest to the Supreme Court, as well as all the rest of the powers that have passed from the Supreme Council to the Supreme Council, now, justice. Without this law, we stop all these trials, and in fact, we depend on judicial reform in the air for an indefinite period of time. I very much ask you to consider these circumstances and to make a reasonable, balanced decision that will allow you to open the way to finally complete judicial reform. There are no political contradictions here. Hopefully, there's a general desire to do it in one piece. I declare, and I ask all of you, on behalf of the committee, to support this decision, which is perhaps a welcome decision for this House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u592	Colleagues, pay attention! I'd like to inform you that we have a half-hour budget to prepare. There's 1,100 right. We have the right to enter it if we can put it up right away, colleagues. Let's take a minute from the factions to advise us on how to act, colleagues. One minute from the factions. From the People's Front, Yemen. One minute, please. I ask if there's any understanding that we can set it up after all the consultations. Please, Yemen.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u593	Dear colleagues! Leonid Yemeni, People's Front faction. I want to explain to you why it's so important for us to adopt this law right this year. Because it's bringing the judges who decided on Midan, on the Jews, on the motorists.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u594	Dear colleagues, please! Your colleague Jemetz is now speaking. We'll give all factions a word. I am addressing the session room, please, now speaking to the national deputy of Yemen. Then he's got the word "self-help," then "Fatherland," and you can take your position. Dear colleagues, this is not fair, your colleague is speaking and nothing is heard. Please give the national deputy a minute. Then there are other factions. Please be quiet in the hall. Wait a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u595	Dear colleagues, I remind you that the legislation that is in force today provides for a three-year deadline for bringing judges to disciplinary responsibility, a three-year term for being held accountable, count, end, starting with this period. There the judge’s rulings on Midan had already been taken, under ban. Decisions were made to call the courts to account. This term begins somewhere in a fiery place. If we do not accept this law today, and today the Supreme Council of Justice does not have the authority to release these judges. If we do not adopt this law by the end of the years, the Superior Council of Justice or the Superior Council of Justice, as it will be called, will not receive these powers. This will mean that those judges who have made these totally illegal decisions will completely escape responsibility under the law. But.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u596	Thank you, Your Honor. I gave you a minute. Look, the position of the People's Front is that this should be taken in this session today, these days. Now we exchange thoughts and then we make a decision. Please, Leonid, 15 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u597	Thank you. I'm going to add that necessity, and that doesn't mean that we have to adopt a law that is inefficient or underworked. For two weeks, we worked with the public to make it an effective mechanism, an effective one. And we predicted that communities.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u598	All of it. Thank you. No, Leona, well, we must all be equal to our compliance with the Rules. Fatherland, Sergey Vlasenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u599	Haircut, Fatherland. I think after today's vote with the Environment, we should forget about the word "Majdan," the colleague who was speaking to me here. After you break the Rules, forget the word "Majdan"! You're worse than Rybak was, you're worse than January 16th! Forget it! That's the first one. Now the second one. [[B in m in s a l in]] Whistle! Janukovich whistled to me, and you whistle! And you whistle! Whistle, damn it! Once again, let me emphasize: you can adopt any laws, you can do whatever you want, today Dusty has completely usurped the High Council of Justice! Within two years, they served 50 judges for breaking an oath! They cover everyone else! Like Chaus, they cover. To the last moment, such ones as the King’s, were covered. What are we talking about?Oh, my God! What reforms are we talking about?Oh, my God! It's all propaganda! I say again, keep voting with the rigs, but forget about the word "Majdan"!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u600	Colleagues, I would like to remind you that there will now be a vote for the High Council of Justice, not justice. Self-help, please. And then the Radical Party. From Self-Help is the national deputy of Semimenach. Please. I'm sorry, I just got off the phone. Please, the microphone. Sidorovich. National MP Sidorovich, distinguished colleague, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u601	Dear colleagues, there have been many fiery talks now, but I ask everyone to calm down and listen carefully, calmly, to what I am about to say. We are now facing a very difficult choice: to leave everything as it is, to leave the existing higher courts, the Supreme Courts, to leave those judges that we all, every faction that we signed at the end of 2014, said we should resign. This bill was not only agreed among politicians, not just among the members of the committee, but it was consistent with the representatives of the Public Council of Good offices, from which unprecedented support was received and authorization extended to the part of the examination of judges and those disciplinary procedures that gave us the chance to clean up the judicial system. Not voting for this bill today means that we agree with the state of things.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u602	Please, 15 seconds. Finish giving the fellow Sidorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u603	It means that we agree with the state of things that are today, we leave things the way they are, we don't give the public the powers that are necessary for the renewal of the court and we don't move forward. That is why it is our responsibility to adopt this bill today.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u604	Thank you. The position was taken by my colleague Sidorovich, as I understand it, to vote in the committee. We'll talk about it later. From the opposition block faction. Please. No, it's not Dudenkov, it's the National MP. Debtkov? Germany. National deputy of Germany. Please, the microphone of the German People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u605	Dear colleagues, I want you to understand what this is all about. I am sad that Mr. Emec, as an advance of the Committee of Legal Policy, may today speak and. With the exception of article 58 of the Constitution. Why do we make judges an enemy of the people, you haven't thought about it? Think about it. And don't whistle or shout. I would like to say that, to date, the judicial system has been demoralized and is responsible for this. "frontiers," and don't shout. The question is that people are deprived of the right to judicial protection of their interests. We did it here by depriving them of their rights. That's why I'd like to ask. My friends, remember that we have an institution.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u606	15 seconds. Finish up. National deputy of Germany, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u607	and judicial. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u608	Thank you. Now it's the People's Deputy Pisarenko. And then Easy. It's my turn. No, no, no. Trust me. You can't see who's first, and here we see who raised his first hand. Please, Pisarenko, and then Easy. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u609	My fellow Members, I would like to remind you of all that it has been said that we have recently approved the amendments to the Constitution on judicial reform, and Parliament has adopted the Law on the Judiciary in its first reading, and we no longer have a choice with you today, and we need to go on our way to implement what we have enshrined in the Constitution, and this is not just about the Law on the Supreme Council of Justice, but also the procedural code that we will need to adopt. But there are a lot of questions that we need to discuss professionally and there should be a discussion right here in the session room. It's also about those judges who have already been elected, it's about those judges who have been five years, and here we've not been worried about their fate for 2-3 years, it's the judges who have actually done their job professionally and they should be worthy of our respect and we should be working on it. So let's address these issues, first of all, professionally and reject all politics. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u610	Thank you. Please, Oleg Lazko and then summarize the discussion of Igor Green from the BP faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u611	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. There's a respectable colleague one, barely a candrake took him to the rostrum, screamed as we voted together with the rigs. Dear Julia Volodymyrna, and I have a question for you. Have you forgotten how you and Yanukovic copied the Constitution in 2009 and divided power for 20 years? Or maybe you forgot how you sneered with Putin when Russian troops killed Georgian children, women and the elderly, or maybe you forgot how you and the Riga in this Parliament didn't vote in favour of condemning Russian aggression against Georgia, or maybe you didn't realize that the attack on Georgia, the continued stopover of Putin in Georgia, was a continuation of the attack on Ukraine, because instead of rickets with Putin and $500 buy gas in it, they gave Putin "by teeth" in Georgia, there would be no occupation of Crimea, there would be no war on Donbass. And to the end. You know what you have to do with the rigs? Neither you nor they have ever been on the front in three years of war.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u612	Please, National Deputy Greens, leader of the BPT faction, your position on voting under this law. Please, Mr. Igor.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u613	Guys, I have a big request. It's a tough night. It's a tough decision. I realize that many are dissatisfied with the way things are going. But calm down, the reform of the judicial system is exactly what needs to be done. That is why the Supreme Council of Justice Act must be voted today, for this law opens the way for judicial reform. We don't contrast ourselves with the judges. We realize that, unfortunately, the judges have lost confidence in society today, and that we can restore them in our hands. So I would like to propose that this law be voted out by a committee that's been looking at this law for a few months, actually, and cleaned up everything that could be cleaned up. So I would like to propose to vote on this bill in committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u614	Thank you, Your Honor. See, literally three factions have sounded a position on what the proposal is. The committee sounded it, voting on the committee today. And now we have to make that decision. The name of the leader of the "Fatherland" faction was mentioned by Mr. Yuri. Please tell Mrs. Timoshenko I.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u615	I really understand where all these hysterics come from, because we need to cover up the real problem that came up in the hall today. And the problem is that the law that was voted on is 513. 5368, it's a bill and a law that actually opens up for the oligarchy, for the clans, for everyone who's actually been torturing the country for many years, opens up tax evasion, empowers them to work with offshore zones, creates offshore zones within the country. They made this law for themselves. They didn't vote, but they voted "against" Fatherhood, "self-help," "Freedom," "will" and other honest MEPs. Everyone else is united into a corrupt group, and now it has to be stopped by hysteria! Don't exorcise!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u616	Dear colleagues! Please listen to me carefully! Colleagues, pay attention! We're in court reform. And this is a key issue for judicial reform. Without him, we won't be able to release the judges, colleagues. The budget will be ready in 15 minutes. And here's a thousand hundred amendments, colleagues. I'll only be able to put this up when the room supports the proposal, vote it in the ad hoc system.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u617	Who will support such a decision? [[B in m in s a l in]] A committee with public figures, with experts, talked about it. And I want to tell you, this is Parliament's will. And please don't sit on my head here. I said first, our Parliament is called upon to make decisions, to make laws and to make reforms. No one will stop us from reforming, colleagues! I'm voting on the proposal to consider the ad hoc procedure in the committee. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote! Please vote, please vote. Please back up, fellows! We vote on the proposal to vote in the ad hoc committee. Please vote. I would like to support the proposal that this bill be considered in the committee. Please vote, please support. Vote, fellows! Vote. [[2:57:06]] For 257 And I bet we discussed this bill. I'm putting the draft Law on the Higher Justice Council 5180 in second reading and in general in committee. Please vote. Please vote on technical law. Please be supportive. I'd like to vote on my colleagues. Let's vote, colleagues. Please be supportive. Please vote. Let's vote, colleagues. [[02:57:41]] For 271 The law is passed, the decision is taken, the honourable colleagues. And, dear colleagues, I want to tell you. Now I'm proposing a few decisions on the calendar plan so we can have a full day of committee work tomorrow, colleagues. Is this supported? So there won't be a plenary meeting tomorrow. Please go back to. Colleagues. Today, today, yes. So that we can change the plenary day so that there can be a day on the committees, colleagues. Is such a proposal supported? Colleagues, supported. I'm voting on the proposal that we work on committees today alone. Please vote, please support. The committees. Please support the work, there was work on the committees today. Let's vote, colleagues. Please be supportive. Please be supportive. [[2:58:55]] For 230 Decision taken, colleagues. Next. I have proposals for changes to the January calendar. Are you ready to vote, colleagues? Please come into the hall. Please come into the hall. There are two suggestions for changing the calendar plan. One proposal to move the week from January 10 to January 13, the second week to January 4. Second offer. May January 10-13 be a job with the electorate. I'll put it one by one. I'll be the first to make an offer. Colleagues, pay attention! The first sentence is to move the plenary week from 10-13 to 20. Anyone who supports moving the plenary week from second to third, please vote. Please vote who supports from second to third, for fourth week, to fourth. Please vote who supports it. Vote. [[03:00:04]] For-125 Not supported, 125, no decision taken. The next thing you know, a week from January 10th to January 13th, 17th, is to do the work of national MPs with voters. Anyone who supports this proposal, please vote. From January 10th to January 13th, we'll do the work of national MPs with voters. Anyone who supports this proposal, please vote. Please vote for your colleagues, we vote for your colleagues. Please be supportive. [[03:00:41]] For 243 Decision taken. We've changed the calendar plan. Dear colleagues, we now have the law necessary for the budgetary confirmation of the Supreme Council of Justice Act. Now we have the next draft of Law 5181. This is a draft law amending the Ukrainian Budget Code to clarify budget managers. It is necessary, it is adjacent, is the Law on the Supreme Council of Justice. Please vote on its summary procedure. Please support the consideration of the brief procedure of a colleague. Vote. [[3:01:43]] For a hundred and 194-for, decision taken. And I invite you to the report of President of Ukraine on the Supreme Council of Gerasimov Arthur Volodymirovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u618	Dear Mr. Chief, distinguished colleagues. Your attention is drawn to the draft Ukrainian Law amending the Ukrainian Budget Code for the clarification of budget managers, No. 5181, introduced by the President of Ukraine and defined as urgent. The purpose of the bill is to harmonize the provisions of the Ukrainian Budget Code which determine the legal status of budget managers with the provisions of Ukraine's laws amending the Ukrainian Constitution on Justice and on the judiciary and the status of judges who took effect on 30 September 2016. The bill under consideration proposes to complete the subjective composition of the chief budget administrators by the Supreme Council of Justice, the Ukrainian State Judicial Administration, and the Supreme Court’s judicial reform. Excluding such officials from the Supreme Court of Ukraine and the higher specialized courts. In addition, it is suggested that guarantees on the inability to reduce budgetary requirements for the maintenance of judges and other organs and institutions of the justice system should be strengthened without agreement with the High Council of Justice. There is also a bill designed to improve the mechanism. The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine with the Supreme Council of Justice. Thus, the adoption of the bill will contribute to the implementation of Ukrainian laws amending the Constitution of Ukraine on justice and on the judiciary and the status of courts in part to guarantee the independence of judges and to create the right conditions for the exercise of justice by an independent and fair court. In view of the above, I would like to support the legislative initiative of the President of Ukraine and to adopt the draft Ukrainian Law amending the Ukrainian Budget Code to clarify the budget allocations (number 5181) on the basis and overall. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u619	Dear colleagues! Look, it's late enough and I think we should pay special attention to the speakers, it's been very difficult for our colleague, Arthur Gerasimov, when in the hall, I'm asking everyone to make a sound. And I invite you to report to the head of the committee's subcommittee on the budget of Constantine Ischeikin. And I ask that silence be in the hall, because it's very difficult to speak, very difficult. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u620	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues! On October 5, the Committee on Budget Affairs considered Bill 5181. Amendments to the Budget Code have been proposed to comply with the provisions of Ukraine's laws of 2 June 2016 amending the Constitution of Ukraine on justice and on the judiciary and status of judges. The bill provides, first and foremost, for the appointment of the Supreme Council of Justice as the chief cost manager. The formation of expenditure on the financing of the judiciary, taking into account the proposals made by the High Council of Justice. It should be noted that Bill No. 5181 is systematically related to Bill No. 5180 on the Supreme Council of Justice, which defines the status, authority, principles, organization and order of action of the Supreme Council of Justice. As a result of the review, the Committee adopted a decision to recommend to the Supreme Council Bill 5181 to adopt, as a whole, as a matter of law, after the adoption of the draft Law on the High Council of Justice and taking into account the proposals for editorial and technical legal clarifications, as indicated in the letter of the Committee's conclusion to the bill. Accordingly, the Committee on Budget Affairs, together with the Chief Legal Authority of the Supreme Council, in drafting such a law if adopted, should provide the necessary legislative and technical clarifications. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u621	Thank you, Mr. Constantine. According to the Rules, we must now discuss this bill. And I'm asking the factions to sign up: two for, two against, to discuss the bill. Of course, if other factions want to join, they will be able to do so. Please sign up, colleagues. Arthur Gerasimov. Please, Mr. Arthur, you have now, more quietly in the room, the opportunity to repeat your position.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u622	Madam Chairman, honourable colleagues, the Peter Prashenko bloc will support the adoption of Bill 5181 as a basis and as a whole. We invite all colleagues in this room to unite and support this bill, which is essential for the continuation of judicial reform. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u623	Thank you. Please, from Rebirth Group, National Deputy Bereskin.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u624	I'm taking down my question.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u625	You're filming your performance. Whether there are still those who would like to share in the discussion of Bill 5181. Dear colleagues, look, the discussion is essentially over. At the same time, we see that the Ukrainian national deputies have left the session hall. And I am now addressing all colleagues who have left to return to the session room, because we have to vote in favour of a bill that has been designated as urgent by the President of Ukraine and which is actually meant to help enter into force of the Law on the Supreme Council of Justice. Please, Your Honor, I ask you to return to the session room. Mr. Arthur, did we rightly understand that you are proposing to vote in general for the bill? And the committee supports this initiative. Right, Mr. Ishkin? Dear colleagues, I ask you to return to the session room. Because we see, there are not many deputies now. Faction leaders, please contact your colleagues. Yeah, we see Self-Help wants to join. Sidorovich, national deputy. [[B in m in s a l in]] Please, of course! Now, please, National Deputy Sidorovich, you have the floor to participate in this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u626	Dear colleagues, it's very important, in fact, to adopt this short bill. Its content is short - lived to the next. After we've passed the Higher Council of Justice Act, we have a new body with new powers. And in order for him to be able to fully perform his functions, he has to have control over the financial management that is being allocated to the country's judicial system. To this day, all these powers are fully vested in the State Judicial Administration. And from the point of view of the distribution of powers between these structures today, it's wrong. If we do not accept this bill, the Supreme Council of Justice will not be able to exercise the advisory powers that it has. who are entrusted, in accordance with the Constitution, the Judicial Act and the Supreme Council of Justice Act. So this is a technical bill, but it's very important to provide a function. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u627	Absolutely the right position. Thank you very much. Dear colleagues from Self-Help. The head of the profile committee, Ruslan Knyazevich, asks for the floor. Before we ask him to turn on the microphone, I ask all my colleagues to return to the session room. Because it is, indeed, a technical bill that is really very important in the context of the passed Law on the High Council of Justice. Colleagues, I ask you to return to the session room. Please, Mr. Knazevitch, give me your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u628	Thank you very much, Madam Chairman. Dear fellows, a little napping here. I think that there is a clear understanding of all political factions in the necessity of adopting this law, which is derivative, is objectively derived from the previous law. We have just created a new constitutional body, which has been established by the Constitution, and we have given it the opportunity to act, in accordance with the law, within the limits of the powers defined by law. It was only left to be provided in the Budget Code that this body should, in accordance with the Constitution, be, firstly, a budget manager in relation to itself, i.e. in its own right, to form budgetary and financial policies, as well as to participate actively in the preparation of those financial proposals to be offered by the Queen of the Judiciary, to the session room, including other budget managers, namely, the future newly created Supreme Court and the State Court of Justice, which is the budget manager of all the other courts in Ukraine, except the Supreme Court for that purpose.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u629	Please finish 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u630	In order for this body to be fully operational, we must make this decision, which, on the one hand, will enable it to be provided with adequate budgetary funding and, on the other hand, will give them real weights and instruments to influence the formation of budgetary policies in the queen of the judiciary. Without this kind of law, it will be extremely difficult for them to come to the exercise of these powers, and we accept them once again. We'll have to go back.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u631	Thank you, Your Honor. Are the factions willing to participate in this technical bill? Colleagues, I'm addressing the Peter Prashenko faction, the National Deputies. Let's mobilise, please, there's going to be an important vote now. People's Front, please return to the session room, please, because your ranks are naked. Come back, please. Radical Party, please return to the session room. Self-help, please return to the session room. Fatherland, please return to the session room. Opposition Block, please return. Rebirth Group and People's Will, please return to the session room. And there is great hope for the return of all non-factional deputies. Please, colleagues, take your seats. Now I'm handing the word to the chairman, and we're going to conduct a rating vote to figure out how many colleagues have returned to the session room.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u632	Thank you. Colleagues, I give you my word now to Deputy Oksani Siroid. But, colleagues, I very much ask you to invite everyone into the hall right now. After the decision was made, many left the hall. I now request the heads of factions to return the deputies to the hall. I'm asking the head of the committee to help bring the deputies into the hall right now. And I ask the Secretary of the Supreme Council to inform you that we are now moving on to a decision. Colleagues, please come into the hall. And Oksani Siroid three minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u633	Dear colleagues, you and I have already voted on the Supreme Council of Justice Act. The law, indeed, was very important, but the main function of it was really very technical: bringing the system of justice that we have into line with the changes to the Constitution that have been voted upon. What was of direct value, of course, were the authorizations of the Civil Service for virtue. And if we have already created the body that was called upon to help, and is now being called upon to help our constitutional and national bodies perform the function of selecting judges, and we hope that they will be able to perform this function. This bill, which is now proposed for consideration, is also a technical law in fact, or a bill, and it refers again to bringing the system of justice into conformity with the Constitution of Ukraine. Since changes to the Constitution have been introduced and given new powers, particularly in the budgetary process, we need changes in the law today to synchronize all of this. So I think this bill is just necessary. In fact, so that the system can continue to work.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u634	Colleagues! I ask everyone to come into the hall and prepare for the decision. I'm asking you, committee heads, to invite all the deputies to the hall right now, colleagues. I ask you to come into the hall and prepare for the vote. I'm asking you to invite all the deputies to the hall who came out, please. Colleagues, 5181, are the draft law amending the Ukrainian Budget Code to clarify budget managers. This law is necessary for the previous Act on the Supreme Council of Justice to enter into force. So that he can be provided with adequate budgetary funding, colleagues. So I very much ask everyone to take a responsible approach to this vote. I'm going to put the rating first so we can see what the mobilization is in the hall, colleagues. I understand, 3:15 p.m. ‘ I realize it’s a very late hour, and it’s hard for everyone, but I’m very much asking everyone to come into the hall right now and vote. I place a rating vote on the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Budget Code (5181). Please vote. Please be supportive. 5181. Please take part, please vote. Let's vote, colleagues. [[3 :16:57]] For the 220. Colleagues, I'm asking you to come to the hall. Yes, please invite me to the hall. I know, there's a budget committee coming up right now. It's also a problem and a problem. We don't have an entire budget committee in our room, but I'm asking you to invite those I'm in the classroom right now to take up jobs. I'll turn it on. Colleagues, please support. They went into the hall, they went in, please, put to the vote, colleagues. I am voting on the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Budget Code on the clarification of budget managers (5181) as proposed by the Committee on the basis and generally with technical and legal rights. Please vote, colleagues, please support me, colleagues. Vote, please support, please support, vote. [[03:18:07]] For 235 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, I'm asking you now, the budget committee is already finishing its work, and now I'm going to make it clear how ready the budget committee is and I'm going to tell you which way we're going to go. Colleagues, the budget committee is still holding meetings, and they're asking for another 25 minutes. I announce a break of 25 minutes to 3:45, colleagues. This time is sufficient for us to drink tea. At 3:45, we move on to the adoption of Ukraine's 17th-year budget, colleagues. Break until 3:45. At 3:45, let's move on to the question of budget adoption, colleagues. Please arrive without delay at 3:45 p.m. in the hall to continue our work, colleague. Please. I know it's hard, I know it's hard, but this budget is primarily the budget of our army, our colleagues, our soldiers. They're not better off on the front, on the front. So I ask everyone to mobilize and be in the hall at 3:45. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u635	Dear colleagues, the time for recess is over. I ask the honourable colleagues to come into the hall and prepare for the vote. Please invite the deputies into the hall, please come into the hall. Colleagues, they're handing out an already verified draft budget. I want to tell you, colleagues, listen to me carefully! Because then there's going to be a lot of questions. Listen to me, colleagues. Thus, the consideration of the State budget has a special procedure. It looks like this. Now I'm going to give you a detailed announcement. First, a report by the Minister of Finance. This will be Alexander Alexander the Daniluk. Next. A report by the deputy head of the Committee on Budget Affairs, Sergio Ivanovich Melnik. Two reports. Three minutes is a question to the reporters. Then come out from factions and groups. After that, speak from the deputies. So, colleagues, each faction and group will have the opportunity to speak. The National Deputies are given 15 minutes. Thus, many of the deputies will be able to speak. Then the Minister of Finance's closing statement. And let's get to the bottom of this. In general, it will take about 40 minutes, colleagues. For about 40 minutes, I'm just calling for the maximum elasticity, all of the progeny, to be very difficult. We've gone through all the stages of the budget discussion. And so I'm asking very much that we go through it in a very concise way. And I want to ask you if you're ready to report to the minister of finance. Is there a minister of finance? Yes. That's how the reports are prepared. You're ready, aren't you? Okay. Dear colleagues, most deputies already have a budget, we continue to distribute it, the apparatus. In the course of the discussion, everyone will receive it. And I would also like to point out that on the Supreme Council's website, it's electronic, and anyone can see it. And so, colleagues, I'm announcing a transition to the Ukrainian draft "On the National Budget for Ukraine for 2017" (registration 5000) on second reading. And I give the floor to the Minister of Finance of Ukraine, Alexander Alexander Daniluk. And please, please, as precisely as possible, all of the offspring. Please, Alexander Aleksandrovich, please report.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u636	Dear Mr. Head! Dear National Deputies! Dear colleagues! Finally, the budget marathon comes to a logical conclusion. For the first time in over 17 years, the government budget has been submitted, prepared and submitted to the Supreme Council in a timely manner, in compliance with all the terms and procedures and for presentation, and for the first reading, and for the second reading. But the tradition of budgeting at night near the tree proved to be stronger. But that didn't indicate what was important about the quality of the document. The government is proposing to you a draft of the Ukrainian State Budget for 2017, which has been developed for second reading in line with the budgetary conclusions of the Supreme Council and the decisions taken at numerous meetings. I would like to note the fruitful cooperation with the Committee on Budgets, for which we are very grateful to our colleagues. I want to remind you of the principles on which the budget is built. It's realism, costs are provided by realistic income. As an example, the growth of the MIP is being built up by detinction, demand recovery, and growth in the economy. The next principle is perspective. The budget is designed based on the forecast of economic indicators for the next three years. As well as taking into account plans for the reform of priority areas, privatization, as defined by the government, is further strengthened by financial resources, as well as transparency. The budget has been put in place at the right time to ensure quality discussion with Parliament, and it has taken place both in committees and with experts, and comprehensively worked conclusions supported by the Supreme Council. When the draft State Budget for 2017 was finalized, the government retained the priorities set out in the draft budget for first reading until the second reading by the government. These include increased resilience, increased social standards, development of education, health care, targeted support for agriculture, development of road infrastructure, promotion of energy efficiency, and development of culture and support for local budgets and regional projects as part of the decentralization course. At the same time, we have significantly increased our priorities, namely, the revised 2017 State Budget project provides for a position and cost to raise the minimum wage to 3,000, 200 dollars, and to set the salary of the staff member of the first rate of 1,600 dollars. For this purpose, additional expenditure of some 28 billion dollars is taken into account, allowing for the payment of higher wages to budget workers. High wages in education and health care Members of the National Deputies are asked to support this budget and to give impetus to important reforms for the coming years. Thank you for your attention and for your support.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u637	Thank you. Stay in the rostrum, please. Three minutes to question the MPs, please record the question to the reporter. Please record. Oleg Medunica, turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u638	Dear Mr. Minister! Dear Mr. Prime Minister! Of course, our faction will support the draft budget. But I want to draw your attention to one indicator: it's the financing of the agricultural sector that we just did on the budget committee, unfortunately, we did. Because instead of supporting a small and medium-sized producer, in this budget you're going to support large companies, especially large companies. I believe that our Ukrainian national interest is to create a large number of people, not a hired job, but free people, who will work on their land. So give budget support right there in the small and medium-sized agricultural sector, not to large holdings that produce chicken that produce grain products, because now, after that document that goes into the hall, we're supporting them, not Ukrainian peasants.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u639	Please answer, Alexander Alexandrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u640	Thank you for asking. Indeed, there has been a rather active discussion about the support of the agricultural sector, as you know, is planned, and this was adopted earlier by the Supreme Council to cancel VAT, and this has become a very relevant issue of support for farmers. Of course, this support needs to be made more effective, and we would like all those who need to have access to it to do so. So I think we have found an optimal solution, but in principle, we still need to rely more on our competitiveness, on the fertility of our lands, on the efficient work of our citizens, that is the guarantee of success.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u641	Thank you. Marcenko Alexander Alexanderovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u642	Please pass on the word Levchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u643	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223 District of Kiev. Now, during the budget committee meeting, both you and your deputies keep telling us that there is no money, no money for fair social expenses, to save the benefits, and so on. Instead, if you look at this project that you're proposing right now, for example, we see minus 1 billion 700 million revenue from the rent for using oil-derived naphtha, that's what we voted today in one previous law, so there's no money. So please explain this moment, how do you base the conversation about the lack of money and the fact that you're going to take the rent away from oil 1 billion 700 million? This is the first time. And secondly, if there is no money, and why can't the government have so long passed one single bill to the Supreme Council and call on its parties to vote for the annulment of the Treaty with the Republic of Cyprus on the avoidance of double taxation? Well, if there's no money in the state, do these two things, please, why don't you? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u644	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u645	Thank you, too, for that question. See, the government introduced a bill that was balanced. Now, other decisions have been made in the Supreme Council, but the main thing is that the bill is now balanced. We also found opportunities to strengthen social protection during the process. So you don't just have to say that, look at something, look at the complex budget, look at all the positives that it has. It's Cyprus. Well, I'm sorry, this bill is in the Supreme Council, it needs to be voted on. The government did its job. And by the way, the government is now doing its job. We're doing the same thing with Luxembourg, with other jurisdictions where there's reduced rates. We are actively doing this work. But we have to work together, and basically finish these processes in Cyprus, in Luxembourg.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u646	Thank you, Alexander Alexanderovich. Question time complete, please take your place. I invite the deputy head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to report on the budget of Sergio Ivanovich Melnik. Please, I'm asking you as much as possible. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u647	Dear Andrew Volodymyrovich, distinguished deputies, invited! The Supreme Council today adopted the budgeting bills 5131 and 5132, which enabled the committee, together with the Ministry of Finance, to prepare a conclusion for the Ukrainian State Budget Bill for 2017 for consideration by the Supreme Council on second reading. In doing so, the Ministry of Finance made proposals to the Committee to clarify the revenue figures of the State Budget project for 2017 in connection with the adoption of Bill 5132 on changes to the Tax Code, as well as the additions of the sixth and eleventh to the bill in the new edition, which related to the definition of inter-budgetary transfers for the unified territorial communities in which the first local elections took place in December of this year. Having examined the second reading of the bill, the committee further worked on the government’s budget conclusions, as well as proposals for budgetary balance. The final text of the bill suggests that the committee settle the matter. I'll call it, I'll stop at the most important. This is the repayment of 5 billion dollars of the difference in tariffs. This is a forecast of interest on loans to improve the security and security of the state in the amount of 463.6 million dollars. Predicting the cost of upgrading the technical and material base of vocational education in the amount of 50 million dollars and additional expenditure for this purpose for the UCCs in the amount of 167 million dollars. An increase of nearly 2 billion dollars in funding for academic scholarships, an estimate of the cost of teaching people to provide home-based aid of 20 million dollars. Returns from the state budget to the hospital of scientists at the National Academy of Sciences and the specialized multi-profile hospital number 1 in Dnipro. Projection of funds for the creation, operation of the Republican Centre for the Rehabilitation of War Disability in the village of Klevyn district, amounting to 31 million dollars. The cost of maintaining clinics at the National Academy of Medical Sciences increased by almost 818 million dollars and 200 million dollars in addition to the funding of medical care. On the basis of the Committee's consideration, the Committee adopted the following decision: recommending to the Supreme Council an amended bill of 5,000 to be adopted on second reading and in general as a bill taking into account the Committee's budget proposals on changes to this bill, agreed with the Ministry of Finance, in accordance with the Committee's letter. Please support the committee's decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u648	Thank you, Sergey Ivanovich, stay in the rostrum. We have three minutes to ask the reporter. And I'm asking you to record a question to a co-rapporteur. Please. Miroshenko Ivan Volodymyrovich. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u649	I don't have a question. I'd like a clarification under the transcript. Vladimir Borisovich wanted to clarify under the transcript because there are questions from members of the agrarian committee. You know, we've been working hard for almost three months. What was the point? That we're giving you four billion dollars of bracelets to a budget programme to support farmers, 500 million dollars to build a national machine. There will be a programme to support the production of milk and meat in the private sector, 700 million for the Agro-industry Loan Guarantee Fund, and a number of other programmes. But I was more interested in the program -- that's $4 billion and 500 million in engineering. Do you confirm that we include this in the 2017 budget? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u650	Thank you for your question. These proposals were preceded by, in fact, serious committee work, such as a professional agrarian committee, a budget committee. And just like you just said under the stenogram, there's been a distribution of the corresponding amounts to finance the agrarian sector. The only refinement is for agricultural machinery. You just said "national machine building."
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u651	Thank you. Head, please turn on the microphone. He's handing it over to Illenck.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u652	Andrew Illenko, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. There's really a lot of questions. And it's probably not so specific to the reporter who's on the rostrum right now, and in general to the so-called coalition, to the government, because, you know, what's going on for the last few hours right now is a pure oligarchic contractor, when the amendments are voted down first, to satisfy the oligarchic groups to vote in general for the budget. He's losing billions of dollars, actually, because of these schemes. And actually, this has just been talked about with specific billions of digits. There is now voting for strategically important bills with thousands of amendments without discussing these amendments, in an absolutely incredible pseudo procedure, and now the same way is trying to vote on the State budget. It's a pure oligarchic contractor.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u653	I understand it's not a question, it's a speech. Next. Antonistak.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u654	Please hand over the Pigeon.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u655	Dear colleagues! Andrew Volodymyrovich, ask you a question. Volodymyr Borisovich and ask you a question. We've just been handed out a draft budget for the following year, something like the next year's budget. There are no plugins: 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 (6th is), 7, 8, 9, 10, 11. Please tell me, Andrew Volodymyrovich, you told me to work with the site. Here I have updated the site and the latest apps that are here is the state on 03.11.2016. Either confirm under the stenogram that no figures have changed in these plugins, or then distribute the apps to the main budget administrators so that we can work with the budget, because it is not possible to work with this.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u656	Thank you. That's actually a question for a representative of the budget committee. Please, Sergey Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u657	Indicators have changed. A table is given where you can see the middle columns.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u658	Thank you, colleagues. The factions are about to come from the factions. Now all factions will have the opportunity to speak. Thank you, Sergey Ivanovich. Please take your place. I'm asking you to record statements from MP factions and groups. Please record who wants to speak from factions and groups. Please vote. Sign up. From the Radical Party, Yuszkov Tetjana gives the word Oleg Lášk. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u659	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Dear Mr. Golovo, Mr. Prime Minister, during the budget review, the Radical Party faction has made a number of demands on behalf of millions of Ukrainian citizens, and I would like to announce to the Ukrainians the requirements that have been met and for which we have reached an agreement with the government. On our request, the minimum wage from the new year is doubled to 3,000, 200 dollars, and no one will receive less. Expenditures in the Armed Forces of Ukraine have increased by 15 billion dollars. The renewed funding of 3 billion 200 million dollars for displaced persons is what we required the attention of the state and the financing of at least the cost of housing. State funding for vocational and technical education institutions has been restored to enable children mainly and rural families to receive vocational and technical education. On our request, the government has agreed and free medications for pressure, diabetes, and asthma have been introduced for all Ukrainians since the new year. Woodworking equipment has been released from the payment of duties and VAT, which will allow for the restoration of the timber industry. We've frozen land tax for industry and agriculture companies, which will allow us not to rob farmers and industries, today, thanks to Parliament, we've achieved, we've fought for two years, we've voted and we've created an export credit agency that will lend national businesses to create jobs, to sell more foreign goods, to bring more currency to Ukraine to be a stable bracelet. We've achieved the cancellation of the pension fund 2 percent of the currency. We've got 5 percent of the rent today on local budgets, that's 2 billion to make local budgets work on social issues. Today, I report that we have achieved an increase of 712 million in wages for rescue workers. This minimum wage is going to be 5,000 dollars per month. To compare it today, 3,200 are rescue workers. I have informed you, dear Ukrainians, of our requirements, which have been met. Part of the requirements were not met. Does this suit us? No, it's not. We want more wages, we want more pensions, we want more money for people. The Prime Minister promised us that half a million Ukrainians who received less than a thousand dollars would receive pensions from the New Year. The prime minister promised free medicine for all Ukrainians. I'm asking you to confirm this right now. Therefore, the faction of the Radical Party in favour of Ukraine and the Ukrainians, we vote in favour of the budget.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u660	Thank you. The Prime Minister will have a closing word, and he will be able to answer all questions. Now, Pressman Alexander Semenovich of the Rebirth Party passes the word to Pisarenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u661	Dear colleagues, the distinguished Cabinet of Ministers, we saw a lot of documents today and supported something. Sadly, not all our suggestions today were supported by the hall. Once again, we want to say that our idea is fundamental. We want the government to work with us next year on decentralization, but real decentralization, where we can see that there are real costs in the region. Unfortunately, we do not see these funds in many bills today. This is about such significant regions as the city of Kharkiv and other regions, where we now see that we have passed on a lot of responsibilities, but unfortunately we don't transfer money. And today, it is estimated that today we have shown figures where only the city of Kharkiv loses billions of dollars because it assumes a great deal of commitment but does not receive financial support from the center. Secondly, we really supported the minimum wage in Ukraine. But we want the government to also point out that the pension level today is also not enough to support our pensioners. We would very much like the government to support pensioners to a decent level next year. And we would also like people to feel that when they raise the minimum wage, they will actually have a pay raise, and the pay fund will not go down, it will just go up, it won't stay at that level. This will not reduce the number of jobs. This is a principle for us. We will work next year and insist that the government really see the problems that the Ukrainians face today. Sadly, the quality of life is not growing much today. Despite the fact that there are some growths in percent, it is not enough for people today to feel socially secure. We will show the government that regions today feel unhealthy. They don't get enough financial support. I've talked a few times today about the fact that, with the violation of the Constitution, we didn't fund the regions. We're making a budget today that should be the decentralization budget. Sadly, though, he is not. In order not to bring the country into crisis, we really need to look at the support of the government today. At the same time, however, we need to set firm conditions for the future government to look at the needs of the regions and the needs of ordinary Ukrainians. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u662	Thank you. From the Fatherland faction, Sergey Sobolev, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u663	Dear colleagues! Dear citizens of Ukraine! I think that this kind of budget for the entire history of Ukraine is the government's verdict that prepared it so. When we see this country's budget, when we don't have the ability to read the whole text, what the country enters in 2017, after that, I think it's clear to everyone how this budget is going to be implemented. Now essentially. Who's going to be the biggest budget pusher? A pensioner who will continue to pay 15 percent, a small business for which a double tax regime is actually established. The tariff policy, which remains the same, is now translated into local budgets. How will local budgets now actually pay out their budgets the excessive tariffs that are rising daily? It will pay the farmer, who has been dispossessed of about 27 billion, tosses 4 billion, as everyone in this room says to the big agroholdings, and by the system that is the most corrupt, the system that has manifested itself through 1 per cent of the congregation of gardens and vineyards, where there are dozens, if not hundreds of criminal cases of previous budgets, is now legitimized in this budget. And who do we have that is exempt from taxation? Take the last bill, which the coalition so friendlyly voted with "The Environment," we'll understand that, the Transfer Price Act does not work, the Law on Electronic Reparation of VAT does not work, the Law on Electronic Reparation of VAT does not work, there are actually two registers still in effect, one in manual mode, and the other, which will never work, the system of offshore jurisdictions that are now legalized, and after an explosion six months ago every parliament of the world has adopted special laws as a commitment to the business that has been hidden in offshore jurisdictions to pay taxes in its own countries. You won't find this here. But you'll find a system here to translate everything into local budgets and call it decentralization, including the benefits that local budgets will now pay. So, I think this is the budget of the judgment of this coalition and this government. You won't be helped by the Oblok, or by the old factions that were with Yanukovic, I think the only thing that will help is the actual evaluation of this budget.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u664	15 seconds to complete, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u665	Our citizens will feel literally from January 1st. That's why the Fatherland faction won't vote for such a budget.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u666	Thank you. Please, from the Peter Prashenko Block, the people's deputy Revega is giving the word to his colleague, Chicken Maxim. Please. Maxim Chicken.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u667	Dear Andrew Volodymyrovich, distinguished colleagues of the people's deputies, the most extensive document we are voting on today. This document was preceded by the widest discussion and the widest discussion. For the first time, the State Budget Act is timely. For the first time in the discussion, all critical remarks and constructive suggestions were taken into account. Of course, criticism is taken into account, and criticism is rejected. Who will vote for this budget? The one who loves Ukraine is the one who understands that every Ukrainian family needs this document. Who will not vote for this budget? The one who wasn't going to vote for him. It's not going to be voted by the political forces that own ratings, their own ratings, their own political ambitions build on the worse the country, the worse they think their ratings are better. That's not gonna happen. Guys, first. The budget can really be called realistic. It is aimed at supporting defence and national security. In wartime, more than 10 percent of the costs of defence and security have been increased. The social budget, since it is the first time that social standards are supported and raised. The salary is 3,000 200, but I want everyone to notice. The issue of raising pensions and wages continues to be in the daytime order, and no one is going to take it down. Because voting on this budget will mean that the country comes out of the tough spot that it was in for two years. It's a development budget. For the first time in so many years of independent Ukraine, a huge amount of money has been spent on road construction. And what I want to stress is that road construction is going to be about not only the roads of state importance, but also the interdisciplinary meaning is where people drive, not your limousines. Dear colleagues, I can really say that this budget continues the strategic development of Ukraine as a state decentralization. Because a self-sustaining territorial community is the basis for Ukraine's security and independence. I want to emphasize, and I want to take out all the tension. In the country, citizens who are socially vulnerable will be fully subsidized, and almost 50 billion dollars are received directly. And this year, in 2017, you and I are monetizing the benefits, we're monetizing subsidies, and no one is going to make any more money on gas equipment.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u668	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u669	We vote for the budget, we take responsibility for the future of the country, for the future of our parents, for the future of our children, we love Ukraine! Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u670	From the People's Front, Igor Lapin passes the word to Maxim Burbak.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u671	Dear colleagues! I'd like to correct the previous reporter a little bit and say that in the last two years, it wasn't a cool peak, it was building a foundation on which the budget is now being built next year. And this enabled us to predict 3 percent of gross domestic product growth in the next year, which allowed us to reduce inflation to 8 percent, and it's all in this budget. This is going to be a growth budget, this is going to be our country's economic capacity budget next year. The requirements of the People's Front are set out in this budget, which is the continuation of what was set up by the Yatsenuk government, which is the financing of national security at least 5 percent of the gross domestic product. I'm addressing all of our deputies, Your Honor, let's become lobbyists of our army, let's do everything we can today, vote for this budget, support our defense, our army, our boys in the East, and also our defense industry. It's different. The budget has provided an increase of 50 percent for teachers. This budget provides for the continuation of repairs and capital construction of roads in Ukraine. This budget also provides for the preservation of scholarships for our students. It's very funny, I'm sure something's comforting, but I'm sure the country has to enter the new year with the main financial document and this document will be a growth document, and we have to give more money to help socially vulnerable populations. We have to fund in full the subsidy system that was set up by the Yatsenuk government, which will be extended next year, that's all a benefit in this budget. Yeah, maybe there's some pretzels, there's no perfect documents. It's a shame that those who are now having fun in this room have not voted in favour of the special confiscation regime or filled this budget this year, and the following year for the 40 billion dollars that have been arrested by the Yatzenuk government. Yeah, because they're in fate, there's nothing else. That's why I'm addressing all the patriots, all the MPs who are responsible state representatives of their constituents in this Parliament. Let's vote in favour of this budget and it will finally start with the growth budget of our state in 2017, we vote and we take responsibility in 2017. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u672	Thank you. From Semenach Roman's "self-help" he gives Oleg Brezjuk the word. Please, Mr. Oleg.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u673	Your Honourable Mr. Head, Your Honourable Mr. Prime Minister, Ladies and Gentlemen! It all started well by form, by direction, by philosophy, by approach. But it happened as I didn't think it would. Let's start with the form. We think that this is a humiliation of the dignity of the Ukrainian human being and of the Ukrainian parliamentarian. [[Applause]] We have nothing to vote for, just physically. What are you going to vote for, I don't know. For words? Yes. For the promises? Yes. But it's not a form, it's a humiliation. Voting today's tax base and budget base was also a humiliation of Ukrainian dignity. And a human, and a Ukrainian parliamentarian. I don't know if you've seen it yet. And now, essentially. There is no doubt that there is much good in this budget: there is an increase in the minimum wage. But is there a person behind this increase in the minimum wage? There's no man there. Nine hundred and forty-nine dollars is the smallest pension in Ukraine. How about 1200? What about 15 percent of working pensioners? What do these people do? And you know, there's increased pressure on entrepreneurs in the second group, tax. Six hundred thousand! 600,000 people will pay twice as much. Will they make more money? Is there a person in this budget? Yes, there is. One or two. It's kind of downhill. The rent's up. the rent on oil production has been reduced. It turns out it's a corrupt business in Ukraine. What happened to the banking system, which would pay 150 billion, which budget? Are there Ukrainian people in this budget? Despite the fact that there are many good things, unfortunately, we have received a budget today that is difficult to vote for. Just because I don't know if there's a person in this budget because I didn't get one today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u674	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, before giving the next deputy the floor, I would like to stress that the budget was adopted in the first reading of the amendments to the Supreme Council, the Budget Committee has only made those proposals that have been taken into account by the deputies. All the tables, as I was told, remain the same as we have seen and read. So from the Opposition Block is Yuri Boyko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u675	Dear Mr. Head, the Honourable Prime Minister, the government of Ukraine, the honourable national deputies! The position of our faction was and is stable. We think that the budget is the main tool for combating poverty in the country, and it has to do two basic tasks. First, it's to support people's lives at a decent level, and second, to create conditions for economic development in the country. How does the draft budget propose to maintain a decent life for Ukrainian citizens? We see today that as payments for the country's power block rise, payout and increase in pensions, which is the key and most painful problem in the country, only 10 percent increase. And at the very least, it's cynical to say government officials that three thousand 200 dollars, which is the minimum wage, is a biologically viable minimum, which is a minimum for our country. How, then, can it be understood that the draft budget provides a minimum pension of 600 dollars? That's why we think it's happening in our eyes to build a police state by increasing the payout for a power block and reducing the social standards that are still small in the country. The second question is, our proposals did not find a response to support the real economy. We didn't see any real support in the draft budget, no sector support for the most important industries, no credit cuts, no government programs with adequate funding, and the main thing is that we didn't see the return and return of those aids to the farmers that were taken last year, which enabled agrarians to develop, above all, to farmers. Based on these considerations, our faction has decided not to support the budget as one that does not suit the interests of our country and its citizens. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u676	Factions and groups are over, colleagues. He's 10 minutes away from the MPs. And let's move on to making a decision, colleagues. And let's move on to making a decision. 10 minutes, please. We have to go to the president of the Rules. We can't break any rules. I'd like you to record a statement from the National MPs. Please. This is the last block. After that, we shall immediately vote. After that, after 10 minutes, the closing word will be. Please, it's Dmitri's cell phone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u677	Please give Krivenka a word.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u678	Dear colleagues, Mr Vladimir Borisovich, I would like to discuss with you a number of issues that have not been addressed in this budget. The first is Dniper's deep-seated work. It takes 70, up to 100 million dollars, to make the Dnipro River a fully propelled river. We've raised that question more than once. An amendment has been made, which the funds have foreseen, by many national deputies. We can make the river a waterway. Next question. Yes, of course, it is a reduction in road loads. If we flip the grain off the road, according to the Mini-Infrastructure, Mr. Omelian sits, these are his numbers, one million tons of grain that we can transport to the river is 790 million dollars of economics. Next question. The next question is not settled. It's a question of our paralympic trainers. We were able to support 63.6 million dollars, my amendment that sets normal wages. Not enough yet, but some support for the Olympic team coaches, and that'll be from January-month. But it's not settled by the Paralympics and it's also a question of supporting, settling. Next question. We've talked to you about the development of the defence and industrial complex over and over again. It's a good thing that today's project takes into account the cost of protection, our cybersecurity, for our protection information service, but it doesn't take into account the cost of space. First of all, space activities. That is, if defense costs are partially accounted for, there is nothing counted in space activities. And the question. Space Agency, space program as such. So you know the state of the field to which it has been proved and the audits that you have seen. So, Reverend Volodymyr Borisovich, on the one hand, took many initiatives supported both by the "Ukrainian Book", and with the support of Plast, with the support of military and patriotic education that I have been offering from the People's Movement of Ukraine, but there are issues that have not yet been taken into account. And it's very important for us to define our position in public, Volodymyr Borisovich. Let me put it this way. Volodymyr Borisovich! Volodymyr Borisovich!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u679	Dear colleague, if please the presiding officer gives the floor, then. Okay? When the speeches by the National Deputies are completed, Vladimir Borisovich will express his position. Please, National Deputy Sidorovich of Self-Help. Your word, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u680	Please pass the word to the Deputy Zubad.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u681	Lubomir Zubac, Self-Help Unit. Today we can say that the period of fiscal decentralization is officially over. The period of centralization of manual regulation and, I suspect, of usurpation of power is about to begin. You know, those beautiful patterns that we were shown, I can give you a simple answer. There is no difference between reducing the tax base and transferring government obligations to local budgets; these are just different directions of the same substance. Experts estimate that as a result of today’s vote to amend the Budget Code and the State Budget, local budgets will be reduced by a third. We stop the development of communities, and if we stop the development of communities, we stop the development of the state. It's very sad. Self-help won't support the budget in this format. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u682	The position is clear. Nestor Schuffritch gives the word of Dobrenkov. Please, People's Deputies.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u683	Thank you. Good afternoon, dear colleagues. As the faction leader has said, the faction of the Opposition Block will not support the prescribed bill of 5,000 for several reasons. First of all, there were allegations here that the increase in the minimum wage attestation to some real indicators of our economy, that's a myth, that's not true. In fact, it's going to raise the minimum wage to 3 000 200 dollars, but it's only going on paper, it's not supported by a real increase in gross domestic product, which is only increasing by 3 percent according to the budget. Secondly, the Opposition Block faction strongly criticises the policy of the current government to increase the amount of government debt that has reached unprecedented proportions. 2.3 trillion dollars at the end of 2017, which state debt will Ukrainian society and its generations to come live with. It should be noted that we are very concerned about the situation in which the stated amount of government debt is not the maximum, in fact, the situation that has arisen around Privatbank regarding the repayment of the credit portfolios of the designated nationalized problem bank of 130-150 billion dollars. This will be done on the basis of the domestic government loan bonds to be issued by the Ministry of Finance. This means an increase in domestic government debt, which is actually going to pay off the population. We are not in the position to freeze the social benefits offered by the Ukrainian State Budget Act. There is no justification for the increase in defence spending, no justification for the increase in expenditure on the administrative apparatus, the prosecutor’s office, and the courts for freezing the corresponding social costs to socially vulnerable groups. It's unfair, it's antisocial. The state must be for the people, not for the people of the State. We don't support the idea of taxation of pensioners who are working, because the corresponding increase in income is again on government structures based on the taxation of working pensioners. In addition, I would like to add that some factions have said that the Opposition Block voted in favour of Bill 5368. Yes, we voted in favour of this bill. What's more, we have a lot of arguments for this bill because it actually liberalizes our tax system. And those proposals from some factions that constantly put them on the stand are incompetent, are at all distances from any object of regulation. They're not aimed at tax liberalisation, they're aimed at preserving this system. And so to speak in a populistic way about what the Opposition Block supports some destructive ideas.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u684	Thank you, Your Honor. Please, Vladislav Dove next. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u685	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Vladislav Dove, 197th constituency, Cherkashina. Vladimir Borisovich, I'm actually going to call you right now. First of all, I would like to thank the fact that, in fact, the government, or not for the first time in its history of independence, has met the requirements of budgetary legislation and passed a bill on the state budget in due course for the following year. The second thing I would also like to thank you is that you, as the head of the government, have done as much as possible to work with the people's deputies in part of the actual budget work for the following year. But for each of us, there are certain clues to making decisions. And so, unfortunately, it's been historically established that in the eighth call, one of these indicators is, for example, the allocation of funds to the public service of emergency situations in the acquisition of fire trucks into the Ukrainian manufacturer. Last year, for example, 450 million were allocated to the program. I'm looking at the bill, 600 million. I wondered, for example, how many new cars had come to me in the district. Three areas of the Cherka district. Do you know how much? Zero! The city of Chercassa purchased one car from a manufacturer of some kind, but not a factory. So these clues are unfortunately doing everything they can to review the decision on the bill. And then, Vladimir Borisovich, let me actually quote you. On February 6, 2016, in your position as Head of the Supreme Council, giving a comment to your predecessor, who led the government towards you, you said a very important, brilliant, I think, phrase. And I will remember this talk of yours forever. On the other hand, there's an attempt to manipulate the room, and you said, "I won't make fools of people's deputies." Vladimir Borisovich, and unfortunately, what we were given shows quite another thing you could have done. Thank you, Vladimir Borisovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u686	We have one more minute. People's MP, Palamarczuk. I'll just give it, then the government will be able to sum it up. National MP Palamarczuk, please give your speech. One minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u687	Please pass the word to the Deputy Greenview.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u688	Igor Greene, Igor Greene, please. Igor Greeneve, please give me a minute. Grief. Mikola, Mr. Mikola, Igor Greeneva. Please, Mr. Greene, finish your speech from the National Deputies.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u689	Once again, I would like to urge all members of the people to complete the budget process and vote in favour of this budget. We've been through a lot. And hopefully this will enable us to continue reforms in the state. Once again, I urge everyone to vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u690	Dear colleagues, the discussion of the Ukrainian State Budget Act is concluded. I'm asking my fellow national deputies to come into the hall. Please inform the Supreme Council Secretariat that we are moving on to the decision-making process. Heads of factions, please invite deputies to the Hall. Now, from the government under the Rules, the closing word is given to Vladimir Borisovich Groisman, Prime Minister of Ukraine. And then we move on to making a decision. Please, Vladimir Borisovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u691	Mr. Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! Honorable Predestination! Dear fellow national MPs! I'm not really gonna let anyone make fools of the Ukrainian national MPs. And a few words about that, I'd like to say. We've started a completely honest process of shaping the Ukrainian budget for 2017. We submitted it to the Ukrainian Parliament on time. We had our first reading with you. We worked with factions, groups of the Ukrainian Parliament, to find the best possible solutions for Ukraine in 2017. You know, when young MPs make flash mobs and say it's not a budget, I don't mind because they don't have experience. But when the minister of the former government's economy went to the rostrum, and wanted to get out the leader of this faction, she realized that she was about to go out on her stomach and couldn't stand, she said to go out on the other side, and she said this nonsense. I have a question about how a country can be the Prime Minister for 3.5 years without knowing how the government budget is being formed. [[Applause]] Let me explain. I never made a timely budget in my life. Never in my life has there been a complete process of second reading. And the procedure says the following: Read Supreme Council Regulation 158. The budget for the first reading with the apps we submitted to the Ukrainian Parliament, and in all the committees we've been working with you since September 15th. Then we agreed with you on the first reading. And then there was preparation for the second reading. So these conclusions, which are provided for in the Budget Code, the Rules, are part of the changes to the budget that we've been preparing. It's a shame not to know. [[Applause]] Read the Rules, study the material portion. I always said you were professional losers. I can confirm that. I've been working with you, and I know what it is. But let's talk about the budget. Dear and dear friends, I would like to emphasize that this is a human-centred budget. We'll provide defense costs, we'll build large-scale roads, we'll support the agrarian sector, we'll raise teachers' wages by 50 percent, by 30 percent to doctors. We're going to spend 6 billion on drugs. Since April 1, we're going to start re-inurbating, about what Oleg Valeriyovich said, it's free medicine for chronic patients. Yes, Ukrainian firefighters need technology because they need to go to a fire. But not only do they need technology, but they need a salary. And you just didn't read, and in this budget we raised Ukrainian emensians' salary from 3,000 to 5,000 dollars. Why don't they take that away from them? Next up, guys. And energy efficiency and minimum wage is now what we vote for with you. And you will vote against the Ukrainian people. You will vote against wages and pensions, you will vote against normal roads, you will vote against free drugs, you will vote for the destruction of Ukraine. And most of the time in this room, which I truly respect, I want to thank Peter Poshenko Block, I want to thank the People's Front, I want to thank the Radial Party, I want to thank the Rebirth Group, the Will of the People, I want to thank Self-Help, I don't know how you're going to vote, but you were interested in the budget. You've been trying to work on it and it's your job to be supportive. And it's about decentralization. After decentralization, I'll say the following thing. The budget is numbers, and I realized you don't have to be convinced of what you don't understand. You're going to take numbers, for example, we're going to take any city, we're going to take Winnitz, and we can take Lviv and on this screen every month show you how you're going to do the budget. And you'll see hundreds of millions, if not the billions you'll have to build schools, gardens, roads, and everything your citizens need. You will witness the continuation of large-scale decentralization. Dear, dear friends! I'm asking for your support and your support needs Ukrainian society. And I know you're going to demonstrate maturity today. Glory to Ukraine! And happy birthday to us! Good luck! Hooray!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-20-m1.u692	Dear colleagues! Let's move on to making a decision. I ask everyone to take up their jobs and prepare for the vote, colleagues. And I'm going to be the first in line with article 158. I want to emphasize: we put the second reading first, and then in general, these are two separate votes, colleagues. Please be prepared. First vote. In accordance with article 158 of the Ukrainian Supreme Council Rules, I am voting for the second reading of the draft Ukrainian State Budget Act for 2017 (registration No. 5000). Vote please, colleagues. Please be supportive. Vote. Vote, fellows! Vote. Please be supportive. [[04:52:09]] For 275 Colleagues, attention, next. In accordance with article 158, I am voting on the draft Ukrainian State Budget Act 2017 for adoption in general, this is the main vote. Please support with technical legal remedies as a whole, with technical legal remedies. Please vote, please support me, colleagues. Vote! Let us support the Ukrainian budget! Please vote with the conclusions of the committee on technical law. [[04:52:53]] For 274 Decision taken. Ukraine’s state budget for 2017 was accepted, colleagues. Ladies and gentlemen, I sincerely welcome all of us. This tense sleepless night was worth it, and we approved the budget for the following year. And I want to stress that this budget is not just a development budget, it's a defense budget for Ukraine, it's a defense budget for the whole free world. And we voted in favour of our boys in front, who today need support. Dear colleagues, I want to thank the government for its quality work, and I want to thank the people's deputies for this night we spent together, and we have taken responsibility for both the front and our brothers. And please show by factions, please include, I'll announce by factions, please. Peter Poshenko's Block - 122, People's Front - 74, Opposition Block - 0, Self-help - 5, Oleg Ljashka's Radical Party - 18, Father's Party - 0, Rebirth Party - 24, Will of the People - 13, non-fractional - 18. Colleagues, this is a united hall, we have made a powerful result, we have taken responsibility for the life of the state. Next year we'll win. Glory to Ukraine! Glory to Ukraine! Glory to Ukraine! Colleagues, I declare the evening meeting of the Supreme Council closed. We'll meet on Thursday at 10 a.m. to continue our work. I very much ask everyone to arrive on time on Thursday full-time workday, we will work hard, many issues of the agenda. I'm asking everyone on Thursday at 10 o'clock to come to the hall to continue our work. Thanks, guys. Good-bye! See you tomorrow.
