ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-05-m0.u1	Good morning, dear fellows! I'm asking everyone to come into the hall, take a seat, get ready for work. Are you ready for your registration, colleagues? The hazelnut is getting ready for registration. Ready? Very good. Dear fellow MPs, please register. Please. [[10:04:15]] Registered -335 There are 335 deputies registered in the Hall, and the morning plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine declares it open. Colleagues, today is the birthday of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Ruslan Evgenovich Demchak. Welcome to our fellow MP. I was also asked to make several messages, colleagues. Today is an important day, today, when Ukrainian forces liberated Slavonic from Moscow’s occupation. This is the anniversary of a patrol unit of the Kulczynski National Guard’s battalion entering Slavyansk and raising a blue and yellow flag. Dear colleagues, we welcome our soldiers of the liberators, for many battalion fighters are in the hall today. Hello. [[Applause]] It was a great victory for the Ukrainian spirit and for the weapons of Ukraine. I also want to welcome our law enforcement agencies with a successful and brilliant operation. Yesterday afternoon, an active phase of the secret and effective joint operation of the Ministry of Internal Affairs, the SBA and the Henprocuratorium began after the neutralization of the so-called amber mafia in the Volinsk, Ravensk and Žitomir regions. At the same time, more than 100 searches were conducted in various parts of Ukraine. Search and detention are ongoing. The case has already been reported and Colonel BSS and the district attorney have been detained. I think there was a fight last night and night in the back of a warring state that was supposed to inspire our defenders on the eastern front. When there is a war on Donbas with an external enemy, there must be a war on the back with banditry and mafia. And also, dear colleagues, I would like to welcome on behalf of our brothers in the Crimean Tatars. Today, the Muslim world celebrates Urazah-Bayram, which marks the end of the holy place of Ramadan. On behalf of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, allow me to welcome the citizens of Ukraine who practice Islam with one of the largest Muslim festivals. Let's welcome our brothers. [[Applause]] Thank you, colleagues. According to the Rules, according to article 25, we have 30 minutes on Tuesday morning for statements by authorized representatives of MPs and groups with proposals, announcements, and reports. I'm asking the factions and groups to sign up. Dear colleagues, please record the performance, please. From the Radical Party Skuratovski is handing over to the leader of the Radical Party Oleg Láska – Oleg Lášk. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-05-m0.u2	Dear citizens of Ukraine! Dear fellow national MPs! Parliament has not worked for two weeks, and at this time, a government and an illegal government formed by the President of Ukraine, the National Commission for the Regulation of the Municipal Services Market, has decided on the issue of "Dragonian" tariffs for citizens since 1 July. Today, the Ukrainian apartment is to be paid for a utility station of nearly 2,000 dollars, for a two-bedroom apartment of up to 3,000 dollars, and for a village house of up to 100 square feet [100 sq m], for 3.5 thousand dollars. Prime Minister Groysman and President Prašenko tell us that the rich should pay for the gas. Show me the rich, except those who sit in the government, in the President's Office and in Parliament. The vast majority, millions of Ukrainians, have been led to poverty by this policy of power. When the authorities think that the rich person is the one who gets 3.5 thousand dollars a month and therefore has to pay 3,000 dollars for the utility company, it's not rich, because in Germany, Switzerland, in any other country, their bums are richer than ours. Throughout the world, people work and have a decent salary that allows them both to pay for their medicine and to put children on their feet. We have Ukrainians like oxen, like slaves, smell 24 hours a day and cannot make a living. Where is justice? So when we're told that there's 70 billion dollars in the budget for subsidies. To hell with your subsidies, give people decent wages and decent pensions so that they can afford not only utilities but to support the family, to go on vacation, to buy medicine, to get proper medical care. But the authorities don't, because it's a robbery authority that, because of the increase in tariffs, because of all the so-called subsidies, they keep the oligarchs, they allow them to make money. And Ukrainians who walk on gold, on oil, on gas, have to pay space prices for these nadars that belong to the Ukrainian people. All over the world, the state pays citizens what they get from selling nadrs, and we have a nation robbing citizens of gas at the price of an imported, so - called, alternative. So the faction of the Radical Party after considering the question of the Oneshchenk, of drawing him to criminal responsibility, we will continue to block the parliamentary rostrum, demanding a reduction in tariffs, investigating the corruption of the President of the Offshore and his surroundings. We're not leaving here until we stop, get the results. I'm turning to democratic opposition, let's work together to achieve results, protect people.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-05-m0.u3	Please welcome me from the Self-Help faction leader of the Oleg Beresuk faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-05-m0.u4	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen, the high-ranking presiding officer! The Ukrainian State, as an institution, is beginning to learn one of the basic functions of the state, the enforcement of laws. And if they don't, they'll be punished for it. True, we still have a lot to learn from the second function of developing society. You and I, as a parliament, have created a state institution of coercion -- the NABU. Today it's starting to work. Today, the Ukrainian people are surprised by their transparency and their functionality. Today, Parliament must show its willingness to have the institutions it creates. NABU made decisions. And if we've created this institution and given it a sense of trust, today we have to support the NABA in the eyes of the Ukrainian people, because this is an institution that will fight and fight with high-level corruption. The case with National Deputy Oneshchenk, the case with the military prosecutors -- these are signs for society that the institutional state is starting to function. It's all about systemicity and the absence of a show. If these decisions and qualitative, honest investigation are punished, then the Ukrainians will say, "Yes, we can trust this state." The Self-Help faction today will support the NABU -- and will say that we are allowing these people today, who have suspicions, to be able to investigate their case or to protect themselves from what they've done. Next, ladies and gentlemen. This State must stand in the face of the sovereignty and integrity of that State. Please note that the previous Parliament passed the Amnesty Law, amnesty for those who killed Ukrainian boys and girls and started the war. It's not signed, but it's ready to sign. The second question is: adopted the Law on the Special Status of Local Self - Rule in Donbasa. It's also a sign that doesn't work, but it's ready to function. These enemies of Ukrainian sovereignty need another law: the law on elections in occupied territories. That doesn't even make any sense. This law, this will be the closure of the anti-Ukrainian gestalt, which will destroy Ukrainian sovereignty. This law begins to be produced in parliament’s slums. And it is not clear who was giving who was allowing the Committee of Legal Policy to work without Parliament's permission to do so. This is a deception of the Ukrainian Byzantine state that we don't build with you. And the last. Last one. With the tariffs up. Indeed, subsidies will be given to those who are poor. But those who work will be impoverished, and then consumption will stop.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-05-m0.u5	Let me finish, please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-05-m0.u6	And we're going to stop the development of the country's economy. Our offer. This country has every reason to lower tariffs by at least 40 percent. But in addition, raise the minimum wage by 10-15 percent in order to survive again next year. Survive, not with the decline of the economy, but with slow but steady development. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-05-m0.u7	Thank you. Please, from the Opposition Block, Mr. Boyko's faction manager is invited to the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-05-m0.u8	Dear Madam Chairman! Dear National Deputies! Today’s composition of Parliament can be as less effective as history. Every MP in this room has to ask himself why trust in the Supreme Council has fallen to the critical mark. The reason is obvious. The governing coalition did not work for the people for a day. On the contrary, the Supreme Council, by its every decision, has only made the lives of the population worse, reducing pensions, raising tariffs and killing the real economy, small and medium-sized businesses. When there is a military conflict in the eastern part of the country, amber is mined in the North in a pirate way, forests are cut and exported in the West, and 5 million of our citizens have gone abroad to look for work, parliament has no moral right to be inactive. So there are two choices. First. To make a historic decision is to dissolve yourself and go to a new election. The other one. Work effectively and in at least two recent weeks to adopt the laws necessary to stabilize the situation and improve the lives of citizens. First of all, in terms of rising tariffs and rising prices, we have to adopt laws on financial support for the population. Our faction insists that Law 3793 be reviewed so that additional funds from inflation to budgets can be allocated to social benefits. From July 1 to July 1, prices of hot and hot water rose twice. Perhaps the government estimates that in the heat of July, people will not change the news of rising prices for heat. This is another mistake that leads to mass defaults, and a third of the population can't pay utility bills. The widely advertised system of subsidies for bank robberies in the country does not work. That is why we demand that the government cancel the decision to increase tariffs and bring prices for utilities into line with the real income of Ukrainian citizens. In particular, we insist that Parliament finally take a clear position on the implementation of the mine agreements and the peace mission on Donbassa. In view of the fact that the country needs decisive action now in the east, and also on the side of the Supreme Council on the cessation of conflict and the return of territories and our citizens. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-05-m0.u9	Please, Mr. Bondar, the head of the Rebirth Group is invited to the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-05-m0.u10	Dear colleagues, a venerable presidency. Of course, the first question that we are now concerned about is what is happening today in the country with tariffs. Everyone in the hall who is present today knows how important this subject is to people today. Twice in the last few months alone, gas tariffs have risen. During the last month, it was decided to double the electricity tariff by the end of the year. We understand that these tariffs are no longer insurmountable to the people of Ukraine, they are tariffs that are now losing any possibility for families to survive in this country. It's essentially a tariff genocide. We demand that we put to the vote our decision, which we registered in March months, to introduce a moratorium on raising tariffs, and to conduct an energy efficiency audit in Ukraine. Think about the figures: Today the population's debt for municipal tariffs is 13 billion dollars. Experts estimate that two and a half billion dollars will be owed to the population of Ukraine after raising the tariffs. Even now, the State is paying subsidies of almost 50 billion dollars to cover public utility tariffs. 70 percent of families receive subsidies and receive subsidies. Is it the economy, is it the right model? It's possible to reorient these costs and send them to energy conservation. And this will be a more correct position of the state and a more effective economic policy. And we're talking about introducing a moratorium and asking to put it to a vote and stop this "tariff genocide" in relation to the people of Ukraine. Second position. We know that the government approved the last edition of the IMF memorandum last week. It's like it's not signed, it's on the signature. We demand, Andry Volodymyrovich, to ask the government to send us a draft document that will be signed with the IMF. I believe that Parliament should know and show the people of Ukraine what conditions Ukraine is taking to obtain another tranche of credit. It's not toys. It's a matter of raising the retirement age that's kind of set up there, it's a reduction in schools, gardens, hospitals. It's a reduction in social costs and so on. We demand that such things do not happen culturally, in a closed regime, so that they pass through parliament, so that the people of Ukraine know what the government is doing for credit. And the third theme. We ask the government to ask questions about the final adoption of the decision on socio-economics, on the allocation of funds for socio-economic development in the regions. Two billion dollars were voted by Parliament to send for repairs to schools, hospitals, sewers, plumbing, and so forth. To this day the government has not issued a decree, and these funds have not come to the region. There's no time for tenders, no time for repairs if it's signed in two months. We demand that we turn to the government and ask this question to determine the government.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-05-m0.u11	Please, 30 seconds to complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-05-m0.u12	We demand that this decision be signed within the next week, so that 2 billion dollars go to areas and areas of Ukraine to make it possible to carry out these repairs quickly and to improve the condition of schools, hospitals, and other social facilities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-05-m0.u13	Thank you. Please welcome the leader of the Igor Green Faction Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-05-m0.u14	Dear colleagues, we have a unique situation today, there will be no elections in Ukraine for the next three years. Any political power and every deputy major without populism and excessive noise can make real decisions and decisions before the election promises come true. Each and every one of us should be aware of the personal responsibility for what tomorrow will be for both the state and every citizen. I understand being in opposition to power is not difficult at all times. Being in power in times of war and economic crisis is much more difficult to realize without exaggerating the vitality of every decision. Then it is critical. Consolidation of all the democratic pro-Ukrainian forces of the Supreme Council in order to restore peace and preserve the Ukrainian state is critical. I want to see my colleagues. A country that lives under constant military aggression cannot afford to have a weak and indecisive parliament. And we have repeatedly shown that the Ukrainian Parliament is capable of constructive work. In this session, without taking into account the last two weeks, the Supreme Council has already passed 434 laws and regulations – more than one legislative act for one national MP. We have made strategic decisions for the development and formation of the country. Changes to the Constitution in the part of judicial reform, along with the new Judicial Act, will become the filter that will ensure that the judicial system of truly deserving judges works. We have taken the necessary steps to bring about a qualitative change in this fundamental reform and to meet the demand of Ukrainians to restore justice, justice, and fair trial. But the system is resisting. The precedent created yesterday, when the Supreme Court of Ukraine overturned the Supreme Council's Order on Elections in Cotsubinsky, is an attempt at real resistance to the judicial system in the Supreme Council. Yesterday, we actually got another legislature in the state. Not long after the Supreme Court annuls the Order to revoke Janukovich or others. I want to call again and again, we have something to brag about. We've created a legislative base for the National Anti-Corruption Bureau, the National Anti-Corruption Agency, we've created a Specialized Anti-Corruption Prosecutor's Office, we've opened a way to update the membership of today's prosecutor's office, and we have the first results. We've passed a series of laws that have allowed 140 laws, and we've implemented rules to get a visa-free regime. We have demonstrated more than just determination.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-05-m0.u15	Please finish the minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-05-m0.u16	By means of concrete decisions, we have confirmed our nonretributory desire to implement the European choice of Ukrainians. I'd like to point out that we don't have much time left in this session. We must do everything we can to adopt laws that will allow Ukraine to further stabilise the economic situation and start economic reforms. I hope that in the next session we will not bet, we will not take a break from reform. Ukraine’s society has the right to a decent life when it begins to reform. Our role in this is unique. I call on everyone to work constructively both these two weeks and the next time of the cadence.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-05-m0.u17	Thank you. Melniczuk Sergey Petrovich from the "will of the people" group is invited to the floor.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-05-m0.u18	Dear Ukrainian people! Deputies! Dear Chairman! I want to raise from this rostrum the issue of judiciality, law enforcement, and, in general, the power structures. I've been in this process for almost a year and what I see. Yes, reforms have begun. New people have emerged. But there's the Constitution of Ukraine, there's the Criminal Procedure Code, there's other documents that say that every Ukrainian citizen, starting with a homeless man to the President, has to answer. But secondly, we must remember that we have a presumption of innocence, and that is where we should start. Thank God, thanks to the legislative acts we have already adopted, the new structures have begun to work. And I support their work. But these structures must be uninvolved, more professional, so that each step they take is confirmed by the letter of the law, as I have already said, both by the Constitution of Ukraine and by other legislative acts. That everyone, if he is a criminal, if they point to the fact that a person has actually committed a crime or a crime, he should be responsible for his actions. If there is no such fact, you can't put a person in jail for playing either way. And so even when I look at what I want to remind radicals right now, I have an intense relationship with them, but when Igor Mosiyczuk was delayed, I was one of the first to raise the question of taking him into custody. That is why I urge the law enforcement agencies to act in accordance with the Constitution, legislative acts, and us parliamentarians to engage in this process and adopt laws and amendments in order to properly write our legislation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-05-m0.u19	Who else didn't come out of the faction? Dear colleagues! Julia Volodymyrna Timoshenko, please, from Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-05-m0.u20	Dear colleagues, yesterday at the Conciliation Council, all factions without exception practically raised the question that, from a social point of view, Ukraine is now cornered. And once again on the Conciliation Board, the issue was that tariffs that were set since July 1st, and which practically double the centralized heating payments, on hot water and plus double the price of gas for social groups, are not enough for people. I want to inform you that people's housing has already been confiscated in Ukraine for not paying their utility bills. One such incident takes place in the city of Lipeck, in Lutsk, in Lutsk, and in Lutsk, in fact, today they confiscated the apartment. I want to tell you that we need to stop this right now. How do I stop? I think we should stop next time. Two questions will now be considered. The first question is about removing the MP's immunity and taking responsibility. And secondly, it's a question of the release of judges. After that, we appeal to the Head of the Supreme Council, Mr. Andriy Paruba, to take a 30-minute recess after these two issues, so that we can gather all the heads of the factions to take a decision and immediately, after the release of the judges, consider the establishment of a provisional commission of inquiry to review the tariffs, after identifying the corruption gears at NAC Naftogazi and Crushing. To analyze how objectively these tariffs are being raised, and it is obvious that this is unobjective. And also to adopt three bills that place the entire tariff policy on the ground and start with the fact that Ukrainian gas has to be given to people and paid at a cost of not more than 30 percent. We are convinced that this is a key issue today. I understand that Parliament, frankly, doesn't care what state of affairs the family budgets are in today. And I realize that the authorities just don't give a shit how people live today. But don't give a shit, maybe a few deputies on this council, and we'll fight to keep people from being bullied. Today, the "Paternity" party is moving on to a very clear and hard enough effort to ask the question of tariff cuts and achieve them.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-05-m0.u21	Who hasn't spoken? That's the last one, right? My colleagues, the head of the People's Front faction, Maxim Burbak, is invited to the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-05-m0.u22	Welcome to the National Deputies. Dear Chairman! Ukrainian people! Today, two important questions are in order, and they will show who in the session room is actually willing to fight for our country and for justice, and who is covering his anti - Ukrainian and corrupt interior with demagogism and populism. First of all, it's the application of the Henprosecutor's Office for the removal of inviolability, the invocation of responsibility and the arrest of Deputy Oneshchenka. Second, approval of the Law on the Confiscation of Money Janukovic. These votes will show the Ukrainian community who is who in this room, and this is the fundamental moment when wolves and wolves take off their sheep’s skins, and it becomes clear where lies are, and where the truth is where the word half is, and where the real action is. Those who curse oligarchs every step of the way will now be their protagonists, against a law that can already be budgeted by tens of billions of dollars stolen by the Yanukovic regime. The People's Front faction will vote in favour of putting the Henprosecutor's office on ex-regional and gas oligarch Onishtenka. We're not judges, but we need to allow investigators to bring the case to a logical conclusion. The final decision will be taken by the court, which is the principle of our faction of judgment. Our colleague Tetjana Crnovol published the facts about Onishtenka's equipment almost a year ago, and this information was the basis for the NABU and anticorruption prosecutions. By the way, I'd like to remind you that the People's Front has supported the bill to abolish parliamentary immunity in the first reading, and we're ready to adopt it in general. The removal of inviolability will visibly clear the parliament of the corrupt, they will lose interest because the MP's mandate does not guarantee their immunity. The second question. We insist on the immediate adoption of the Law on Confiscation. We call on our coalition colleagues, we call on all the members of the patriots from other factions, it is very important for us to legislate the confiscation of the money stolen by Yanukovich, and direct them to the social articles of the budget and to the needs of the army. Every day, on the front of the attack on Ukrainian positions, Putin forms a strike fist on our borders, and in Crimea, armory and new fighters are constantly being turned over. We certainly hope for the support of our partners, but we have the primary responsibility to defend our country and our homes. We need to modernize the army at a fast pace, develop new weapons, pay the country's protectors on time. The money that has been found and the money that has already been arrested must go to these needs. It seemed to be an obvious truth, whether it was along with the Environment of another thought, stop looking for formal clues and childish excuses to protect Yanukovic's wealth. Stop talking about love for people and for the state, prove it in action. Yesterday at our faction, Prime Minister Groisman assured us that the government fully supports this bill and there are no warnings. All who wanted to apply for this bill had the opportunity to do so. We adopt the Law on Seizures and we continue to make immediate changes to the State Budget for 2016. We're proposing to form 10 billion dollars for the defence sector, 7 billion dollars for the state defense order, 2 billion dollars.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-05-m0.u23	Please finish the minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-05-m0.u24	Two billion -- for the National Police, 600 million dollars -- for the needs of the State Border Service, 300 million dollars -- for the State's emergency fuel service, because they extinguished the range and now need to fill the fuel, 10 billion dollars for the roads, 2 billion dollars for the socio-economic development of the areas, and, above all, 18 billion dollars for the increase in salaries for teachers, doctors and other budgeters. In addition to protecting the state, this money will go towards raising social standards. It's real help to people. I'm talking to the populists: end the conversation. It's a specific government decision. We adopt the law, we direct Janukovich's money to the budget -- we can tell people honestly what they've done for them. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-05-m0.u25	Dear colleagues, the time for announcements and applications is over. And we're moving on to the agenda. The first issue, as provided by law, is the issue of consenting to criminal liability, detention, and arrest of Ukrainian National Deputy Oneshchenka. Honourable National Deputies, in accordance with part three of article 80 of the Constitution of Ukraine, article 27 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of Ukrainian People's Deputies, the Supreme Council of Ukraine agrees to bring criminal responsibility, detention and arrest of a national MP. The Supreme Council of Ukraine received the submission by the Attorney General of Ukraine, Yuri Vitaliyovich Lucenka, of consent to be held criminally liable, detained and arrested by the Ukrainian national deputy, Oneštenka Aleksandra Romanović. The National Anti-Corruption Bureau of Ukraine is conducting a pre-trial investigation, and the Special Anti-Corruption Prosecutor's Office of the Attorney-General of Ukraine is conducting a criminal investigation as of 04.12.2015 on the basis of evidence of criminal offences. The trial, according to the submission of Henprocurorina, found that between January 2013 and January 2016, Oneshenko Alexander Romanović committed a number of criminal offences against public security, property and service activities. In accordance with the requirements of the Ukrainian Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Committee on Rules of Procedure and Organization of Work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine at its meeting on 29 June, with the participation of Henprocuror of Ukraine, considered the application for consent to criminal liability, detention and arrest of the Ukrainian national deputy, Oneštenka Alekstendra Romanović. The findings of the committee and the Office of the Attorney General of Ukraine were sent to you by e-mail and distributed on the desks of registration in paper copies. According to the Rules, half an hour is given for speeches by Henprocuror, the Head of the Regulatory Committee and the National Deputy Oneshchenk. There's the Attorney General in the hall. Welcome to Yuri Lucenka. And Mr. Cold and Mr. Tiny. Welcome, colleagues. [[Applause]] There's Pinzenik in the hall. Is Oneshchenko Alexander Romanovich present? Is Oneshchenka present? Not present. So we have half an hour to do this. Then these half-hours that we're going to look at, we're going to divide two parts, two halves: 15 minutes for the speech and the answers, the Henprocuror and 15 minutes for the presentation and the response, the representative of the Regulatory Committee. And so, honourable colleagues, the word is given to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Yuri Vitaliyovich Lucenka, for answers to questions from representatives of the MP factions and groups, the Ukrainian national deputies. Yuri Vitaliyovich, your speech, how much? And the other time is for questions and answers from MPs. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-05-m0.u26	Dear Andrew Volodymyrovich! Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! The National Anti - Corruption Bureau of Ukraine is conducting a pretrial investigation, and the Specialised Anti - Corruption Prosecutor’s Office, the General Prosecutor’s Office of Ukraine, is conducting a criminal procedure from 04.12.15 on the grounds of criminal offences envisaged in part four of article 28, part five, part one, article 255, part four, article 28, part two, of article 205 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine. The trial found that between January 2013 and January 2016, Oneschenko Alexander Romanović committed a number of criminal offences against public security of property and in the field of service. On November 27, 2014, Onishtenko Alexander Romanovich obtained the power of the People’s Deputy of Ukraine’s Eighth Call, being elected to election district number 93 (Kyiv Region) and is Ukraine’s national deputy now. In accordance with the requirements of articles 7-8 of the Ukrainian Law "On the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine", Oneštenko Alexander Romanović, as Ukrainian national deputy responsible for his parliamentary activities to the Ukrainian people, as his authorized representative in the Supreme Council, must abide by the public moral standards, always maintain his own dignity, respect the honour and dignity of officials and citizens, and refrain from actions, statements and actions that compromise him, the electorate, the Supreme Council and the state. According to article 364, paragraph 1, of the Criminal Code, Oneshenko Alexander Romanovich is a ministerial servant. According to the report, Oneshenko Alexander Romanovich, 31.03. 69th birthday, as the national deputy of the Seventh and Eighth Call, during these calls, as the deputy head of the Committee of the Supreme Council for Fuel and Energy, with the leadership's experience in managing joint activities and balancing joint activities on behalf of the parties under the joint venture agreement, having full control over the activities of the NADRA Geocentre, TOV "KAS", TOT "Karpatnadrainvest", which are the operators of the joint ventures of Pat "The Crushing", having fully studied and analyzed the demand for prices in the natural gas market in Ukraine, has decided on personal enrichment through the acquisition of money by the State's Pat "The Crushing" through a comprehensive study and analysis of the demand for prices in the natural gas market in Ukraine by virtue of the commercialization of the commercialized operation. The investigation is based on the view that Onishtenko, aware that it is not possible, in January 13, with the active involvement of Post and Kadirov, his mother, to create a criminal organization with the aim of committing a particular serious crime of possession of foreign property in a particularly large amount, which included: Sergei, Witness, Kravchenko, Kabeev, Bistric, Smagluk, Fesun, Grecanjuk, Ivanov, Rybošak, Želeńak, Garcheva, Officelaruk, Žiecko, Kopčuk, Kuprianenko, Kuprianko, Yakimak, and others, and others, as well as the prosecution. Including the number of PAT officials. The purpose of the activities of the criminal organization was the illegal seizure of funds derived from natural gas produced by operators of joint activities of TV "Nadra Geocentrum", TOV "HAS" and TOV "Carpatnadrainvest" under joint activities agreements with Pat "The Crushing". The investigation obtained evidence that the individuals mentioned above were deliberately and voluntarily aware of the consequences of their actions and organized themselves into an internal and externally stable hierarchy of crimes, the purpose of which was to commit particularly serious crimes and other types of crimes, which were necessary for the implementation of the criminal intent, primarily aimed at committing particularly serious crimes, with the sole plan of action known to all participants, with the distribution of the functions of each member of the group aimed at the implementation of this plan, in accordance with the criminal activities of Post and Kadirov, the mother of the National Deputy Oneshtska, as direct leaders who coordinated the activities of the participants during the commission of the crime. The Postman and Kadirova, in turn, deliberately followed all the instructions of Oneschenko Alexander Romanović as the leader of the criminal organization. The criminal organization, created by Oneschenk Alexander Romanovich, consisted of two structural parts, organized groups. The first group included Ryabosapek, Železniak, Garcheva, Kuprianenko, and those who were not investigated. Sergienko, Witness, Kravchenko, Kabeyev, Bistrick, Smogluk, Fesun, Grecanjuk, Johnov, Chancelloruk, Žický, Grocery, Kopčuk, Jakimachenko, and others have entered the second. The investigation obtained evidence that members of an organized criminal organization named NADRA Geocenter, as an operator of a joint activity agreement, were being carried out by means of natural gas pseudo-borrowing operations totalling 426 million 112 thousand cubic meters in total one billion 917 million 398 thousand 166 dollars. However, taking into account the market value of natural gas at the time of the sale of natural gas, according to the conclusion of the already conducted commission-marine expertise of 27.05.2016, the total cost of the natural gas sold under this joint contract is deliberately undercut by one billion 166 million 301 thousand 847 dollars. Under the same scheme, members of an organized criminal organization named T.O. "KAS" as an operator under a joint venture agreement through the same-controlled pseudo-borrowing operations, according to a 27.05 commission of judicial forensic expertise. In 2016, the total cost of the gas sold was also reduced to 364 million 611 thousand 793 bracelets. The same scheme was applied through the National National Deputy Oneschenka TOV Carpatnadrainvest. And according to the expert, the price of the gas extracted is deliberately underestimated by 82 million 310 thousand 610 dollars. Overall, the total cost of the natural gas sold to the specially chosen winner of the pseudo-market trade is deliberately underestimated by the joint venture operators under control of the criminal organization for the sum of one billion, 613 million, 224 thousand, 251 bracelets. Ladies and gentlemen, am I intruding? I'm not distracting anyone by declaring a stolen billion 600? [[B in m in s a l in]] Yeah, okay. The investigation is based on the view that members of a criminal organization, the amount of funds between January 2013 and January 2016, through a number of controlled fictitious holdings, was converted into cash, which resulted in the completion of the intent of members of a criminal organization to contribute to PAT's Crushing. In general, according to the National Anti-Corruption Bureau of Ukraine, the illegal actions of National Deputy Oneshtenka Aleksandra Romanović and the most recent criminal organizations, due to the legalization of the pre-developed criminal plan by the individuals in question, have resulted in the acquisition of PAT's money "Smashing" worth 1 billion, 613 million, 224 thousand, 251 bracelets, injuring the public interest in the amount indicated. In the report of the specialized anticorruption prosecutor, signed by Mr. Coldsky on 15 / 06. In 16 years, it was concluded that by its deliberate actions expressed in the creation of a criminal organization with the aim of committing particularly serious crimes, as well as in directing a criminal organization and participating in the crimes committed by such an organization, Oneshenko Alexander Romanovich committed the crime provided for in the first article of article 255 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine. By its deliberate actions expressed in the creation and acquisition of business subjects of legal persons, in order to cover up illegal activities that have caused great material harm to the State, Oneshtenko Alexander Romanovich committed the crime foreseen in article 28, part two, of the Ukrainian Criminal Code, in the form of a criminal organization. In addition to the deliberate actions expressed in the acquisition of foreign property in a particularly large way by the abuse of a ministerial servant by one’s position as a criminal organization, Oneshchenko Alexander Romanovich committed a crime prepaid in part four of article 28, part five, of article 191 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine. The guilt of National Deputy Oneschenka Aleksandra Romanović in creating and directing a criminal organization, as well as in the crimes committed by the said criminal organization, is confirmed by the following evidence. First. The fact of Onishtenka's involvement during the period of the criminal organization's activities, consisting of the founders of the NADRA Geocenter, TOV Company "HAS", TOV "Karpatnadrainvest", where the latter was the main beneficiary, which is confirmed by the records of the registered companies. The other one. By contract of sale, the withdrawal of a share in statutory capital T.O.S. Sanrise 2.15 from 04.09.2015, one of the parties to which the buyer, namely Ostexpert Limited (Republic of Cyprus), is in turn one of the founders of the controlled criminal organization T.O.A. “Nadra Geocentrum”, T.O.V. “KAS”, Carpathnadrainvest T.O., represented by Kadirova, who is the close person of the national deputy Onishtenka Aleksandra Romanović, his mother. Third. A non-date agreement whereby Oneshchenko Alexander Romanovich lends Zwania David Važajevich $6.5 million, which should be counted against the accounts of Ostexpert Limited (Republic of Cyprus), which confirms the control of the People's Deputy Oneschenka over the latter. Four. Trust in God’s Word, 1 / 1 In 2013, according to which the ZAT Fastilo Trading Ltd (Republic of Cyprus) authorizes Oneschenka Aleksandra Romanović to be a trusted person of the company, the latter in February 2016 acquired parts of Oneschenka, Postojna and other founders in the statutory capital of TOV "Nadra Geocentrum", TOV "HAS", TOV "Karpatnadrainvest". Fifth. A document, the instrument for the appointment of a nominal investor, composed in Limassol, Republic of Cyprus, in which Onishchenko is transferring to a nominal investor the Kingdom of shares of Fastilo Trading Ltd to a Greek national. Six. The property management agreement of 17.11.2014, according to which Onishchenko transferred to the trust of the company Ostexpert Limited (Republic of Cyprus), presented to him by his close mother Kadirova, due to him in the statutory capital of TV "Nadra Geocentrum", TOV "Kas Company", TOV "Karpatnadrainvest" and other legal persons. Seven. By contract of sale of particles in statutory capital TV "Nadra Geocentrum", TV "Karpatnadrainvest" dated 02.08.2016, according to which Onishenko transferred the corresponding shares to him in statutory capital of listed societies for the benefit of the company "Fastilo Trading", the actual beneficiary of which he is himself. Eight. The location of the Tov "Nadra Geocentrum", TOV "Krastnadrainvest Company", TOV "Gaztransproject" and their employees in the premises of the city of Kiev, Khrestátik Street, 27b, which is used by Onechnik as a deputy receptionist and which at the entrance to the offices of the listed associations is equipped with a sign-up, the reception of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Oneštenka Aleksandra Romanović. Nine. A search protocol at the address, the city of Kyiv, the street of Khrestátik, 27b, where it is established that the premises under the sign of the "Receipt of the People's Deputy of Ukraine Onishtenka" do not actually include the reception, but the offices under control of Onešček of the subjects of the management: TOV Nadra Geocentrum, TOV "Firma "HAS", TOV "Karpatnadrainvest", TOV "Gaztransproject". Ten. The fact is that the premises of the Majdan Plaza and the Capital Development TOV were co-founded during the period of the criminal organization by Oneštenko Alexander Romanović, and the director of which is the close person of the latter, his mother Kadirov. Eleven. Information from the DFS of Ukraine and the telecommunications provider, as well as documents removed from the banking institutions under the control of the One Alexander Romanovich, the owners of TV "Nadra Geocenter", TV "KAS", TV "Karpatnadroinvest", TOV "Gaztransproject", TV "Lenster Company", TOV "Naftogaztrade" provided electronic tax reporting and managed bank accounts with a single IR address, located at the premises of Kiev, Khrestátik Street, 27b. Twelve. The fact is that the Witness was involved in the leadership of the NADRA Geocenter, which was used in the activities of the criminal organization directly by Oneshchenk, who was confirmed by the testimony of the latter. Thirteen. By the testimony of the witnesses of Jaremyanz, Nazareth, and others who explained that all issues concerning natural gas were dealt with directly with by Oneshchenk Alexander Romanović. Fourteen. The materials of the indiscretional investigation, which have established that members of the criminal organization Post and Grecanjuk have all questions about the implementation of natural gas, namely the selection of counterparties, the determination of price and the conclusion of contracts, and so forth, agreed directly with Onechnik Alexander Romanović. The 15th. The fact that Oneshchenko is directly subordinated to one of the main members of the Greekyuk criminal organization, who directly refers to the latter as his leader, as confirmed by the materials of unspoken investigative investigations. In a report that he sent to the Supreme Council, there was also a lot of evidence that cited the fact that a national deputy named Oneshchenk had been created and managed by a specially created criminal organization that had stolen state property on a particularly large scale. On this basis, as the Attorney General of Ukraine, I brought the appropriate preparations to the Supreme Council of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-05-m0.u27	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-05-m0.u28	A special anti-corruption prosecutor's application, and I have to say. Today, from this high rostrum, I ask you, honourable national deputies, to consider and support three separate decisions. First. Accepting the criminal responsibility of the Ukrainian national deputy, Oneštenka Aleksandra Romanović. The information provided gives a reasonable indication of the existence of sufficient evidence to support a national MP of the criminal offence in question. The other one. As far as giving consent to the detention of the Ukrainian national deputy. A person’s detention is a temporary precaution that is applied on the basis and order of the Ukrainian CPC (part two of article 177), in particular with a view to ensuring that the person’s arrival is considered to be a precautionary measure. Third. Regarding the submission of an order for the arrest of a Ukrainian national deputy. Initiation of the issue of consent to apply to Oneštenek Alexander Romanović an exceptional precautionary measure, which is the taking of custody, due to the gravity of the crimes being investigated in the specified criminal conduct, the characteristics of the person and the risks involved. In particular, the possibility of hiding from the pretrial authorities and the courts, the possibility of destroying, concealing, or distorting documents that are essential to the establishment of crime situations, the possibility of illegal influence on witnesses and subordinate members of an organized criminal group, the possibility of obstructing criminal conduct, using their political connections in public authorities. At the same time, I would like to remind you that the European Court of Human Rights ruling of 3 December 2009 in the Cart v. Turkey case, in which the court indicated that the mechanism for the responsibility of parliamentarians because of the decision to remove or reject immunity is one way to exercise parliamentary autonomy. Such decisions are essentially political and do not apply to the knowledge of the courts, so they cannot be subject to the same requirements as the stated motivation as pretrial decisions. In short, not the Supreme Council condemns Deputy Oneshchenka, the Supreme Council only opens the way for the Ukrainian judiciary to make a just and legitimate decision on him. Ladies and gentlemen, I conclude, this is not the first, and I promise you, not the last submission to call for the responsibility of the Ukrainian National Deputy. I believe there are most honest people in this room who represent the Ukrainian people. Therefore, I ask that you vote three times in favour of attracting, arresting and arresting the Ukrainian National Deputy Oneshtenka. The only reason these votes will be three, and those who do not actually vote have only two reasons: either solidarity with the corrupt actions of Mr. Oneshchenk, or direct feeding from the hands of the gas mafia. I ask most of the national deputies to take a responsible decision and allow the Ukrainian Court to do its job. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-05-m0.u29	Thank you, Yuri Vitaliovich. Dear colleagues, according to the Rules, I should now give the floor to the National Deputy of Ukraine, Oneštenek Alexander Romanović. But in view of the fact that he is not in the session room, according to the law, if the person for whom the application is made refuses to provide explanations, the Supreme Council considers the issue without explanation, this is article 221, article 4. And that's why we're moving on to the next performance. And the word to announce the Committee's conclusion is given to the first deputy head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Rules and Organization of Work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Phinehas Pavel Vasilovich, as well as 15 minutes, and as much time as you take, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-05-m0.u30	Honourable Head, Honourable People's Deputies of Ukraine, Committee on Rules at its meeting on 29 June this year, with the participation of the Attorney General of Ukraine, Lucenka Jurija Vitaliyovich, Ukrainian National Deputy Oneštenka Aleksandra Romanović, reviewed the submission, supported by the Attorney-General of Ukraine to the Supreme Council on 16 June 2016 on the granting of consent to criminal responsibility, the arrest and arrest of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Onishtenka Alekstendra Romanović, as well as the explanations and statements made by the National Deputy Onishtchenka. The proposed submission is initiated by the Deputy Attorney General of Ukraine, the Head of the Special Anti-Corruption Prosecutor's Office of the Republic of the Republic of Ukraine, who requests the Supreme Council of Ukraine to consider the submission and to agree to the criminalization of the National Deputy Oneshtenka and to give consent to the detention and arrest of the People's Deputy Oneshchenka. The committee concluded that, contrary to the requirements of the law, three requirements were laid down in a single application. This situation is repeated by the Office of the Attorney-General of Ukraine during the current call, to which the Committee has repeatedly drawn attention in its previous conclusions and stressed that a separate submission should be made from each type of precautionary action. In addition, the absence of individual submissions has become one reason to declare illegal and to annul the Supreme Council of Ukraine's decision to grant consent to criminal liability, detention and arrest of the Ukrainian National Deputy of the Mosiyczuk by the Supreme Administrative Court Order of Ukraine of 17 November 2015 under the Mosiychuk's appeal to the Supreme Council of Ukraine for unlawful acts, unlawful recognition and annulment of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's ruling. The ruling of the Supreme Administrative Court states, inter alia, the beginning of the quote: "As for each type of precautionary action concerning the Ukrainian National Deputy, which may be proposed by the Attorney General of Ukraine, a separate submission should be made. These requirements of the Rules were not met, but the question of return to the Attorney General of Ukraine was not resolved." End of quote. The report also states that the trial found that, between January 2013 and January 2016, Oneschenko Alexander Romanovitch committed a number of criminal offences against public security, property and service activities. Regarding the motivation and sufficiency of submission, the committee noted that the application was motivated by the involvement of the national deputy, Alexander Doshchenk, in a socially dangerous activity defined by the Criminal Code of Ukraine by identifying information and making specific assumptions about its actions. It is said that, through abuse of office, Oneshchenko has created a criminal organization with the aim of committing a particularly serious crime, incurring a particularly large amount of foreign property, has drawn up a plan of criminal activity aimed at committing crimes and incurring funds derived from natural gas, has decided to create, acquire or otherwise engage in criminal activities of a number of legal entities required to commit a crime as winners of fictitious auctions for the sale of natural gas. I decided to further expand my criminal activity by taking control of individual businesses. Destroyer Alexander and others have contributed PAT's Crushing money of 1 billion, 613 million, 224 thousand, 251 bracelets of 69 copies, to the detriment of the public interest in the amount indicated. This is the case with the Fabula in relation to the National Deputy Oneshchenka. Next. In this regard, the Committee also pointed out that the information provided in the report does not directly relate to the subject matter, namely: citing the rules on the authorization and status of Ukrainian national deputies, providing information on the economic activities of certain legal persons, the authorization of individual officials, false auction certificates, the formation of contracts for the purchase and sale of natural gas, the appointment of Oneštenka Alexandra Romanović in 2009 to serve as the head of the management business, the appointment of other officials, particulates in statutory funds and the change in the ownership structure of individual economic entities; the information on the events prior to January 2013 which took place before the start of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Onishtnik, according to the Office of the Prosecutor, particularly serious crimes. In addition, the report also contains assessment opinions and assumptions as to the possible motives for the commission of the crime by Onechnik Alexander Romanović. In particular, it is noted that in view of the requirements for nonconformity of the parliamentary mandate with other activities, Oneshchenko Alexander, as a single member of the company, was forced to terminate his duties as director. It is further stated that in 22.04.2013, by contract of sale, Onishchenko sold a stake in the statutory capital of the company of 10 percent of the company with the name that was founded and registered there, but left control of the business activity behind. It is also stated that Onishchenko intended to create or acquire an enterprise, a commodity exchange, or to seek out representatives of the commodity markets, which, in the face of their official status through the conduct of fictitious auctions, had to ensure the visibility of a transparent mechanism for the formation of natural gas prices. It has also been noted that Oneshchenk, as the director of a criminal organization, has taken a decision that has led to the knowledge of members of a criminal organization of the involvement in the criminal activity of new operators in order to cover illegal activities, primarily aimed at the collection of funds derived from the implementation of natural gas acquired under contracts for the joint operation of the Pat "Screaking". With regard to the legality of the evidence obtained regarding the execution by the Ukrainian national deputy, Destroyer, in the socially dangerous activities defined by the Ukrainian Criminal Code, the committee noted that the structure of the submission was constructed in such a way that it was not possible to conclude on the appropriateness of, say, the objective aspect of the composition of crimes in the evidence base. Thus, information on the evidence base that relates to this list is presented in the conclusion. As far as Oneshchenk is concerned, the evidence is as follows. The deal that Oneshenko Alexander is lending to Zwania David is $6.5 million, which should be counted from the accounts of Ostexpert Limited (Republic of Cyprus), which confirms the control of The Last One. Next. The testimony of the witnesses of Jaremian, Nazareth, and others who explained that all questions about the acquisition of natural gas were dealt with directly with by Oneshchenk. Names of other witnesses are not mentioned. Next. The findings of the indiscretional investigation revealed that the members of the criminal organization agreed directly with Deputy Oneshchenk on the implementation of natural gas, namely the selection of counterparties, the determination of price, the conclusion of contracts, and so forth. And finally, the findings of the forensic expert on the market value of one thousand cubic meters of natural gas for industrial consumers at certain times. In part of the justification for applying precautionary measures to the National Deputy Oneshchenka, the Committee noted that the submission did not contain any justification for the need to detain the National Deputy of Ukraine, Oneshchenka, or to apply a precautionary measure to him in the form of keeping him in custody, except for quoting the provisions of separate articles of criminal law. It is noted, in particular, that the beginning of the quote is, "There is reason to believe that Oneshenko Alexander has committed particularly serious crimes. Part four of article 28, part five, article 121, part one, article 255, part two, chapter two, of the 205th Criminal Code, for which penalties are imposed in the form of deprivation of liberty for up to 20 years. Therefore, in accordance with the requirements of the 183rd CPC, a precautionary measure in the form of a security guard may be applied to it." The Committee therefore considers that the submission is insufficiently substantiated in relation to the evidence, and that the legality of the submission of a plea for criminal liability is that it complies with the requirements of the law, in particular Article 218 and the Rules of Article 482 of the Criminal Procedure Code of Ukraine. The Committee also considers that, for reasons of ensuring full objective investigation, as well as ensuring that the full scope of rights and protection is realized, in this case it is Oneshchenka Alexander, in the order established by Criminal Procedural Law, that the submission in part of the consent of the National Deputy of Ukraine to criminal responsibility may be considered and supported by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The Committee also considers that, in the absence of any particular application for the detention of the People’s Deputy Oneshenko and the granting of consent to the arrest of the National Deputy Oneshenko and the absence of any justification provided for the application of such precautionary measures to the People’s Deputies, these issues are not ready for consideration by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. At the same time, we point out that since the application was submitted to the committee for consideration, we were essentially obliged to do so, and our responsibility was to reach an appropriate professional conclusion. And in the event that this issue is put to a vote, we believe that the Supreme Council of Ukraine should be determined separately on three issues. First of all, it's consenting to attracting the criminal responsibility of the Ukrainian National Deputy Oneshchenka. Secondly, this is consenting to the detention of the People's Deputy Onishtenka. And thirdly, consenting to the arrest of Ukrainian national deputy Oneschenka Aleksandra Romanović. I'm done, thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-05-m0.u31	Thank you, Pavel Vasilovich. Honorary colleagues, in accordance with article 30 of the Rules, have a full discussion of the matter. So first there'll be statements from factions and groups, from each faction, from each group, and then from the national MPs -- 15 minutes. And only after that will we be able to go to the vote on all three decisions. Now we have a chapter: statements from factions and groups. And I'm asking a colleague to record a performance from factions and groups. Please record. "The People's Front," Kodola Alexander Mikhailovich passes the word to Tetjani Cnerovil.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-05-m0.u32	Alexander Kodolah. I want to pass the word to Auntie Blackwall.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-05-m0.u33	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-05-m0.u34	Can I go now? Yeah. Good afternoon! First. I want to express my great respect and gratitude to the National Anti-Corruption Bureau! [[Applause]] In fact, we are now faced with a very serious precedent -- the beginning, in fact, of working to break corruption schemes in the country. Because the diagrams of Oneshchenka, Kadirov, were extremely crude, extremely large. He corrupted huge numbers of officials and politicians for money that had not been counted into the state budget. And this first step of the National Anti-Corruption Bureau to break such a serious scheme shows that it is only, in fact, that Ukraine is now in the way of fighting serious political corruption. I don't just sponsor MPs, and I'll tell you right now here in the entire faction room. And so very much thanks, very much respect for this first step of the anti-corruption bureau, the National Anti-Corruption Bureau. Next, I want to give a little bit of evidence because, for example, this scheme that was given to you, I understand that it was prepared a little bit earlier. Oneshchenko-Kadirov has not paid 2 billion rents in the State Budget of Ukraine, 2 billion dollars just rent. And this is the beginning of the 15th year, not even after Maidan, since the beginning of the 15th year. So it's about huge amounts. And it is now very important that the deputies also show that not only the National Anti-Corruption Bureau is fighting corruption in Ukraine, but also the MP Corps. And we have to vote for all three submissions all as one. This will be a testimony not to our attitude towards a particular MP, it will be our testimony to the fight against corruption in Ukraine, or we support the fight against corruption, or we do not support the fight against corruption. Thank you very much for your attention. Once again, there is great respect for the National Anti-Corruption Bureau.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-05-m0.u35	Thank you. From the Samohelp faction Sidorovich Ruslan Mihajlovich. He conveys the word to Jehor Sobolev. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-05-m0.u36	The Self-Help faction will vote unanimously in favour of bringing criminal responsibility, arresting and arresting the People's Deputies of Onishtenka. The Self-Help faction is confident that this important precedent, the beginning of the investigation of top-corruption, is only the first string, for which the Anti-Corruption Bureau, with the support of real Ukrainian judges, has to figure out, and who has allowed such operations at the level of government leadership. Because the gas sector is always in the leadership of the state. Who allowed such transactions at the level of the tax service? Because the tax service could not help but see similar transactions. And who allowed such operations at the level of law enforcement? Because they were also familiar with similar operations. The Self-Help faction wishes detectives, prosecutors of the Anti-Corruption Bureau, the Anti-Corruption Procurator's Office of Success in the Further Work.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-05-m0.u37	Please welcome a representative of the Radical Party, leader of Laszko.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-05-m0.u38	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. For many years, Alexander Oneshchenko sat in this room. He used the MP's mandate to solve his corruption issues, to build corruption schemes, to abuse the MP's mandate, to buy the president's money he made, to buy the loyalty of the law enforcement agencies, to buy the votes of the electorate, our respected residents in the Kyiv region, who elected him as a deputy, and then he didn't go to them. We listened carefully to the submission of the Attorney General, who claims that Onishenko was involved in his criminal activity, the facts that were recorded from 2013 to 2015. And I have a question, what was the power in 2013, 2014, 2015? Wasn't the power of today? Because today’s authorities have allowed Oneshchenk to engage in corruption schemes. I'll tell you honestly, let's remember how the minister of ecology was dragged here for the protection of Oneshchenk, because he went to the President's Office and agreed. I'll tell you more, every time I came as the leader of the faction to the President, I met Oneshchenka there. My question is, what was corruption doing in the president's office? Except for someone's secret that the gas business is the business of President Poshenko, his business partner Connonka, Onishtenka, because Onishenko has been taking money to Bankow for all these years. And the task of the Anti-Corruption Bureau and the Anti-Corruption Prosecutor of Oneshchenk is to pull the strings further because the corruption of Oneshchenka allowed him to take power because he paid the authorities for the roof because he, for example, corrupted, tried to corrupt the president of the Radical Party by corrupting them. When. One more fact. In January 2015, I blocked, went to Prime Minister Yaczenuk, and blocked the appointment of the head of Dergeonadr's assistant Oneshchenk. You know who, the first one called me, invited me to a meeting and asked me not to block the appointment of Assistant Oneshchenk as head of the Derjgeondra. This was the president of Ukraine, Peter Poshenko. Five times he met me on this subject, convinced me that Oneshenko was a normal guy, and that we would solve all the questions there. It was, by the way, during the Debalt boiler. So I told Petra Alexiyovich that in matters of national security and defense, we are your allies, and we are not your allies in matters of Onishtek and corruption. More than that, I'm convinced that Destroyer has been given the opportunity to escape. And today there's a show about giving consent to be held accountable when he's sitting in Moscow or in Monaco and hanging out with the girls. Therefore, the Radical Party faction will vote in favour of the Attorney General.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-05-m0.u39	Please welcome the leader of the "will of the people" group, Mr. Moskalenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-05-m0.u40	Dear Ukrainian people! Dear colleagues! I went to this important rostrum not to justify or accuse Oneshchenka, and that is all the more not to acquit you. Each one of you will vote according to his own conscience, according to the will of his heart. And I hope that there will be more to this process. The MP's "will of the people" group has doubts about some of the issues before this submission. One of them is that the mother of Oneshchenka in the 41st year could run this corruption group. The other one. That's what a group was created to break up government funds. And it's the last two years -- 14th to 16th. Tell me, how can a businessman create a group and steal two years without government officials? But we do not see in the arrests of any statesman today. And this figure that today is owed by an asset, which is not yet confirmed by expertise, by Oneshchenka, is not a single contract number, but 24 months. The entire vertical system of officials signed it, testifying to gas production, gas implementation, and then testifying to reports by Oneshchenko. For two years it was not a criminal crime, but today it has. Therefore, our group has doubts about the fact that there are no public officials involved in all of this, and we will not support the arrest of Oneshchenk.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-05-m0.u41	The People's Deputies of Lavrik are invited to the floor by the Peter Dustenka Block. National Deputy Lechchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-05-m0.u42	Good afternoon, colleagues. What happened was what we warned about two weeks ago: Destroyed from Ukraine. It was rather predictable, because everyone understands the scheme that was developed by him, which was exposed to the National Anti-Corruption Bureau, and then supported by the specialized prosecutor and Attorney General Lucenk. This scheme is fully described in these documents. 85 pages, the whole scheme, about how government property was actually stolen from Ukrainian citizens, who did not reach taxpayers as a pensioner as a scholarship as a health care provider. This was happening in the eyes of the entire country and a great deal of thanks to our specialized anticorruption body for having gone against the untouchable people first. People with stable ties to the Ukrainian authorities ’ elite. Because just remember how Oneshchenko became a deputy. All of the biggest parties have brought him this district, and he's been able to get his touch with the high-level conspiracies. At the same time, thanks to the Attorney General for going and resisting the pressure. At the same time, there is a big question for the regulatory committee, which, secondly in the last year, demonstrates a rather strange approach to the most obese corruptionists of Ukrainian politics. At first, after Clovis, they fortified the application for a month, finally trying to get him back to the Attorney General’s Office. And only after the scandal did he manage to get it out, but he had already escaped from Ukraine. Now the second situation is already with Oneshchenk, when the Regulatory Committee insists that the issue of his arrest should not actually be put to the vote, they say it is not ready to be considered. How can such a question be asked and whether the regulatory committee has the right to assume the function of the court and evaluate the evidence? This is actually the case of a completely different body -- the law enforcement system and the judicial system. With regard to the situation that has arisen, it is the result that once again, in elections, everyone promises to undo the parliamentary integrity, and when it comes to work in parliament, everyone forgets that promise. For almost two years, our Parliament has been confusing the issue of abolishing the institution of parliamentary immunity, precisely why businessmen are chosen here. Just what made the Supreme Council "the biggest business club in Europe," is what made the competition for a parliamentary mandate not by competing values, ideals, or programs, but by competing with the wallets, when the majority districts are being bought clean so that they can then sit here and do their job of robbing the state budget with impunity. That's why our parliament has to put a stop to this and Oneshenko has to be the first example of a new, newly created Anti-Corruption Authority persecuting a high-level corrupter. And those who do not vote in favour of his arrest are actually in solidarity with a person who hides from justice. This is a test for the entire Supreme Council. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-05-m0.u43	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we haven't signed up for Rebirth and Fatherland yet. Are there speakers? Yes, yes. Please, Sergey Sobolev.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-05-m0.u44	Dear colleagues, respected citizens of Ukraine, distinguished representatives of the law enforcement system! You know, I've got two apps in front of me. The first appetizer for Clovis, who was frozen here in the hall, is not in the hall, but on the committee for two weeks, and in the meantime, Clovis wins the case in the Supreme Administrative Court for 200 million dollars, which was given to his brother. After that, the application returns to the Attorney General and appears in the hall at a time when the Clovis is not in the country. Doesn't that remind you of anything? It's a very similar scenario. In order to remove all questions and calm everyone down, our faction has decided to vote in favour of the Attorney General's Office, but as the committee has suggested. There will be no more when, once again, there will be no one vote, when three questions are put to the vote by one vote, that vote will take place, and then it will be removed by the Supreme Administration. That's why three of each submission, we're going to vote for each submission. So calm down, Mr. Leschchenko, I'm addressing you personally because you've been so concerned about the "Fatherland" faction that you've forgotten that the regulatory committee is made up of most of the representatives of your faction and faction of the People's Front, and the head of this committee, who is more precise in his duties, represents the People's Front, so don't feel that way. But there is a second question that everyone needs to worry about. Please tell me, all three submissions in one, knowing that there is a decision of the Constitutional Court, what is the decision corresponding to the Supreme Administrative Court regarding the People's Deputy of Misiychuk? Why did this happen? In order to be able to appeal against this decision again? That's why our faction thinks it's just the beginning. Because the second question that's going to arise, and who are the co-founders of all the companies that are going through this case? You don't want to name, Mr. Leschenko, all the co-founders of these companies. And why is one Onishenko attracted? Call the members of your faction, who are the co-founders of these companies, and we'll continue to see how this goes, and how these people will be drawn to responsibility. Why is Zhuaniah the one who gave a demonstration against Martinek? Why aren't all the others named? That's why it's a litmus paper. Is it going to reach the higher echelons of power, and that's going to be the name of all the companies that are named in this data that aren't named. Because there were dozens of other companies near Crushing.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-05-m0.u45	Please finish. One minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-05-m0.u46	who are doing exactly that kind of activity, except we don't see the submission here. Moreover, there is no need for a whole range of individuals, because these persons are not Ukrainian national deputies, they are simply being summoned for questioning, criminal conduct, a single register, and this dirty clockwork is being handled. That's why, in closing, I say again: we're grateful that we've divided all three questions so that it doesn't get canceled in the courts. And the decision of our faction is to vote for all three submissions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-05-m0.u47	Thank you. Dear colleagues, called last name. Replica, one minute. And we're moving on to the national MPs. Let's get out of here.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-05-m0.u48	A colleague mentioned my last name. I want to say that everyone has to be responsible for their vote and for their political activities, and we need to start not now, but from the beginning of Ukrainian corruption and who created the offshores from the Ukrainian MPs, and Lazarenko hid $100 million in offshore accounts. And these people hid under the MP's mandate forever, even though the FBI and the U.S. Attorney's Office have brought everything up. And then tell us how we fight for human happiness?Oh, my God! This should start with who started corruption in Ukraine. As far as Oneshchenka is concerned, not I, but the leader of your faction, said, demeaning the entire country of NABA, that it was a fake, that some kind of schmabu, and so on. The leader of your faction tried to discredit the body we created to fight high-level corruption, for the first time in many years with the help of our American and European partners. The leader of your faction is trying to cast a shadow on the investigation that was done by a relatively high-ranking corruptionist. This is a hundred pages, and it is the leader of your faction who brings the minister to the government.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-05-m0.u49	Ladies and gentlemen, time for a chat is over. There will be speeches by the National Deputies. A name was mentioned. Please use the above name. One minute, Pinzenik, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-05-m0.u50	Dear colleagues, I would like to support our colleague Sergey Lechchenka's previous speech in that part that everyone should be responsible for themselves. Sergei Lechchenko did not say everything he could say. In one of the Ukrainian television channels, he said that the Rules Committee allegedly paid Oneshenko money for the decision. I publicly appeal to the National Anti-Corruption Bureau, to the Anti-Corruption Prosecutor's Office to immediately violate criminal conduct based on the statement made by the People's Deputy Lechchenka. And fast, not the way it always is. [[Applause]] To make one of two possible decisions: either send the entire Regulatory Committee in charge with me, because it will be confirmed, or report to the whole country that Mr. Leschenko is a balabon, which is a well-known fact. [[B in m in s a l in]] Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-05-m0.u51	Dear colleagues, the time to speak from factions and groups is running out. It's now 15 minutes for speeches by national deputies. Anyone who needs to sign up, please prepare for the recording. And I want to make one important point. We have answers and questions in the procedure, because whoever has a question to Henprosecutor, please ask them in their statement. And I'm going to give the closing statement, and in the closing word, Yuri Vitaliovich will give the answer. So that the question-answer procedure is present so that we don't break any of our procedures. Ladies and gentlemen, please sign up for the speeches by the National Deputies. Please record. Borislav Bereza. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-05-m0.u52	Ladies and gentlemen! I don't have a question of voting for or against, and I have another question: why have we been doing this for so long? Why does anyone speculate every time? I don't understand what the Attorney General's Office and the specialized anti-corruption prosecutor's office and the NABU are coming to us with an application, and we're telling you it takes time and time. You know, every time we wait, every time we wait, society can't wait for us to make any decision. This requires two things: political will and change of the Rules. If we don't do it ourselves, we'll be led to it by the average Ukrainians. And we have to vote, we have to, because society expects it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-05-m0.u53	Thank you. From "self-help," George passes the word for the speech by Oleni Sotnik. And please ask me a question right away, Mrs. Helena. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-05-m0.u54	Thank you very much. My statement will consist of two parts: a question to the Attorney General and a direct position on the application. Starting in position. I am now addressing the National Anti-Corruption Bureau and the Attorney General's Office, especially the Anti-Corruption Prosecutor's Office. Colleagues, this submission is really a very important symbol for this Supreme Council, because for the first time, we're looking at the issue of really increasing business and power. I'm asking you a lot of questions, except that we have a question about Oneshchenk, we don't have any mention of, for example, the officials of Crushing as a state-owned enterprise. We understand very well that the state-owned enterprise that today makes 80 percent of its gas production is happening in this particular enterprise. It understood very well what the market value of gas is, how it trades in the market, which may be abuse and patterns of these abuses. Therefore, without the officials of this enterprise, there is no possibility of the crime being committed; there is no mention in the statement of any mention as accomplices; nor is there any mention of the founders of the enterprise. And I would also like to draw your attention to the fact that, unfortunately, there are many assumptions. I'm asking you very much, when you go with suspicion to court, you have to specifically prove at what point, for example, Oneshchenko has decided to develop a criminal plan, how he designed this criminal plan, and stop calling him a leader of a criminal organization, if he is, he can only be an organizer of a criminal organization. I ask you very much, check every single word, every dot, so it is very important and can question such an important, once again, key to today, including for the future authority of the National Anti-Corruption Bureau, the activity. And I have a question about, uh, the Attorney General directly with regard to filing. Please tell us, what was the distribution of the role of accomplices to the crime, at least of the people mentioned in this account? And secondly, I am very much asking in the arrest report, the facts, the need to apply the arrest permit, in fact, there are no facts to prove that there is a need. The only evidence now is very strong evidence that Mr. Oneshenko is missing in this room. And you have to talk about it, yell and insist on it, including in court. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-05-m0.u55	Thank you. Yuri Vitaliyovich will be able to answer your question in closing. And now Nemira Grigory Mikhailovich gives the floor to John Krulk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-05-m0.u56	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. Ladies and gentlemen of the people, most importantly, the honourable Ukrainians! As a national deputy, I became very familiar with this application that came to us from the Attorney General's Office. I have the first question: Has it not been possible to avoid criminal responsibility when those who have fled from Ukraine have been able to escape criminal responsibility? Why, after the Clovis case, why did they not submit according to the Rules and again the same rakes? This time. The second question. I read carefully, and it turns out that Mr. Oneshchenk is being questioned by the Attorney General's Office on contracts that were made not once under criminal procedure, but after the Dignity Revolution. And if this national MP organized a criminal group, where are the criminal cases of those who on the other hand signed contracts with him, who is hiding this gas business right now? Where is this submission? Please tell me, if the State Fiscal Service, and this is also included in the data, gave Onishtenka's company a schedule to pay off the debts and taxes he was supposed to pay, why is there no question about the State Fiscal Service that did this and signed with him? So I think it's a submission. That it's a submission, it doesn't really mean that Oneshenko will be held criminally responsible, he's already escaped. It would have been better for him to be in court and give a witness, including against whom he signed contracts with, with whom he agreed to leave, which he was getting suspended payments -- that's what he should be talking about. And so, Your Honor, we will protect you if you do your job and don't pull out, and don't do selective justice, as it was. But I want to say one thing and the key one, "Paternity" will vote for all three submissions. Draw on the responsibility of corrupters, fight corruption, but on the other hand. Fight corruption so that you can have confidence in Ukrainian society. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-05-m0.u57	Henday Grigorovich is invited to the floor. He's giving the word "Andrey Teteruku." Please, Mr. Andrew.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-05-m0.u58	Dear Mr. Head, honourable national deputies, distinguished Ukrainian people, today in Parliament is a really important day, because we must decide to bring the responsibility of the national MP, who was a very skilled disciple of Yanukovich and, just as Janukovic, robbed the country. And he very, very clearly understood that without a political roof, without a political crackdown on his corruption schemes, he would not be able to do anything. And it's very important to understand that on this very important day we need to understand how every national MP will live on: or to cover up the corruption that has been accumulated here for years, in Parliament and in gas schemes, or we'll be honest to look into the eyes of our electorate and say that we have done everything we can to bring to justice the person who's been stealing the billions of dollars that we've been searching for here every day to provide our army, our National Police, that's ensuring order in our streets. It was through Mr. Oneshchenka’s corrupt schemes that taxes were not paid, that almost three billion dollars were overshadowed. Let's imagine that this 75 billion dollars would now go to strengthen the security of our country, which is suffering from the aggressor country, where this Mr. Oneshchenko is now hiding. Let us not forget who was cruising this Mr. Oneshchenk, who was selling him to his ministers of office. Let me remind you by the fact that I have, for example, the signature of the head of the Fatherland faction of Julius Volodymyrna Timoshenko that Mr. Shevchenko I.A. is a highly educated and professional specialist who has taken up office and has begun to draw billions of dollars out of the budget, helping Mr. Oneshchenk to hide these funds in offshore. It was at the signature of Julius Volodymyrna that this political corruption took place. I want to say that it was during the Prime Minister's time that this minister was expelled. And every little child knows that Ukraine has not only the Great Cobzar Shevchenk, but not only the great poet, not only the football player Shevchenka, but also Shevchenka, who has been paid a lot of money to become minister. It is here that political corruption must be stopped. It is our voices that must stop the political corruption in this session room. I want to thank NABA, our anti-corruption prosecutor, the Attorney General and every national MP who supports the call for responsibility and stops political corruption in our session room. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-05-m0.u59	The fisherman Sergey Viktorovich passes the word to Andrew Lozov. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-05-m0.u60	Andrew Lozova, Radical Party of Lazka. I ran away from my grandmother and ran away from Henprocuror. At this point, the Clave could have been the authority that let him escape. Oneshchenko (Kadirov) could have been on the spot. You should hear that Onishenko is now abroad telling us, "What's going on when I'm being framed, and the next time I'm being dumped, they promised trial and court, and they decided to do everything in no bounds." I want to ask you a question, who promised Onishten a trial and a trial? Who allowed the last two and a half years after the Onishtenka Dignity Revolution, Kadirov, who, in particular, in the Kyiv region carried a aunt who was one of the criminals of the Yanukovic regime? For the last two and a half years, who allowed Oneshchenka to continue robbing the country? There's at least one MP from BP who denied that Onishenko liked to brag about what Dusty called him. It's him. Dusty calls Oneshenko more often than Oneshenko calls Dusty. Is there one person in the room who would deny that Oneshchenko did not leave President Dustenk's reception? We, my dear fellows, have distributed excellent infographics, we must give up the proper NAB, which proves the criminal activity of citizen Oneshchenka. But notice, no more than 1.3 billion dollars are paid. This is at a time when, by raising tariffs, the last one is taken from the poorest, more than 1.3 billion dollars of rent for the use of nadrama are not paid for by the U.S. F.F.A. decision. I have a question: who's in charge of the DFS? Isn't that ex-deputy from BPP Nasirov? Isn't your authority covering the crime of the DFS? Next. There's an episode on Oneshchenk of Valérie Post and Veestima Trading, Fastilo Trading, Ostexpert Limited. Why is there no company called Oneshchenka, Post Nadra-Spetzland Resources, who was trying to get rid of it in the Plain region of 36 or 37,000 hectares of land, think about it, in amber areas? Why do we have a selective fight against the amber mafia? Maximov was released, prosecutor Borovic was arrested, that's right, no doubt. Why are the rest of the criminals in the DA's office, the M.E.S.'s structure, in the amber mob, in the local administrations, why aren't they arrested? Why is there no Nadra-Spetzland Resources in the data on Oneshchenk and Post Office? Next. I'd like to inform the honourable colleagues. Right now, in the Solomonese Paradise of Kiev, in the open air, a disgraceful court is being held over our fellow national deputy, Igor Mosiyczuk, who is in the hospital at the Shalimov Institute, and in his absence, such a hindrance is taking place? So that the Attorney General can do it as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-05-m0.u61	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-05-m0.u62	You all remember that on September 17, last year, after the fiercest inference that even in the Supreme Council of the U.S.S.R.R., where the last person arrested in the hall was the Cloud, even gave him the word for protection, and that is what Stepan Ilkovich himself said. And when Moses was arrested, neither he nor the faction leaders gave their word. The Regulatory Committee has not considered anything. Shockin showed a film that the Attorney General’s Office in the courts had failed to prove, and he voted in emotion. In this room.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-05-m0.u63	Thank you. Time's up. And we still have a performance: Bodnar Mikhailo Leontijovich gives the floor to the speech of the German Leonid. Please, Mr. Leonid.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-05-m0.u64	Leonid Jemetz. Good afternoon! The People's Front faction, the city of Kiev. First of all, I want to welcome the Ukrainian Parliament, and welcome the fact that our Law on the National Anti-Corruption Bureau today is the result of a visual outcome. I would like to congratulate Parliament on the fact that our search for the Attorney General, who will finally handle the case, has also led to the result that we see today in the Ukrainian Parliament. We're working for our country to fight corruption, and today the Oneshchenka case is the result of our work with you. I want to remind you that it was Tetjana Chernobyl that initiated the question of the crimes of the corruptionist Oneshchenk a year ago. It was Tetjana Cneroval who then demonstrated and submitted statements to the law enforcement authorities regarding Onishtenka’s crimes. And today, the People's Front is happy to state that yesterday's faction decision has made a unanimous decision that we will support all three positions: both the removal of the touch from Onishtenka and the granting of permission to arrest him if so decided by the court. And I have a personal request to the law enforcement authorities. If you remember, there was a situation when the Minister of Ecology, Shevchenko, used the charter of Mr. Oneshchenk, which I duly applied for, as did my colleagues, like Mr. Lazko. And Mr. Shevchenko is judging us today, saying he's so white bushy and he can't see anything illegal about this flight with charter. We now have new circumstances, yet we seem to be proving that there are corrupt criminal schemes behind the Onechishnik and perhaps it is worth looking again at that Minister Shevchenko has used Mr. Oneshchenko's private charter. And lastly, I want to address all the parliamentarians. What we are going through today is a failed parliamentary exam to remove parliamentary immunity. All the political factions of the democratic bloc, when they went to the elections, promised to remove the inviolability in their programs. In our coalition agreement, which is currently in effect, it is written that there should be no parliamentary immunity, because every MP is equal before the Ukrainian law, as is the President, as is any other person, teacher or anyone else. And if this MP committed a crime, he should be responsible for all the severity of the Ukrainian Criminal Code. Glory to Ukraine! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-05-m0.u65	Dear colleagues, indeed, the closing word of Žolobecki Alexander is passed on to Pottery Alexander, Alexia Honcharenko. And then you'll have to turn on the potter's microphone. Hot plate, please. The microphone's on, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-05-m0.u66	Dear colleagues, I am addressing all of you, but above all, the citizens of Ukraine who are looking at us right now. There can be no excuse not to vote now for removing the MP's immunity from Destroyer for consenting to his detention and his arrest, none. All these conversations that they didn't write, the wrong article pointed out, the wrong committee went through, Tuesday, and not Wednesday, and other serious, over-serious reasons, it's all nonsense, it's all the same, covering up a plot with Oneshchenko and covering up that we continue to divide Ukrainian citizens into masters and hovels, gentlemen, nothing can be done. Today we have to vote not even on Oneshchenka, and as we have voted on Moses, Clovis, and others. We have once and for all to eliminate parliamentary immunity as such. The president of Ukraine passed an appropriate bill. On the first reading, you and I have already voted 226. When are we going to vote 300, and we're going to get rid of this rudimentary, this disgrace? Every time. Today we were to work for Ukraine in the south. What do we do in the south first? We're talking about the One who can or can't. Don't think about it! You can't just do that, but you have to. But we need to take this off the record, so that it doesn't happen in our parliament and in our society, so that our law enforcement agencies can hold anyone who has a question, because they all have to answer the same question, whether they have a parliamentary mandate or a different step or not. And the last. I would like to ask all Ukrainians to look at the results of this vote. As a result of this vote, we will see who else has been fed from these deposits, gas and others, except horses and models, who are the deputies who have also received their piece of happiness, and who will now either come out of the hall or not come or tell us that there are legal nuances. Each name of a person who does not vote in favour of withdrawing his inviolability — once, for consenting to arrest — two, and for consenting to arrest three, each person is associated with the looting of the Ukrainian people. So I ask you all to look at and see every last name and every faction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-05-m0.u67	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I would like to warn you immediately that in five or seven minutes all three votes will take place. I ask the Secretary of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to inform the deputies not to let anyone know that they didn't know there was going to be a vote. Heads of factions, I ask to invite my deputies into the hall. And now we'll have it. Sir, Yuri Vitaliyovich, one minute. The Rebirth factions didn't get the word. In order not to violate the Yott procedure, from Rebirth -- a faction that did not act -- the word is given to Nichiporenko. From the rostrum, one minute, please. And then the closing remarks. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-05-m0.u68	Good afternoon, dear fellows! You know, this is where the national MPs came out, and very conveniently, they showed that the DFS had granted permission to the Onishtenka companies. I want to ask you. Is corruption more dependent on government structures or business structures? Of course, it's from the authorities. So I have a question for the Anti-Corruption Bureau. Please tell me, why didn't you at least make an offer to remove the leaders of the DFS during the trial period? I have a question. With whom do we fight: with Oneshchenko (maybe he deserves it) or with corruption? I believe that the Anti-Corruption Bureau has to fight corruption, which is, first of all, the civil servants on whom this corruption depends. So, Your Honor, I'm not talking about Onishtenka right now, I'm talking about Parliament's work. I would like Parliament not to make a tool for the fight against political forces.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-05-m0.u69	Please, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-05-m0.u70	on factions, etc. etc. And the second. They were just talking about being untouchable. You know, in the district, I ask people when they ask me about parliamentary immunity. I say, "Please tell me, is the district attorney's son touched or not? What about the governor's son? And the taxpayer?" Therefore, the question is not only about the MP's in touch, but about corruption. So, Your Honor, please show us how you're going to fight those who gave Onishtenka companies a deadline. Then we'll see that this is corruption. And please, be careful not to make us a tool for political pressure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-05-m0.u71	Thank you. The discussion is over. And the closing statement is addressed to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Yuri Vitaliovich Lucenko. And I'm going to ask you in the report to answer the question that came out of Helen the Sotnik.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-05-m0.u72	Ladies and gentlemen, with your permission, I will briefly answer the questions that have been answered in this room. First. About the pattern of organized crime. I want to remind you that the scheme that you all have in your hands shows that this scheme has been in place since 2013, for the Radical Party once again, since 2013. If you remember, Oleg Valeriovich, the revolution, maybe you didn't notice the ban in Konchi, started in 2014. So the scheme worked a long time ago. The other one. The scheme was simple. Onishenko, a national MP, who was a deputy and had previously called for it without a legal right, was engaged in business far before the revolution. For the Radical Party, long before 2014. He organized a stable group that took control of the company T.O.K. "Carpatnadroinvest", T.O. "Nadra Geocentrum", TOV "HAS", the final beneficiary of these companies was and remains National Deputy Oneshenko. These companies, with a treaty with the controlled state-owned company Crushing, received gas and sold it to the elected national deputy Oneshchenk to enterprises in the real economy at prices that, for example, are now 6,000,900 dollars per thousand cubic meters. They sold it by means of so - called market trades, although there are indications that no real trades have taken place. In a room that was not equipped at all, only fictitious documents were produced, and documents of fictitious stock exchanges were produced at a low price. The difference between the price of 2 thousand 640 and 6 thousand 900 was the profit of the criminal group of Deputy Oneshchenka. Then the money was spent on fictitious businesses, whose managers were once again picked up by the same criminal group, one of them shows that he earned $40 a month, if not counting his clothes. Now, by the way, there are 21 searches in these fictitious businesses. So in the data, I would like to stress, this is also about undetermined persons so far being investigated, and I've told you this, including the leadership of the Crushing Pat. Hence, all will be given an evaluation, including the actions of officials. One more thing is very important. This case is just the first case against the gas mafia. U.S. Attorney General's Office, Department of Economics.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-05-m0.u73	Please let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-05-m0.u74	. The Department of Economic Crimes literally goes to another similar matter in the near future, where you will see other names. And it will eventually come out to those who in Crushing allowed these criminal schemes to exist. Last one. Today, in general, it has been claimed that Oneshchenka has been given the opportunity to flee. It is true that it was given by the Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, which provides for such a procedure to bring MPs to criminal responsibility. Not to run away in the five days that he has to cook, the regulatory committee, in the 20 days that this regulatory committee is due to go through, and a few days before his decision, the committee, is brought to Parliament, can only be a bold and honest person. Unfortunately, Mr. Oneshchenko is not, for two numbers this month he left Ukraine by plane as a national deputy, whose law enforcement authorities have no legal capacity. The Rules and the Law on the Status of People's Deputies prohibit it. And that's very well known by those who are "cuffing" in the hall about what someone gave him to escape. Change the Rules, gentlemen, vote in favour of abolishing the MP's intrusiveness rather than engage in naked populism! In general, the procedure for removing inviolability has been laid down today in the interests of the national MPs, not the society of justice and law. That's true. Personally, I have no conflict with Alexander Oneschenko. As Attorney General, I am now acting in the interests of the people and the law. And I invite you to act in this very interest today. The question was, Who guaranteed Onishtenka an open court of honor? I guarantee you, I guarantee you, as Henprocuror, an open and honest trial, and the constitutional guarantor, President of Ukraine, Peter Poroshenko, guarantees him an open and fair trial. And there's nothing here to try to lubricate the powder into your insinuations. Because Dustenko is now the Commander-in-Chief at the frontline and has given you, the honourable national deputies, the opening of the second front: the creation of the NAB, the creation of the Specialised Anti-Corruption Prosecutor's Office, the election of the Henprocuror, and now we're on the second front -- against corruption and crime, including high-level, including the MP's. So today this front is supposed to support 226 votes three times in this room. One more thing, someone in this room, I hear, is looking for a reason not to vote in favour of bringing criminal responsibility, arrest and arrest on the grounds that the letter of the Rules is broken, saying there should be three filings. If that is the case, it would be better for these national MPs to just keep quiet and not vote, not just to show that you, I was among you, who broke the Rules ten times a day, just today mentioned this strategic document. It reminds me of a nun who went to work in a brothel, but she wants to be treated like Natasha Rostova. The question is simple: You support an anticorruption prosecutor whom you have chosen publicly, and you trust his information. As the Attorney General of Ukraine, I trust this information.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-05-m0.u75	Please, 30 seconds, finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-05-m0.u76	and show us what's in it. The Committee's rules of procedure are trusted, the Chief of the Supreme Council trusts. Please, the honourable majority of the Supreme Council, show this trust today by three votes in favour. I trust the professional detectives of the National Anti-Corruption Bureau and the Henprocurator rather than the writing lawyers who are here today crying about political repression. Stop it! The time of reckoning is coming, and this time has come to the Supreme Council. Vote in the name of law, justice and the people, for you are the national deputies! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-05-m0.u77	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I will resume our meeting for 15 minutes at 12 o'clock. There'll be a vote in a minute. I'm asking everyone to come into the hall. Now the word for reply, he was mentioned, Oleg Lazko. And I'm asking all the national deputies to come into the hall. And prepare for the vote. Please come into the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-05-m0.u78	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. First. I am concerned about the lack of response by the Head of Parliament when the Attorney-General publicly urges himself from the highest parliamentary rostrum to ignore the requirements of the Supreme Council Rules Act. What this Henprosecutor can do when he publicly urges him to break the law. The other one. I remember this person who now holds the post of Henprocuror many years ago standing right here in this parliamentary rostrum, spitting and telling me that Kolesniks had committed crimes. Where is Kolesnikov's verdict? And why isn't he still sitting? Third. I remember you, the reverend Yuri Vitaliyovich, lying on the floor at the drunken top of your face in Frankfurt airport.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-05-m0.u79	I'm asking you to stop the show. [[B in m in s a l in]] Oleg Valeriyovich! Oleg Valeriyovich!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-05-m0.u80	[[Unheard]]
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-05-m0.u81	Speak correctly. I'll give you 20 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-05-m0.u82	Your Honor, Mr. Attorney General, that's why you missed the Dignity Revolution starting in November of the 13th year, not the 14th year you're talking about.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-05-m0.u83	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I ask you very much that before an important vote, which is in principle for all of us, we stop and calm down. And I want to inform everyone that all the necessary procedures provided for in the Rules have been fully implemented in accordance with the law. It was. There's a review of the regulatory committee, there's been an opportunity to explain, and without breaking the law, we can go to the vote in all three positions. And I emphasize, we're going to vote in three places. First. It's an attraction to responsibility. The other one. Acceptance of detention. And the third. Agreeing to arrest a national MP. Dear colleagues, I'm sure the whole of Ukraine is looking at us right now. The citizens who chose us look at us. The whole Ukrainian society is looking at us. And I ask now to prepare for the vote and vote to demonstrate the Parliament's ability to respond to all the corruption challenges that we have always done. Thus, according to article 80 of the Constitution of Ukraine, part of article 221 of the Ukrainian Act on the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the issue of consenting to the criminal responsibility of the Ukrainian national deputy Oneshtenka Aleksandra Romanović is put to the vote. Please vote. [[12:05:46]] For 275 275 – yes. Decision taken. In accordance with article 80 of the Constitution of Ukraine, part seven of article 221 of the Ukrainian Act "On the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine" raises the question of consent to the detention of the Ukrainian national deputy, Oneštenka Aleksandra Romanović. Please vote. [[12:06:28]] For 265 Decision taken. In accordance with article 80 of the Constitution of Ukraine, part seven of article 221 of the Ukrainian Act "On the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine" raises the issue of consent to the arrest of the Ukrainian national deputy, Oneštenka Aleksandra Romanović. Please vote. [[12:07:06]] For 263 Decision taken. I welcome the Ukrainian National Deputies, and I welcome the Ukrainian Parliament, which has demonstrated today the ability to fight and overcome corruption. Congratulations to Henprocuror. Mr. Coldy, Mr. Sitnick, hello. We want success and new victories. And we're always waiting for your submission. According to the Rules, I announce a break of 30 minutes, up to 12 hours and 40 minutes. At 12:40 p.m., we continue our work. Thank you, colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-05-m0.u84	Dear colleagues, I ask you to come into the hall, because this is going to be an extremely important question about the release of judges, and it is equally responsible. I ask the secretariat of the Supreme Council to inform the deputies that the matter is now under consideration, and please come into the Chamber. Dear colleagues, once again, we now have rulings on the dismissal of judges and on those issues it is essential that we have our common position. So I'm very much asking the factions to mobilize MPs into the hall. Now we're moving on to the question, we just have four decisions. The first of these is 4308 on the release of Staczek Peter Bogdanovich, the second decree, 4882, on the release of Pasenyuk Alexander Mikhailovich. These are the first two decisions that we have to begin the discussion with. Dear colleagues. We'll be talking about two for, two for against, we'll talk about it. And it doesn't need a special vote, it's defined. So, your honorary colleagues, you're being brought to your attention by the draft Decree (registration number 4308) on the release of St. Peter Bogdanovich from office as judge of the Constitutional Court. According to paragraph 26 of the first article, article 126 of the Constitution of Ukraine, article 23 of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine Act, the Supreme Council of Ukraine liberates judges of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine appointed by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. According to part four of article 148 of the Constitution of Ukraine, article 9 of the Ukrainian Constitutional Court Act stipulates that a judge of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine is appointed for a term of nine years. Stik Petrover Bogdanovich, appointed by the Supreme Council, took office as judge of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine on August 4, 2006. The mandate of the judge of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine ended on August 4, 2015. The judge filed an application for dismissal from the post of judge of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. Dear colleagues, on this issue, I invite the head of the Committee, Ruslan Knazević, to speak. Please, Mr. Ruslan.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-05-m0.u85	Thank you. Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues, I will only allow myself to repeat a few words from what the Head of the Supreme Council has said. Indeed, according to the Constitution, the judges of the Constitutional Court are elected for a term of nine years, and according to the Constitutional Court judge Peter Bogdanović Stetsuk, such a term has ended, he made a corresponding statement to the Supreme Council. On behalf of the Head of the Supreme Council, the Committee considered an appropriate appeal, a corresponding statement to the judge and because it fully meets the requirements and procedure provided for by the Constitution of Ukraine and the Constitutional Court Act and the Supreme Council Rules of Procedure Act, unanimously, the Committee on Legal Policy and Justice recommends that the Supreme Council properly satisfy the statement made by the Constitutional Court judge, Stitchik Bogdanović. On the other hand, I would like to say that this is one of the few judges of the Constitutional Court, who has conducted his activities as a judge of the Constitutional Court on the basis of the Constitution and the law. This is the judge of the Constitutional Court, as one of the few did not agree with the 2010 decision on the return of the Constitution in 2004. Cancellation, more specifically, of amendments to the Constitution, which took place in 2004. This is a judge who was elected in the walls of Parliament among other judges by the quota of opposition factions and quite decently and appropriately, as I am, exercised his authority to the judge of the Constitutional Court. So there is every reason to satisfy his claim, thank him for his work, and wish him success in life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-05-m0.u86	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please record for discussion: two for, two against. Please sign up. Two for, two against. Please. Sidorovich Ruslan Mikhailovich of the Self-Help faction, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-05-m0.u87	Dear fellow national MPs! Too bad there's so little in the room right now, but there's actually a very important decision. Parliament has long been unable to resolve such a painful issue as the updating of the composition of the Constitutional Court. The two judges of the Constitutional Court Pasenyuk and Steczuk, despite the fact that the time has passed since we had to take this decision, continue to be judges of the Constitutional Court, which impedes the quality of the Constitutional Court's composition. Therefore, it is necessary to consider this matter as soon as possible, to vote today, and to release judges who should have long been retired. Therefore, we ask that we vote and support this decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-05-m0.u88	Thank you. Please, Jemetz Leonid Alexandrovich, come to the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-05-m0.u89	Good afternoon! Leonid Yemeni, People's Front faction. Well, from this issue of order of the day, I think the situation is quite clear. These judges need to be released and given the opportunity to have people present as judges of the Constitutional Court who are truly professional, honest and able to do justice in part of the constitutional process. I would like to remind Parliament that, to date, the current judges of the Constitutional Court, these six persons are the judges who have decided to return the Constitution and to bring into effect another Constitution, to which the Constitutional Court has no authority, thereby giving Yanukovich powers that no one has chosen, and this has ended with Midan, the deaths of the people in Midan and the opposition in the Lugansk and Donetsk region with the Russian Federation, which has led to the deaths of thousands of our Ukrainian soldiers. Therefore, I believe that the Office of the Attorney-General must bring to justice the criminal investigation which today is about the criminal activity of these judges of the Constitutional Court, the fact that there is today the Ochcharenko case and the decision of the Supreme Court of Ukraine that establishes the fact that their actions are criminal, they have exceeded their powers and therefore the Attorney-General's Office is obliged in the shortest terms to bring the case to justice in order to make the appropriate decision and these judges have not only been deprived of their status, the high status as a judge of the Constitutional Court, but have been responsible for the crimes of Januković, the direct participants of which they have been. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-05-m0.u90	Thank you. Vlasenko Sergey Volodymyrovich is invited to attend, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-05-m0.u91	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. You know, I'll allow myself, with all due respect to two of my colleagues who stood up in front of me, to disagree with them. The first speaker said that it was necessary to update the Constitutional Court, to invite some new people there who would be able to deliver justice in a quality manner. You know, for the first time in six years of my stay in the Supreme Council, I can say thank you to the judge in this rostrum. This is the first thank you I can tell the judge of the Constitutional Court. Peter Steczuk is one of the two judges of the Constitutional Court who did not take part in any unjust, unjust decision during the period of Viktor Yanukovitch. There has always been a separate opinion by Judge Steczuk, who in my opinion was balanced, correct, legitimate and reasonable. Therefore, to my conviction, the judge of the Constitutional Court, Peter Steczek, is a person to be compared to in the selection of new candidates for the judges of the Constitutional Court. If it were possible, under the Ukrainian law and the Ukrainian Constitution, to put judges on the second term, I would certainly have taken this opportunity and would have suggested to Parliament to support such people as Victor Shishkin, whom the President had somehow released two months before the end of his term of office, such as Peter Steczek. Instead, of course, I can agree with my colleagues on what they said was that there are still people in the Constitutional Court who, by their vote, were consecrated to usurpation by Viktor Yanukovitch of power. And of course you have to do something about it. We've been told a lot about law enforcement. I don't see the consequences of this law enforcement case. Where they need to work, in paws, they urge them to break the Rules and continue to work. And where you don't have to work, where there's a conspiracy already.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-05-m0.u92	Please, 30 seconds, finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-05-m0.u93	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. And where there's conspiracy, they close their eyes and do nothing. So once again, I would like to thank the two judges of the Constitutional Court, Victor Shishkin and Peter Steczek, for their work. Of course, their cadence has vanished, and we must send this judge away, but send him away with the honors he deserves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-05-m0.u94	Thank you. From Peter Poshenko's Block, 2 minutes from Ruslan Knazevitch. Please, Ruslan Kniezewicz microphone. Or from the rostrum? Please, Mr. Ruslan.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-05-m0.u95	Thank you, Mr. Head. Well, basically, I've already expressed my position as head of the committee professionally, and it's not changing. I can only refute the claim made during the discussion that for some unknown reason the composition of the Constitutional Court is not being updated, including the decision to release judges. Well, this is our problem with you, my friends, for me, here we can't blame the judge in any way, because the judge properly fulfilled his constitutional duty, and a year ago, in June 2015, as required by the Constitution, he wrote a statement. The committee immediately, I want to pay attention, I've made a decision to recommend to Parliament that it be released from office. It has been a year since the committee’s decision, sadly, cannot be considered in this sessional room from a string, as I may have found objective reasons. And the only thing that gives me a heads-up right now, Mr. Head, is a certain absence of deputies. I really hope that when we look at this issue, there will still be a positive result on the board. Because otherwise it would be as serious a disgrace as I think it would be for Parliament. Therefore, on behalf of our faction, I ask all colleagues to vote unanimously in favour of this decree. It contains no political nuances; it is purely constitutionally technical, since it allows a person to leave office formally, not to receive monthly rewards, but to find a proper place in life. It's just a year that we're not allowing a person to plan his life any further -- it's wrong and it's unacceptable. But given the absence of colleagues, maybe there's a point, Mr. Head, before the vote, to try to understand at least in advance the amount of "yes" so that it doesn't happen that we can't, for technical reasons, have more than a year, it's a positive question. This is absolutely something that is not the beauty of Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-05-m0.u96	Thank you. Mr. Ruslan, I'm sure all the faction heads are now gathering deputies and there's going to be a lot of, I'm sure, all of them are very active. From the Radical Party, two minutes, Easy.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-05-m0.u97	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Unfortunately, we must note that there is no independent Constitutional Court in Ukraine. To this day, six judges of the Constitutional Court continue to work at the Constitutional Court, which in 2010 ordered then President Yanukovic to abolish the Constitution, thereby contributing to the usurpation of power of Janukovic, which led to the slaughter of Majdan, and to the shocks that our country is experiencing today. Regrettably, the new government, the new president, continues to use the services of these so - called judges who are willing to please the loving authorities in order to continue to receive fabled wages, pensions, and abuse their status. These judges today, who themselves fall under the Law on Illustration, are considering the conformity of the Constitution of the Law on Illustration. These judges today are associated with an organized criminal group led by Yanukovic. They should be responsible for participating in the usurpation of power instead of continuing to work as judges. Repeatedly, my petitions to President Prašenk requesting the release of these judges failed to produce a single result, because they are serving Dustenka today, just as they served Yanukovic, making illegal decisions. In particular, by recognizing that it is in conformity with the Constitution to amend the Law on the Rules, which in fact amends the procedure for amending the Constitution. In particular, by recognizing the constitutional changes to the Constitution as part of a special status for Donbas. In sum, these decisions contribute to the usurpation of power by Dustenkom. Today, in the hands of the BBC and Dustenka, all power is vested in the country, the President, the Prime Minister, the government, the Attorney General, the law enforcement authorities. Today, BP is fully responsible for the armsless and vacchanalism in Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-05-m0.u98	Did all the factions share in the discussion? Only Yemen. One minute and we'll finish the discussion on this issue. Please. One minute, Leonid Yemen.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-05-m0.u99	Thank you. Dear colleagues, it is quite fair that Sergey Vlasenko noted that we should thank Petra Stetsuk for the truly proper work of the Constitutional Court judge. And those judges who are present today in the Constitutional Court and those who come to this high office should be equal to his level of professional responsibilities. I would like to thank you for having us in the Constitutional Court, from which we have and should be exemplary. Thank you, Peter Steczek, for your good work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-05-m0.u100	Dear colleagues, I'd like to consult you. We have the next actual identical submission. We could discuss it with two separate votes. Is there no objection? None. Then, dear fellows, let's go to Project Rule 48. I am told that according to the Rules I have the right to combine two questions. I'm asking you again, is there any objection in the hall? None. The vote will be here after the discussion, there will be no gap between the discussion and the vote, there will be no breakup. And I'm asking you to go to Project 4882 on the release of Pasenyuk Alexander Mikhailovich from office as judge of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. Again, I invite the head of the committee to speak. Before giving the word Knyazevitch, I will stress that, as in the previous ruling in accordance with article 126, paragraph 2, of the Constitution of Ukraine, part one of the first article 23 of the Ukrainian Constitutional Court Act, the judge of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine shall be dismissed from office by a body appointed by a judge of 65 years of age. On July 7, 2014, Passenyuk Alexander Mikhailovich passed his term of office as judge of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. I invite you to the word of Prince Ruslan. Please, Mr. Ruslan.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-05-m0.u101	Thank you, members, sir. Well, the story of this question is slightly different from the one we discussed earlier. I wouldn't say it's very different. I'll just remind chronology a little bit. However, the Supreme Council Order of 24 February 2014 on the response to violations by judges of the Constitutional Court of the oath of a judge decided to suspend for the term the authorization of a number of judges of the Constitutional Court who had been elected by the quota of the Supreme Council, including the Constitutional Court of Pasenuk. But you know that the ruling was brought before the Supreme Administrative Court. And the Supreme Administrative Court ruled in June 11th of the Supreme Council's decree on part of the early termination of the Passenian's mandate as illegal. For the execution of the ruling, there was a direct provision in the ruling that the Head of the Constitutional Court was forced to issue orders from June 24, 14, according to which Pasenyuk was considered to have proceeded to exercise the powers of the judge of the Constitutional Court. And according to the present, he is being rewarded as a judge of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. In addition, the Supreme Court, by its ruling of December 2, 14th, left the Supreme Administrative Court's ruling unchanged and declared illegal the Supreme Council's Order to terminate the discharge of the Constitutional Court of Pasenyuk. Thus, today, in the part of the appointment of Pasenuk as Judge of the Constitutional Court, the Supreme Council Order on the appointment of the Pasenuch as Judge of the Constitutional Court of 3 November 2011 No3991-VI is in force. At the same time, though, in July of July 7, 2014, two days later, Pasenjuku will be 65 years old. And this is a reminder, in accordance with the Constitution, of the age limit, of the judge of any court or general jurisdiction, or of the Constitutional Court in office. He made a statement to the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-05-m0.u102	Please, just give me a minute and finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-05-m0.u103	In accordance with the requirements of the Constitution, he is to be released from office in connection with the completion of his term of office. Thus, the Supreme Council is headed by an appropriate draft decree, which provides for the need to be released on this very basis to the judge of the Constitutional Court of Pasenyuk. Dear colleagues, I understand here the ambiguity of this issue, it has some political tension. But here we have to decide the principle of whether we are now releasing the judge and accordingly opening up a vacancy so that we can choose another Constitutional Court judge in the Parliamentary Walls. I hope that they will properly carry out their duties, the four judges of the Constitutional Court who were elected after the Dignity Revolution, and you know that now the time of their activities, which is coming on me and the committee, and I think there are no objections and warnings about their activities, I think we can expect the same from those new judges who could plow. The committee, for its part, recommends that the Parliament consider the decree made by the Chief of the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-05-m0.u104	Please. Ten seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-05-m0.u105	Please consider and support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-05-m0.u106	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please record: two for, two against. Please. Barna Oleg Stepanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-05-m0.u107	Dear friends! Indeed, the time is right when the Constitutional Court needs to be updated and the entire judicial system needs to be updated, so we should pay attention to those who will replace them. But in addition, I would like to draw attention to the procedure that was voted on earlier with regard to the removal of parliamentary immunity from Oneshchenk and other regulations. You know, it's time to finish this show in the Supreme Council with a touchdown, this cheap show. How cheap it is, up to vulgarity, when we waste our time on mutual backs, on mutual accusations, on cynicism, on wickedness. Instead, we waste time adopting the necessary laws in the state. That's why I'm going to the Head of the Supreme Council, to the factions, to the council of the coalition, so that the next plenary will finally have a bill on changes to the Constitution, the removal of parliamentary immunity and the goal of everyone finally being equal before the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-05-m0.u108	Thank you. Krulko Ivan Ivanovich gives the word to Sergey Vlasenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-05-m0.u109	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. This consideration of this decision is a vivid example of the denial of the myth that goes on in politics, which deliberately spreads when they say that all politicians are the same, all judges are the same, all prosecutors are the same. No, they're not the same. Peter Staczek, the ruling that we have considered before, is a person who has proved his life position, his quality of work that is decent judges, they can work normally, they can work in a pressure mode, they can endure this pressure, they can make legal decisions and so on. Unfortunately, I can't say that about Alexander Mikhailovich Pasenyuk. Those who worked in the legal sphere, everyone knows who Alexander Mikhajlovich Pasenyuk is the former head of the Supreme Administrative Court, who was then sent to the Constitutional Court of Ukraine for honor when Viktor Yanukovic began to change the leadership of the higher specialized courts. He voted all that Janukovic needed, never argued with the active authorities, was a full collaborator in the matter, and supported everything that the active authorities asked him to do. In my memory, if I am not mistaken, at least according to some media reports, he even appeared in the materials of Judge Zvaric’s case as a person who received an appropriate financial reward. So the judges are different, and they need to be treated differently. Just as politicians are different, and they need to be treated differently. And they need to be treated, not by the slogans, but by the real and specific things they do. But of course, we have to vote for this decree without any thanks, without any warnings. By the way, I'm reminding you we've already kicked out once. Now we're firing, and then we're kicking Judge Pasenyuk out of the Constitutional Court. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-05-m0.u110	Please finish one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-05-m0.u111	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. But unfortunately, then because of the violations of the Rules, because of the violations of the law, he was reinstated at work, and now that we have reached it, not in his 65s, but in his 67s, we are obliged to release him. That's why I urge everyone to vote for Peter Steczuk's decision by thanking him for his work; and for the decision to release Mr. Pasenyuk without any thanks or drink. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-05-m0.u112	Thank you. Dear colleagues, there will be a vote in five minutes. I ask the Secretary of the Supreme Council to inform the deputies and heads of factions to invite deputies to the Hall. Now I'm giving the floor to the self-help speech. Babak Alona Valerievna gives the word to Jehor Sobolev. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-05-m0.u113	With this vote, we can really get the result, but we can get the shame. Parliament has already released Pasenuk for breaking an oath for giving Yanukovich dictatorial powers. That's because this fellow is reinstated in another court, we have to release him again, but now not for breaking an oath, but for wanting to go to an honorable retirement with a good payout from the state, with all the privileges of the former judge of the Constitutional Court. And there's a big question. I think we let the Attorney General go too early. The point is that when Parliament released the Constitutional Court judges appointed by Parliament in March 2014, he asked the Attorney General's Office to investigate the responsibility of the Constitutional Court judges for granting Yanukovich dictatorial powers for the construction of the regime. And this is the case that is being investigated by the Attorney General's Office for the article "Contribution of a notoriously unjust decision," which has led to a change in the Constitution. And we need to ask the Attorney-General, when the results come, what, given the latest ideas in the Constitution for the initiatives of the President-in-Office of the Constitutional Court will become completely impregnable to justice, can be arrested and held accountable only by their consent. By their own consent. And it's a big question to Parliament, do we now have the right to send Pasenic to an honorable retirement after everything he's done against the state?
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-05-m0.u114	Thank you. From the Radical Party of Lozov, then the "front" will be Yemen. Two minutes, please. Lozal, then Yemen.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-05-m0.u115	Andrew Lozova, Radical Party of Lazka. When we talk about the fight against corruption in general, the total corruption of the courts is mentioned in the ancient Greek legend of Heracles and the Kernean Hydra. He cut off her one head, and there were two on the spot. He is absolutely in solidarity with his colleague, Jegor Soboljev, that we are in such a form by releasing Odyssenuk's Odyssen judge, and we justify him because it is as if a criminal who has already been released by the Supreme Council is going on an honorable pension. So there's two to place one head in this hydra. At the same time, I would like to inform my esteemed colleagues about what really happened last Friday, Saturday in the very oody court of this country, the Cave Justice of Kiev. There are many people in this room who have also been deprived of their liberty for some time because of this court’s decision. Judge Christina Gladoon, who was one of the judges of the Bank’s prisoners during the Dignity Revolution, was photographed from the search for Portnow and was not released in January 2014 by the last of the inmates of the Bank’s Jaroslav Pritulenko. The judge who "pulled" the International Centre for Culture and Arts of the Ukrainian Trade Union and took part in other corporate conflicts, this judge under pressure from the military prosecutor's office on a fabricated case ordered by the Separatist Mayor of Siverskodonecka, who called for a referendum from LNR Kozakow, to order a deputy shower from the "Will of the People" group Sergio Melniczuk tried to impose the crimes he committed to the legendary commander Valentina Licholith, who was more known as "Batou". In an open manner, without any evidence, this judge had arrested Mr. Valentine for two months. But all of Kiev came, and the volunteers came. I wanted to express my gratitude to all the national deputies who were able to protect Valentine’s Day. This is Igor Mosiyczuk and Dmitry Linko of the Radical Party, this is Yegor Sobolev, Semin Semenchenko and Paul Kostenko of Self-Help, this is Mayor Andrew Bielecki, Oleg Petrenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-05-m0.u116	Ten seconds to complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-05-m0.u117	It's Eugene Day, too, it's Igor Lucenko from Fatherland. It's Azova, Donbas, Right Sector, Idar. They have come to defend the honor of our front. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-05-m0.u118	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the closing statement, and we'll go to the vote. And I'm asking all the national deputies to come into the hall and prepare for the vote. I'll give the closing statement to Ruslan Knyazevich. I'm asking all the deputies to come into the hall. Two minutes Leonid Yemen, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-05-m0.u119	Thank you. Leonid Yemen, the People's Front, the city of Kiev. Dear colleagues, as they say, there are two big differences between similar decisions that we make today. In fact, where we honor Mr. Steczuk to resign, we thank him for his proper work, we are now to make a decision on Pasenyuk with disgust. Because I recall that we had already taken a decision of our own time when we admitted that the judges of the Constitutional Court had broken an oath and were to be deprived of the status of the judge of the Constitutional Court. So the master now had the insolence to use corruption in the judicial system and to resume his office as constitutional judge of the Constitutional Court. And now we're forced, forced, we shouldn't be happy, because we're really not sending him to the prison where he's supposed to answer, we're putting him away. But leaving him there means leaving this man as a judge of the Constitutional Court when we can get him out of there. So there are two sides to this problem. First of all, we're in Parliament today cleaning out Pasenuk from the Constitutional Court. Second, the prosecutor's office has to prove it. To bring to justice the criminal case and the conduct of the six judges of the Constitutional Court who have now remained, and one of them is Mr. Pasenyuk as such that they have been participants in the Usurpation of Yanukovich for which no one has chosen him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-05-m0.u120	Thank you. Please conclude, Ruslan Knyazevich. And let's move on to decision-making, MPs. Colleagues, we're going into the hall. Now let's move on to making a decision. Two minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-05-m0.u121	Dear colleagues, may I have your attention for a moment? It's a very important nuance, I think it's important to put the accents in place right now. We don't make the decision to fire Pasenic by resigning, it doesn't fit the reality. Read the draft decree, he's clearly saying that we're releasing him in connection with the achievement of the 65-year-old age. If we were to release him in connection with his resignation, as we did in Steczek, then indeed certain consequences could be his privileges, including his. getting a life and payoff. In this case, no privileges will be extended to him, this time. In that case, if we don't vote on this ruling, he, once, remains a judge, that is, he takes a foreign place, he uses the immunity that you say so much about, and he gets full pay. What are you fighting for, tell the truth to the citizens? Thank you. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-05-m0.u122	Dear colleagues, I am convinced that on these issues there will be a general unity of the hall. I am convinced that everyone supports these decisions. But with your permission, I'm going to run a rating vote so you can see what the mobilisation potential of the hall is. I'm asking everyone to come in, prepare to participate in the rating vote. It's called the ratings under the Rules. Are you guys ready? I'd like to go to work, colleagues. I'm running a rating vote on the potential in the decision-making room. Dear colleagues, please take part in the vote. Colleagues, please vote. Let's vote, colleagues. [[13:24:05]] For 224 I ask you to involve those deputies who have not been able to prepare for the vote. Please come into the hall, take your jobs. These are responsible, important decisions. Andrew Volodymyrovich. Yes, colleagues, invite a colleague from the coulaires. Ready? So, my colleagues, the first as we agreed, I'm voting for the whole draft ruling (registration number 4308) on the release of Steczek Peter Bogdanović from office as judge of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. People's deputies, please vote. Colleagues, we vote. Let's vote, colleagues. [[13:25:15]] For 241 Decision taken. Thank you, as they say, Steczek Petra Bogdanovich. Thank you, Parliament, all of us, for our quality work in the Constitutional Court. Next, I put to the vote the entire draft Order (number 4882) on the release of Pasenyuk Alexander Mihajlovich from office as judge of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. Please vote. Please vote. [[13:26:02]] For 239. It's been decided. Decision taken. Congratulations, fellow believers, on having passed this test. We have three more rulings that are not complicated after the release of the judges. And I'm asking my colleagues that we stay in the hall, and we're equally responsible for those votes. Next order 4697-1. She doesn't need it either. So 4697, yeah, the first one is just going to be, then one, then minus two. And I invite the head of the committee of Prince Ruslan to report. Please, Mr. Ruslan.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-05-m0.u123	Thank you, Mr. Head. Dear colleagues, thank you for your support for voting for the release of the judges of the Constitutional Court. And now you have four rulings, and I'm going to report them one by one, on the release of the judges. First order, this is the 4697 registration order of 19.05. 16 years of age. According to article 126, part five, paragraphs 2, 3, 9, of the Constitution of Ukraine, the Supreme Council of Ukraine decides: To release Alexander’s Lyudmila Ivanovna from office as judge of the court of the Hersonian district in connection with her 65 years of age. The other one. To release Gavris Jaroslav Mikhajlovich from the office of Judge of the Thumatic District Court of Johno - Frank’s District in view of the inability to exercise his authority under the state of health. Third. In connection with the application for resignation to be released from the posts of judges: The Supreme Administrative Court of Ukraine, Mr. Biluga Volodymyrovich; the Court of Appeal of the Vinnitsk Region of Starinz Yuri Volodymyrovich; The Court of Appeal of the Kirovograd district of Peter Irina Mikhaylovna, Natalya Ivanovna; the Court of Appeal of the Luhansk district of Buhank Valery Petrovich; The Skuri district court of the Kyiv district of Mashkina Víro Valentinovna; Tetiyev district court of Kyiv district of Kravec Olga Anatoliyevna; Kyiv District Court of Kharkiv Dmitryev Aleksandra Fedorovich Four. In connection with the application for discharge at the discretion of the judges: Kharkiv's Chamber of Commerce Court of Cherlenjak Mikol Ivanovich; The Ductuary City Court of the Donetsk region of Chertkov Love of Alexandrovna; The mining district court of Makiyevka Donetsk district of Kulbakova Igor Valentinović Please support, since these are the reasons that are so flawless, most people ask the Supreme Council to release them from office, either on their own terms or on their own terms. The Committee unanimously recommends to Parliament a draft decree to be adopted as a basis and as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-05-m0.u124	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please record: two for, two against. From the People's Front, Alexeyev Igor Sergiyovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-05-m0.u125	My fellow Members, I would like to remind everyone that recently in the walls of this Parliament we have adopted historical changes to the Constitution on Justice, we have adopted a new version of the Judicial Act and the status of judges. These legislative initiatives, they allow open competitions for all judicial positions. Accordingly, the People's Front faction will vote in favour of all the rulings on the release of judges. In doing so, we are further opening up new judicial vacancies that will allow open, transparent competitions for judicial positions and provide a selection of professional, quality people in the judicial system.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-05-m0.u126	Thank you. From the Radical Party of Oleg Lazko.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-05-m0.u127	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. The question of the resignation of judges is certainly an extremely important question. And our faction believes that all the judges in Ukraine should be released, not the imitation of judicial reform, when they made changes to the Constitution in part of the judiciary and in fact allowed President Dustenk to usurp the influence on the judicial branch of power. But at the same time, I would like to draw the attention of society to that divide, to those legislative acts adopted by the Panamanian Patriots Coalition in this Parliament, limiting the right of citizens to defend themselves. People today may be able to borrow housing from municipal services. In addition, this decision of the court can be decided in a stealth mode, secretly by the owner of the apartment, and for the debt of money, and for the water, for the utilities, they will take away the only housing they have. In addition, established court-martial rates are those that deprive most Ukrainian citizens of the possibility of seeking protection in order to protect their interests. That's why the Radical Party faction requires the head of the Supreme Council, the "Panama Patriots" coalition in Parliament, enough to budge, let's solve today's parliamentary problems that concern Ukrainian citizens the most. Tariffs, drug prices, corruption of power, absolutely cash wages and pensions -- and the authorities are doing nothing to radically raise citizens' incomes, create jobs, give people a perspective. Instead, they rob through high tariffs. So the faction of the Radical Party, along with other democratic opposition political forces, I urge you to start blocking the work of Parliament once this issue is completed and to protect real people from genocide.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-05-m0.u128	Dear colleagues, there will be a vote in a few minutes. I see a number of deputies have come out, and I ask you to let me know that there will be a vote in a few minutes. May the national deputies return to the hall of employment. And now, from the block of Petra Dustenka, I give the floor to Ruslan Knazevitch. Please, Mr. Ruslan. From the rostrum or from the place? From the rostrum, please, and please come into the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-05-m0.u129	Thank you, Your Honor. I would like to ask, since we have in principle these are the reasons, the general reasons that never arose from their long discussion, but still cause us to support them. Moreover, after we have adopted the amendments to the Constitution and the new version of the Judicial Court Judges Act, you know that it is now possible for judges to determine whether or not to resign and receive a corresponding life support, or to continue to apply for posts in those courts where the competitions will be announced. And we expect, like the Council of Judges, and the judiciary, to be understood, and I think that this kind of resignation statement before the end of the term, that is, by the end of September of the month, will be coming to Parliament in a mass way. And we're going to have to make these decisions in order to really open up opportunities for those vacancies that will be released. And all the corresponding vacancies will be filled only through the conduct of competitions, as provided for by the new Law on Courtship and the Status of Judges. That is why today's ruling should be a good time, like I am, in a whole cascade of such regulations, because the main emphasis on such a necessary decision by Parliament is expected during the September month. I'm just going to remind you that the Act on the judiciary in the new edition comes into force at the same time as the Act on Amendments to the Constitution takes effect. Such a law took effect at the end of June, on the last day of June, and apparently, three months later, at the end of September, a new edition will take effect. And we're still going to have during September, as a minimum, for me, two sessions weeks in order for all those statements that will come to the Supreme Council during the summer period to be considered, and we've given the opportunity to start the procedure for the open-air competitions in the judiciary as soon as the law becomes effective. So, as far as I'm concerned, I'm asking you to support me. Because more than that, it's just the first decision, we have three of those decisions ahead of us today, and I hope.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-05-m0.u130	Thank you. Dear colleagues, let's go into the hall. Another minute, Rizanenko, while they're in the hall. Turn on the Rizanenko microphone. And let's move on to making a decision, colleagues. Please, noodle microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-05-m0.u131	Good afternoon, dear fellows! National MP Rizanenko. You know, I wanted to show you one bright moment in the life of the judges. Right now we're giving our consent, we're voting for the release of Judge Hrimley Alexander Hennadiovich of the Kyiv Court of Appeal. I'll tell you a short story, and you'll be terrified of the history of this judge. He was the judge of the Kyiv district of Donetsk. In a state of drunkenness, two children were killed in a car for 10 and 12 years. The mother of these children killed herself, she hanged herself. My father died of a heart attack. The criminal case that was committed against him was closed, and you're going to be terrified of what -- because there's no victim. After all, the children died, their parents died, and no one else. You think you fired him? No, he was transferred to Kiev, and he served for several years as judge at the Kyiv Court of Appeal. I urge everyone to vote, of course, for the release of these judges. But many of them, especially those who hide there, are in a state of health.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-05-m0.u132	Please. We're done, aren't we? We're done. Colleagues, please don't leave the hall. On the contrary, we enter the hall. Please prepare for the vote. Please take up your jobs, colleagues. And I'm voting on the whole draft regulation number 4697. Anyone who supports this ruling on the dismissal of judges, please vote. Let's vote, colleagues. [[13:38:03]] For 214 My colleagues didn't make it. I see they're raising their hands. I'm asking you to come into the National Deputies Hall. I want those deputies who, during this vote, have something in the room, not a vote, to go back to work. I ask the Secretary of the Supreme Council to inform the deputies to come into the hall and take part in the vote. Now I'm asking you to show the factions how the vote took place. Please turn on the board. "Block of Peter Poshenko" – 93, "National Front" – 67, "Opposition Block" – 0, "self-help" – 19, "Radical Party of Oleg Ljashka" – 2, "Fatherhood" – 13, "Party of Rebirth" – 1, "Will of the People" – 1. Are there any political issues that need to be discussed? There's just no people, right? Colleagues, I'm going to put you back on that decision. We heard emotional speeches that convinced us that we needed to vote. I ask you to prepare for the vote, and I'll put you back. Ready, colleagues? So I'm proposing to go back to the debate, to vote on the 4697 draft regulation on the release of judges, of a colleague. I ask you to vote. A fundamentally responsible question. Everyone, please take part in the vote. Return to vote 4697. Nadia, Nadia. Well, Nadia, vote! Stop voting. There are three other deputies in the living room, Nadia Savchenko will force them to enter the hall. So I'm voting on the proposal to go back to ruling 4697. Colleagues, please vote. Please take part in the vote. We're voting for the return. Please, colleagues, we're voting. [[13:41:00]] For 227 227 for. We're back on track, colleagues. And I'm now putting the vote -- and I'm asking everyone to stay put -- draft Decree 4687 for adoption as a whole. Please vote. Let's vote, colleagues. Please vote. [[13:41:32]] For 227 227 in favour, the decision is made. I welcome my fellow believers with a principled decision, although it is very difficult for them to give something. Let's move on to the next project, Regulation 4697-1. And I invite you to speak to the head of the Committee of Prince Ruslan. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-05-m0.u133	Thank you, Mr. Head. Unlike the previous draft decree, where the price was a number of reasons for the dismissal of judges from positions occupied, in the Order of Registration No. 4697-1 of 07.06. In 2016, there is only one basis for filing a resignation application. These are the consequences of adopting corresponding changes to the Constitution and the Law on the Judiciary. The entire number of judges of the higher and appeal institutions took advantage of their rights and submitted appropriate applications. In accordance with article 126, part five, paragraph 9, of the Constitution of Ukraine, the following is proposed in connection with the application for resignation of judges: The Supreme Administrative Court of Ukraine Temkizhev Igor Hažmuridovich; The Supreme Special Court of Civil and Criminal Affairs: Cassiana Alexija Petrovich, Derbentsev Tetjana Filipevna, Naumczuk Mikol Ilić, Hvzdik Pavel Alexanderovich, Amelin Vejacheslav Ivanovich and Martinyuk Vladimir Ivanovich; Court of Appeal of the Dnipropetrov region: The Russian Catherine Grigorovna, Boltun's Larissa Mikhailovna, Ferrafonta Vadim Yuriovich; the Court of Appeal of the Donetsk Region of Bugrim Ludmila Mikolayevna; the Court of Appeal of Ivano-Frankiv district of Popovic Stepanović; Kyiv District Court of Appeal: Kolkołki Natalija Mikolayevna and Shevchenka Aleksandra Vasilovic; Court of Appeal of Luhansk Region: The handmaiden of Alla Ivanovna and Robber's Raise of Illewna; the Court of Appeal of the Poltava District of Dougal Svetlana Anatoliyevna; The Tomaspil district court of Samko Galin Viktorovna. The Yellow District Court of the City of Krevi Horn of the Dnipropetrov region of Prikožanova, Alexander Volodymirovich; The Saxegan District Court of the Horn of Creature of Dnipropetrov district of Mhitaryan Sergey Samsonovich; The Volnova District Court of the Donetsk district of Troyan Love Grigorovna; The Kirov district court of Makyivka, Donetsk, Prevejerziev Mikola Mikhailovich; Tarostian District Court of Kiev Baboid Olen Markowna; Sokal District Court of the Lviv district of Pahuta Sergija Alexandrovich; The Balgrad District Court of Odessa District of Calibov Maria Mikolayovna; Ishmael City Court of Odessa, Stepanov Alexander Mikolaiovich; The Southern Odessa City Court of Kotova Vitali Grigorovich; and the Slavutsk District Court of the Hmelnick district of Tonchuk Raís Ivanovna. The Committee on Legal Policy and Justice, at its meeting, reviewed the relevant draft decree and asked the Supreme Council to support it, as we had no reservations about the discharge of positions that I had just announced to the courts of general jurisdiction, the various courts of general jurisdiction. Please support, and I very much hope that we will have the strength to consider and accept the following two other decisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-05-m0.u134	Dear colleagues, I'll take two for, two against. I'm just asking you, in the speeches, if there are any political warnings, express them, because I don't really understand why all the pro, MPs in the room are enough, and the decision we're barely reaching the vote. So I'm asking everyone, if anyone has a warning, if anyone is against us getting rid of them, make it public, please, so that we understand the logic of the processes. I'm asking you to make a record: two for, two for against, please. Sidorovich Ruslan Mikhailovich of the Self-Help faction, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-05-m0.u135	Dear colleagues, we've talked a lot about the need to upgrade the judicial corps. In this case, we are actually opening up a window of opportunity for those new people we should hope for, who should be the new face of the judiciary, who should ensure this just justice that we are talking about so much. It is therefore necessary to release these judges today, to open these vacancies, and finally to come, not in words, but in practice, into the formation of a new judiciary. Vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-05-m0.u136	Kishkar Pavel Mikolaiovich, please. He's handing it over to Krivenkov. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-05-m0.u137	Dear colleagues, Krivenko Victor, National Movement of Ukraine I fully support what Sidorovich Ruslan said. And these judges kept their wages for months and years. I call on the Radical Party faction now, and I think there's some logic in your non-vote. And what Comrade Rizanenko said is that there are a number of judges who need to be put in prison, not just released and released. But now we're doing them an even greater service if we don't release them. Therefore, it is imperative that we vote as quickly as possible so that we do not have a reserve of one vote. And for the whole of Ukraine to know, those package names that are finally going to be released from the judicial system today and open up space for new people, for new possibilities. And let the public control it, let the lawyers go to court. So please let's vote on this as soon as possible. And I urge the Radical Party to join the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-05-m0.u138	Thank you. The word is given to Lithuania by Volodymyr Mikhailovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-05-m0.u139	Dear head, dear fellows! There's been a long time in the Supreme Council, about 850 for the appointment of judges on a temporary basis. I understand that we have adopted changes to the order of election and appointment of judges. At the same time, the law has no reverse force. And today we have in a number of places, in a number of areas, including the Zitomir region, a travel situation where we are in court. There is no judge in the courts who can administer justice. At the same time, they receive a salary, but their fate is uncertain. So I'm proposing and asking the next day that we bring to the attention of the Supreme Council of Ukraine draft regulations, which have been processed by the relevant professional committee on the appointment of judges on an uninterrupted basis, based on the fact that the law that has been passed, changes to the Constitution that have been tabled do not have retroactive force. After all, the Supreme Council must evidently demonstrate that it adheres to the laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-05-m0.u140	Thank you. I want to inform you that we are preparing a decision to appoint judges. As soon as she's ready, we'll take her to the hall, maybe even Thursday. And today, let us mobilize, Mr. Vladimir and all MPs, so that at least we can free the judges for whom there is no discussion on which there are no questions for us to accept. And so I'm asking all the factions to invite us into the hall to support us in the matter of the release of the judges. From the People's Front, please, Leonid Yemen, two minutes. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-05-m0.u141	The People's Front, Leonid Yemen, the city of Kiev. Dear colleagues, well, these are issues that we should have resolved long ago, but we have always had questions that seem to be more important issues of national security, and this is really a very high priority today. But judiciality is part of a state mechanism. We have a record in the Constitution that a citizen is entitled to an honest and fair trial. And in the case of a judge who has already reached the limit age of being a judge, the situation remains in the same way that he continues to go to work, but he can no longer do justice. And then we have separate courts where the number of judges who can't do justice has already crossed the border. So the citizens come to this court out of a desire to get a court order and they can't find a judge there who can make that decision. Continuing this situation is unacceptable, and it is our responsibility as parliamentarians to resolve this issue. This is about those judges who are expected to be released on a general basis, and new ones are expected to take their place in the new legislation, in the competitions, in the new ones, in the open, with the three declarations to be filled, and in the new ones who will carry out their duties professionally. This will be supervised by the Public Council of Virtue. So I am very much asking you to do our duty as a parliamentarian today and to send these judges away. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-05-m0.u142	Thank you very much, dear colleagues. I ask you very much to invite all the deputies into the hall. We're on our way. I'll give one more performance to Barney, but it'll be a closing act. I'm asking my fellow national deputies to come into the hall. I ask you to inform the Supreme Council Secretariat that in a few minutes we are moving on to the decision-making process. And now I'm asking from Peter Dustock's Block, two minutes, Barna. Turn on the microphone to Deputy Barney.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-05-m0.u143	Dear friends! We know that Ukraine lacks funds, particularly for the army, particularly for budgeting, education, medicine, culture. And by the way, without deciding to release the judges who are already out of time, we finance their activities, and we finance their inactions more precisely. Therefore, it is obvious that decisions must be made immediately in order to stop financing their inactivity. In addition, we say that the judicial system requires immediate changes. So let us release these judges to make room for young, new, prospective judges, patriots who will truly serve Ukraine, the people, and the basic law. And the main thing. If we're going to clean up the judicial system, we don't have to deal with the debates, the mutual backings, the accusations, right here in the Supreme Council. Let's gather all the negatives, the illegal decisions that the judges make, and put them on the High Council of Justice, public councils that can control the work of the judges, decide the questions about their re-affiliation. And so we're going to be together, together, but the main thing is not populist, but in effect, let's say, constructively clean up the judicial system of power. I invite my colleagues to vote on this bill, to save the budget so that they don't spend it on the idleness of those judges who don't actually do their jobs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-05-m0.u144	Thank you. Final word, Ruslan Knyazevich, two minutes, and we move to the vote. Colleagues, please come into the hall and prepare for the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-05-m0.u145	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-05-m0.u146	Please, two minutes, Ruslan Knyazevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-05-m0.u147	Thank you, Mr. Head. Once again, dear colleagues, I'm paying attention to you. This is an unquestionable decision. All without exception, 27 judges took advantage of the right that we gave them by actually adopting a new version of the Law on Courtship and the Status of Judges. And they wrote a voluntary resignation application. And among the others that we've just released, I think there's a point and that's to be freed, and those that are in the next two orders, and now we're actually going to form a hundred vacancies today. This is going to be the beginning of this work. I'll go back to these. I hope that during September of the month we may have a few hundred to consider, and there may be thousands of such claims made by those judges who will benefit from their constitutional rights before the law becomes effective and will resign. And it's very good that this process has finally started, and it's an immediate opportunity, not waiting for the law to work, but before it becomes effective, to get vacancies, so that it's only from the day it's recruited that the competitions are immediately announced and the process of cleansing the judiciary begins. Please vote for both this and 2 subsequent decisions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-05-m0.u148	So, dear colleagues, I ask you to take up your jobs and prepare yourself for making your decision. Please do not go out, but go into the hall and take your jobs. Colleagues, I call you to account. I'm asking you to take up jobs. We're going to vote now. We have every voice in our system. Please come in, colleagues. I'll wait another minute. The Secretary of the Supreme Council, please inform the deputies. It's been pointed out that while we don't make decisions, public spending is going on, and every day, the people's spending in the war is being spent because we're not able to make decisions like this. But I'm sure we'll be able to mobilize right now and make a decision. So I'm voting for the whole draft Order (registration number 4697-1) on the release of judges. Whoever supports this decision, please vote. Please, colleagues, we're voting. [[13:57:34]] For the 250. Decision taken. Dear colleagues, let us advise you: 15 minutes and two more decisions. Can we take a look? Break. Colleagues, I'm not putting it at risk, because if we don't vote, it's gonna be a disaster. Dear colleagues, I hereby declare my stay until four o'clock. At four o'clock, I'm asking you to meet me in the decision room. At four o'clock we'll continue, two more orders after the judges' release. Please, four o'clock.
