ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-12-m0.u1	Good morning, dear fellows! Please enter the hall, take up jobs, prepare for registration. Ten years in the morning. Are you ready to sign up, colleagues? National deputies of Ukraine are requested to register. Please register. [[10:02:01]] There are 304 national deputies registered in the hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Colleagues, today is the birthday of the National Deputies. Let's welcome them. Eugene Sergiyovich Dejde. Hello, Dede. [[Applause]] Happy birthday! Captain Maidan, who is today a member of the Supreme Council. And also Paul Alexander Rizanenka, a highly professional member of our delegation. Let's say hello to him, colleagues. [[Applause]] My colleagues, we had a very constructive Conciliation Council yesterday. We've set up an agenda in which we've actually all of the hottest questions that we've had this week put into this agenda. It's also the release of judges that we haven't finished, that's both the deregulation issues, and the gas market, and the electricity market, and the NCRE, and the laws that are required for local self-government. And, colleagues, I very much hope that this week we will spend very constructively, successfully and effectively. Because our boys on the day before yesterday have demonstrated how we should and can work. You may already know that yesterday 54 of Ukraine’s mechanized brigade stopped an enemy diversified intelligence group. Moreover, two Russian Federation personnel officers were taken prisoner, who once again confirmed that Russian troops and Russian officers were in Ukrainian territory, and that this was actually the Russian army fighting Ukraine against Ukrainian independence. Our fighters have set an example for us, too, of how we should behave during wartime and how we should respond to the challenges we face. Let's welcome our fighters to the front, colleagues. [[Applause]] Thank you. According to article 25 of the Rules on Tuesday, we have 30 minutes for the presentations of authorized representatives of MPs and groups with proposals, announcements, statements, and messages. And I, my dear colleagues, would like to invite all factions to record statements from factions and groups. Colleagues, please hold the recording. Silantiev Denis Olegovich passes the word to Oleg Laško. Please, Oleg Valeriyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-12-m0.u2	Colleagues, let's get out of here. Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. I would like to draw the attention of Ukrainian citizens to what is now happening at the parliamentary rostrum. Representatives of the Coalitions of Panamanian Patriots are now blocking the parliamentary rostrum and the presidency, as if they are thus not allowing the Radical Party, our colleagues from Fatherland and other democratic colleagues from the opposition to block the rostrum. Colleagues, and you're very wrong, you're not blocking the rostrum and the parliamentary presidency, you're blocking the rostrum and the parliamentary presidency, you're blocking the parliament from the Ukrainians. You're hiding from the Ukrainians because you're not giving us the opportunity, you're trying to stop the tariff genocide that you're currently carrying out with the Ukrainians. But I'm going to say you're wasting your time, best man, your strength, you're not going to make it. So the Radical Party faction continues. Dear Mr. Head, I'm addressing you, our demands haven't changed in the last month. We're asking you to create two commissions of inquiry. A commission of inquiry on offshores and corruption by the President, the Head of the National Bank, the Minister of Finance, the senior officials of the state who rob the country, take money offshore and don't pay taxes. The second commission of inquiry is required to create tariffs on a reasonable basis. The tariffs that today pay bills to citizens are corrupt, they're nothing but unwarranted, unwarranted tariffs, they're pure water looting in broad daylight. We live in the parliamentary-presidential Republic, Parliament has no right not to answer those questions that concern Ukrainians. We demand decisions in Parliament that will make it possible to actually reduce the cost of gas, the cost of residential services. We appealed to the court to annul the government and the NCRECR, which had raised tariffs. On July 28, a judicial hearing was scheduled. I appeal to all concerned citizens to come to the Kyiv District Administrative Court on 28 July to hear my and our deputies' complaints about illegal setting of new dragon tariffs. I call upon all the deputies from all the factions, but who understand and realize their responsibility to the people. Don't sit back, don't sit back, let's make this tariff genocide stop together. Let's put this offshore authority in place, let's make them stop robbing Ukrainians through tariffs, through corruption, through offshores. We continue our protest.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-12-m0.u3	Thank you. Umil Mikhailo Mikhailovich gives the floor to the head of the faction to Maxim Burbak. Please, Mr. Maxim.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-12-m0.u4	Ladies and gentlemen of the national council, this is a venerable Presidium. On behalf of the parliamentary faction of the People's Front, I want to state five positions of our political team for this week. First. At their meeting yesterday, our faction unanimously decided that the Ukrainian Parliament should be as effective as possible. We are convinced that we will not miss the blocking of our country’s higher legislators during the war. In particular, and because the bills are still pending in Parliament to strengthen the defence, to maintain the stability of the financial system, to continue cooperation with the International Monetary Fund, new sanctions against the aggressor have been imposed. In view of this, the People's Front faction strongly declares its intention to make an effort by parliamentary means to ensure the effectiveness of the Supreme Council's work. Our faction insists on voting for a bill to confiscate Janukovic's money on Thursday, and by Thursday we propose to consider the maximum number of bills that have guaranteed support for the hall. And the People's Front is ready for this job. The other one. The People's Front faction sees a strategy for Ukrainian independence as soon as possible for Ukraine to join NATO. The Warsaw Summit showed that our nation has many influential friends in the West. In the alliance, a clear signal awaiting Ukraine’s readiness and decisions regarding its introduction was given. You and I need to do our part, which is to systematically and at the same time quickly reform the country's security, and do it daily by doing it in the session room. The third position follows: Armouring and reform of the defence complex require financial support from the state and the necessary stable funding for the defence, as the Yatsenuk government did for two years. As noted above, our faction insists on the adoption of a bill to confiscate Janukovic's funds on Thursday. I want to report to the National Defence Committee that there has been a delay in paying wages in defence factories. What's strange is that financing an army on the return of Yanukovich's assets is blocking the factions that are to be aboriginally informed about the problem. Four. Dear Mr. Head, I'm asking you that we can't close this session until all the important bills are signed. In particular: Bills on the judiciary and the status of judges, on the protection of television. The People's Front requires these important bills to be signed because we insisted on their acceptance. We also call on our coalition partners from the BPP faction to vote more consistently with maximum discipline and mobilization of every national MP. Including both the number and the voting of the Special Confiscation Act, the cost of Janukovic. This political season began with an acute crisis created by aggressive populists outside Ukraine. They're trying to distract society from the mainstream -- protecting the state from the aggressor. The People's Front will not tolerate fraud and sabotage, we will increasingly explain to citizens which.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-12-m0.u5	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-12-m0.u6	We will continue to explain to the citizens how the true attitude of the populists toward Russia, the Ukrainian military and the ATOs are being treated, and where the lying demagogues receive funding. We have to confront the populists and agents of the Kremlin the only political front in this room. Thank you for your attention. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-12-m0.u7	Heroim Slava! From Self-Help, Barezuk Oleg Romanovich. Please, Mr. Oleg.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-12-m0.u8	Your Honour, Mr. Head, the noble fellow MPs! Corruption, lack of quality management, external aggression has consequences in Ukraine, and the consequences are poverty. People, ordinary pensioners and those who work in the street tell us, we know we get your subsidies, but we don't know how to live for 949 dollars of pension, for 1 thousand 488 dollars of pension, in large accounts, for 2,000 dollars of salary? Statistics in the last six months show that the actual subsistence minimum today is 2 000 615 dollars, the actual real income in Ukraine is 2 000 315. So today the government, together with Parliament, has to adopt laws that allow people to survive simply, and these bills are in Parliament, and the government knows what to do. The second thing is corruption. Corruption comes from political corruption, from buying seats in this parliament. This time this Parliament has failed to perform its functions, the CLTC has not changed, the honourable deputies, sadly, no one has worked or voted in the Supreme Council Elections Act, which would have been a safeguard of the temporary elections and would have stopped this corruption or reduced it to a significant percentage. It's very serious, we haven't done this job, which means that corruption has a chance to continue. And third, aggression and occupation. This parliament did not make much difference; it did not recognize the occupied territories as occupied; it did not recognize the aggression and war of Russia against Ukraine. This has a lot of legal social and life implications for hundreds of thousands, millions of people in this country. So what's more, we're not working on the Elections Act, we're not releasing CBCs, we're not lowering tariffs, but we're secretly, as our international partners tell us, we're also secretly working on the Elections Act in occupied areas, it's a crime against a rich and poor Ukrainian man, it's a crime before Ukrainian history, it's a crime that threatens the sovereignty and integrity of this state. If a miracle had occurred this week and we had accepted it with you, we would have done our duty to those who were protecting, protecting, and protecting this nation either in war or in our work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-12-m0.u9	Thank you. From "the will of the people," Melniczuk Sergey Petrovich gives the word to Jaroslav Moscalenkov. Please, Mr. Jaroslav.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-12-m0.u10	Mr. Head, distinguished colleagues, Ukrainian people, we all like to talk about victory, we rejoice and proud of Ukraine, when our athletes get gold medals and the whole world plays the Ukrainian anthem. In fact, at the weekends of the Natal Association at a distance of 500 feet [800 m], the European Championship of Light Athletics won gold medals. The 2016 Olympics will begin in Rio very soon. We all believe and hurt for our athletes and how we believed and hurt for our Ukrainian congregation, by the way. But what I'm saying is, your honor, there's no such thing as a miracle sport. Our congregation couldn't score one goal. And let's do it. And we immediately started hanging badges for football players, the head coach, even our colleague, the President of the Football Federation, Pavelko Andrija. I'll tell you, my dear fellows, the result is from the very little one, from the DUSH and this whole system and the whole pyramid, and the top of this pyramid is already the Olympic constituency and collective teams of different kinds of sports. What we saw at the European Championship is the result of our attitude towards sport in general. You can't. The Ukrainian sports system cannot defeat the German machine, where billions of euros per year are financed for the development of children's sports and, by comparison, in Ukraine is zero. We've spent all 25 years of independence on what was done back in the Soviet Union, and today we've taken a loose material and technical base and passed it on to finance local budgets. In 2015, we allocated at least 100 million to support these children's sports schools, and in 2016, zero at all. And as an example, I'll give you that in Kiev this year, 600,000 dollars are allocated for the development of children's youth sports from the district budget. That's enough for one school, and there are schools where it takes 2 million dollars a year. To compare: One day the Supreme Council works, even when it is blocked, costs the Ukrainian people 2 million dollars. As a result, today the state has cut 30 percent of the USSR, while the rest is still either at parental expense, or at Mecenati. Although today business is reluctant to share social responsibility with the state, the support of local authorities is likened to corruption. And if local funds did come into DUSH's accounts, then they're taxed. Little did you and I still have a duty to pay land taxes and real estate. Colleagues, as a result, the sport has become an elite sphere. Those who do find the opportunity to do it do it not because of the state, but against it. You heard Stella Zacharov's statement that 250 athletes after the Olympics are ready to leave our country.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-12-m0.u11	Please finish one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-12-m0.u12	speak for another country. And today, five Olympic athletes at this Olympics have been given a different citizenship and will speak for other countries. Dear colleagues, a broken medical system, culture, education, sports. All of this is at stake because of the criminal inaction of the state. Who the performer is, we see. Who's the buyer? There is a humanitarian extermination of the nation, even without war. The People's will MPs are calling for an assembly of two thousand bills today, there are only two bills that can at least partially remedy the situation with children's schools and sports. These are the bills of our colleague Arthur Palace: Bill 2068 (for amendments to the Tax Code) and 2223. We need to look at them and use them in preparing for the 2016 budget. We also urge the government to adopt a targeted programme for the development of physical culture and sports.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-12-m0.u13	Thank you. From Peter Poshenko's Block, Jurynec Oksana Vasilovna gives the word to the head of the Igor Greeniv faction. Mr. Igor, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-12-m0.u14	Reverend Mr. Head, distinguished colleagues. In recent times, there has been a major discussion as to whether the signed memorandum and whether there are signatures of the Prime Minister and whether there are signatures of the President, and what is in this memorandum. I made some efforts and found a signed memorandum between Ukraine and the Ukrainian government and the International Monetary Fund. I would like to quote the 17th paragraph of this memorandum: "As far as the public sector is concerned, it would be very important to ensure greater transparency and financial stability of the Naftogaz NAC." NAC Naftogaz, as soon as possible, will publish a report in the previous year in order to cancel the technical default status of its Eurobonds. In order to provide a long-term basis for the continuation of sound financing and to organise NAC Naftogazu's financial relationship with the budget, by the end of 2011, we are comparing prices for internal gas and prices for imported gas. The gradual implementation of this process will begin on December 1, 2008. Such a decision will be taken in October 2008. In parallel, the price of imported gas consumed by heat utility companies will be reduced by quarterly tariff adjustment and will cease to exist by July 1, 2010. Looking ahead, we intend to establish a more powerful regulatory base in such a way that tariffs are depoliticized." In doing so, paragraph 18 clearly states that: "We would like to assure you that we have an effective social protection system that will help vulnerable groups that can have a negative impact on economic adjustment. Yes, this document is actually signed, and I can show it to you. It is signed by the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Volodymyrovna Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-12-m0.u15	That's how. There stands President Victor Yushchenk of Ukraine, standing there.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-12-m0.u16	No, I'm saying again, that's all that matters. Moreover, I want to say that this document is correct. And I supported and supported Julia Volodymyrna here. I don't support it right now, because as of today, the commitments that we have made in this memorandum are being fulfilled and we have already fulfilled some of them. Because we cannot make commitments and lie to both our partners and our people. You can't spend the rest of your life.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-12-m0.u17	Please, 30 seconds, finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-12-m0.u18	a political career built on lies. It was. It was the right decision of the then government. Then everyone sitting here in the hall: both Oleg Lazko, and Julia Volodymyrna, including I was representing a political bloc that took responsibility for the situation in the country, and took responsibility. And now the question that my previous colleagues are critical of is actually the commitment that Ukraine made by signing this memorandum back in 2008. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-12-m0.u19	Thank you. From Fatherland, Julia Volodymyrna Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-12-m0.u20	Dear friends, I hope four minutes plus one minute on the line because my name has been mentioned. Dear colleagues, including Ukrainian citizens, who can hear me! Firstly, I am very clear right now that working with the International Monetary Fund in times of economic, financial, national and international crises is the right task to be carried out. But depending on the intellectual capacity and the amount of brains that each Prime Minister and President have, this cooperation is either built or effectively built for the country and gives the country a result, or this cooperation can be based on ignorance, ignorance, and sometimes, in fact, indifference, can destroy the economy and destroy people’s lives as it is now. I want to make it clear that during the global financial crisis in 2009, the memorandum to the International Monetary Fund was signed, where the prices for gas for people with small sums amounted to 484 bracelets per thousand cubic meters, and for people with wealth, 732 bracelets per thousand cubic meters. Today, it's 6,000 789 dollars per thousand cubic meters. You can see the difference by looking at your payments. We have never in our lives, I emphasize, ever in my life, a government that I led would never, firstly, allow such a stagnation of pensions and wages, and secondly, such terrible unwarranted tariffs that have turned into widespread corruption for clans that continue to rule the country. I believe that the responsibility for the tragic social situation in the country, the increase in tariffs, the freezing of pensions and salaries, the falling of the fee three times, is borne personally by the President of Ukraine, Peter Prashenko, Arsenij Yatsenuk, who has abused the country for two years and now Vladimir Groissman, who has certainly continued the Yatsenuk case. That is why the policy that is being pursued today is unacceptable is cruel, irresponsible, especially deeply unprofessional. It has led to a tragic decline in the economy in the country and the fact that people are unable to buy even food. I can tell you that there are two worlds in Ukraine. The first world, it's an empty parliament that's right in front of me. There's no one but a few people blocking from Peter Dustenk's Block and the People's Front.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-12-m0.u21	Please, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-12-m0.u22	And there's a second world. These are today crowded areas of people who do not know from despair where to run. And that's why our team is blocking the rostrum. It's a shame that Peter Prashenka's Block and the People's Front are blocking it by force, but we're blocking the rostrum to put Dustenk, Groysman and all the power in Ukraine, which is part of the tariffs at the negotiating table. To create a temporary investigation commission immediately, to create all the strategies necessary to get the country out of the crisis. To lower tariffs, to lower all the total gas prices that are destroying people today, to raise pensions and wages at the expense of not having to pay subsidies if the price of gas is right. And I want to say that we're going to block it. And if they don't hear us, they'll have to hear the people in the fall.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-12-m0.u23	Please finish 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-12-m0.u24	You'll need to hear the people at the President's Office, near the government house and the Supreme Council. People hate you for not living their pains, their interests, and their lives. Return to the earth and start managing the country effectively and properly.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-12-m0.u25	From the "Opposition Block," Balitsky Evgen Vitaliyovich passes the word Yuri Boyk. Dear colleagues, while Mr. Yuri is on his way. This is the last performance. I'm asking you to invite all the deputies into the hall, and we're about to begin our consideration of the bill. Please, the secretariat of the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-12-m0.u26	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs! When I describe the situation, I will be concise. Two years of reforms reportedly under way under the terms of the "Ukrainian Movement in the European Union" have rejected the country in socio-economic development decades ago. More than half of the Ukrainians lack money until the next salary. Prices are rising, tariffs are rising, unemployment is rising, and the real economy is shrinking at catastrophic rates. At the same time, the minimum wage and pension remain unchanged. Most of the population is already beyond poverty and beyond survival. All of this is the result of irresponsible policies of active power, non-professionalism of government and parliament. The citizens of Ukraine did not receive either the Association with the EU or the visa-free regime, and the majority of the population in general lost financial opportunities for travel. The Ukrainian Parliament has never listened to the European Parliament's recommendations on improving the efficiency of its work. On the contrary, the current authorities are closing down their Euro-perspectives by means of their methods of campaigning against bribery, intimidation, and violence. It is unlikely that the European practice of hitting a metal rod on the head could be viewed as having happened to the district manager of 114 counties, resulting in a disability. Once again, we call on law enforcement authorities to investigate this incident promptly and impartially. We believe that the situation in the country is critical. It is necessary to urgently adopt draft laws to stabilize the situation and improve the welfare of citizens, namely: lower tariffs; index government pensions and wages and additional inflation; review a number of provisions of the Tax Code to help farmers, small and medium-sized businesses; prioritize job growth; adopt a package of laws necessary to implement the Minsk Accords and resolve the situation in Donbas. Last week, we asked Parliament to take responsibility and start working for the benefit of Ukrainian citizens or to vote on a decision on self-refoulement and voluntary surrender of mandates. We are prepared to do so, and we hope that there will be 120 persons in the room who are able to answer for their actions before the electorate. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-12-m0.u27	Dear colleagues, statements from factions, groups are complete. Let's move on to the agenda. The first question we have is a bill, which the previous time for adoption did not receive literally two votes and we sent it back to the first reading. Only because of the misunderstandings and discussions that took place in the hall. And it's very important for Euro-integration processes and a number of factions have actually demanded that we look at it and start working from it. This is 2009a of the Environmental Impact Assessment Act. This is a rereading of the first reading. And I'm putting the rapporteurs to the vote and I'm going to take it up with a reduced procedure. Dear colleagues, please take up your jobs. Now I'm going to make a proposal for a reduced procedure. Please. So who supports the 2009 proposal for a simplified procedure please vote. Please, my colleagues, we're voting. [[10:33:18]] For 113 113. Colleagues, I'll put it again, if it's not 150, we'll follow the full procedure. I ask you to look at the order of the day, there are questions that are important to each faction, I emphasize, for each faction. So who's in favour of the 2009 summary procedure, please vote. Please, we're voting on our colleagues. [[10:34:01]] For 134 134 for. There is no political will. There is a desire to give a thorough consideration to the bill. Let's go over the full reading. And I invite you to report to the Secretary of the Committee on Environmental Policy, Environmental Management and the Elimination of the Consequences of the Chernobyl disaster, Edna Ostak Volodymyrovich. Please, Ostap Volodymyrovich, please report. Please turn on the microphone of Edna Ostap Volodymyrovich for the report.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-12-m0.u28	Dear Mr. Head! Dear National Deputies! I want to apologize for not having the opportunity to present this impeccable bill from the Supreme Council rostrum. It was on Friday last week that Pete Cox and I had a conversation about parliamentary ethics, sadly, that we were far from reaching high standards. Allow me to present to you the draft Ukrainian Environmental Impact Assessment Act (2009)a, which we have been working on on on behalf of the Committee and by order of the Supreme Council Order of 19 May 2016, which we have been working on in the Committee on Environmental Policy. The aim of the bill is to establish legal and organisational principles for environmental impact assessment and to ensure compliance by Ukraine with international obligations under the Convention on Environmental Impact Assessment in the Trans-border Context and the Convention on Access to Information, Public Participation in Decision-making and Access to Justice on Environmental Matters (the Aarhus Convention) of which Ukraine is a party, as well as implementation of national legislation on Euro Directives. The bill is complementary to the comments and suggestions of the Ukrainian National Deputies, the central executive authorities, the Ministry of Nature, and experts. In the drafting of the bill, terminology, a well - defined list of activities, and objects included in the bill’s spheres, and so on. In particular, a revised article 3 of the bill contains a somewhat softened requirement for environmental impact assessments, such as a distinction between environmental impact assessments and multi-floor housing. This assessment is made in the case of more than 10 acres [10 ha] in the forest, a difference in the ODS for gas supply to the population, an increase in the height of wind power plants for environmental impact assessment from 15 meters [15 m] to 50 meters [50 m] and above. The bill, at its meeting on 14 June 2016, considered a draft of the Ukrainian Environmental Impact Assessment Act, which had been finalized for the first time, and recommended that the Supreme Council of Ukraine accept it as a basis. I want to say that this is not the first time last week that this bill has had a chance to come before the Supreme Council several times, but because of blocking the rostrum and not wanting some political forces to adopt important environmental bills, it has unfortunately not been voted on. Now we have this chance, I want to say that this is very important for the environment, to ensure the quality of life of our citizens for the safety of the environment. And so I ask all the factions, the people's deputies, to support this bill on the basis. If there are comments or suggestions made by national deputies, we will certainly consider them as part of our second reading by doing the proper work on the committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-12-m0.u29	Thank you, Your Honor. Please record the interviewer's questions and the answers. Please record. Please turn on the microphone, Kishkar Paul.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-12-m0.u30	Dear colleagues, it is unfortunate that to such a thorough and sufficiently profound, in its content, conceptual bill, so low the attention of the national MPs. As a representative of the People's Movement of Ukraine, I urge you to support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-12-m0.u31	Thank you. Debt Alexander, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-12-m0.u32	Thank you. The distinguished presiding, respected colleagues will certainly support the opposition bloc's environmental legislation to minimize the negative impact on the environment. However, I would like to comment on the statement made by the previous representatives of several factions that have created the so-called democratic coalition initially, which are now blocking the rostrum of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The fact is, not only does the current government have the full blame for the tariffs, they blame the President, the Prime Minister, but it's not true. The whole pack of IMF laws, they also voted very disciplinedly and hard, it's also the Fatherland, it's the Radical Party. The whole package of IMF laws, for which the debt of public derivatives that will be spoken of later is also to blame for the power in force, is also not true. The foundation was originally put to the vote, so there is no need to deceive the people.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-12-m0.u33	Thank you very much. The questions, the answers are complete. Let's move on to the factions. Dear colleagues, I'll have your permission to contact all the deputies who are in the hall. We've got a day-to-day fund for the CVA for the election. The TV and radio bill (3504). Today, there is a draft Act on Military Duty and Military Service by Alona Skrum, amending article 13 of the Ukrainian Law on External Economic Activities to Reduce the Deficit Deficit of Black Metals in the Internal Market, which is very important for our manufacturers. Tell me, if we don't adopt these laws, will Ukraine become stronger or weaker? I'm addressing all the national MPs. Because by balancing work in the hall, we question the ability to adopt these laws. I ask every faction to gather and consult. We are in a particular political reality. We will either adopt these laws today, or we will not accept them, and we will consider each bill in a long two-hour procedure. I very much ask you to hold internal meetings of the workers and move on to more effective and productive work. Because there are bills that have been insisted upon by all the factions that are in Parliament. Now I'm announcing the factions. But I hope we're going to be very dynamic about this bill and move on to the next one. I'm really counting on it, colleagues. So, whoever wants to speak from the factions in this bill, please record. From the Opposition Block, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-12-m0.u34	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I would very much like to have the attention of the country's national deputies, honourable colleagues, to have the attention of such important bills in the hall, because this Environmental Impact Assessment Act is actually a bill that fully fits European approaches to this issue and contains a lot of interesting positives. The faction of the political party "The Opposition Block" is planning to support this bill. But I am addressing our head of Parliament. Mr. Parobius, listen carefully. Look, this is a very important bill. But when this bill was considered on 19 May 2016, I made my remarks about the fact that the bill was registered on 22 February 2016, 2009a-d. The bill was written by Tomenko Mikola Volodymyrovich. On March 25th, as far as you know, Tomenko Mikola Volodymyrovich was deprived of parliamentary authority. Please explain in what way and according to what rule of the Rules a bill where the subject of the legislative initiative is no longer available, after he has completed his mandate, is being considered in May when the author of the bill is not present. Well, that's never happened in the Supreme Council of Ukraine, because all of the bills, if the MPs make up their powers, they're considered to be repulsed. And given the importance of this bill, I would ask very much when I consider it, when I register it, if I make the following changes, that we follow the Rules. Because today it turns out that this number in our electronic database means a completely different author, who first appeared in an electronic database in the authorship of 22.02.2016. Well, there's no such thing. So I'd like that very much. We support this bill, but I'm asking the initiators that, if you're drafting such important bills, please follow the Rules. Because if we even vote today, if it is accepted as a whole, it gives rise to the submission of an absolutely reasoned letter from the Ukrainian national deputy, and it cannot then be signed by the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, because it is a law that has been adopted with gross violations of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-12-m0.u35	Thank you, Mr. Mikhail. Let me remind you, we had a "question to the head" section before that, and there were three members of "the opposition block" that would be correct then to ask a question. But once you've done it, so be it. I, with your permission, will give the floor to one of the drafters of the bill, who will explain the situation in detail, Mrs. Irina Heratchenko, then give the floor to the other speakers. Please, Mrs. Irina, and please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-12-m0.u36	First of all, I want to thank you, Mr. Andrew, for giving your word. Second, we should go to the representative of the Opposition Block for an explanation. If you, a distinguished colleague, remember, this bill is just part of our commitment to the implementation of the Association Agreement and there is a deadline, we have to adopt this bill by the end of 2016. And in this case, we want to thank your faction for supporting it. At the same time, when the bill was drafted, with the participation of representatives of the ministry and representatives of the non-governmental civil society sector, it received comments from the side of business, from the side of small and medium-sized businesses. Because of the initiatives in this case and business representatives, and in particular those who support their positions in Parliament, a special working group was set up at the committee, which worked on the bill until the first read. And this group actually included not only the then head of the committee of Mikola Tomenko, but also all the members of the committee, particularly Mr. Rybak, who was now speaking, and his colleague, the same, who is working very actively on this committee, Oxana Prodan, who entered this committee and worked on all of these positions in order for us to come up with a coherent solution, which in this case is very actively protecting both environmental and business positions. And it's this option that's a good example when Parliament, in particular the Parliament's parliamentary committee, actually, for which I'm also very grateful, did some of the work of the copyright team when it was working on these positions. And it's actually not just a deputy's job, which is now not our colleague, which you've mentioned, but the entire committee, which we're very grateful for. And in fact today, I call on the entire session room to support this bill, because it is, firstly, complementary, it meets the highest requirements of European legislation regarding the protection of ecology. But they also found compromising positions in the context of (from) protection of the Ukrainian manufacturer, business, investor and non-Ukrainian, including. And the committee here has done a very good job working with both business representatives and NGOs. We need to support this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-12-m0.u37	Dear colleagues, I understand that Mrs. Victoria Sumar has the floor now. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-12-m0.u38	Good afternoon, gentlemen. Colleagues, obviously, you're listening to each other's logic, and here's these calls -- let's work, let's not go to the holidays, and at the same time, you come to the hall with a desire to work, and the rostrum is blocked. Is there a sound logic in this? Well, obviously it doesn't make any sense. There is a political logic to this. It is very different from the healthy logic of calling on people not to go to vacations, but at the same time blocking Parliament's work when there are so many very important documents in the daytime. And in this case, it's obviously clear that this is political logic. This is a political logic that relates to the break-up of parliament because someone is keenly interested in today’s out - of - turn elections. And it doesn't matter, in principle, that people don't want it, and people want to see how we can make deals, how we can make laws. Because someone has an increasing rating, and it is extremely important to make Parliament ineffective today. And this, by the way, is not just a challenge to the opposition. The opposition will always do what it has to do to get to power. It's actually a challenge to you and me, colleagues, to those MPs that are in the coalition today, because we can't provide an appearance, because we have the summer. And it is a shame that Ukrainians today will not see a successful vote for such important documents as what we are currently looking at. And it allows us to estimate the environmental risks in the position of the European Union. And raise these environmental standards and make a proper assessment. It's a shame that we can't support Ukrainian cinema today, because this bill on state support for cinema today is in order of the day, and it could start Ukrainian film production. And this is actually a huge cultural story that needs to be made today, because to get rid of the influence of this Russian culture today on Ukraine. Obviously, we have a change to the Television and Radio Act, and we will hardly find votes to that, all of which, because today political logic is imposing responsibility over, unfortunately, responsibility. So I think this is all actually working against each and every one of us here. Because the responsible position is to adopt laws and demonstrate to Ukrainian society that we can make deals for specific purposes. We don't know, and this is really a big problem for the Ukrainian Parliament today. I urge everyone to work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-12-m0.u39	Thank you, Mrs. Victoria. Colleagues, the factions have officially signed up to represent only two factions, the Opposal and the People's Front. Is there yet a desire to speak from factions? He only raises his hand for the People's Front. Your faction was your esteemed colleague, Victoria Sumar. Dear colleagues! There are no more wantons of factions to speak. I hope that this means supporting the bill, which is part of the implementation of the Association Agreement and has a clear deadline of 2016. I'm asking you to sign up for the speeches by the Ukrainian National Deputies. Please. Please, Mr. Dudenkov of the Opposition Block, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-12-m0.u40	Hello, distinguished colleagues, once again. The faction of the Opposition Block. Once again, the opposition bloc faction will support this bill, because it aims to protect the environment, to improve the environment, because it is unfortunately very high in Ukraine. Pollution is declining, but not because we are taking adequate measures to protect the environment, improve public environmental policies and improve the environment. This is due to the fact that business productivity has actually dropped. This is the reality of today. Businesses, factories stand. Because there's no market. Against the background of political hysteria, against the backdrop of some pseudo-patriotic slogans, unfortunately we are not doing economics. Look at the drafts that we are currently considering, which block of drafts. There are no pension or tax reforms, no economic reforms aimed at increasing productivity and competitiveness. We don't stand face to face with domestic business. We do not create appropriate incentives for the development of funds, industrial means of production. We do not create any incentives in the tax area. Last week, we were considering a number of drafts that could not be described as reformers. They are small. We talked about tax reform, but we didn't. Once again, I would like to point out that, indeed, the main problem now is the social problem. We also spoke of the need to consider and reform the monetary sphere. I'm talking about deofshoring. Regrettably, however, the President signed this decree establishing a working group, but no bills have been registered. Bills on monetary liberalization have not been registered. These are the things that are necessary, the injection that is needed to increase the pace of economic development, in order to increase incentives for investment. Ukraine is not investment attractive. Of course, the main issues are social now. It's a question of tariffs. But these are also equally relevant issues, the transfer of part of GDP to meet the creditor requirement. I'll repeat the tariffs. The entire IMF package of laws, which was necessary to obtain the tranches, was voted on by all five factions that formed a coalition in the past. Only the faction of the Opposition Block spoke of the negativity and negativity of voting for the IMF package. Since we have voted and received money now, we will have consequences, a negative social impact tomorrow and tomorrow. It's tomorrow and the day after tomorrow. Unfortunately, some factions do not want to share this responsibility. We are talking about the need to resume the negotiations.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-12-m0.u41	Thank you. Please, from the People's Front, National MP Vanat.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-12-m0.u42	Peter Vanat, People's Front. I give the floor to my colleague Paul Ungurian.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-12-m0.u43	Please turn on Mr. Ungurian's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-12-m0.u44	Dear colleagues, of course, the bill that we are currently considering refers to the number of reform laws. What is reform? The reform is that instead of the Soviet environment, called (environmental impact assessments), we will introduce European environmental impact assessment standards. The point is that we have two very serious European conventions to which the State of Ukraine has joined. The first is the Espoo Convention. This is an environmental impact assessment in the context of cross-border cooperation. When any object that's built on the territory of a state is affected or affected by interests, especially environmental ones, of a neighbouring country. And Ukraine has different experiences with both this convention and its Directorate regarding our questions, such as the Danube River, about, for example, the construction of the deep - water waterway through the river Bistra, which connects the Danube River and the Black Sea. Ukraine was a few years ago on the verge of receiving a warning from the Espoo Convention, precisely because our legislation does not meet the European Union’s legislation and requirements. Another convention is the famous Aarhus Convention, the Convention on Public Access to Environmental Decision-making. And it's in this law that we see that the ministry led by Ostap Semerak, our committee, our colleagues, worked very hard to bring the public closer to the process of discussion and decision-making on important environmental issues of any building. That is why we need to support this bill. Because: (a) it's a real environmental reform, it's a question and a toolbox, it's a question and a terminology, it's a question and a process of doing business, it's a procedure for making decisions. And this is our European integration path. This is an approach to the Espoo Convention standards and an approach to the Aarhus Convention standards. So there is a huge request for us to support the bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-12-m0.u45	Dear colleagues, I have an offer for you because I see the deputies are already in the hall. Now there are three speakers from the Opposition Block and two from the Peter Dustenk Block. Could it be that one of the Opposition Blocks, one of the Dusts, is going to go to the vote. Is that okay with you? You can do it. "Peter Dust Block" can we agree on that? Thank you. So, from the Opposition Block, Paul Constantine, who will he hand over to? Please announce on the microphone you're passing on.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-12-m0.u46	Constantine Pavlov, 31st Majority District, the town of Curve Horn. Respectable colleagues are certainly a very important bill on environmental impacts. And, of course, a very important and positive factor in this law determines public participation in the definition of environmental impacts. Because it is for the communities of cities, districts, villages, areas to determine not only which country, which city, politicalally, to live in our children, but also the important environmental impact. The Opposition Unit will therefore support this bill as one of the laws that unites both the Hall and Ukraine and our Ukrainian Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-12-m0.u47	Thank you. From the Peter Prashenko Block, Neda Oleg Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-12-m0.u48	[[Unheard]]
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-12-m0.u49	Criminal, well, advertise on the microphone, it's not that hard. Please, Krivenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-12-m0.u50	Dear colleagues, Victor Krivenko, the National Movement of Ukraine. Two days ago, we were doing a campaign in Dnipropetrovsk, where we had a run from the People's Movement of Horisco Dmitry in 27 counties. And environmental activists have been telling and showing documents of the terrible things that are happening in our environment: in newborn babies, 300 times the amount of heavy metals in our hair exceeds the standard, the stations are thrown into 25, 40 times the allowed concentration of emissions into the atmosphere. You and I have a norse farm built in the ecological heart of Dnipropetrovska, in the Petrikowsk district, in the village of Sulgivka, which has been built without documents, where the land is stolen and all these violations are there. And this farm is working, and now it's starting to sink into a hole of heat. Similarly, without a normal public discussion, it was launched and we have an environmental disaster, instead of creating a national environmental park for over 8 years. And without the adoption of this bill, we will not be able to systematically warn ecologically dangerous objects. It is very important that this bill does not affect active business and those who are currently working should work in the normative field in which they started their work and decided to invest in Ukraine. But new objects must be fully in line with European standards, for this will be one of the major obstacles to obtaining European investments, obtaining European loans, not under the State’s control, not in debt to our children, but under real business projects. So I strongly urge all parties, all those who are blocking the rostrum today: this is not a political issue, block the rostrum, and do not vote on the issues that are important to your political opponents, and the issue of ecology is the question of our children's future, and this is the question of life expectancy, life expectancy and their quality. I urge everyone to make an exception and to vote this law, it is very important. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-12-m0.u51	Thank you. Thank you for understanding. Dear colleagues, we have completed our discussion with the deputies and there will be a vote in three minutes. I very much ask the secretariat of the Supreme Council to inform the deputies, as well as the heads of factions, to invite deputies to the decision-making room. And under the Rules of Procedure, I give the floor to Ostap Semerak. Please, Ostap Semerak.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-12-m0.u52	Thank you, Your Honor. I would like to inform you that the bill that we are now considering together is a bill of parliament. Meanwhile, the Government of Ukraine has supported this bill and the Ministry of Environment and Natural Resources has been actively involved in the preparation of an updated draft of the bill, which is being discussed in the Hall today. Without exaggeration, I would like to say that systemic reforms in the protection of the environment should start with an environmental impact assessment. Such an assessment is a requirement of European politics and this is a harmonisation of our legislation with European law. Finally, the preservation of the protection of the natural environment should be the foundation of Ukrainian politics and principles of how to shape our strategy, our policy-making strategy, our future strategy. At a time when Ukrainian society is suffering from a shortage of drinking water, when deserts are taking over larger and larger areas in southern Ukraine, when we have problems with air and water pollution, first of all, in industrial regions, such as Dnipropetrovština or Donecina, or Zaporozhye, together we have no right to ignore this bill. It is discussed for the third time in Parliament, all the comments that have been discussed with the factions and on the committee, the environmental committee, the environmental committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. He's the name of the government I'd like to ask you to support this bill in the first reading and the second reading to work together on those observations that will be made by the people's deputies. And I would like to conclude by saying that this bill is supported by an environmental society and a community that is widely representative of all regions of Ukraine, and this is a very important moment for us to support the environmental conservation movement in Ukraine. Thank you and I hope for your support.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-12-m0.u53	Thank you. During the discussion, the honourable colleagues expressed their firm and firm support for the bill. I'm asking you to show the same unity in making decisions right now. I'm asking all the deputies to come into the hall and take jobs. Are you guys ready? I, my dear colleagues, ask everyone to take up their jobs. And I'm betting on the vote. First of all, let's go, guys, I'm being asked by the authors of the Ratings Act. Do we let that happen? Is there no objection?
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-12-m0.u54	No one's denying it. I stand on the vote first for the mobilization of our forces in the 2009 Parliament. Dear colleagues, please take part in the vote, colleagues. Please vote, please. Let's vote, colleagues. [[11:05:38]] For 251 Well, it's a victory, not less than a word. Dear colleagues, I'm voting on the draft Environmental Impact Assessment Act (No2009a), according to the committee's decision, as a basis. Whoever supports this decision, please vote. Colleagues, we vote 2009a as a base, MP. [[11:06:16]] For 256 Decision taken. Welcome to the drafters, Mr. Secretary. Colleagues. "d", "tier d", 2009a-d. Colleagues, look, let's concentrate. There are still bills that are non-conflict, but very important. And once again, every faction has its own representation among those bills. Now let's take this as a group and go through it quickly and efficiently as the Ukrainian Parliament can work. So the next one on a daily basis, once again, is the environmental bill that the Ministry asked for, and many deputies, is 3259 -- draft of the Strategic Environmental Assessment Act. There is also a proposal from the committee to consider it as a reduced procedure. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. 3259 – short procedure. Please vote, colleagues. [[11:07:24]] For-170. 170 for. Decision taken. And I invite you to report to the Secretary of the Committee on Environmental Policy, Environmental Management and the Elimination of the Consequences of the Chernobyl disaster, Edna Ostak Volodymyrovich. Mr. Ednak, please report.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-12-m0.u55	Dear Mr. Head, honourable national deputies, the first reading of the Supreme Council introduces a draft Ukrainian Law on Strategic Environmental Assessment. The bill is designed to adapt Ukraine's legislation to the European Union's legislation in order to establish the scope and order of implementation of the strategic environmental assessment according to the approaches set out in the euro directives. The main objectives of the implementation of the strategic environmental assessment are to integrate environmental objectives and priorities into government planning documents, to integrate procedures for strategic environmental assessment into the preparation of State planning documents in accordance with similar procedures of developed countries, including the European Union, to disseminate strategic environmental assessment practices to local programmes. The bill defines the scope of the strategic environmental assessment, the establishment of procedures for its implementation, the mechanism for conducting cross-border consultations, information on decision-making, monitoring of the implementation of strategies and plans for state programmes, national targets and software documents. Our committee has decided to support it as a basis. I'd like to ask the people's deputies in the same way as the previous bill, because ecology is supposed to be out of politics, and I would like to ask the people's deputies to support the bill on the basis of it. I also want to say that the European Union is ready to assist the Ministry of Environment and Natural Resources in implementing both the bill and the environmental impact assessment bill. There are already sectoral support programmes for regulatory documents, so in fact our state is ready to implement these standards, the issue only of the Supreme Council. So I'm going to ask you to support this as a basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-12-m0.u56	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I'd like you to sign in for two, two against. Let's do it as precisely as possible. Two for, two against, please. Please, Rybak.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-12-m0.u57	Dear colleagues, the bill was dealt with on our committee thoroughly. So I really want to thank all the colleagues who voted in 2009 for the long-suffering bill in this room. And I hope that, for one part of the environmental impact assessment, for a strategic environmental assessment, this room will vote no less actively. Therefore, our faction will vote in favour of the bill and will call on everyone in this room to support it as well. I would like to speak separately to our colleagues who do not vote in favour of these important bills, which have an important future for our country. You're saying that you're in the future, you're saying that you're in favour of Ukraine, so vote for the bills that will give Ukraine's future children a chance to live in a clean country. Vote, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-12-m0.u58	Germano Vasil Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-12-m0.u59	I'm taking down the question.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-12-m0.u60	He's making a speech. Dear colleagues, there will be a final speech after the vote. I'm asking everyone to come into the hall, take jobs. And I give the floor to Ungurian Paul Yakimovitch. Please, Unguran.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-12-m0.u61	Dear colleagues, another bill we are considering regarding environmental protection. This bill deals with strategic issues. It is very good that there is a unit in the Ukrainian Ministry of Environment and Natural Resources that deals with strategic environmental policy. It's very good that there's a normative framework that relates to, in fact, the national action and planning plan, the strategic planning for the development of the conservation sector in Ukraine. I want to remind you that the main, basic document of the global level is what's called a sustainable development strategy, or sustainable development, which is adopted at a well-known Rio summit. And since Rio, Rio plus 10, Rio plus 20. This is a global document that allows for strategic planning for the development of entire nations, entire continents based on harmonious development and a combination of economic indicators, social indicators and environmental, environmental, resource-efficient indicators. And actually the bill that we're looking at right now is completely in the context of a sustainable development strategy. Of course, there is a question for him, of course, that we can work it out in preparation for the second reading. But in the first reading, it's worth supporting, because any development planning of the state, any development planning of any sector in Ukraine, has to be done not only through the development of economic indicators, not only through the production of social standards, but also through the identification of environmental priorities, identifiers and coefficients. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-12-m0.u62	Thank you. Colleagues, they're still demanding Saucuk Yuri, one minute. And Vladimir Litwin, one minute. Please, Savichuk. And I ask you to come into the hall of all the national deputies.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-12-m0.u63	Dear colleagues, Your Honor Andrija Volodymyrovich! Today the Ukrainian people are looting in Volina. Under the appearance of so-called sanitary scars on the Wall, national wealth — the Ukrainian forest — is being destroyed. For objectivity, I will start with information on the growth of sanitary scars. From 2011 to 2015, the volume of sanitary sections increased by 300 percent. Why did the disease of the trees begin to progress so suddenly? The trees didn't stop, I'll tell you, dear colleagues, more sick. Just spiritually ill people for profit, with the aim of increasing their wallets, increase the volume of the sanitary section. This is an adversarial event with the participation of the RD "Rualneliso-protector" led by Kochtuk Sergey Markovich and the head of "Volinlis" by Alexander Quaterko. Thus, the honourable colleagues, the sanitary sections of the forest on Volina, and I count that in Ukraine as well, have turned into a tool for stealing wood and.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-12-m0.u64	Mr. Yuri, please, ten seconds. But you have a bill to make, please. It's a bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-12-m0.u65	This is directly because it's about ecology. I'm counting that this is not happening without the cracking of the force structures and the executive power. That's why I'm asking you to count your request to the Attorney General before.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-12-m0.u66	Thank you very much. The machine's heard enough. Please, Vladimir Litwin. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-12-m0.u67	Dear Head! Dear colleagues! The bill is up to date and obviously needs to be adopted. Because today most areas of Ukraine can be declared zones or areas of ecological disaster. Let me give you an example. Baraniv district of the Žitomir region, as a result of the dumping of toxic substances from enterprises located in the Hmelnitsk district, the poisoned River of Gomorrah, and the Land from which people drink water. There is no practical solution to all appeals. What happened was that it took a specialist to get the D.A. to enter the cardboard-paper factory in order to find out the circumstances of the dumping of the poisoned substances. For all the MPs, it is not possible to get a clear answer, which means that in Kiev someone is large enough to cover up the work of such enterprises. I would ask the Ministry to give a reasonable answer, but the main thing is to use exhaustive ones.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-12-m0.u68	Thank you. Dear colleagues! I ask everyone to take up their jobs, prepare for the vote. I ask everyone to prepare for the decision. That's just the basis, colleagues. The bill, which is supported by all, all the factions expressed their support for the bill. It is now important by our vote, by our action to confirm our position. Dear colleagues, I'm voting on the draft Law on Strategic Environmental Assessment (number 3259) as a basis. Dear colleagues, I ask you to vote and then to discuss it. Who supports the proposal on the basis of 3259, please vote, colleagues. Vote. [[11:17:42]] For 215 Colleagues, I see you haven't made it. I'm asking you to come into the hall. I'm asking the minister one minute before the interview. And if you'll excuse me, I'll be back in a minute, but I'd like the deputies to come into the hall and prepare for the vote. Please, Mr. Ostap.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-12-m0.u69	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that this bill ensures the implementation of the Protocol on Strategic Environmental Assessment of the Convention on Environmental Impact Assessment in the Transboundary Context, ratified by the Supreme Council of Ukraine last July. A very interesting fact is historical. This number of European countries signed, and a number of European countries signed this protocol during the 2003 Ministerial Conference in Kiev. And since 2003, all the countries of the European Union have ratified and approved similar laws. All of them without exception. Only Ukraine, which was the initiator, remained because the conference was held in Kiev. And Ukraine today made a choice in favour of the green economy. This means that the reconstruction of the state must take place exclusively in the framework of sustainable or environmentally balanced development. I think it is time to approve such a bill and also to fulfill our obligations to us.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-12-m0.u70	Give me a few votes. Comrades, my friends! Well, then it'll be with the bill of everyone. Well, a few votes isn't enough. I'm begging you, colleagues. I'm asking for both the Fatherland faction and the Radical Party, and all the colleagues who are in the hall, well, it has nothing to do with any political debate. We're missing literally a few votes. I'm asking you to come into the hall. Ladies and gentlemen, I'll put you to a vote. I'm asking you to take up jobs. Tanya! If you don't mind, Tanya. Oh, no? Colleagues, so I'm voting or we're able to vote on this bill right now. If not, I'll have to declare it rejected. Dear colleagues, please take part in the vote. Please, colleagues, we're voting. [[11:20:33]] For 219 Five votes. I'll put the bill back on the table now, if there are no votes, the bill will be rejected, colleagues. Colleagues, that's it. Yes. Please prepare for the vote, colleagues. Please prepare for the vote. Everyone in the hall, colleagues? Have they all been invited? Everyone in the workplace? I am voting on the proposal to go back to the draft Environmental Assessment Act (3259). Whoever supports this proposal please vote. We vote colleagues, we vote. [[11:22:37]] For 236 Thank you, we're back. Colleagues, so I'm voting on the draft Law on Strategic Environmental Assessment No. 3259. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to vote for my colleagues. Please vote. [[11:23:03]] For 239. 239 for. The decision is made, welcome to the authors, welcome to the committee. Mr. Secretary, I welcome you to the bill you passed. Colleagues, now let me ask you to advise, please don't break up. Here's the next Bill of Birds of Victoria Yuriovna. Should we put him to the vote? Does he have voices in the hall? Do you guys have voices in the hall? May. Okay. Let's go. There is a proposal to consider draft Law No. 4696 as a simplified procedure. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. Please, we're voting colleagues, we're voting. Short-term procedure. [[11:23:52]] For 169 169 for. Decision taken. I have Mrs. Victoria's request, as concise as possible, so that we can move dynamically. Please. Please turn on the microphone. Turn on the microphone in the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-12-m0.u71	Dear colleagues, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that our task with you is to create such favourable conditions for business in Ukraine so that business companies can actually work here. This bill is about small and medium-sized businesses, and most of the time thousands of Freelancers are waiting for this bill. This bill is also of interest to those who provide their IT services, legal services, accountants, designers, realists and so on -- those who export their services abroad. Unfortunately, today’s export procedure is very bureaucratic. The administrative barriers provided by the laws are blocking this segment of the Ukrainian economy and effectively blocking the export of services, and every day our country loses money and loses its best specialists. Especially now, it's about IT businesses that are leaving Ukraine, because abroad they're offered more favourable conditions for doing business. The bill simplifies bureaucratic monetary control procedures, excludes mandatory service delivery requirements, admits an initial document, proposes recognition of electronic signatures instead of outdated seals and signatures on paper documents. This bill, if we accept it with you, we will help, first of all, to return the operations from the export of services to the legal field, and second of all, it will help Ukrainian entrepreneurs, especially small and medium-sized businesses, to become competitive. And this will, of course, contribute to the revenue coming into the budget, and in fact, it will allow entrepreneurs to develop their businesses as comfortably as possible in Ukraine and prevent this intellectual capital from being exported outside Ukraine. I want you to note that the state that wants to raise its economy is creating favourable conditions for doing business itself.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-12-m0.u72	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-12-m0.u73	So separately, I want to address our blocking rostrums and those who are fighting offshors right now and stress that if you want to create better conditions for small and medium-sized businesses in Ukraine, and you're just speaking for not creating an offshor, please make an exception to your blockage and please support this bill. I am sure that many representatives of small and medium-sized businesses will thank you for this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-12-m0.u74	Dear colleagues, please two for, two for for, two for against, as concise as possible. Please, Anointed.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-12-m0.u75	Andrew Pomazanov, People's Front faction. Dear colleagues, in fact, as the author of Victoria the Birdman pointed out, this bill is almost revolutionary, it really simplifies business, it simplifies the export of our services abroad. But in the meantime, there are not only benefits in this bill, but there are some shortcomings, and I'm convinced that we can work on all of these flaws in our second reading. Our faction has decided unanimously to support this bill and even the shortcomings that are in this bill, for example, when we amend the Law on International Private Law, which is proposed after the words "place of residence" to complement the words "place of registration," we do not see any changes to legal persons, namely the term "place of residence" which is used when legal persons are used in this context. But I think these flaws are quite unimportant, and we can basically correct them for the second reading. But I still want to join Mrs. Victoria, and when she calls on those who are now completely uninstructively blocking the rostrum and refusing to vote for the development of our small and medium-sized business, I want to probably disappoint Mrs. Victoria, I don't think this appendicia of the former coalition that has been cut off, that still hurts and kind of puffs up around the rostrum, they're not going to support progressive ideas. But our faction, convinced, will vote unanimously and we will support any changes that will allow our small and medium-sized business to work more effectively. And those IT silencers and other professions that are now most needed not to leave our country, but to live in our country and use our state as a jobplacer. So please support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-12-m0.u76	Yes. Ladies and gentlemen, I have a meeting with the speakers, all who support it. The more dynamic we speak, the shorter we speak. I'll give my word to everyone, well, Mrs. Alexander, I'll give it to everyone, don't worry. All I'm asking is that it's as concise as possible. Please, from Self-Help, Happy Natalia Vasilovna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-12-m0.u77	Please pass the word to your colleague Semenhe Roman.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-12-m0.u78	Dear colleagues, Mr. Head, the proposed bill certainly deserves support. Today, the existing government currency control in the area of export services does not actually perform the declared functions. There is no control; instead, there is only a collection of documents for the formal removal of export transactions from the account. It should be understood that, unlike exports of goods, the fact that services are exported is such that it cannot be clearly controlled by the controlling authority. How can a banking institution control transactions that it only knows about when it makes a donation to the country. That is to say, control is carried out, not on the basis of the return of proceeds to Ukraine, but on the sole basis of the availability of a paper supporting document that creates real obstacles for a small business. I would like to remind you that in July 2015, the National Bank of Ukraine, by letter, has already significantly denied control over the process of exporting non-resident services via the Internet. But it's believed that this kind of liberalisation is half the size, because it only extends to certain kinds of relationships in the field of IT services. A large number of export services remained outside the scope of this liberalisation. For example, transportation services that account for 53 percent of the total number of export services. Above all, there remains a legally secured foreign exchange control over the return of proceeds and the requirement to place a package of documents for such exports in the bank’s office. Therefore, the legislative initiative greatly simplifies the activities of Ukrainian exporting companies. Second, it contributes to childhood, and accordingly increases the government budget. Therefore, the Self-Help faction strongly supports the bill in the first reading, calling on all colleagues in the session room to support it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-12-m0.u79	Thank you very much. Yuri Solovay, please be brief, Mr. Yuri.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-12-m0.u80	Yuri Solovay, 79th constituency, Gutzulščina and Poksi. Dear colleagues, as long as the whole world is talking about renewable energy and the whole state's transition to alternative energy and renewable energy as the world is talking about solar batteries, electric cars, the Ukrainian Parliament is talking about what the world is forgetting long ago: about gas and those energy sources that in 5-10 years will no longer be used anywhere else in the world. When we're looking at the Ukrainian Services Export Act today, it's one of the few laws that allows us to raise those competitive sectors of the Ukrainian economy that just enable us to increase gross domestic product, such as IT technology. And those simplifications, especially monetary ones, are essential today. Because what's going on? Today, our programmers, our designers, through these artificial constraints, leave our country and start working in the United States, Canada, in Britain, instead of working in Ukraine, increasing and restoring the Ukrainian market and working for the growth of the Ukrainian economy. That's why I'm asking all my colleagues in the hall to support the bill. And what's more, to give more attention to the economic bills, the bills that create and stimulate the modern, the trends in the economy that today's world is living on. And those who block, believe me, are the past of the Ukrainian Parliament and the past of Ukrainian politics. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-12-m0.u81	Thank you. Moroko Yuri Mikolaiovich. Then there's Kugel.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-12-m0.u82	Please pass the word to Gusak.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-12-m0.u83	Vladimir Gusak, Opposition Block. Dear colleagues, this bill is called "to remove administrative barriers to export services." And the Explanatory Note highlights the export of computer services, which has dropped 14 percent in 2015, and is now almost $1 billion. Maybe that's a good idea, but let's see what's going on in the exporting country in general and in the export of goods in particular. During the first 4 months of 2016, exports of goods from Ukraine dropped by 14 percent compared to 2015, and twice, think twice, compared to 2014. And that's not surprising, because this Parliament and this government are hardly dealing with the real sector. Let me give you some specific examples. Because the Crucifixion has been unable to increase freight transports to Mariupola for a year and a half, the metallurgical combinations can't work there at full capacity, and Ukraine loses half a billion dollars a year. In turn, our Parliament has not for months considered important laws on industrial parks, support for domestic engineering, aircraft building, support for the South. As far as IT services are concerned. I'd like to remind you that it's this coalition that in its own time cancelled the tax system for IT services. But, dear colleagues, our IT exporters are not to blame for that.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-12-m0.u84	Please finish 10 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-12-m0.u85	about the producers. So the faction of the Opposition Block will support this bill in the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-12-m0.u86	Thank you. It's Alexander Kugel one minute and Eugene one minute. Colleagues, in two minutes of making a decision, please come into the hall. And the closing word of Galasjuk. Yes, please, Mrs. Kugel.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-12-m0.u87	Dear colleagues, you know that I refer to those politicians who have put all my political life in deregulation. But I'm ashamed when the author of Ptashnik says it's a law for small and medium-sized businesses. This service law and idea is a very nice, normal primary idea to free them from the act of confirming the robots they've done. If the money came, the job was done. Simplifying procedures, signing the Inquisition, and so forth, that's a very good idea. The only thing I've asked on the committee is the deputy minister of the economy who's standing in our hands right now. I asked him to do the same for the domestic business. If I've got the money, I don't have to fill out acts like that. To make it even, that's our first requirement. The other one. What warning do I want to give everyone to read it? The bill is being released.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-12-m0.u88	Please, 30 seconds, finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-12-m0.u89	It's not over yet. This bill is exempt from article 1 of the Foreign Currency Act, the calculation. What does that mean? It says, "The winnings of the first article don't extend to the export of jobs, services, intellectual property rights." So we're removing that everyone has to return the currency, they don't. I called Nazbank. They honestly admitted that, for example, IT can't identify them, and that's normal. But I'm making a warning, everybody! What is involved in the services of intellectual property? For example, I supply coal abroad. I supply coal under article number one.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-12-m0.u90	Please, 10 seconds, finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-12-m0.u91	and coal insurance services and transport services fall under intellectual services. And they will have the right not to return the currency.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-12-m0.u92	Mrs. Victoria, this is a short-circuit reading. All right, I'll give you a line. Dear colleagues, only I will tell you who supports this bill: the more we discuss it, the less likely it will be to accept it. That's what we're saying. Please, Eugene, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-12-m0.u93	Unfortunately, dear colleagues, the bill was not considered on our committee. Although there are many changes in accounting besides deregulation. In this regard, I would like to ask you. We have a bill on accounting and financial reporting in Ukraine with the World Bank and the Ministry of Finance, which contains new rules and regulations. And this bill also amends the old Accounting Act. We need this whole chapter of amendments to the Accounting Act to be removed from this bill, because today we are going to put into order a day-to-day basic, basic law on accounting in Ukraine and we are going to be looking at it in full at future meetings. Hence, the draft law, even when first reading it, must be removed. And all the rest of what Alexander Volodymyrn said, we can make changes between the first and the second readings.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-12-m0.u94	Thank you. Please conclude by Halasyuk Viktor Valeriyovich. Please. And two minutes to vote. Everyone, please come into the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-12-m0.u95	Dear colleagues! Bill 4496 removes artificial administrative barriers to export services from Ukraine, including exports of IT services. Today, more than $2 billion in export earnings are being generated by the information technology industry. If we're adopting this law, it's going to give us an extra detinization of the sector, and those who work in the shadows today don't make legal profit will have normal conditions to make it, first of all. Secondly, it will stimulate the development of the sector. See what this is about. To remove the obligation to sign contracts, since contracts are made in electronic form by electronic signature. To make the invasion a primary document today, to eliminate that artificial export control rule that just doesn't work in terms of such services. Because when goods move through customs, you can control it. So if an IT service is sold or an App Store program, what are you going to ask for to sign an act of service? No, it's not. So this bill just puts the legislative field in line with real economic practice, with the international format of such activity, this applies to all services? including IT services. Thus, honourable colleagues, the Committee on Industrial Policy and Entrepreneurship proposes to support the bill in its first reading. I would also like to make a special point by taking this opportunity, Your Honor Andrija Volodymyrovich. This week, we need to consider industrial bills: 4809 – on the development of domestic aircraft construction. Because Antonov will stop. You want the Antons to be just museums on shelves? If not, we have to put the 4809 to a vote. 4130, Southern. The restructuring is an urgent debt to the South because it concerns the entire space sector. It's a bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-12-m0.u96	30 seconds, please. 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-12-m0.u97	The 3872 bill, which concerns every industrialist in the country, to freeze the land tax so that it doesn't get indexed. Because today, according to the law, it's automatically raised to inflation. For two years the bill binds him to inflation. It's supported by a profile committee. Please put in this week and accept. The council can't go to any holiday without adopting these industrial laws. This is about saving whole sectors of the economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-12-m0.u98	Victor Valeriyovich, I'm not holding back. I'm sorry, I'm not holding back. Of those bills you named yesterday, they're in order today. Victor Valeriyovich, standing in order today, the one we're looking at right now. Then there's 3868, then there's the plane building today. And you're talking to us, are we who vote and work in the hall against it? Then I'll turn to you. Guys, get up and work in the workplace. And not once, not this week, but today, everybody. There's a chance that all those bills will be accepted. Don't call us. Call the faction, work, vote together. The hall is set up constructively, and I'm sure we can make decisions if we put the political aspects aside. Colleagues, I'm asking you to take up jobs and move on to making decisions. Please persuade your colleagues to support this bill as extremely important. Mr. Victor, I ask everyone to prepare for the vote. So I'm betting. Victoria, 30 seconds, please. Take your seats, please, colleagues. Victoria Birds, 30 seconds and we vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-12-m0.u99	I want to make a quick observation, part of the bill that relates to accounting. After this chapter, we knew that a separate working group was working on a separate law. Therefore, a member of her working group, Oxana Prodan, had just offered this part in accounting, which was to correspond fully to Bill 4646-1. So I ask, let's now vote on the first reading, if there are any differences or. With this bill on accounting, we'll be able to work them out for the second reading. And I would like to stress separately that all the blocking rostrums, please support this bill, because if you support really small and medium-sized businesses, you're going to vote for it, it might be an exception to your blocking. Please, I particularly appeal to the Committee on Industrial Policy and Entrepreneurship, whose head I, by the way, thank you for supporting this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-12-m0.u100	Thank you, Your Honor. Let's move on to making a decision. So I'm voting on the draft Act amending some of Ukraine's legislative acts (to remove administrative barriers to export services) (No.4496) on the basis of the committee's proposal, just on the basis. We'll be able to delete it to the second reading. Those who support the proposal are respected colleagues. Not including the chapter on accounting, the proposal made by Eugene. So with the proposal made by Eugene under the transcript that supports this proposal, please vote for 4496 as a basis. Vote, colleagues, please. [[11:46:22]] For 246 We voted in favour of the committee's decision. The committee's decision on the basis, anything else can be included in the consideration between the first and the second readings. The committee decided to vote on the bill. Welcome to the committee. Colleagues, please keep working dynamically. I'm asking you to adjust to dynamic work. Next draft of the Act amending the Law on Television and Radio Television (3504). The same is true of the support of the entire room, there is a request to vote in favour of the reduced procedure. 3504, summary procedure, please. [[11:47:14]] For-162 162. Decision taken. And I invite the head of the Committee on Freedom of Speech and Information Policy of Sumar Victoria Petrovna to report. From a place like that? Please turn on the mic from the spot.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-12-m0.u101	Dear colleagues, your consideration is now being addressed by a bill of sufficient importance for the Ukrainian television industry that changes the principle of universal programming. And in fact, it allows television channels to become more independent today and to strengthen freedom of speech and media in Ukraine. The committee at its meeting on June 15 discussed the bill on clarifying the terms and conditions for distribution of universal service programs. The purpose of the bill is to remove the negative factors that prevent the development of the domestic television industry and provide television speakers with the ability to determine for themselves how to enter universal software services. After considering the draft law and the corresponding proposals of an expert society, the committee improved the bill and decided to recommend to the Supreme Council the outcome of the first reading to accept it as a basis and as a whole in the next agreed edition. So for the transcript, the Supreme Council decides to make the following changes to the Ukrainian Television and Radio Act. The last paragraph of article 1 reads as follows: "Universal programming is a list of television receiving programs that all subscribers of the software service provider are guaranteed by the State, which consists of the following television programs: public television and radio broadcasting; broadcasts of local and regional speech categories that make up not more than one area which, according to the language license, carry out air, television or digital speech using a radio frequency resource in the area where the relevant multi-channel network is located; the State Enterprise Parliamentary Television "The Council" or its successor, provided it has a language license. Part nine of article 39 is set out as follows: The provider is obliged to ensure that all subscribers receive universal software programs and include them in all software packages. In order to distribute universal software programs, the provider does not have to make contracts with."..
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-12-m0.u102	Please, 30 seconds, finish. You're done, Mrs. Victoria, right? Dear colleagues, please, again. Is there a need? Can't I see, Mrs. Victoria? There's no need, is there? Then I ask you to sign up: two for, two against, very dynamic and very fast. All factions support the bill. Please hold the recording. Anointing. I call very briefly, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-12-m0.u103	Andrew Amazanov's People's Front. Please pass on the word of Victoria Sumar.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-12-m0.u104	Colleagues, I have now read the committee's own decision and I propose to vote in favour of the committee's paper. And I would like to point out that you and I have adopted very important bills here that enhance the country's information security -- we have actually limited Russian information product. But today TV channels are really affected by such decisions, and this bill allows them to make real money today. We have today a market of providers that provide technical services, more than twice as much as the market of content makers. In this way, we will support Ukrainian journalists, content manufacturers, producers of their own cultural sphere. And of course, Ukrainian television channels, which in this case will be more independent of their owners and this will have a serious impact on the establishment of freedom of speech in Ukraine. This bill is not just a technical thing -- it's really a question of freedom of speech in Ukraine. A request to support everyone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-12-m0.u105	Thank you. Pavelko Andry Vasilovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-12-m0.u106	[[Unheard]]
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-12-m0.u107	Semenha Roman Sergiyovich "self-help", please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-12-m0.u108	Please pass the word to Danchenk Alexander.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-12-m0.u109	Dear colleagues! It's a good bill, but there are a few questions. The bill provides for the inclusion in the universal programming service of social television programs, the broadcasting of local and regional non-network language. At the same time, providers who provide services throughout Ukraine using DT or OTT technology are not able to include local broadcast programs with a range of hundreds. Thus, the project needs clarification that local and regional air - speaking programs are not compulsory for providers who provide their services throughout Ukraine. In addition, it should be noted that after the exclusion of universal software programs distributed by air, the relationship between television companies and a telecommunications operator is switched to market relations, potentially leading to the end of the language of national broadcasters in telecommunications networks. The development of this scenario will lead to violations of the basic principles of public policy in the field of television and radio talk on protoctionism policies with the distribution of programmes and the transfer of domestic production, guaranteed the realization of rights to information and ideological, political pluralism in the field of audiovisual media. Moreover, by adopting such a bill, we can, on the other hand, transfer all this content to Russian companies like Tricolor, NTB Plus. Therefore, we need to approach this bill very carefully, and we suggest that we work on it. Because that's how media-holding rights and oligarchs are strengthened, and the question of information dissemination is a huge question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-12-m0.u110	Thank you. Please, Victoria Sumar one minute and we'll go to the vote. Please come into the hall and take up jobs. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-12-m0.u111	Dear Mr. Head, given the mood of the faction, the proposal is to adopt it as a basis in the first reading and, according to the committee, to continue to work with those proposals that have now been made in the hall. It's a very big request to support, we're working on, we're taking all the proposals into account, and we're still doing a lot of work, and now it's important to take this step to meet the freedom of speech in Ukraine and the independence of Ukrainian television channels.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-12-m0.u112	Dear colleagues, on the basis of this, I think, this proposal that should consolidate the hall and only support the foundation so that we can continue to work on it, colleagues, I'm asking you very much, it's not working. Dear colleagues, please take up your jobs. I think the committee's proposal is very consolidating: just on the basis of its acceptance, so that the committee can work out. I think it's a logical and correct position and I'm asking a colleague from Self-Help to support it. And I'm betting. Colleagues, everyone's in the hall. I'm voting on a bill amending the Ukrainian Television and Radio Act (to clarify the terms and conditions of distribution of broadcasting programs in the form of universal programming services) (number 3504) on a basis, colleagues, on a basis. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote for the basis, colleagues. Vote. [[11:55:34]] For 231 Decision taken. Welcome to the committee! I think the committee's doing quality work and we're going to take a second reading as soon as possible. Congratulations on your successful vote. Dear colleagues, now I want to explain the general logic. [[Noise Nodes]] Don't shout from the gallery! I told you many times, there will be no money. You listen to me very carefully. I'll tell you what list we have now. So now we have 2001a (as far as the genetic identification of military personnel) is extremely important to support military personnel. We have: military duty and military service, this is Alona Shkrum, a bill that also unites virtually all the factions that are in the hall. Then we have the order of the day. in the order of the day 3868, where several factions were highlighted yesterday. Then there's a very short vote to make a decision on the issues under discussion, where it's about the parking that they've been stressing, and the only register of military bounds. And at the same time, we have a 12-hour break, and we have a statement from two factions: "The Fatherland" and the Radical Party -- for a break. Tell me how to act. [[B in m in s a l in]] Let me put it. Colleagues, may I ask that the Radical Party and the Fatherland withdraw their application? No, right? [[B in m in s a l in]] Oh, without a break, just a statement? I see. I got it. So, colleagues, then I'm going to ask that we vote to work without interruptions of 12 to 12.30. And I'll give you my word right away. Yeah, yeah, right away. But maybe you can keep me working all the time? [[B in m in s a l in]] No, I'm asking if you'll back me up. All right, colleagues, I'm making a proposal that we take a break in half an hour. It's only half an hour, colleagues. There will be a discussion. Anyone who wants to do this is going to negotiate. It seems to me that this should unite the hall. Mr. Oleg, what do you think? I'll give it to you, colleagues. After the vote, we'll see what the picture is in the room. So I'm putting a motion to vote so that we can work without interruption from 12.00 to 12.30. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. Please vote, colleagues. Please vote. [[11:58:35]] For-188. 188. Let's not make a decision. Then, colleagues, I give the floor to two factions. Who will act? Only, colleagues, I want to let you know that you're always telling me about the Rules, there's no such form as to pass on the word, unfortunately there's no. Please, one performance. There is no such form, Mr. John. There's no such form, I'm telling you, my friends, there's no such form. I'm asking you very much who will be speaking for three minutes. There is no such form, colleague, I will not repeat it to you ten times. Okay. Colleagues, won't the Hall object if we give two factions a minute and a half? It won't. Please, John Krulko, one and a half minutes, then Easy, one and a half minutes. I broke the Rules on the demand of the opposition. Please. Mr. Ivan, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-12-m0.u113	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues, I'd like your attention. Because really the question that I want to speak to is not a line. This night, an attack took place in the city of Black Sea Odessa with the use of weapons on the head of the "Fatherland" faction at the Black Sea City Council of Vasil Bogajczuk. The attack took place cynically near his home when he and his wife and daughter returned home. My wife and daughter are still in a state of shock. Vasil Bogichuk is wounded. This attack is not criminal; it is a political attack in connection with its political position because it is fighting corruption among the authorities that thrives in the city. It's an attack because he's struggling with a drug mafia that's taken over the whole city of Black Sea. This isn't the first time Vasil Bogichuk was attacked by the Party of Regions when Vasil Bogichuk was attacked during the Dignity Revolution. Yes, unfortunately, and now there is a new government against the Fatherland, trying to intimidate our deputies, who are defending people's interests and fighting corruption on the ground. So I'd like to state from this rostrum that there's been an investigation so that the National Police can find the culprits. So far, it is not clear who shot them, who disappeared from the scene. To get the Attorney General to personally control the case. I demand that the whole Parliament.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-12-m0.u114	Ten seconds, Ivan.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-12-m0.u115	I demand that the entire Parliament gather around to stop the attacks on the opposition party of Fatherland and our representatives on the ground.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-12-m0.u116	Thank you. Please, Oleg Valeriovich Lazko, one and a half minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-12-m0.u117	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Dear Mr. Head, honourable fellow MPs, you think you're humiliating us when you don't pay attention to our protests, that we're blocking the rostrum, that we've declared a peaceful sit-down protest, demanding that we make a decision on tariffs, on corruption, on offshores. Maxim Burbak, I am addressing you as the leader of the People's Front faction. Igor Green, I am addressing you as the leader of the BPT faction. Dear colleagues from other factions, I address you. Do you think you're demeaning us that we're sitting here? You guys, you're not humiliating us, you're humiliating all Ukrainians with your indifference, your lack of conscience, your immorality, and your irresponsibility. You're having fun, you're walking around us, and some are even trespassing because you think. You are not transgressing us; you are trespassing through men. You are trespassing through all Ukrainians. I'm speaking to you in a human way. You know, it's not gonna be bad as long as it's quiet. Stop demeaning the Ukrainians, stop demeaning us. We have made very simple demands: tariffs, price cuts for gas, investigations into corruption, offshore investigations. You can ignore our protest, we'll sit here, we'll sit here. But that's how you spit on all Ukrainians.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-12-m0.u118	Please, 10 seconds, finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-12-m0.u119	And you won't get away with this ignore. That's why I'm asking you to put to the vote questions that will make it possible.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-12-m0.u120	Thank you. One minute, Burbak. Replica, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-12-m0.u121	Honorable Fellows of the United Opposition! We do not want to humiliate you in any way, nor do we demean the Ukrainian people. But I believe that at a time when there is an exacerbation of military action in the East, this is a humiliation -- not to work, not to vote for such necessary bills! For example, to amend some legislation on the genetic identification of military personnel, a bill that will increase the security of the military. This is the humiliation of the Ukrainian people, and this is the humiliation of all those who stood on Maidan! Talk about it.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-12-m0.u122	Dear colleagues, according to the Rules, I am forced to declare a recess. And I remind you, colleagues, after the break of two extremely important security laws, and so on, Social Law 3868. We have a chance to accept them today. So I'm asking you very much at 12:35, colleagues, we're going to meet in the hall, we're going to continue our work so difficult, but so necessary for Ukraine. Thank you very much. At 12:35, we'll continue our work.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-12-m0.u123	12:35. Dear colleagues, the time for recess is over. And I'm very insistently asking the people's deputies to come into the hall. Now there are two very important laws on security. This is Oleg Petrenko's bill and Alona Shkrum's bill. I'm really counting on us to be able to discuss these bills and make a decision. I understand the MPs are still in the hall. And I'm going to ask you to support a simplified procedure if you let that happen and you see the possibility. I now request the secretariat of the Supreme Council to inform the deputies to come into the hall. And I also ask the factions to ask the deputies to come into the hall. I'll take a break for a minute, please come into the hall. As the MPs enter the hall, I will read out the announcements that have come to the presidency. Therefore, in accordance with article 60 of the Ukrainian Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I report on the creation of the Eighth Interfractional Union of Stop Tariffs in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The National Deputy of Ukraine, Rabbinovich Vadim Zinovovich, was elected head of this association. So, colleagues, please come into the hall and take up jobs. Dear colleagues, while the MPs are entering the hall, I will remind you of the bills that stand in the agenda. 2001a: Draft Law on Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts of Ukraine (for the genetic identification of military personnel). 4689: Draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Military Duty and Military Service. Next, 3868: on external economic activity to reduce the deficit of black metals in the internal market. Then there will be a number of bills for making decisions on the issues under discussion. That is, those bills that have already been discussed, and they only need a brief vote. It is: 2504a The draft Law on the Single State Register of Military Obligations; 2696, which was required by the Conciliation Council yesterday, is a draft law amending certain Ukrainian legislation on the legal protection of the openness of databases and the transparency of registration procedures; a bill on parking, which has been discussed and requires only a vote in the room, as well as a draft law amending certain Ukrainian legislation on liability for malicious non-compliance with the requirements of the Administration for the enforcement of penalties. Colleagues, this is something that we will be able to accept completely before lunchtime. This is the list of bills that we can vote on in normal dynamic work that we've demonstrated before lunch. We just need mobilization in the hall and the ability to make decisions. If there is a warning under any of these bills, please inform them in advance so that they are not even put into discussion. Please enter the hall, please. Dear colleagues, may I count on the fact that consideration of the reduced procedure will be supported by all factions? 2001a. Self-help? You can go under. I can. Short-term procedure, can we support it? Yegor, come on. Look at him. Okay, two military, short-circuited. Can he count on Fatherland to support a reduced procedure? War laws because I know it was a faction-based decision. Please, Mr. Victor, I'm waiting, look, they're going into the hall. Colleagues, can we move on to making a decision? Everybody in place? So I'm asking you to consider the next question of the order of the day. This is a draft law amending some Ukrainian legislation on the genetic identification of military personnel No2001a. All the factions pointed out that they supported the bill. There's a proposal from the committee and from the authors to look at it in a simplified way. Whoever supports this proposal, I ask you to vote. So my colleagues are voting on the motion to review the reduced procedure. Please vote, please support. We're voting on our colleagues. Please vote, please support. [[12:44:25]] For-142 142. I'll do it again. I'm asking you to come into the hall. Please, fellow MPs, who are in the towers, we are moving into the hall to make decisions. Colleagues, I'm asking you to come into the hall, I'll put it back up again, if there are no votes, we'll get to the full procedure. Colleagues, I'm putting to the vote the proposal that the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on the genetic identification of military personnel (No2001a) should be considered in the summary procedure. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. Please support the proposal, please vote. [[12:45:58]] For 172 Decision taken. And I invite you to the report of the Ukrainian National Deputy Petrenko Oleg Mikolaiovich. Please, Mr. Oleg.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-12-m0.u124	Honorable Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and distinguished colleagues! The fighting in eastern Ukraine, military aggression by the Russian Federation, has created a real threat to Ukraine’s territorial integrity and independence and has resulted in a large number of Ukrainian citizens carrying out military service and fighting. It is known that during hostilities a large number of Ukrainian military personnel are injured and injured by gunfire, explosions, and so forth, and unfortunately many of them are killed. Conditions for bodily harm or war casualties are such that the bodies of military personnel are torn to pieces, burned, and damaged so that identification of such a body becomes extremely difficult, and often even impossible, by common methods. In addition, as a result of injuries, painful shocks, and other medical conditions, military personnel entering medical facilities and parts cannot report themselves and remain unknown. In this regard, in the area of hostilities, there was a record of the unconscious burial of the dead and the misplaced burial under a foreign name. Soldiers who have given up their lives for their nation remain lonely and unknown bodies on the battlefield, far from their homes. Therefore, the bill proposes to establish guarantees for the identification of military personnel by creating a database of military personnel' DNA and applying DNA analysis if it is not possible to establish a person by common methods. International and foreign experience suggests that the identification, even the severely damaged remains of the body, is possible. And in all the developed countries that have modern armies, and they're not even in a state of war, they have similar databases, and they need labs. The Ministry of Defence of Ukraine supports the adoption of the bill and proposes the removal and storage of material from persons entering military service to the Ministry of Health, which is subordinated to the Bureau of Forensic Medicine. According to the findings of the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration, and according to the conclusions of the decisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-12-m0.u125	Please finish 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-12-m0.u126	This bill can be adopted in the first reading, all technical and legal remarks to the second reading will be made, and I also ask you, honourable colleagues, to support this bill by voting for it as a basis.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-12-m0.u127	Thank you very much, Mr. Oleg. And I invite you to report to the National Security and Defence Committee of Mr. Winnick. Please turn on the microphone. Vinnik microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-12-m0.u128	Dear colleagues, I would like to start my report by informing the session hall that in the last six days Ukraine has lost 13 soldiers in the area of conducting an anti-terror operation and 59 were injured. We're seeing a substantial activation of the enemy's hostilities, we're being shot at with large-scale artillery, and probably in the trench on the front line very strangely, absurdly and shamefully, we're probably watching what's going on in the session room today. The bill, which my colleagues have just reported, has become an answer and a requirement, unfortunately, a sad requirement of what is happening in the East. Indeed, today Ukraine sometimes needs to identify its soldiers by genetic, biological, sad, and frightening. This bill is well prepared, it's signed by most factions of Parliament, it's also joined by representatives of non-fractional national MPs, it's considered by the committee, not just ours, it's reviewed by all the committees that were appointed by the head of the Supreme Council. And that's why there's nothing to discuss, it's ours. Our duty as legislator is to provide families with the opportunity to bury with the dignity of the soldiers who protect Ukraine. The committee suggests voting unanimously on a basis, working together. There are some comments from the Chief Science and Technology Administration, not important, that can be corrected. But we will now be responsible for this matter. I urge all those who block the rostrum now to return to their jobs, to cast their votes, that's an honor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-12-m0.u129	Thank you. Thank you for reminding us that our fighters on the front, who go into battle every day, protect the Ukrainian state every day with their lives. I think the national MPs all heard your words and your call. Dear colleagues, please record: two for, two against. Please. From the People's Front, Igor Lapin. Please, Mr. Igor.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-12-m0.u130	Dear colleagues, I now call on the representatives of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko and the Radical Party to vote in favour of this bill. For the record, I'm going to tell you a little story, like September 5th, my group, these guys in the Idar unit, going back to base, got shot at by separatists, who then tied their bodies to trees and burned with grenade launchers. And I'm sorry for the details, but 28 plastic bags were brought in three months after the boys died. You know, there's no other option in families, as they say, that same compensation, burying people. After a year and a year and a half, some of the boys have not yet been buried. So I ask you very much, my dear colleagues, to support this bill. Please release the rostrum for a second. No one will take it away from you. I ask you very much to support this bill for the sake of our fighters. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-12-m0.u131	Semenha Roman Sergiyovich, Self-help.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-12-m0.u132	Please pass the word to Taras Shepherd.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-12-m0.u133	Taras Shepherd, Self - Help. I think it's a question for some people -- it's quite theoretical for some people in this room. But for those who have passed the east and have seen the realities of their own lives, they understand the necessity, the urgent need for adoption of this very bill. Regrettably, it was also possible to see on more than one occasion just individual remnants passing on to families in order to bury at least something on their home land from where a soldier was mobilized. Regrettably, by this time, the remains of our military personnel, which have been buried for a year and a half, have been difficult to identify. So create a genetic code base so that, even if this happens, a military officer can't go home so at least his body can be transferred and his family can take him to the last road. Today, this is our sacred duty. That's the first question. And the second question. By law, we make a commitment to what we must create, but the mechanism of implementation remains. And in order for it to stay with us for years, I suggest that the Ministry of Defense is now tracking the broadcast, and these things need to be done immediately, so that these things, which even in part the authors of the bill take on themselves, can be prescribed as to how this should be done, it is necessary for the Ministry of Defence instructions to be done as soon as possible. And given that there is enough support for our partners from abroad today -- both the United States and Canada, and other NATO countries -- that open up different programs for us, including trust funds, and that we should look at them at the level of the State for the assistance and support of the organization of exactly the same basis as the nomenclatures to work out, and that we should create all the tools so that we can implement these laws in the near future. So I urge everyone to support me. And I also address those who are today.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-12-m0.u134	Ten seconds to complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-12-m0.u135	And I also turn to those who today strive to meet their requirements. They're completely objective and fair, but they actually support these things today that we can't wait two or three months for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-12-m0.u136	Thank you. Please, for Julius Volodymyrna Timoshenko's reply, one minute. Please. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-12-m0.u137	I was asked here, after mentioning my name, to vote in favour of the law currently being discussed. We will vote in favour of this law, but I would like to turn to the People's Front. First of all, when will a temporary commission of inquiry be established in Ilovysk, in Debaltsev? When someone investigates the situation around Donetsk Airport, where our boys were buried, because they first rented the airport and then left them to defend what was already put into negotiations. When there will be a temporary commission of inquiry on how to deal with key people today who represent volunteer battalions, how they are thrown into prison, how they are cleansed to secure power and its mafia rule. At first, you don't follow double standards and investigate cases where boys are just sent to death, knowing in advance that they're being sent to death. And don't cover it up. You know what ours is.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-12-m0.u138	30 seconds to complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-12-m0.u139	You know, our national deputy, Sanchenko Andry, has provided comprehensive information on how our boys were deliberately sent to their deaths. So, according to these studies, you break criminal cases and bring the responsibility of the faulty high officials to justice, and then you give us an indication of what we should vote for. We vote as the patriots of Ukraine should vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-12-m0.u140	Thank you. I just wish there wasn't any tension in the room. There are volunteers in the hall who have demonstrated with their lives the ability to protect Ukraine. And I think they have a right to speak for themselves. Kishkar Pavel Mikolaiovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-12-m0.u141	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It's actually a fine law, a little late. And to complement Taras' words, I confirm that there is already work in this field, the same work that we had the opportunity to observe on the committee. This is a finalized version of what has been tested on the battlefield. It's a real tool for identifying people. Let's introduce it, let's really check out the Mini-Defense to make sure that the position that determines the preparation of the genetic identification system is not placed in a long box, but is carried out together and approved along with that bill that will be supported in the second reading. Now, briefly, about the problem of this bill. The only problem is to define the concept of military personnel, because there are actually people on the front who have special skills. And here we need to be very careful not to limit the category of people who are actually on the front and who are carrying out their military duties without even being a military officer. I very much ask the committee to pay attention to this, to supplement it. And we support this bill together. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-12-m0.u142	Thank you. Alona Ivanovna's starch, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-12-m0.u143	Alona's splinter, Fatherland faction. Colleagues, you know, this bill is really as important as the next bill. And so I have a question, why are we looking at him and all these bills in the last working week of actually the Supreme Council? Colleagues, in order to look good here, we need to at least change the calendar plan and make the next few weeks a session, not a simulation of changing the calendar. Let's stay and work in session mode for two or three weeks. The boys on the front don't rest or take a vacation. So please take the "Paternity" decision here and make it really a session for the next week. That's the first one. And secondly, you know, when boys come back from the front, the state has to provide them not only that we can bury them with dignity, but also that life is worth living for them and their families who are waiting for them at home. That's why I think it's worth blocking the rostrum for that, and it's worth it. And as far as the bill is concerned, "The Fatherland" is back in place, we're going to vote for it, but we demand that between the first and the second readings not only be able to predict the possibility of identifying our fallen heroes, but we anticipate a budget for that. Because, colleagues, you've foreseen this possibility, but you haven't allocated any funds, that's what the science and science department is talking about. This cannot be done without allocating funds from the budget. So I encourage you to correct, first of all, the points that are in this law, between the first and the second readings, but the main thing is to allocate money for that. "Paternality" will vote unanimously for this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-12-m0.u144	Dear colleagues! There's a lot of hands up. I'll tell you one important thing. The longer we discuss the less likely we will accept it. I'm with your permission. Who hasn't spoken, what factions, I'll give you my word. Can I ask the factions that have already spoken? I have no right to speak. Can I count on your understanding? Well, colleagues, look. Seven hands up, that's another ten minutes of performances. Tell me, how am I supposed to be in this situation? [[B in m in s a l in]] I'm begging you. Look, colleagues. I am. Really, I'm sorry it was accepted. The next bill will be able to take the floor and make a statement. I have a request for everyone, colleagues, for my support. Mr. Sergei, back me up so we can vote now. Let's vote, colleagues. Thank you for understanding. Thank you very much, colleagues. And I'm asking all the MPs to come into the hall and take jobs. These are things that are beyond politics. We're talking today about those hard months and the years that our boys are dying on the front. And there should be no security issues as a result of our political speculation. They must unite this hall and unite all who are in the Ukrainian Parliament. So, colleagues, I'm asking you to move on to making a decision. And I am voting on the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on the genetic identification of military personnel (No2001a). According to the committee's proposal. He's looking for Parasuk. [[B in m in s a l in]] Vote. If we don't get the votes back. Colleagues! Based on the base. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote 2001a on the basis. Please vote, colleagues. [[13:03:08]] For 253 Decision taken. I think that's our answer to all those who say that in Ukraine Parliament is not working. Welcome to the authors. By factions, turn on the factions. All factions joined together, all factions voting together. I welcome the drafters and welcome all fellow MPs. We go to the next safety bill, this is the draft Law 4689, the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Military Duty and Military Service. And there's also a proposal from the committee, from the authors to look at it in a simplified procedure. I ask you to support the consideration of the reduced procedure. Please, colleagues. Anyone who supports me, I ask you to vote. Short-term procedure, please. [[13:04:08]] For-187 Decision taken. And I invite you to the report of Ukrainian National Deputy Skrum Alona Ivanovna. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-12-m0.u145	Alona's splinter, Fatherland faction. Colleagues, this is an extremely important bill. I ask you to listen to me as to what he is. We now have more than 20,000 military personnel with you who went during the first wave of volunteer mobilization into the army, who made contracts for the so-called period until the end of the special period, that is, before the end of the ATO, that is, in fact, on an untimely basis. And they still serve in the army. They have already seen people who have been there for six months, for 12 months, for 18 months. Everyone else has the right to stop their contracts, to terminate their contracts, and to reschedule their contracts. These 19 there with thousands of people can't do that. So I'm not going to, you know, say beautiful, pathetic words about our heroes that protect us, about the army, I'm just going to ask you to give these people, these 19,000 volunteers who went to protect us there with you, to break their contracts, if they want to, to reschedule these contracts for 6 months, or for 8, or for 12. And finally put them in the same conditions as all the other volunteers and all the other military personnel. It's an extremely important bill, it's already supported by the Ministry of Defense. I thank the profile committee for their support. It solves the global issue of increasing the Armed Forces in general and increasing the morale of our soldiers, who are now protecting us there. He's been working, including Legal Hundreds. And I really thank those volunteers and those lawyers who worked on this bill. I thank all the members of the committee who supported him very much. It's not politics now, my friends, it's a bill that, well, we just have to give people as MPs who are here because our soldiers, our volunteers and our heroes are protecting us on the front. Please. support this bill. I hope every faction will support him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-12-m0.u146	Thank you very much. A representative of the National Security and Defence Committee, Taras Pasteuch, is invited to the report. Please, Mr. Taras.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-12-m0.u147	Dear colleagues, the bill was introduced earlier, registered under number 3710. But after consulting with the Ministry of Defense, he received a number of comments, warnings. And that's why we re-filed it and registered it under the next number 4689. So this bill has the support of the Ministry of Defence. The rapporteur has already outlined the main issue of the bill. While we didn't settle contracts for six to 12 months by military personnel who were mobilized, contracts were made before the end of the special period. Sadly, the situation in the country was in such a way that it was not known when this special period would end. And these contracts have been going on for over a year. This leads to a complex moral situation among military personnel themselves and among their families. But in the process of considering the bill, the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration noted some warnings, and it also acquired some resonance among the military personnel that we unfortunately missed by this bill. This applies to those military personnel who entered into a three-year contract in 2012-2013. And our legislation foresees that since the beginning of a special period, such contracts have automatically continued. And we now have a practice where military service has served for over two years after serving for three years. This also presents a rather complex situation among the families of military personnel and themselves. Therefore, we ask for an amendment under the transcript, which was not made in the decision of our committee, in the following way: “article 23 of Part Two: for military personnel who carry out military service under contract, the contract continues beyond the set deadlines for the demobilization period, but not more than 12 months apart from the cases defined by paragraph”, and further in the text. So we're saying that after the contract is concluded.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-12-m0.u148	Please, just give me a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-12-m0.u149	We're saying that after the completion of these three-year contracts that a person actually served by stealing a contract with a state, he's still in the same year's service as others who've mobilized during a special period. In fact, we say that after the entry into force of this law, a large part of these boys (not many of them) will be able to see their families at last, and those who today have expressed a desire to make a six - or 12 - month appointment may take their place. There is the General Staff's assurance that there are enough of these for today's yearnings. Therefore, the request to support the bill as a basis and as a whole, to send it to the President of Ukraine as soon as possible. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-12-m0.u150	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, please record 2 in favor, 2 in favor. Please. Krivenko Viktor Mikolaiovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-12-m0.u151	Please give Kishkar a word.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-12-m0.u152	Paul Kishkar "The People's Movement of Ukraine." Indeed, a powerful, late draft, a bill that we had to pass several times, and thank you for the addition that Mr. Taras made. It's too big to understand that the category of those who remain on the front voluntarily does not diminish and the people who want to make a contract for military service and agree to do so can make a contract at any given time. But in fact, that category of people who have been on the front for over 18 months must be able to complete this military service by the end of a special period, and this law affords such an opportunity. I very much ask and appeal to all factions and groups to support this bill as one that is impeccable, including for the situation in the Ukrainian Armed Forces. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-12-m0.u153	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, we're about to make a closing statement and I'm asking the people's deputies to come into the hall. In two minutes, we'll move on to the decision-making process. Please let me know. And I give the word to Melniczuk Sergey Petrovich. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-12-m0.u154	Sergey Melniczuk Group "The Will of the People". The "will of the people" group will unanimously support this bill, it is extremely important. And those conversations with the frontists who came with me and called in in the first period, they, let's say, inspire us to do so. At the moment, I have another question for the Ministry of Defense -- the Deputy Defence Minister for the Wide Lan polygon. The damage to the state, almost a billion, the sown ropes of the Wide Lan and the farmers who sown it there, are taking it out of their own hands. What was imposed, by the prosecutor of the South Region, was duly submitted to the minister of defense -- no one paid attention. However, the local military official made a new contract, only on the 6th of this month, and began harvesting. The money is given to the state is a billion dollars. And then the boys rot on that range. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-12-m0.u155	Dear colleagues, please come into the hall, we're moving on to making decisions. I ask you very much, dear colleagues who are in the towers to enter the hall. I hope Vladia found the card? Take up jobs, get ready to vote. Hanna's on her way. Colleagues, I put to the vote the draft Law on Amendments to the Law on Military Duty and Military Service concerning the clarification of individual provisions 4689 on the basis of the Committee's proposal and, in general, the amendments that the representative of the Committee of Taras Pasteuch has made under the transcript here, from the rostrum of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. Vote, colleagues, support the military, vote, colleagues. [[13:13:58]] For 225 Colleagues, I can't see. Be careful, colleagues, I'm asking you to be careful and take your jobs. I see. I'll be right back. So I'm voting on the proposal to go back to 4689. Please vote back to 4689. For your return, yes, please return to 4689. Please vote. [[13:14:37]] For 224 Colleagues, I'm asking you to take your jobs. I'm asking everyone to call the deputies who are in the towers in the hall. Dear colleagues! Allona, the MPs are here. Let's vote better. Look, Sümar's gone, Bereza's going to vote. Are you guys ready? I would like to reiterate my return to the 4689 vote and return to consideration 4689. Vote please, colleagues. Please vote. Support the military, please. [[13:15:45.]] For 230 We're back. And I once again put to the vote the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Military Duty and Military Service (4689), with a proposal made by Taras Shepherd from the Supreme Council’s rostrum: on the basis and in general. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote, vote, colleagues. Please vote. Vote. [[13:16:21]] For 233 The law is passed. Welcome to the bill's author, Mrs. Alona! Welcome to the committee for the quality work! The bill also united the hall. The law is passed. Let's move on to the next question of order of the day. The Ukrainian Act on Amendments to Article 13 of the Ukrainian Law on External Economic Activity on Reducing the Deficit of Black Metals in the Internal Market, with proposals by the President of Ukraine. The procedure provides for a separate consideration. And we're going to look at it. And first, I invite you to the President's report. My colleagues, yes, I'm sorry, Deputy Minister of Economic Development and Nephedov Maxim Evgenovich's trade. Nephedo Maxim Evgenovich, me. Maybe why? How comfortable you are, how comfortable you are. Mr. Maxim, please report.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-12-m0.u156	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs! The President of Ukraine believes that the Ukrainian Supreme Council adopted on 21 April 2016 the Act on Amendments to Article 13 of the ZED Act on Reducing the Deficiency of Black Metals in the Internal Market cannot be signed for the following reasons. First. The proposed increase in the rate of export of waste and black metals in the law up to 30 euros per tonne for a three-year period is not in line with Ukraine's international obligations as a member of the WTO. In particular, as part of the implementation of the national legislation on international tariff obligations of Ukraine in the relevant legislation, export duties on waste and scrap of black metals are applied in accordance with the Ukrainian Act on Export Export Customs to Waste and Black Metals, which states that, starting with the year of Ukraine's membership in the WTO, a phased reduction in export duty on waste and black metals, which is today equal to 10 euros per tonne, is foreseen. With regard to these goods, according to paragraph 240 of the Working Group's report on the application for admission to WTO, Ukraine has undertaken not to increase export duties or to introduce any measures that have equivalent effect if this is not justified by the exceptions envisaged by the agreement. These commitments became an integral part of the agreement, and according to article 9 of the Constitution of Ukraine and article 19 of the Law on International Contracts after ratification by the Supreme Council of the Law of Ukraine on the ratification of the Protocol on Ukraine's Entry into WTO, these international commitments became part of Ukraine's legislation. At the same time, however, Ukraine retains the right to impose export restrictions on individual, clearly defined WTO agreements, cases envisaged, such as Articles 11, 20 and 21 of the GATT Agreement and subject to compliance. Yes, the debris and waste of black metals are strategically important for the metal industry of Ukraine, whose full functioning is part of the nation’s national security. The removal of scrap metal against objectively justified investment restrictions in the updating of core funds results in a sharp reduction in the country’s metal fund. In addition, the decline in the volume of junk production has led to an increase in its deficit within the country, especially in the last two years under the conditions of Crimea’s annexation and the occupation of parts of Donetsk and Lugansk regions. This situation, which has resulted in the production and export of scrap metal, is indeed a threat to Ukraine’s national security. In accordance with article 21b, nothing in the GATT agreement should be interpreted as an obstacle to any party's action that it deems necessary to protect the essential interests of its security. However, the temporary nature of such restrictions and the creation of minimum obstacles to international trade are mandatory requirements. There is reason to believe that the use of a higher rate of duty on scrap metal for three years is not justified. Given what has been taught, the President considers it appropriate: first: the title and the text of the law should be worded as follows: "To amend some of Ukraine's laws on reducing the deficit of black metal scrap in the internal market." Second: Cancel registration of contracts for the export of scrap metal. Third: introduce a one-year period of increase in the rate of export duty on waste and black metal scraps of 30 euros per tonne, which will be consistent with the world practice of applying similar limited measures of a temporary nature, such as those foreseen by the WTO agreements and our relations with trading partners in Europe. Please support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-12-m0.u157	Thank you very much. According to the Rules, I ask to remain in the rostrum. Mr. Victor, I'm asking you to stay in the rostrum. Once again, Maxim Evgeniovich, I ask you to return to the rostrum. According to the Rules, we have three minutes of question-answer. I'm asking you to sign up for a question, three minutes of question-answer, please. Please hold the recording. However, please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-12-m0.u158	Please pass the word to Victor Krivenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-12-m0.u159	Dear colleagues, we see with you. Victor Krivenko, National Movement of Ukraine. We see with you a continuation of policies that are not aimed at protecting an internal manufacturer. South Korea, Turkey, makes decisions and protects its producers even when it formally conflicts with certain requirements previously signed under international agreements. We know how we got in with you. My colleagues told me how our delegations came in 4 years, 5 years ago, to a 5-star hotel, a tour, a shopping tour, an hour of negotiations. And then they say, "And we were given an assignment to sign it all." Second, third country below to protect their own markets. When I asked the representatives of South Korea, "How come you can't have an iPhone or a foreigner on the market? You're members.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-12-m0.u160	Please, 30 seconds, finish the question.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-12-m0.u161	What is your view of the effective protection of our internal market, especially where we have our manufacturing industries, our capacity? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-12-m0.u162	Thank you for asking. This is a really important problem, because Ukrainian trade diplomacy, we're going to say, we're going to be honest, it's been very, very, very low-performing for a long time. This applies to both human potential and strategic vision: which sectors are interesting to us, and with which partners do we want to build our relationships, or do we want to fly all over the market only where. All over the world, only where we're invited. In this particular case, we understand that our metallurgy is at the same time in terms of military aggression, as well as a substantial decrease in commodity prices, they are in a difficult situation. Our metallurgists are huge taxpayers and huge employers who support whole cities, especially in eastern Ukraine. That's why the bill is designed to give them a chance to rest, give them a chance at least for some. Input raw material nomenclatures are comfortable working conditions. However, we have to keep a balance here between, on the one hand, metallurgy get comfortable conditions, on the other hand, they don't get anti-dumping investigations against themselves.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-12-m0.u163	30 seconds, please finish
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-12-m0.u164	This compromise, according to the President of Ukraine, is the option that creates the maximum possible conditions for them at this time.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-12-m0.u165	Thank you. Demczak Ruslan Evgenovich, please ask a question.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-12-m0.u166	I'm handing Max the Chicken over.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-12-m0.u167	Dear colleagues! Dear Andrey Volodymyrovich! Deputies! Indeed, Ukraine has made a great deal of commitments to both the World Trade Organization and the Association’s signing with the European Union. But today we must make this historic, extraordinary decision. This decision supports our branch. This will create thousands of jobs. This will save room for metallurgy and my native Dnipropetrovsk. Dear colleagues! Yes, it is Solomon’s decision today. For a year, we raise the rates of export duties and thus fight the speculators who have made a fortune in 25 years, using Ukraine and exporting it in spare parts. We vote without discussion, no doubt. We're backing it up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-12-m0.u168	I understand that was not a question, but an answer. Thank you very much. The response time is over. Maxim Evgenovich, you can take your place. Colleagues! I'll explain the procedure. A report and a question later. And now there'll be a report. Please sign up for the questions. There were only two people before that. I'm sure you'll be able to ask questions. After the report. I invite the head of the Committee on Industrial Policy and Entrepreneurship, Halasyuk Viktor Valeriyovich. And I call for flexibility so that we can move faster to making a decision. Please, Victor Valeriyovich, please report.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-12-m0.u169	Thank you. Dear Mr. Head! Dear fellow national MPs! We initiated this bill with Oleg Ljashk and our colleagues from all factions of the coalition to solve the unprecedented problem of the metallurgical industry. When Ukrainian metallurgy is carried abroad for no price, then it becomes ready to produce, and Ukrainian metallurgy is forced to stop even production for weeks, and sometimes even for months, because it does not have raw materials to secure its production. In order to solve this problem, we proposed in Bill 3868 that we raise the three-time expert tax on scrap metal from 10 euros to 30 euros for three years. Parliament has supported this position, while agreeing with our proposal to cancel the quota for metal scrap exports at this time. This law was passed with us in Parliament, and it is a serious request for the rescue of Ukrainian metallurgy. To prevent metallurgical jobs from being stolen abroad to ensure price stability and stability of the bracelets. I want to emphasize to all those who think that this law applies only to metallurgy. This law applies to every Ukrainian. Because each Ukrainian applies to a branch that generates 25 percent of the Ukrainian industry, which provides 25 percent of Ukrainian exports, which depends on whether the prices in the stores are stable or whether the bracelet is stable or falling. At the same time, the president of Ukraine vetoed the bill. In his veto, the President proposed to shorten the bill from three years to one year and proposed to abolish metal scrap exports on a permanent basis. I want to point out that the Ministry of Economics is calling this position a compromise. In my opinion, this position is not compromised, I think, by a position that is not in the interests of the domestic industry, not in the interests of the Ukrainian producer. What could be the compromise between raw metal trade exports of $300 million and the industry that generates $8 billion in export production of finished products? Among the industries that provide 300,000 jobs and several thousand illegal jobs in metallurgy? So it is a very questionable compromise if you speak softly. And when the arguments point to what is the concern of the European Union, I want to say, do you know the amount of exports of Ukrainian metal scrap to the European Union? Four million dollars a year for you to understand. I mean, there's nothing to talk about. This reflects the weakness of the Ukrainian economic position, the weakness of economic diplomacy and the lack of adequate support for Ukrainian national interests in the economic sphere. At the same time, I want to emphasize that as real people, we have to get out of the real world. That's why the Committee on Industrial Policy and Entrepreneurship, when we look at the President's veto, the President's recommendation, we see that, unfortunately, we have no choice but to agree with the President's proposals. I reiterate that we are forced to accept the President's proposals for this bill to be adopted and to save the situation in the Ukrainian metallurgy today at least a little bit. But I would like, at the same time, to point out that the adoption of such laws should not be an exception, but a tradition, they should not promise, but be supported as quickly as possible by Parliament and the President and all branches of power. You know what kind of industrial package we have in the agenda that is still pending. These are Bills 4809 on support for domestic aircraft construction. Today it's up to him whether Anton's state-owned airline will be a real airplane supplier in the world, or whether they'll be put on a shelf in a museum. This is the 4,130 bill for the rescue of the Ukrainian space industry, for the restructuring of the debt of the South. These are bills: 2617, 2618 on woodworking equipment to strengthen the moratorium, to support the native manufacturer. This is Bill 3872 on freezing land taxes so that domestic producers do not lose their productive assets. So, Your Honor, I urge you to support the President's proposals for Bill 3868 and give industrial laws priority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-12-m0.u170	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the Rules will now be asking questions for three minutes. Please sign up, Mr. Vladimir, you wanted to ask questions. And the people's deputies, I'm asking you to come into the hall. In three minutes, we'll move on to the decision-making procedure. And I ask the Secretary of the Supreme Council to inform the deputies, and I ask the heads of the factions to mobilize the MPs as much as possible. Please record the question to the co-rapporteur. Please. See, Volodymyr Litwin. Please, Mr. Vladimir.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-12-m0.u171	Dear Head! Dear colleagues! I think we need to support the committee's decision, have something better to do than have nothing to do with it at all. But in general, we need to understand that Ukraine today is a divisive state, and we can see that everything that someone doesn't need is being brought to us, and we can't protect our internal market. At the same time, I'm going to let myself ask a question in another plane. Why don't we consider the President's remarks to the Vocational and Technical Education Financing Act? Why? The second question. Do we understand that we broke up a set in vocational and technical schools? And we understand that these are children from poor families, orphans, children without parental care? Do we understand that these are 350,000 children? If the state thinks it's necessary to hide what it's refusing this system, let's talk about it publicly and bring this law to the attention. And nothing to defer from week to week. It was last Thursday.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-12-m0.u172	Thank you. It's actually a performance, not a question. Mr. Victor, please give me an answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-12-m0.u173	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, thank you for emphasizing your faithful priorities. I want to emphasize once again that by adopting such laws as 3868, we have a step-by-step solution to the situation. That today Ukraine is a raw material colony that sells grain, unprocessed metal, or even worse metal scraps, sells wood round and imports ready-made goods and loans from the International Monetary Fund from the world. Thus, laws such as those of today are designed to remedy the situation. That is why it should be a priority. No holidays until industrial laws are passed.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-12-m0.u174	Thank you. Please, Paul Kishkar.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-12-m0.u175	Please pass the word to Victor Krivenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-12-m0.u176	Dear colleagues, Victor Krivenko, the National Movement of Ukraine. Victor Valeriyovich, that's a question. We see that again, our metal companies are cutting out the left and right all over Ukraine. Once again, they are conquering the industry. Because they're more focused and they probably have more resources to lobby their initiatives. Do you think it's right to vote in this veto version, because for 1 year, we're giving some protection and some preferences to our metallurgical enterprises, but then on a permanent basis, we're cleaning up the quota of metal scrap? We're going to turn and jump into an agri-guilty colony. We understand that foreign metallurgical factories, they're calm because they get support from the state, from their governments, they're going to buy off all the raw materials, and basically we're going to stop our metallurgical industry -- that's the risk. What's your opinion on that? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-12-m0.u177	Please respond, Mr. Victor.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-12-m0.u178	Thank you, Victor Mikolaiovich, for your question. We had a consultation on this subject with the producer's profile associations, with Metallurgprom, and we concluded that it was better, really, to have something that we didn't have. So we're going to have a year to plan a strategy for the development of the industry, to guide further steps towards supporting Ukrainian metallurgy, to provide internal demand for metallurgy through construction projects, infrastructure projects, and through the development of domestic engineering. But this bill today needs to be supported even in such a carved edition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-12-m0.u179	Thank you. Question time's up. But self-help, do you insist? Because time is running out at all. Can we get to the vote? Colleagues, I'm asking all national deputies to come into the hall. Thank you very much, Mr. Victor, for the report and for the answer. I ask you all to come into the hall and prepare for the vote. I would like to remind you that the committee's proposal and the committee's conclusions are to accept in general, taking into account the proposals made by the President of Ukraine. And I'm actually going to put that proposal first. But before that, I'm going to ask the people's deputies to get as close as possible to their jobs so that the card will be "in the reach zone by hand" and go into the hall that's in the towers. And with your permission, I'll put up a rating vote first. Is there no objection? No one's denying it. And I ask you to participate in the rating vote, your honors, please take part in the rating vote. Please, we're voting on our colleagues. Please participate in the rating vote. [[13:37:24]] For 237 Thank you. As I thought, we can vote because it's all agreed upon. I am voting on the Ukrainian Act amending article 13 of the Ukrainian Law on Foreign Economic Activity to reduce the deficit of black metal scrap in the internal market, with the proposal of the President of Ukraine from 16.05. In 2016. According to the Committee’s decision, it is proposed that the entire proposal of the President of Ukraine, 3868, should be taken into account. I'll bet you a vote on the committee's proposal. Supporters, please vote, colleagues. Please vote. [[13:38:16]] For 248 The law was passed, on which both the committee and the factions insisted. Law adopted 3868. Congratulations and the authors, and welcome to the President's representatives for their work, and welcome to the decision-making process. Dear colleagues, I very much ask you not to depart. Yesterday, the Conciliation Council noted that we had a number of bills under discussion that we had not yet made a decision on. We can and we can reject them, they can be re-prepared by September, but there was actually a requirement that we put a chapter, it's very short, it's one vote, that we put the agenda to the vote on those bills that have already been discussed, stressed, and only need a vote. These are just three bills that have already been discussed, they are listed in order of the day. Thus, the first 3584 draft of the Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on improving the regulation of relations in the field of transport parking. Dear colleagues, discussed. Is there a need to be reminded? There's no need to remind, we can vote. So there's a committee proposal for us to vote 3584. Anyone who supports the committee's proposal, please vote 3584, please vote. Please, colleagues, we're voting. Please vote. [[13:39:59]] For 181 181 for. The bill is rejected. Next, the draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on the legal protection of database openness and transparency of registration procedures (2696). Is there a need to remind him that he has been fixed, or can we vote, colleagues? Vote, yes, 2696, committee proposal: based. Whoever supports this decision, the bill already under discussion, please vote 2696 on the basis. Please vote 2696. Vote. [[13:40:49]] For-188. Excuse me?
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-12-m0.u180	Well, I can come back again. Please, Victoria Bird, one minute. [[Noise Nodes]] Okay, there's a requirement. Declined, deflected. [[Noise Nodes]] Honorary colleagues, respected colleagues, next, 2708 - draft of the Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on liability for malicious disobedience to the requirements of the Administration for the execution of sentences (2708). Is there a need to be reminded? [[Noise Nodes]] Colleagues, in the emotional room, let's say, let's say. Victoria Bird, one minute, please. Victoria Birds, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-12-m0.u181	My fellow Members, I would like to draw your attention to Bill 2696, this is a bill concerning intellectual property and it, in particular, obliges the State Service of Intellectual Property to publish all applications for trademarks that are being submitted, this is about transparency of the intellectual property service. He also introduces the possibility of an administrative complaint procedure within the framework of the State Intellectual Property Service, so that when rights are infringed, the subject does not wait for the registration and then does not engage in legal burdens for several years, but that he should apply immediately and file documents under the administrative complaint procedure. A publication. As far as the publication of applications for trade marks is concerned, it exists in the States, it exists in the European Union, in the countries of Asia. There is no such thing in Ukraine alone. This bill has just been drafted to meet the requirements of our Agreement by association with the EU. It is recommended by the four committees to vote in the first reading. Please come back.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-12-m0.u182	Dear colleagues, yesterday at the Conciliation Council, when we were required to put to the vote, I warned everyone: If there are no votes, are we ready to go to the vote? They all said, "Yeah, ready to go for a detour." We had the maximum mobilization in the voting room. I beg you, Vladimir Ariev, one more minute. And we're moving on. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-12-m0.u183	Thank you very much. Bill 3584 has just been rejected. What did the Supreme Council reject today, and more specifically, what did it continue to do? Law 3584 provided a clear and transparent order, according to European standards in the municipal sphere of parking and parking costs. Today, the Supreme Council continued to use cash, cash from car owners to collect money for parking, and which would go in the unknown in whose pocket it was not known. And electronic control, in fact full electronic control and the ban on cash circulation in parking, which is a European norm around the world, has been rejected today. I welcome you, you've confirmed today that Ukraine is an African state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-12-m0.u184	Dear colleagues, the following is a bill amending some Ukrainian legislation on responsibility for malicious disobedience to the administration's requirements for the execution of sentences. Is there anyone who needs to stand in the hall? None. I'm betting on the vote on Bill No. 2708, the committee's proposal on the basis. Whoever supports this proposal, please. Well, I'm asking if there's anyone to remind? There's no one. There's someone, right? Please, Valery Paccan. Please, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-12-m0.u185	Dear colleagues, this is about the exclusion of 391 articles of the Penal Code. What are we talking about? If there is a crime committed in the penitentiary service against those who are being held there, we forbid the authorities of those institutions. We are going to improve and given the relevance of the work of the penitentiary system in accordance with European standards, i.e. the head of the penitentiary service can't order his own judgment for an insatiable bed, for not cleaning in the insulator and so on and so forth. Please support and humanize, delete 391 articles of the Criminal Code, and thus humanize our standards to the European penitentiary service. Please support me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-12-m0.u186	Thank you. I think there's going to be general support for everyone here, it's just a base, I'm just asking. vote. I am voting on the draft Act amending some of the Ukrainian legislative acts on responsibility for malicious disobedience to the administration’s requirements for the execution of sentences. — No. 2708. According to the committee's proposals, on the ground. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. Please vote. [[13:46:35]] For-188. It's not a decision you make, dear fellows. The law is rejected. Colleagues, may I have your attention, please? I am very much interested in all the attention. We have a few questions that need an immediate solution. Among them is the establishment of a decision by the National Security and Defence Council on a common comprehensive plan of action for the sector sanctions. It needs an immediate solution. We also need to make changes today to Ukraine's State Budget to increase spending in the Central Electoral Commission. Today, elections were often mentioned in the hall. Now I'm just going to put the day session in order. This will not reject the laws. If there's room will, we'll put them in the order of the day session, there won't be room will -- we won't include them. But at least we have to try to do that. Similarly, the question of the definition of the composition of the Higher Service Corps Commission, which has been talked about a lot. Dear colleagues, I ask you to prepare yourself for making a decision. If there are votes, these questions need an immediate solution. We'll turn them on now, we'll be able to look at them after lunch. We're going to be able to look at the financing of the CIA. And so I'm going to ask you to prepare for the vote. And I think we're not going to have any political discussions here either. So the next chapter that we have is the inclusion in the agenda and the decision-making process. So the first of these is 4825. This is a draft decree approving the decision of the National Security and Defence Council of Ukraine on May 20, 16th, to implement the United Nations Security Council Resolution of July 20, 15th, No. 2231 on the Joint Comprehensive Action Plan on Sectoral Sanctions. I'll give the President's representative, Mr. Arthur Gerasimov, one minute. Arthur Gerasimov is in the hall? In order for him to simply explain the importance of this bill and why it is important to accept it without delay. Please, Mr. Arthur.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-12-m0.u187	Dear colleagues, in short, the situation is very simple. We must support the efforts of our international partners to ensure that the situation of sectoral sanctions regarding the Republic of Iran is supported by us as well. In addition, I can immediately say that this decree, it's made in such a way that we're getting out of sanctions a lot of things that relate to normal cooperation between Ukraine and the Republic of Iran, and it doesn't apply to anything that can be directed towards the creation of nuclear weapons and the creation of missiles that can deliver them. Therefore, it is a great request to support this decision, to include it in the order of the day today, and to consider it without delay. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-12-m0.u188	Thank you very much, colleagues. I want to ask you, can we count on a positive vote? And, dear colleagues, I'm betting that it's just an inclusion in the agenda of the session, a draft decree approving the decision of the National Security and Defence Council of May 20, 2016, "To implement the United Nations Security Council Resolution of July 20, 2015 on the Common Comprehensive Action Plan for Sectoral Sanctions". Who supports the inclusion in the agenda of the session please vote. Please vote, colleagues. [[13:50:43]] For-195 195 for. Colleagues, maybe we can get organized and involved, colleagues. I'm asking everyone to come into the hall, take jobs, colleagues. There aren't many votes left. I think if we mobilize now, we can put it in the order of the day session. Colleagues, I'm asking you to come into the hall and take your jobs. I'm asking the Secretary of the Supreme Council to report that we're now making a decision. Please, colleagues. I'm asking you to come into the hall, take your jobs. Dear colleagues, I will re-vote the inclusion in the agenda of the session. So who supports the inclusion in the agenda of the day session for decision-making, 4825, please vote. Please vote. [[13:52:21]] For 199 199. Then our colleagues may have a joint decision. Draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on the State Budget for Ukraine 2016 (increasing the expenditure of the Central Electoral Commission), on the financing of elections. Perhaps on that point we will come to understand, colleagues? Can we expect that? Then please, Alexei Sergey. If possible, explain for one minute the meaning of this bill. Alekseus Sergei, one minute, please. Turn on the microphone. I see there's support, let's try it, colleagues. I ask you to prepare yourself for making a decision. As far as I know, most of the political parties that are in the hall are supporting the financing of the CLTC for the elections. They're against that. The inclusion in the agenda of the day session is as many times as necessary. There are no restrictions on the matter, no restrictions. Therefore, dear colleagues, I propose the inclusion of a day-to-day session in order to take a decision of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the State Budget for Ukraine 2016 (to increase the expenditure of the Central Electoral Commission) to include in the agenda of the day-to-day session for decision-making (4865). Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. Please vote, colleagues. [[13:54:10]] For the 220. I can set it up again if the MPs get organized. I'm asking you to come into the hall, we're literally five votes short. Colleagues! You know, government institutions have to function independently of what political debates we have. The election must take place. Many members of the National Deputies are now on the electoral estaphet. We can question the holding of elections if we don't include it in the agenda and today we don't decide. It's not a matter of politics, it's not a matter of factions. This is a matter for government authorities to function. So please add five votes. Ready? Please. I would like to stress once again, according to the Rules, I can put as much to the vote as I need. I ask you very much to come into the hall and prepare for the vote. I'm asking you to add two votes. Add two votes to that question. Radical Party, add two votes on this issue. Colleagues, I am voting on the proposal to include in the agenda of the day session a draft law amending the Ukrainian Law on the State Budget for Ukraine for 2016 (for the increase in the expenditure of the Central Electoral Commission) (number 4865). Please vote. I'd like your support, colleagues. Please vote 4865. Please be supportive. Let's vote, colleagues. [[13:56:08]] For 229 229 for. Dear colleagues, thank you for your support. Dear colleagues, now according to the Rules. Excuse me? Now, according to the Rules, our morning meeting is adjourned, colleagues. I still have a vote to make, well, we're not gonna vote now, mate. Therefore, I declare the morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine closed. We'll spend 16 hours. Let's continue our work. I am very much asking the National Deputies to meet at 4:00 to continue our work. Dear colleagues, thank you for the active and productive start of our day, I hope that after lunch we will do the same productive work. Thank you, colleagues.
