ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-07-m1.u1	Dear colleagues, 4:00. I'm asking the MPs to come into the hall, take jobs, get ready for work. Please enter the hall, prepare for registration. Dear colleagues, I ask you to come into the hall and prepare to do so. I ask the Secretary of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to report on the beginning of our work. And I ask the heads of factions to mobilize deputies into the hall. Dear colleagues, please prepare for registration. Please take your seats and prepare for registration. Dear colleagues, I ask you to prepare for your registration and please, Your Honor, conduct your registration. Please register. Please. [[16:05:42]] 314 national deputies registered. I declare the evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine open. We did get the announcement again, and I want to read it. Announcement: In accordance with article 60 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, and according to the minutes of the meeting of the parliamentary group "Party of Rebirth" in the Supreme Council of Ukraine, 8 calls since July 7th, 16th, report on the replacement of its governing composition. The vice-president of the "Rebirth Party" in the Supreme Council of Ukraine, 8 vocations were elected by the National Deputy of Ukraine, Homutinnik Vitali Juriovich. This is the only announcement we have today. And so I wanted to inform you, Mr. President, that the Prime Minister of Ukraine, as well as the members of the government, is taking part in the meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Dear colleagues, let's welcome our colleagues from the government, please. [[Applause]] And I'll give you permission to speak for three minutes, Prime Minister of Ukraine Volodymyr Borisovich Groissman. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-07-m1.u2	Good day, fellow dignitaries, Mr. Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, distinguished colleagues of the national MPs. I'd like to ask you a few minutes of your attention, because I think that our decisions that we can make are extremely important to the real state of affairs in Ukraine. I would like to draw your attention to the issues that are now in order for the Ukrainian Parliament to do its day-to-day work. I would like to ask you to support a number of important issues that do not concern the government of Ukraine. It's not about the deputies who are in this room. What is involved in the quality of life of every Ukrainian citizen. I would like to draw your attention to the issue of the approval of the National Bank of Ukraine Supervisory Board. What I want to tell you is that the draft budget, which was approved by this Supreme Council, is that 38 billion dollars for the decision of the National Bank Supervisory Board is due to go to the National Budget of Ukraine. This means that we can secure payments from the budget and from the salaries of energy carriers, pensions and other compulsory payments, support the financing of the army, is the income of the State Budget of Ukraine. Without this supervisory board, we will not be able to do so, and this will only mean that we will not be able to pay because Parliament has not made the necessary decisions and has not appointed a supervisory board. And the second question. We always have questions about the work of the National Bank, and I think that the Supervisory Board is being created to control the activities of the National Bank of Ukraine. So today, I would very much ask you to come to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, support the formation of the Supervisory Board of the National Bank of Ukraine and resolve this issue. This question can be settled: 226 votes in the Supreme Council of Ukraine, regardless of the parties, regardless of factions, groups, or nonfractional deputies. And I'd also like to address you, my dear colleagues, on the matter of a package of laws that were introduced by the previous government and are now transferred by our government. The point is that we have to ensure that our cooperation program with the International Monetary Fund is implemented. We took over as Ukraine, that is a commitment. These laws are similar to those on the table, and the adoption of these laws will provide an opportunity to ensure macroeconomic stability in our country. And it's really necessary for Ukrainian citizens, it's necessary for every citizen today to have a sense of perspective that everything in Ukraine will continue to be only better, because a lot of bad things have been going on over the past decade. I mean, that's what I'm saying.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-07-m1.u3	Let me finish, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-07-m1.u4	Thank you. Since the beginning of this year, we have been able to feel small but just positive signals of the growth of the national economy. Indeed, this is not enough, but these signals need to be preserved and accelerated by economic growth. So the reforms we're making with you, they don't need IMF, they need Ukraine to make us institutionally strong, so that we can use better practices to change our lives in our country. Therefore, you too need your support in a balanced way. And there's another question that's very important. The Ukrainian people have stolen one and a half billion dollars that are now being arrested in the accounts of the Ukrainian banks. We have to do everything we can to get these funds back in a legitimate way to the state budget, to put them back in place and to force them to serve the Ukrainian society. And it also takes the political will of every member present to adopt this decision and to begin this process, to restore justice. We can't have these funds stolen again because of the use of gaps in Ukrainian legislation. So, dear friends, I very much ask and urge you to come into the hall today, and make all the necessary decisions to ensure stability in our country, so that we can secure the necessary funds for our budget area, the financing of other programs, including modernizations, and reconstructions, and construction in our country. I sincerely believe that you and I have chosen to make decisions, to take responsibility, and to succeed. As the head of the government, I can confirm that I am prepared to make a success with you, but that depends on how much we are able to make decisions. Thank you for your attention. I will thank you for your support and the glory of Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-07-m1.u5	Heroic glory! Thank you very much, Vladimir Borisovich. We are aware of the complexity of the appointment of members of the Council of the National Bank of Ukraine. But we did not have a regular lunchtime when the committee members reported two different lists. It was also a surprise to me, and I gave an immediate commission to the Committee on Financial Policy and Banking to gather to produce a single committee position. I find it unacceptable when the committee makes two different decisions for consideration by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Now, as far as I know, the committee is sitting and we're confident that once the committee comes up with a consolidated decision, colleagues, Vladimir Borisovich, once the committee comes up with a consolidated decision, we can put it to a vote. Without the committee's decision, I'm afraid I won't be able to set it up. Or if it's a decision, unless it's already been taken by the committee, then I'm willing to put it to a vote. That's why we're waiting for the committee to decide. As soon as the representatives of the committee arrive, we will immediately, Vladimir Borisovich, ask questions about the Council of the National Bank of Ukraine for a vote. Everyone knows we can't leave him in a vacuum. But we didn't finish the discussion before the break, we did. There was a discussion on the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Tax Code to minimize the impact on the administration of revenue. This is a question that received clear and complete support in the room, but during the discussion. All the factions who participated in the discussion have declared their willingness to vote for the bill. The only thing we have in our second hour is that the time set by the Rules has run out, and we have not been able to complete its consideration. So, dear fellows, I was going to give the final word to Juliana Nina Petrovni as co-reporter and then move on to a decision on this bill. Now I want to inform my colleagues that in a few minutes there will be a vote and a decision. And I ask the Secretary of the Supreme Council to inform the deputies that we are about to move on to a decision on this bill. I would like the factions to invite the deputies to the hall and ask for a closing statement first of all from Eugene Nina Peter's head of the Committee on Tax and Customs Policy. Please turn on Southern Nina Petrovney's microphone. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-07-m1.u6	Dear colleagues, before the break, we discussed the draft law in full procedure. I think you've heard, in fact, my opinion that the change in the uniform system of charging decisions of tax authorities that is now being proposed by this bill, working on the committee, can really change the quality of the consideration of objections to acts of inspection and other decisions of tax authorities. If we don't do that now, then the entire ineffective system of prosecution, the administrative pre-trial charge, will remain at that disadvantage and will not be of any benefit to taxpayers. That's why I'm asking you to accept this bill as a basis. In the future, we will work on the committee and take into account a number of important comments that have been made by honourable colleagues during the discussion of the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-07-m1.u7	Thank you very much, dear colleagues. A deputy minister of finance is invited to the closing statement. Is Marcenko Sergey Mikhailovich in the hall? It doesn't, does it? Nephrods? It doesn't, does it? Okay. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the decision-making process. Please take your seats and prepare for the vote. With your permission, I'll take a vote. I'm going to run a rating vote. Please take your seats, please come into the hall. Colleagues, please take up work, colleagues. Not in a government bed, not in a guest bed, but in a session room. Dear colleagues, I ask you to take part in the vote. Please, colleagues, vote. A unifying law, all expressed their support. Please take part in the vote. Please vote, colleagues. Please vote. [[16:18:38]] For 206 Not everyone's in the hall yet. Colleagues, I ask you to invite all the deputies into the hall and please take your seats. I'm giving you one minute to get the deputies into the hall. One minute! I'd like you to meet me in the hall. Please, while the MPs are coming, I will give the floor to Vladimir Borisovich Groisman. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-07-m1.u8	Dear fellow national MPs! Ladies and gentlemen, once again, I would like to draw your attention to the importance of making these decisions. These are bills that are the basis of our cooperation with the International Monetary Fund. In fact, all factions vote. There's a position of profile committee that's included in this bill. He's perfectly normal without any negative influences, so I would very much ask all the deputies of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to come to the hall, unite and vote for this decision. This is a perfectly normal law that we vote in the first reading with amendments and proposals that the committee has announced. Please, Your Honor, we need your consolidation in the vote right now.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-07-m1.u9	Colleagues, please come into the hall and prepare for the decision. Are you ready for the vote, colleagues? Anybody else? Not yet, is it? He's waiting. Okay, we're waiting. I see them coming in. Please come into the hall. As long as he's coming. Bye. Two minutes. As soon as the MPs come in, after the break, it's hard to get together, I'm going to make another announcement. In accordance with article 60 of the Ukrainian Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I report on the creation of the Eighth Interfractional Antipopoulists Union in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The heads of this association were elected Ukrainian national deputies: Denisenka Vadim Igorovich, Suslov Irina Mikolayovna, Lubinz Dmitry Valeriovich. We welcome the committee heads with the creation of an interfractional union. Dear colleagues, so I see that it's like the MPs are coming together, I'm going to put the ratings back on, and then we're going to make a decision. Colleagues, please take up your jobs and take part in the rating vote. Colleagues, please take your seats. The law required to cooperate with the IMF is extremely important. The whole government is here waiting for this decision. And I am very much asking to participate in the rating vote. Dear colleagues, please vote. Please vote, rating vote. Please vote. [[16:24:02]] For 231 The MPs finally got together, ready to work. Dear colleagues, we move on to a decision on this bill. So I'm voting on the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Tax Code to minimize the impact on the administration of revenue in the budget (number 4516) on the proposal of the Committee on the basis. Just on the ground, we'll be able to work everything out. Dear colleagues, 4516 on the ground. The law is necessary for the IMF. Please vote, please take part in the vote. Please vote, colleagues. [[16:25:06]] For 234 Decision taken. We finished our consideration of 4516. The law is still very important in our day - to - day life. This is the Law, which provides for amendments to some of Ukraine’s legislative acts (as regards regulation of markets and derivatives). The law is also necessary for the IMF, 3498. We await the decision of the Committee on the Banking Area. Mr. Oleg, as promised, as soon as the committee decides, I will put it to the vote. But while there is no committee, there is obviously a logic for us to consider what is right in the daytime. So, 3498, the bill that we have on the agenda. Yeah, well, that's also the Financial Policy Committee. It's also a committee of financial policy. No, no, we're standing right now. Guys, I'm sorry, I jumped. We now have the next "To make a decision on the issues under discussion" – 2413a. This is a draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on the consolidation of functions from the State regulation of financial services markets. We discussed it, completely reconciled it with all the factions. We just need to make a decision right now. With your permission to remind me, I will give the floor to the Prime Minister of Ukraine or to a representative of the government. You don't have to? Everyone knows this bill. It's completely ready. Self-help, we talked about it. He is fully ready. All I'm asking is for you to make a decision on it. So I'm voting on the draft Law amending some of the Ukrainian legislation on the consolidation of functions from the state regulation of financial services markets, 2413a. I ask you to come into the hall and prepare for the decision. Ready to make a decision? I'm betting on a vote of 2413a. Please take part in the vote on the rating. Please. Please vote. [[16:27:47]] For 210 Dear colleagues, me. Is there any other position? I'm asking very much for the faction voting board to be shown. I see we haven't made it. I see full support for this bill. Please, one minute, Maxim Burbak. Society, I ask you very much, please be more disciplined. Please, Maxim Burbak.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-07-m1.u10	Dear Chairman, Honourable Prime Minister! We had a fruitful discussion at the faction about supporting the bill in the first reading. So we ask you to organize a working group from its development and, between the first and the second readings, to come up with a joint decision, and then we will fully support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-07-m1.u11	Dear colleagues, I really want to remind you that we had a discussion on this important IMF law only with the People's Front. And as far as I'm aware of the faction's head, the People's Front has made a decision that will be supported on a continuous basis. So I'm asking you to just mobilize, colleagues, take jobs and get ready to make decisions, colleagues. Please prepare yourself for making a decision. I'm going to put the ratings vote again, I'm just asking you to be more careful. I place a rating vote on the draft Law amending some Ukrainian legislation on the consolidation of functions from the State regulation of the financial services market. An important law is essential to the IMF only on a basis. Please vote, please take part in the vote. Please. [[16:29:57]] For 226 Thank you for your understanding. I very much ask everyone to be careful and take up jobs. And, dear fellows, only as a basis will be worked out. I'm asking you to come into the hall and take your jobs, colleagues. I am voting on the draft Law amending some Ukrainian legislation on the consolidation of functions from the State regulation of financial services markets (number 2413a) as a basis, only as a basis. Colleagues who support this proposal, please vote. Please, colleagues, we vote carefully. 2413a we vote on the basis. [[16:30:51]] For 235 235 for. Decision taken. Dear colleagues, we have the following in our agenda: this is a bill, a draft law amending some Ukrainian legislation (about regulation of markets and derivatives). Is Demczak Ruslan Evgenovich present to report? Colleagues, as far as I know, take a break once a meeting. Today, they have exhausted their right to do so. Dear colleagues, I'm actually here. Excuse me? The heads of factions turn out to be once a day. I remember, too, that this is the norm of the Rules, and this rule has been exhausted. Honorable colleagues, in view of the fact that an application has been made. My colleagues, but I have another request. Before we announce the break, I have a request that we vote in favour of the calendar for the next autumn. Supporting a Colleague? Support your colleagues, all right. And then I'll call it a night. I'm just asking your colleagues. Okay? My colleagues, look what I'm worried about. In our Parliament, we have a very turbulent calendar for the next fall, and we ask that we discuss it and make a decision. Then I'll call it a break, just like I promised. And, dear colleagues, I ask you very much to consider this determination. That's two decisions. About the calendar of the fifth session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, 8 vocations And the second question that everyone has announced is not to close this session like last year, but to allow the Chief of the Supreme Council to call it at any time. Two decisions. I very much ask you to briefly discuss and support. And I'm asking them to discuss this with a reduced procedure and I'm asking them to vote in favour of this proposal: the discussion is short. Please vote. [[16:33:19]] For-200 Decision taken. And I invite you, by both decrees, and they are actually identical, to the words of the first deputy head of the Committee on Rules and Organization of Work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Phinehas Pavel Vasilovich. Mr. Paul, please. Please, very briefly, Mr. Paul, please report. I'd like everyone to come into the hall and be ready, because we're about to make a decision. Please, Mr. Paul, very briefly.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-07-m1.u12	Project Regulation 4904 "On the calendar of the fifth session." It is proposed to start plenary meetings on September 6, 2016, and to finish work on January 27, 2017. During the fifth session, hold 10 weeks in plenary sessions, 6 weeks in committees, commissions, factions and groups, 5 weeks in electoral work and 10 weeks in the Supreme Council. The terms for consideration by the Supreme Council of the draft State Budget Act are included in the budget code and the Rules of Procedure. Predicted participation of the National Deputies in the work of the official delegations of the Supreme. Please support 4,904 as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-07-m1.u13	Thank you. Dear colleagues, let's vote. I think there's general support. And I ask you to vote first. Draft Decision on the calendar of the fifth session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the basis and overall. Dear colleagues, please come in and take your jobs. Dear colleagues, our calendar plan of work. Mr. Paul, we'll wait until Mr. Paul arrives, and ask all deputies to take up their jobs. So, colleagues, I'm putting the draft of Decree 4904 on the ground and in general. Please vote and please support the organization of our work, please vote. Let's vote, colleagues. [[16:36:14]] For 267 It's been decided. Next thing you know, I'm going to read the transcript so there's not two readings. Taking into account the importance of the tasks before our Parliament, I propose that you make changes to the calendar plan for the fourth session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the eighth call, which will be scheduled for the following. Continue holding the fourth session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the eighth call until 6 September 2016. To hold a plenary session on July 8th, which will begin with "the hour of questions to the government." The week until July 15th, from July 11th to July 15th, to provide for work on committees, commissions, factions and groups. To foresee that with a view to resolving the situation in Ukraine and the need for adoption in connection with that Supreme Council of Ukraine, the plenary meetings of the Supreme Council of Ukraine are convened as required by the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Fifth. In this case, the head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine informs the National Deputies of the time and place of such a plenary meeting no later than three days before the day of the plenary. This is the text. Colleagues! Dear colleagues, can we vote? One minute, Oleg Lazko, and then we go to the vote. One minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-07-m1.u14	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. I'm asking the Panamanian Patriot Coalition not to scream, but to tell the citizens what's going on. The Head of Parliament is now putting to the vote the question that next week will not be plenary to close meetings, so that we will not be able to reach decisions in Parliament on tariff cuts, on investigations into corruption, on the offshore and everything else. Every MP who's going to press a button to make sure that next week isn't plenary, you want to run away from people, you're afraid to solve their problems. I believe that in today's conditions, it is immoral to close the plenary sessions of parliament when people are waiting for decisions. That's why I'm calling on my colleagues to Parliament: not to vote, not to continue Parliament's work in plenary, to create an Offshore TSC, to create a tariff-based TSC, to adopt laws that will reduce the cost of housing and utility services for Ukrainian citizens.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-07-m1.u15	Thank you. I want to emphasize, colleagues, in this decree, that we're not closing the session, it's a fundamental moment that we, at the time of the fighting, can gather our meetings at any time, colleagues. And that's why I'm asking for this proposal, for this determination to vote. I'll bet you a proposition: this decision is on the basis and in general. Please vote on the basis as a whole. Please vote, colleagues. Let's vote, colleagues. [[16:39:50]] For 171 The decree did not get the required number of votes. Dear colleagues, while we await the decision of the National Bank Committee, and in connection with the application that was made, I promised that after that question I would announce it. I'm calling a break at the request of two factions: A radical party and Fatherland. Break or break? Break for half an hour. Dear colleagues, I'm asking you at 5:10 a.m. we're meeting on a matter of mutual concern, the National Bank. I very much ask everyone at 17:10 to be in the hall to continue our work. Half an hour's break, at 5:10, we'll continue our work. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-07-m1.u16	Dear colleagues, the time for recess is over. I want to let you know that. Dear colleagues, as we agreed, I repeat the situation that happened to us this morning, when we were looking at an extremely important issue: the appointment of members of the National Bank of Ukraine Board -- two different positions have taken place and two different positions have been voiced from the profile committee. And I don't think that's acceptable. As I said before, I gave the commission to the committee to gather and go to a session of the Supreme Council with one decision, because the Supreme Council cannot vote in favour of a decision when there are two. The committee met during the break, held its meeting, and I received the committee’s decision. But I'd like the committee head to come out and sound it for us in the hall. Dowbenko, okay. I invite Doubenko to give us an explanation of the committee’s decision. Turn on the microphone, please, Mr. Doubenko. People's deputies, I'm asking you to come into the hall. We're about to move on to making a decision. I'm asking everyone to come into the hall and take their jobs. The heads of the factions, I ask you to bring the deputies into the hall. The Prime Minister of Ukraine stressed that this would be a two-pronged issue without which the economy of Ukraine would be hit hard. And I'm asking you to come into the hall. And, Mr. Doubenko, please, three minutes to report.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-07-m1.u17	Dear colleagues, when I reported on the draft Decree 4324, I want to apologize to you for the fact that the report first had to announce the text of this decree, and then the changes that we are proposing. But now, on July 7, 2016, the Committee of the Supreme Council on Financial Policy and Banking at its meeting reviewed a letter from the "Block of Petra Poroshenko" on the change of nomination for a member of the Council of the National Bank of Ukraine with an appropriate term of office and submitted an appropriate draft of the Supreme Council Decision on the appointment of members of the Council of the National Bank, altering the candidature of Arjevetin Stanislav Mihajlovich to Kozuk Viktor Valeriyovich. I would like to point out that the draft rulings were discussed at special open meetings of the Supreme Council Committee on Financial Policy and Banking on 24 and 25 November 2015 in accordance with article 10 of the National Bank of Ukraine Act. The committee therefore recommends that the Supreme Council's decision be adopted on the basis and as a whole on the appointment of members of the Council of the National Bank of Ukraine, namely: Kozuk Viktor Valeriovich for a term of 7 years, Szczerbakov's Olenna Anatoliyovna for a term of 6 years, Milovanov Timothy Sergiyovich for a term of 5 years, Ritchakovsky's Faith Johnowna for a term of 4 years. Please consider the Project Decree 4923 and support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-07-m1.u18	Thank you very much. I want to ask. There's no objection to any of the committee members? Can we view the Supreme Council as the decision of the entire committee? None. We can. There's no objection in the hall. We've already discussed this question, and I'm asking my colleagues to come to the hall right now -- a simple question. I'm asking you to take all your jobs and prepare for the decision. Please, colleagues, let's go into the hall. Colleagues, I'll, with your permission, since it's very difficult to gather deputies after the break, conduct a rating vote to see if all the deputies have come to the hall. Dear colleagues, please come into the hall, take your jobs and prepare for the ratings vote. And I ask you to participate in the rating vote on the appointment of members of the Council of the National Bank of Ukraine. Please vote, please take part in the rating vote. Please. [[17:27:19]] For 226 Colleagues, I'm asking you to come into the hall, we have voices just to each other. I'm asking you to take up jobs. Colleagues. Dear colleagues, I ask you to prepare for your decision, to take up your jobs. And I'm putting to the vote the draft Order on Appointment of Members of the Council of the National Bank of Ukraine (number 4923) as a basis and as a whole, as a committee, which was briefed by the committee's representative. Those who support this decision 4923 as a basis and as a whole, please vote. Colleagues, please vote. Please vote. [[17:28:43]] For 258. Decision taken. Dear colleagues, we now have a chapter following the agenda, this is the inclusion in the agenda of the day session for decision-making. But I have, I held consultations during our break, and a number of deputies said that they did not understand the text and were willing to vote in favour of the decision to continue the fourth session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the eighth call until September 6, 16. We can put the decision back on. Colleagues, I'm asking who. If there really is, I'm asking for a rating vote. If the situation has really changed, I ask in the rating vote to vote on the ruling that I read under the transcript, on the extension of the fourth session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the eighth call. Are we ready or not, colleagues? I bet. So, who supports the order to continue our work until September 6th, the rating vote, please vote to continue our work until September 6th. Please vote. Please vote. [[17:30:16.]] For 180. Apparently, it was a small portion of the deputies who came. Colleagues. Dear colleagues, I'd like your attention. Now we have a chapter after 4516, which we've adopted, which is the chapter "For inclusion in the agenda of the day session for decision-making."
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-07-m1.u19	They vote here, they vote here. It's okay, Mr. Borislav. That, by the way, people, I want to tell you because some people call them "black colonels." These are the people who went straight from Majdan to the front. There's an arrow here, 18, 120 people. The fact that the north of Lugansk is Ukrainian today is the credit of those boys. Solara, Michaela, 10th, centurion 10 hundred, who went straight from Majdan to Slavyansk and was wounded there. And those with just the tongue today for those guys to use those words, they're just people who aren't worth it. They vote, they vote, they vote, they know what to do. [[Applause]] Theteruk, who came from Ilowaysk, was George Bereza, who was from Ilowaysk. Respect those boys! So, colleagues, me, me, colleagues. Now we have a chapter. It's very short, it's four questions of inclusion in the agenda of the session. I'm asking you, it's one minute, it's our next question, we can walk on it. So I'm asking questions about the inclusion in the agenda of the day session and the decision-making process. First. Draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on the simplification and speeding up of proceedings for the protection of the rights and legitimate interests of persons violated (4879). Anyone who supports the inclusion of the day session in order to make a decision, please vote. Please vote. [[17:32:28]] For-149 There's no support. Next. 4536 and 4536-1, draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Listing Property Rights that Are Not Privatized. Anyone who supports the inclusion of the day session in order to make a decision, please vote. Please vote. [[17:33:01]] For 155 The decision is not made. And the last. 4799, Draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Listing Property Rights that Are Not Privatized. 4799. Anyone who supports the inclusion of the day session, please vote. [[17:33:31]] For a hundred and The decision is not made. And I was asked by two factions to re-position the inclusion of the 4890 session. That's 30 seconds. This is the one the Prime Minister of Ukraine was talking about. These are the costs for the army, the funds that Yanukovich has been arrested, which we can provide for the defense. And I'm betting on a vote of 4890. Whoever supports including it in the agenda for the decision-making session, 4890, please vote. Please vote. [[17:34:16]] For-174 174 for. So, colleagues, let's move on to the next chapter. Please. Okay. You do. Before we go to the next chapter, one minute, Maxim Burbak. Please, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-07-m1.u20	Dear colleagues, I call upon you and you, Your Honor Mr. Head, to put to the vote once again the day-to-day issue of the confiscation of money stolen by Yanukovich, because we will also support the Prime Minister that this money should work in our country's defence budget. If there is no positive vote, this is a clear public position of the People's Front, then we will not support any vote in this room. Period.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-07-m1.u21	Thank you, Your Honor. Let's move on to the next section of the agenda. We've got it. Prime Minister, please. Prime Minister, three minutes to go. Prime Minister Vladimir Borisovich Groisman.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-07-m1.u22	Thank you, Mr. Head of the Supreme Council. A meeting had just taken place with the Secretary of State of the United States. I want to thank you for supporting the National Bank Board. This is an extremely important decision that will allow, once again, I want to emphasize, to unlock funding from the National Bank of 38 billion dollars into the budget, we can finance normal, rhythmic wages, pensions, other expenses. I'd like to draw your attention to a few laws that you just considered but didn't approve. Let's think logically. This is a list of privatization facilities, privatization facilities, such as agriculture. Fellows, would you please tell me how much left alcohol is going to drive in our country? How many Ukspirts in our country are going to be one of the tallest corrupt structures in the world? This gives us the opportunity today to put on public privatization, public, open these companies and to stop looking at them as food counters and supporting corruption schemes. Well, you all know, my friends. Let us adopt one law and another in the first reading. Take the Parliament course. Let's work together to ensure publicity in this process. There are no cool questions here. And question number two, we're all fighting corruption. As long as you don't film those leaders in these structures, they'll be corrupt forever. We need to get away from them. We have 3.5 thousand with you. Look, colleagues, if anyone wants to lead the Crucifixion, please, we'll make a decision. And whoever takes responsibility for this room, please. But when we vote on this decision, we give opportunities for the public process and we look honestly to Ukrainian society. And second position. Attention. Specpunciation. Someone has doubts that 1.5 billion dollars, there are no values. All these 1.5 billion by the end of this year will be costs, costs. I've heard about this here, that there's some equipment and so on, but it's costs. I suggest you do the next thing. Make the decision to adopt this law in the first reading as a basis. Make it up to the committees and work it out as you think you need it. But restore justice. And let's return these funds that were stolen into the state budget of Ukraine. It's important, it's fundamentally important, and it's honest with Ukrainian citizens. Otherwise these 1.5 billion will still be stolen, I have no doubt about it. I would very much ask the Ukrainian Parliament, this is a request, this is not a controversial one. [[Unheard]]
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-07-m1.u23	Please finish for one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-07-m1.u24	Excuse me. It's not a counterversive position. Take the first reading as a basis, go back to the committees, write it as it should be. Go out to the Ukrainian society and say, we did this thing, it's honest, it's fair, and the Ukrainian society has returned 1.5 billion dollars to the State budget of Ukraine. We're all worried about troops today, and wages, and pensions, and social standards. So you're going to be 40 billion that are going to be included in the government budget. What to do with them will continue to be decided by the Ukrainian Parliament because changes to the state budget are taking place in support of the Ukrainian Parliament. I call on everyone to rise above personal ambitions and support the voting on the basis of this bill. Thank you for your attention. And glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-07-m1.u25	Thank you, Vladimir Borisovich. There's a demand and a request, and from the head of the People's Front faction, and from the Prime Minister. And I'm going to put another 30 seconds: if there are voices, there are, and if not, we're going to move on. Because we have an extremely important next one -- this is about the sanctions that Ukraine is introducing. And I ask you to prepare for the vote. And I am once again putting the agenda of the day session into order for the decision of the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts on the characteristics of the State's collection of unwarranted assets and assets whose owner is not established (4890). Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. Please, 4890 is a day-to-day session for decision-making. Please. [[17:40:20]] For 172 There are no votes under the given decision. Colleagues, we have the next chapter, these are three bills for second reading. But two of them asked me to move, 3,498 and 2,296. The next is 4373 – this is a draft law amending the Code of Administrative Offences (to increase the responsibility for driving a vehicle in an alcoholic, drug or other drunken state). It is the second reading and the right hand, indeed, there is not much. Indeed, there is not much and I think we can accept it. And I invite you to a report under this law. Andriy Anatolyovich! Andriy Anatoliyovich, the bill where you are the reporter is 4373.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-07-m1.u26	Andrew Anatolyovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-07-m1.u27	4373 is a draft Act amending the Code of Ukraine. And I'm asking you to turn on the microphone of Cosmiakina Andrija Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-07-m1.u28	My fellow Members, I would like to introduce you to this bill that is really supported today by all factions and political forces, this is a bill prepared by the Committee for Second Reading, amending the Code of Administrative Offences on increasing the responsibility of driving in the state of alcohol, narcotics or other drunkenness, or under the influence of medicines that lower their attention and speed of reaction. And before I tell you how many suggestions have been accepted and how many have been accepted, I can say the following. Mr. Prime Minister, Prime Minister, Vladimir Borisovich, I would like to say to you and to all of you, Vladimir Borisovich, that our committee, headed by Mr. Heraszczenko Anton Juriovich, who represents the People's Front, has been commissioned by you and the President to develop a good, normal European bill that clearly determines when and how civil, literate and legal, professionally can be confiscated. Because everything else, we've already made decisions, we've changed it to 170 articles, to those articles in the Criminal Code that allow Janukovich today to conduct himself clearly and take away everything he has. What you're doing with this law right now is very simple. For example, Andrew Kožemjakin was not a deputy until 2012, and he became a national deputy after 2012, but he did not fill out the income declaration by 2012 because he was not a civil servant. A situation has arisen that enables a corrupt investigator or prosecutor, let alone a judge, to prove the guilt of those who go through criminal conduct. But I, for example, have some money or a car from my father who died and gave it to me, and I can't prove that I bought this car from my father who got it for me. It's an inheritance. It's a small case of what this law does, you know, just a small one. And what I'm saying is that speculative speculation in this law is a violation of the Constitution and a violation of the constitutional rights of every citizen, you know, that's what this is about. We've made a normal law, we're not heard, unfortunately. So there is no need to blame Cosemiakin, Ivanova, Petrova, Palamarczuk, King. The entire committee signed and supported this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-07-m1.u29	Dear colleagues, we are discussing Bill 4373.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-07-m1.u30	One minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-07-m1.u31	Please, one.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-07-m1.u32	Thank you. I just wanted to say one thing. Andriy Anatolyevich came to me. Dear colleagues, I'm talking about the fact that there's one and a half billion dollars stolen from the Ukrainian people. Second position. You, as the Supreme Council, settle in a legal way, either by law or by others, and do it. I'm not a pretender, I'm an offer and a request to help, but in what legal way to do it, you decide. You're Parliament, you're making a decision, I'm willing to support it. Is that the law you said, or is that the law that is now in order of the day. This is your decision, which law do you consider necessary, let it be. But the main thing is. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-07-m1.u33	So, dear colleagues, we're going to move on to the amendments to this bill. Please, Mrs. Oksana, go through all the bills. Please, Mrs. Oksana. Mrs. Oksana, please. Dear colleagues, we are discussing another bill. Mr. Andrey, I'm legally supposed to turn off the microphone during this, but I respect you. We've been through this, we've already passed it, Mr. Andrew. There is now a bill that unites the entire room. And Andrew Teteruk is long ahead of him and the committee's decision. Let's take it straight. We have 10 minutes of work left, Mr. Andrew. With great respect, I ask you very much. Mrs. Oksana, please, as amended.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-07-m1.u34	Thank you. Corrections. Andrew Anatolyovich. Andrew Anatolyovich! Please turn on the microphone, Cosemyakin.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-07-m1.u35	Colleagues, let's move on to the bill. Please, Mrs. Oksana.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-07-m1.u36	Please turn on the microphone. Replica, one minute. Please, Andriy Anatolyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-07-m1.u37	Dear Andriy Volodymyrovich, with great respect, once again, I would like to say that this bill and this subject have been discussed for a long time. This is a socially dangerous subject. Why? Sadly, the people are deceived and deceived by covering up Yanukovich, the man on whom there is nowhere to be stamped. But this man and his sidekicks, and the environment could have been taken away for two years, two years ago. But no one does. Why? Because, for example, it's a norm like that. The bill: neither the defendant nor the accused, nor the witness" and neither the third party have the right to disclose what is being done in criminal proceedings. So one in four, the fifth, the sixth person may be deprived of his right, which violates the Constitution of Ukraine. I mean, he's here. There's no apartment. And they'll say, "The darkness has been closed, and you've been accused there, but we won't tell you."
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-07-m1.u38	Dear colleagues, look, I want to tell you in general what we have now. Now the bill, which is very short; then we have an important bill -- this is about implementing the United Nations Security Council Resolution, by sanctions, by sectoral sanctions, but this bill is also unifying. Then there is a re-examination of the President's proposals: to amend article 13 of the Ukrainian Law on External Economic Activity (to reduce the deficit of black metal scrap). Three bills. If there is the political will of the hall, they are all united, let us now walk on them and accept them. I'm asking you to take your emotions off now and go. Mrs. Oksana, I'm asking for an amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-07-m1.u39	Thank you. So we are considering amendments to the second reading of the Law of Ukraine. Bill amending the Ukrainian Code on Administrative Offences (to increase responsibility for driving in the state of alcohol, narcotics or other drinking or under the influence of medicines that lower their attention and speed of reaction). Amendment number 3. People's deputy to Semimenach. Don't insist. Amendment number 4. People's deputy to Semimenach. Don't insist. Amendment number 5. People's deputy to Semimenach. He doesn't insist on any of his amendments, so on the 6th, the 7th. Amendment number nine. Shurm's national deputy. Please give me your word. Shurm's national deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-07-m1.u40	Igor Shurma, Opposition Block. Dear colleagues, we are considering a very important bill today. I want to thank the author for taking him to the session room, and we have to say that. Today, many citizens of Ukraine suffer from what is being done on the roads. Regardless of nationalities, religious beliefs, and political preferences, people die. And I think today's fines should be increased as much as possible. Let me give you an example. We've got cabinets. A parallel example. We have smokers in the office of the head doctor and school principals. Why? Because we have a fine that doesn't work at all. That's what those fines are all about. In order for a person to avoid driving in an unsuspecting condition, he must know that the fine is increased. So my amendment is to maximize for the first violation – 17,000 dollars and one year's imprisonment. If people do not know that there is a punishment, they will continue to drive in an unbridled condition. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-07-m1.u41	Thank you. Please, head of the committee. Will you comment?
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-07-m1.u42	What to Comment on? They gave you their word. Do your job, Mrs. Oksana.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-07-m1.u43	I can only give the floor to the deputies who make their amendments, as well as to the committee that is introducing the bill. No comment from the committee? Are you insisting, National Deputy Shurm? Please put to the vote the amendment number nine. Please vote. [[17:52:06]] For 121 The decision is not made. Amendment number 19, national deputy Babi. Don't insist. Amendment 11, National Deputy Kobtsev. Don't insist. Amendment number 12, People's MP Sphenov. He insists. I'd like to give the floor to the National Deputy of Sphenov.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-07-m1.u44	Dear colleagues, I really insist on this amendment. All the amendments that go on are 12 amendments, Amendments 14 and 24 are aimed at strengthening the penalty for reckless driving and especially for those who are covered by their special status. Everyone on the road is equal, everyone has to comply with traffic rules. Our society is tired of the news on the list of drunks. Deputies, Kabmin, judges, prosecutors should be held accountable. Please place and support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-07-m1.u45	Please, head of the committee, National Deputy Kožemyakin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-07-m1.u46	Same argument as the previous amendment. There is no justification for taking into account such a proposal. In addition, part two of this article provides for the repeated commission of an offence, the removal of the right to drive a vehicle for a period of three years. So she was rejected by a subcommittee and a committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-07-m1.u47	Thank you. Since the subject of the legislative initiative insists, I ask that the vote be put to the vote. [[17:53:51]] For-119 Thank you. "For" is 119, you don't make a decision. Amendment 13, national deputy of the Shurm. He insists. I'd like to give the floor to the national deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-07-m1.u48	Dear colleagues, it is a matter of whether the Supreme Council today is capable of making strict rules and requirements for people who are driving in an unbridled condition. The problem is that when a driver is in an unsuspecting condition, he is sober and knows little about what he has done. As a result, human life, health, grief, and misery are common among many families. Let me give you an example. 31.05 A drunk driver in Lviv drove into the ambulance, a car. Today, two people were killed in the Lviv region of Zolochev, all returning from the night’s entertainment. If we don't make the drivers know they're being punished, and the more they sit down, the more severe this punishment has to be, we won't get anything. My suggestion is that for a misdemeanor, there should be a fine of 34,000, plus a driver's license, a driver's license for 3 years. I'm asking you to support this one.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-07-m1.u49	Thank you. Please, from the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-07-m1.u50	Dear colleagues, Mr. Shurma, during our consideration of this amendment, we have come to the conclusion that there is no basis for such an increase. And according to members of the committee, the fines offered are quite high. That's 10,000 200, 20,000 400 and 40,000 800 dollars for Ukrainian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-07-m1.u51	Thank you. The next amendment is for which. Yeah, the storm insists. Whoever supports this amendment of the 13th Shurma, please vote. [[17:56:09]] For-141 The decision is not made. Dear colleagues, first of all, I would like to say that I am continuing to consider this before the conclusion of the session. It's a social issue for people. I ask you to be in places and to have more intense discussions. So 17th, Cobbs. Don't insist. 18th, Babi. Don't insist. 19th, Lensky. Don't insist. 23rd Cobbs. Don't insist. 24th, Spinov. Don't insist. 25th, Babi. Don't insist. 26th, Shurma. He insists. Please turn on Shurmi microphone. One minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-07-m1.u52	Dear colleagues! The Opposition Block is pushing for an end to today's disaster that has to do with driving cars in an unsuspecting state. In principle, we advocate that the penalties imposed on those who today create life - threatening conditions and for the health of our Ukrainian citizens should be severely punished. Our requirement is that the last level, that is, after repeated violations, a person was deprived of his driving license for 10 years and had a corresponding financial burden on him. We must force people to give up driving in an unsuspecting state. The principle position of the Opposition Block. I'm asking you to back me up.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-07-m1.u53	Thank you. Is there a need to comment, Mr. Andrew? Please turn on the microphone. Andrew Kozemyakin.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-07-m1.u54	I can say that Mr. Igor is saying the right things. During the committee's discussion, the committee rejected the amendment with a minimum number of votes, but there were so many national deputies who supported the strengthening of these sanctions. Well, unfortunately, that's what's left. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-07-m1.u55	For the consideration of the hall. And I'm voting on amendment 26 of the Shurma People's Deputies. Whoever supports this amendment please vote. Please. [[17:58:36]] For 134 The decision is not made. Mr. Igor, I have a request, perhaps not every turn to insist, if possible. Because we can just question the whole law. 27th. Are you insisting? No, it's not. 29th, Kobtsev. Don't insist. 30th, Babi. Don't insist. 31st. Moses. He insists. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-07-m1.u56	Dear national MPs, the very principled amendment was only one thing that I submitted. It refers to the fact that, unfortunately, these drivers, who are detained, do not go on an extra-curricular drug inspection. And you know, there's medical help that allows you to drive and get rights. And in fact, we don't have the only country relatively, there, let's say, with the United States of America, where those drivers are taking treatment. And it allows you to send drivers who are detained for treatment and for examination to a medical facility. And it turns out that those drivers, when they get a fine, keep going and they can still be alcoholics, drug addicts and doctors don't do them. So this is a very principled and correct amendment. Surprisingly, the committee rejected her. I insist on including her in the vote. Please support the hall. It will enable us to get rid of these chronically ill drivers, who continue to kill our children.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-07-m1.u57	Thank you. Mr. Andrew Cosemyakin, microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-07-m1.u58	Ladies and gentlemen. Dear colleague, well, it can't be surprising because there is a Rules, there is a Rules, here is a Rules, clearly article 116 says that proposals and amendments to a bill that is prepared for second reading can only be made to the text of a bill of articles adopted by the Supreme Council on a basis. Well, this amendment, I'm sorry, is contrary to 116 articles. Thank you. Nothing personal.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-07-m1.u59	Thank you. But according to the Rules, I have to put it to a vote. Anyone who supports the 31st National MP, Musia, please vote. Please vote. [[18:00:54]] For the 110. 110 for. The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, there are four adjustments left. So in five minutes, we'll be able to move on to making a decision. I ask the Secretary of the Supreme Council to invite members of the House and heads of factions to the Hall, and in five minutes we will move on to the decision-making process. Dear colleagues, let's mobilize. Next, 32nd. Semenha. Don't insist. 33rd Semenha. Don't insist. 34th, Levenchenko. Lechchenko insists. Levchenko, Illenka, this is a joint amendment, I'll give you one minute to speak to Illenka, please. Please don't go, stay in the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-07-m1.u60	Andrew Illenko, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Dear Society, this law must be passed immediately because it must be stopped by the horror that is taking place on our roads. It is necessary to punish drunkards while driving because the person who is drunk is a killer. And there can be no excuse here. And there has to be strict legislation in this regard. I think we need to change not only the Administrative Code, but we need to change the Criminal Code. And in fact, this amendment is about that if we make administrative responsibility more severe, there should be a more severe criminal responsibility. In fact, we suggest that we don't have a certain imbalance here when we actually have administrative offences that can be punished more severely than criminal offences. We just want to make it more responsible and administrative for violating traffic rules that cause bodily harm and other serious consequences, as well as criminal responsibility. That's exactly what this is about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-07-m1.u61	Are you insisting on her vote? Please, Mr. Andrew.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-07-m1.u62	I mean, that's right, but we had a mistake, we didn't do it, Mr. Andrew, when we adopted the law as a basis. This bill, which was prepared for second reading, does not provide for amendments to the Criminal Code of Ukraine. So again, I'm sorry, 116 articles. But you also need to prepare your work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-07-07-m1.u63	Thank you. This is the last correction. There will be a vote. I'm asking everyone to come into the hall. But I also have to put Illenka, Lechchenka, to the vote. Who supports the 34th amendment of Lehchenka, Illenka, please vote, colleagues. Please vote. [[18:03:35]] For 135 135 – no decision taken. Dear colleagues, we have concluded our discussion of the bill. Let's move on to making a decision. I ask everyone to come into the hall, prepare for the vote. During the discussion, everyone supports the initiative. This initiative is perceived positively by all factions, only to have a higher level of discipline. And I'm asking everyone to come into the hall. And with your permission, I'm also going to put a rating vote so we can see how ready we are to make a decision. Dear colleagues, the draft Law on Amendments to the Code of Administrative Offences (in order to increase the responsibility for managing vehicles in a state of alcohol, narcotics or other drunkenness or under the influence of medicines that reduce their attention and speed of reaction). The rating vote. Please take part in it and please vote, colleagues. Please vote. [[18:04:51]] For 237 Thank you, Your Honor. And I'm voting on the draft Law amending the Code of Administrative Offences (to increase the responsibility for managing vehicles in the state of alcohol, narcotics or other drinking or under the influence of medicines that lower their attention and speed of reaction) (number 4373) in the second reading and in general. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. Let's vote, colleagues. [[6:05:38]] For 243 Decision taken. Welcome to the committee. Welcome, fellow members of the national MPs. It's an important decision. Time for our work is over, 18:05. The evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. Tomorrow at 10 a.m., I'm inviting everyone into the conference room to continue our work. Thank you for your important and fruitful work. Today, we have adopted an extremely large number of important laws. Thank you until tomorrow.
