ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-05-m0.u1	Good morning, fellow countrymen. Please prepare for registration. I want to inform you that yesterday we met with members of the coalition, leaders of factions, to discuss the issue that has arisen in our country from the point of view of the processes that are taking place. You know, I think even after yesterday's conversation there are three basic things that will allow us to stabilize the situation. Whoever says this, we need -- first and foremost -- to prevent the situation from being destabilized in the country. This is the first position. It is equally important that reforms do not stop. Today, many things speak of what is done and what is faulty. I think we need a frank conversation from the point of view of what achievements have been made, what have been positive, what have been shortcomings. And this work on mistakes should very clearly give us the answer to what we should do next. And third position, I just said yesterday, we need a very clear plan of action that will allow us to break out of this situation and the gap where the country is today, Ukraine, so that people can feel it. I think we can do this. Today we will have a conversation with the Prime Minister within the leadership of the coalition factions. I think it's absolutely fair when the government was formed in this particular Parliament and this Parliament is the one who will find a way out of this situation. So I urge everyone to work in this direction in serious quality. And now we're starting our work, dear colleagues. Please register. [[10:02:46]] Registered -294 Dear colleagues, 294 National Deputies are registered in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. We can start our work. I declare the meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine open this morning. As always, we start Friday from "the hour of questions to the government." And accordingly, I invite you to the rostrum of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Minister of Agrarian Politics and Food of Ukraine, Alexia Mikhailovich Pavlenko. It's been 15 minutes. But before that, let's welcome the Prime Minister. Welcome, Arseny Petrovich, to the Hall of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and to the Cabinet of Ministers. Please, Alexei Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-05-m0.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to talk to you today about your question of what happened. on Russia's trade war against Ukraine, which began in 2012. Systematicly, this war came after the Dignity Revolution, and in parallel with the aggression of the Russian Federation against the Crimea and the Donbas. Russia is using political and economic pressure as a hybrid war method. Moscow’s greatest effort was to depress the strategic sector of the agrarian sector, which guarantees the country’s food security and brings about a third of its export revenues to the state. But all Russia’s efforts proved futile. During the year, the government carried out systematic work to counter Russian economic aggression. As a result, in 2015 agro-products accounted for $18.5 billion, of which $14.8 billion was exported. Recorded in years of independence, the positive balance of external trade from agroexoprt is $11.1 billion. If we compare a given number with you, for example, with our foreign exchange reserves at the moment, we're going to realize that the given figure, including is essential, including for monetary security, and for the financial stability of the country. Thus, we have achieved market diversification, particularly through increased expertise to countries in Asia and the European Union. So what I want to tell you in this case is that the geography of the export structure has changed significantly, and if you look at it right now, there's a significant shift towards the countries of Asia, for example, in 2015, almost 45 percent of total exports. Saving key EU trade positions, 28.2 per cent, and African countries with a share of 13.6 per cent, which is even more than the total export to the GNI, is 10 per cent of the total. We have helped Ukrainian companies to enter new markets, and almost 250 companies have been allowed to supply products to the EU market. Nine countries have also opened up for over 80 dairy businesses. China, India, Egypt, Turkey, Spain, Poland, Italy, and France were among the largest agrarian countries. Since January 1, 2016, the Russian Federation has unilaterally withdrawn from the regime of free trade with Ukraine and imposed a ban on the supply of certain Ukrainian food products. As a result of the destructive behaviour of the Russian side, agricultural production between Ukraine and the Russian Federation decreased by almost 65 percent, or more than $1 billion, over the past year, compared with 2014, and made nearly $575 million. Ukrainian agricultural exports decreased by 68 percent to the Russian Federation, to $300 million. The Russian Federation's share of total exports decreased from 6 per cent in 2014 to 2 per cent in 2015. Market diversification by expanding the geography of exports has allowed Ukraine's agri-export to endure painlessly the loss of Russia's market, which has completely broken the canoe of a Russian economic aggressor. The decline in exports took place in almost all commodity locations, export supplies ceased altogether: milk, birds’ eggs, grains, grains, seeds of oil crops (mainly soybeans and sunflower seeds), confectionery, sugar, prepared and preserved fish and crustaceans. The supply of animal oil, beer, and juices reduced to a minimum. Imports from the Russian Federation dropped by 58 percent, by $366 million, to $264 million, compared to 12 months in 2014. Despite Russia’s efforts to do irreparable damage to Ukrainian producers, Moscow’s unfriendly plan proved to be a failure. The Ministry, thanks to the Ministry of Economics, has made every effort to help native agrarians acquire new markets for their products and adapt to new conditions. All necessary prerequisites have been created for agricultural production from the Russian Federation to be replaced by goods of domestic production and goods of origin from other countries. From now on, one of the largest consumers of Ukrainian agroproducts has become the European Union. I want to remind you that since January 1st, we have entered the zone of all-inclusive free trade with the countries of the European Union, and at this moment, more and more of our Ukrainian businesses are becoming interested and are opening up the European market. In just the last three weeks of this year, more than a thousand DFS companies have been authorised to export to the European Union. The Kol Centre, which works in Europe, is now overcrowded with questions from Ukrainian companies. And that's what our international partners define, both at the level of the Eurocommission, and ours, including international partners. So I can safely argue that thanks to well-thought-out operational and adequate situations, Ukraine has been able to effectively confront Russia in the food war. Min. The APC played a pivotal role this year, soon establishing a network of contacts with international partners and providing our manufacturers with the most light and transparent tools of expertise. Today, Ukraine’s economic dependence on Russia in the agrarian sector can be responsibly claimed to be almost completely overcome. Finally, it's appropriate to note that our goal is absolutely constructive, we don't want to destroy any potential or cause any damage to anyone. The only thing we want is the prosperity of the agricultural sector of Ukraine, which will automatically become a better victory in the economic war with the Russian Federation. In particular, I want to point out that there were also answers to questions from fellow MPs from the Supreme Council, one of them was the question of deregulation. I want to point out separately what we did together last year. First. I want to point out that the main issue that business is asking us is that the state does not interfere with the development of business in Ukraine. You know what our farmers say: don't touch business, create stable taxes, create clear business conditions. That is why a complex reform of deregulation has been initiated. I want to answer very briefly the question that 56 kinds of permits have been simplified, reviews, services, procedures in the course of economic activity. We've got a huge potential with you right now to improve our export capabilities when, you know, they say business now has stopped taking money from field to port. That's why Form Two has been canceled, quarantined. The recognition of a European control system equivalent to that of Ukraine has also been an important step towards deregulation. This opened the way for imports of products approved by the European Commission and for inclusion in the relevant registers. So I would like to point out that this path is just beginning. I want to thank my colleagues from the agrarian committee for adopting a large package of deregulation laws, starting with the licensing of agricultural goods. It's a very large, very nice package of deregulation in the agro-industrial complex: more than 20 permits we were able to jointly cancel, and the actions of the Cabinet of Ministers on simplification, starting with tribal animals, ending with documents of abject nature for veterinary products, for feed additives and so on. Now, as part of the 2020 strategy, a comprehensive strategy is being developed this year after the deregulation. So we're going to have a separate deregulation in animal agriculture, a separate deregulation in fish farming, and including individual packages now in common with our colleagues from the European Union and the committees now, after continuing deregulation and simplifying business, in our own agro-activity. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-05-m0.u3	Please take your place, Minister. Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine Andry Pivovarski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-05-m0.u4	Ladies and gentlemen, good morning, everyone! Today I have a few questions from you, and most of them relate to the reform of the Railroads and the rail transport system, in principle, in Ukraine. One of the questions is, what does the Crucifixion Corporation offer that took place in 2015? It's worth reminding you that the Ministry of Infrastructure and the management of Cruise Railroads has been working to complete one of the most important corporate transformations, one of the largest companies in Ukraine, the Cruise Station: to create a public stock company from the state-owned company Ukrzalznica. The formation of PAT "Urzalznica" is one of two basic steps for reform in the field. A number of structural reforms have been carried out in the midst of society, with 29 branches, 23 of which are already functional. So by business, we're turning the Crucifixion into a business that. For the best form of business used in the world's best holding companies. This will allow transparency of financial flows, increase the efficiency of each business and introduce responsibility for the managers of Cruise and each particular business that will allow them to make an adequate assessment of their role in improving business, or inefficiencies that will allow them to make the right conclusions as to whether people are in place or not. In 2016, structural reform will continue, all types of business apart from infrastructure will be removed from the regional railways. At the same time, the financial accounts of the operator, infrastructure and transport activities will be completely divided in the Crossroads, as provided for in the EU Directive. This is a basic condition for ensuring equal access to railway infrastructure. It's worth noticing. The second question you asked me is about the new bill, the draft Rail Transport Act, what it will do for the industry. And it should be noted that the adoption of the new Rail Transport Act and the creation of an independent tariff authority will be a second step in the reform of the Railroads and the railway sector in general. The bill lays the groundwork for the operations of Crossroads and the industry for many years to come, it will change the entire organisational structure of the rail transport market, it will move the sector into competitive markets. Finally, in 24 years, we'll move away from the Soviet, post-Rradian model of branch management and move on to the market rails. In fact, the bill presents a new model for the rail transport market, similar to that of the European Union. The bill singles out a railway infrastructure operator who is responsible for its operation, modernization and development. It will provide infrastructure access services for all carriers on a non-discriminatory basis. Monitoring the fair distribution of access to infrastructure will be a function of the State. The tariff for rail infrastructure services will be regulated by the State. These functions are passed to the independent regulator, the National Commission for Transport Regulation. The relevant bill is also agreed upon by the Cabinet of Ministers and is sent to the Supreme Council for approval. Such a tariff will necessarily include an investment component that can only be used to implement approved investment projects in infrastructure development. For other components of the railway tariff, the bill provides for the establishment of economically sound, market-based tariffs. In doing so, the organization of passenger transport in the social segment by rail, including tariffs for such transport, will take place through contracts between the State and carriers, which, on the one hand, will set out strict criteria for the quality of such transports, on the other hand – a clear commitment by the public authorities to pay the difference between prices for tickets and economically sound tariffs. Such a model is absolutely in line with the EU directives, whose implementation is foreseen by the Association Agreement. It is important to note that the adoption of the bill and the development of more than 50 sub-legislative acts for its implementation and the implementation of structural transformations in the middle of the Crucibles should take place in parallel in the next two years. All that depends on the Ministry and Crossroads is structural reform, and the development of sub-legal acts is under way. Please, Your Honor, support us and help us with the adoption of the Rail Transport Act and the NCRT. Without these two basic laws, we will not be able to transform our sector and end the reform of the Crucifixion. It is simply impossible. Next question. After the opening of the transport corridor, what are the prospects for the new Silk Road? Dear colleagues, this year, at the beginning of the year, we completed a nearly twelve-month work process to create alternative ways of delivering Ukrainian cargo, cargo from Central Asia, from China to Europe, around the Russian Federation. Realizing that we have an unconstructive neighbor who at any time could stop fulfilling international obligations, we were forced to look for alternatives. This alternative to delivering Ukrainian cargo to Central Asia, China and vice versa, we have found Europe. The experimental train from the port of Ilchivsk to the border between Kazakhstan and China, to the station of Dostik, passed, almost without technical problems. There was a human factor, there was a natural effect, there was a storm in the Black Sea and the Caspian Sea. Instead of the expected 11-12 days, the train reached the Chinese border in 15 days, but we understand clearly, of which three days is essentially a human factor that we can completely clean up. Two days is the effect of nature. Storm in the Black Sea, storm in the Caspian Sea. When we go through this path, we clearly understand that we can, we're able to take this path in 10 days, it's absolutely possible. I want to remind you that the alternative route through the Russian Federation is about 9-10 days. So the logistic time of the Silk Road from the port of Ilciwsk through the territory of Georgia, Azerbaijan, Kazakhstan to the border with China can pass at exactly the same time as the alternative that exists today. Yes, there is a problem today in the economy. It means that this path is "the Silk Road" -- so far it's a little more expensive than the alternative that exists today. But let's ask today the question: if tomorrow the Russian Federation bans the transit of our cargo through Belarus and its territory, how will we deliver cargo to Central Asia, to our historic markets: Georgia, Azerbaijan, Kazakhstan and other markets? Now we have an alternative. The task is given to the Crossroads and the Fox Company, which is the main operator of this route: create economic conditions, create conditions for the economy to improve this path, and this is absolutely possible. In the reverse direction the train will go by the end of February. He'll be back on. To Ukraine. There will be complete logistic bottlenecks, and in Baku's area of 20, a final protocol will be signed that will solve all technical problems, all of the bottlenecks, and we can say that from March, this train can already come into normal business mode. The management of Foxes, the management of Crossroads, will have to do marketing, we'll have to do business. The Ministry, the President, the Prime Minister, Kabmin, the Supreme Council have done their utmost to pave the way. Now the Cruise Management and Fox will have to do their job, do business. If they can't, I'm sorry, we'll find those who can. "Request to provide information on the status of the work financing experiment, the repair and reconstruction of the roadways of general use in Volinska, Lviv, Odesske and Chernivsky areas, as a result of the overturning of monthly indicative rates of customs payments." It's worth noting that your honorary colleagues, what you, President Kabmin, did last year with regard to the introduction of an experiment on customs, have produced phenomenal results. Last year, and it's worth reminding you that since September 1, this experimental program has been running. In the Lviv region, nearly 291 million dollars were added to the district budget last year from September 1 to December 30. This is the money that was collected from before coming from customs payments. As a result of this money, the following work was done in the Lviv region. Onur Construction International is a Turkish company, and works were carried out on the N-17 Lviv Radehov Lutsk Road. Almost the entire area from Lviv to the border with the Wallin region was repaired, except for the city of Radehov. This is a road that has not been repaired for more than 35 years. This is the road where villages started dying out, because it was really the direction. So far the road's been repaired, it's working, it's been experimented. Also in the Lviv region. And on that road, 177 million dollars were spent. Automagistral-South for the work done on the "Skole-Slavskie" road (this is road T-14) paid 74 million dollars. If any of you are a skier, you can now go to Slavskie and see that you will get there on a quality road. We discover the potential of the region, we engage tourists, we engage businesses, we create opportunities for private business to create either a small hotel, or a gas station, etc. Because the development of the road allows you to create road infrastructure. Also, 37 million fines were paid for the work done on the N-06 Kiev-Chop road, and the section between 690 and 546 kilometers was repaired in normal quality. The Montenegrin district administration received nearly 130 million dollars from the experiment, using 27 million dollars, partly using this money on the road "Strey-Jono-Frankivski-Cernovci-Momaliga" in the direction of Chisinau (this is the N-10). Sadly, other money has not been used. 100, or almost 104 million dollars, is on the property accounts. I'm asking the district manager, the district manager, to prepare for the beginning of the season and use the money from March for road construction. There are many roads in the Chernobyl area that need money. The money can only be used for road construction. Volinsky area. Volin received 94 million dollars. Part of that money, 300,000 dollars, was used to design the Lviv-Radeh-Lutz road. And from March the road will begin to be repaired from the border with Lviv region towards Lutka. And the following year, in the first half of the year, the complete construction of this section will be completed. So, thanks to this project, this experiment will completely restore the direction of Lviv-Luck through Radehov, which will allow drivers to save huge money, because the alternative route is almost 90 kilometers longer, through the Plain. Odessa’s district administration, unfortunately, did not receive anything from the experiment. "To provide information on the state of affairs in Autodora, namely, what organizational measures were taken in the "Stodor," which was made to repair roads last year.'--and so on. Last year, the government adopted the Concept of Road Transport Reform and began the process of eliminating Pat DAC "Ukrainian Roads and Roads". After the process of liquidation, we can't. We will only be able to achieve the expected results if they are supported by legislation.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-05-m0.u5	Please, just give me a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-05-m0.u6	It's literally 1 minute. Only if the bill was adopted on the second reading of 0954, only if the decision was made to create a road fund, as discussed yesterday, will the organizational reform of Autodora be the result. Without the adoption of these bills, the result of the transformation of the organizational "Stodor" will not result in any result, dear colleagues. We need to understand this and if we need to be ready, on the Transport Committee ready to explain to the factions why it is so. Dear colleagues, in case. I'm basically done. If necessary, I am always available for your services. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-05-m0.u7	Dear colleagues, we've got 31 minutes left. Please prepare your questions for the government to record. Ready? Please sign in. Please, National Deputy Guzenko Vitali Ivanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-05-m0.u8	Good afternoon! I have a question for the APK minister. What did the minister do to make the milk for the population rise because the livestock - keeping people are selling their milk just for a penny? And another question is, how does it relate to what we voted on, and what has the simplified system in the agrarians been completely taken away? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-05-m0.u9	Thank you for asking. First of all, I want to point out that it was last year, you know, the Milky Way and our cooperation with the European Union was one very, very important one. On January 11, this year, for the first time in the history of Ukraine, 10 Ukrainian dairy companies gained access to the European market. This is a real historical event. The second question. You know, one of the huge problems last year was that, indeed, the very low purchase price due to our situation of Russian aggression, the blocking of external markets and, accordingly, the blocking of our traditional markets of trade: for Ukrainian cheese, for Ukrainian milk. Last year, we were able to open up to 18 Ukrainian companies a market in Kazakhstan that was blocked over the past period, allowing us to make a realisation for our companies also of dairy products for market data. I would also like to point out that last year, for the first time in the history of Ukraine, China's market was opened for Ukrainian dairy companies. Now eight companies are allowed to export dairy to the People's Republic of China, with huge potential in the market. So the first approach is that we needed to find markets with you and sell our products for our currency, so that we could also work for our manufacturing companies that traditionally bought milk in our population. We understand that one of the huge problems is that 82 percent of milk is produced by cooperatives and produced by small and medium-sized enterprises, please, one more minute is produced by small and medium-sized businesses. So last year, international programs, including the Canadian government, were involved in 440 million dollars. You know, it's in the areas of both Western Ukraine and Central Ukraine, by the creation of small and medium-sized dairy farms, which makes it possible for small and medium-sized businesses to develop. Plus, you know, last year, compensation is 300 million dollars, and this year it is, too, focused on compensation for the kid.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-05-m0.u10	Please, Victoria. Gennady Zubko, one minute to question the answer. Please. Oh, Pauline, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-05-m0.u11	And I want to conclude that the percentage of the program was one of itself, and I think that in the last year, because the total number of loans that were involved was 7 billion dollars and 8 billion dollars, and that money was actually given to small and medium-sized businesses. Because it was a division at the level of business turnover, including businesses that grew according to the World Health Organization, that also had access to the program. So what I'm saying is that we're going to continue in this direction by opening up new markets and helping our agricultural business, the dairy sector itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-05-m0.u12	Vojticka Victoria, Self-Help, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-05-m0.u13	Victoria Vojticka, Self Help Union. The government resigns and I'm asking you to give the word to Alona Babak.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-05-m0.u14	Alona Babak, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-05-m0.u15	Dear members of the government, we must say today that the government is not working and we will now prove it. The point is that codes have started to work, now nothing is done to prevent a collapse in energy and housing services. The codes of the gas transport network, systems, and gas distribution began to work. In accordance with all these consumer codes, consumers were obliged to pay advance payments for transporting gas. During this week, the mergers of multi-house owners began to be shut down, and the minister of social policy knows what it is to pay in advance to Ukrainian citizens today. Thermalenergo is in collapse today, because they have calculations and they get from consumers at the end of the month, and they need an advance for gas -- it's not normal. 217 Order of the Cabinet of Ministers
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-05-m0.u16	30 seconds, complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-05-m0.u17	. Two things to the government. It doesn't work at 217, because it doesn't predict such calculations, the advance, the thermal energy. Today, the electronic administration of VAT is not working for businesses in the entire residential sector. The difference in tariffs that are included in these accounts does not change the limits of these enterprises, so far the negative value of a company’s counterparty is not used by tax credit. There are fines for utilities, respected members.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-05-m0.u18	Please, more briefly, ask questions so that everyone can make it. Musak Alexi, Ukrainian national deputy Answer, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-05-m0.u19	Dear Mrs. Babak, thank you so much for asking. In fact, the need to vote in favour of Law 3325, which we have twice put into the Hall and tried to adopt, which provides for the resolution of many issues or deviations between the Law on the Market in Gas and existing legislation, unfortunately, there was no support in the Hall of this Law. And I have repeatedly explained that there are, in fact, different contradictions between old legislation and the new law that needs to be resolved as quickly as possible. So I sincerely hope that the deputies will be fully responsible for those initiatives of the government that are being introduced, discussed both at the professional level and at the round tables, and at other events, at the professional level, discussed, and there is a clear understanding of how to get out of these things. But without political support, without the laws necessary for the segment, nothing needs to be realized for the market. And an additional question about the regulator. We also twice introduced the Regulatory Act, which in such cases could take an active position. And he does, but he doesn't have the authority. Therefore, the Regulatory Act is primarily necessary. The Secondary Law Act – Law 3325 – is clearly necessary. I hope your support -- and all this technical stuff will be handled as quickly as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-05-m0.u20	Alexi Mushak.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-05-m0.u21	Good afternoon! Alexi Muschak, Peter Dustenka Block, Interfractional European Optimist Union. Dear members of the government! First. Thank you for coming today, after the difficult events that are in the state. And secondly, I have a question of purely economic. Every year the Heritage Foundation and Wall Street Journal rate economic freedom. Two years ago, in February 2014, when you, Arsenij Petrovich, came to the post of Prime Minister, we were 155th in front of Haiti, behind us. We had Haiti in the back, and we had Lesotho in front. But in two years of reform, in two years of change, we now take 162th place. We're a repressed economy, ahead of us Solomon Islands behind us for a second, the Democratic Republic of the Congo. So your criticism -- it's not politically motivated, it's economically motivated. Question one. What steps do you want us to take to break free and become free? And the second question, from my colleague Nasalik. You can still talk about the list of reform ministers, because they're all talking about them, but no one is.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-05-m0.u22	Please, Arseny Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-05-m0.u23	Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! The great faction of the People's Front! The Honourable faction of Peter Prashenko, all members of the coalition, the Ukrainian National Deputies! [[B in m in s a l in]] On the other hand, we would like to thank both the people's deputies of Ukraine and the factions and not the coalition participants, Mr. Oleg Valeriyovich Ljasko, for the support of the government and the government bills. And we would like to announce that yesterday an extraordinary government meeting was held by the Cabinet of Ministers. At this extraordinary meeting of the Government, the cabinet members, who have been appointed by the Parliamentary Coalition, and who work in the uncomplicated, mildly speaking, conditions over the past 14 months, have made the following clear: we have all come with one team, and we will work on one team, and if it is decided that this team should be changed, we will all go together. But we will fight to the last. To the last one! We will fight for the fact that in the last two years, Ukraine has not accepted the default and has written off its debts. We're going to fight for the fact that in the last two years, Ukraine has doubled in its "doing business in Ukraine" rating. We're going to fight for foreign investment coming back, as it started last year. We will fight for the fact that despite Ukraine’s loss of a fifth of its economy, Russia’s military aggression has resulted in the loss of Crimea, part of Donetsk and part of Luhansk, and we have experienced economic growth for the first time in the fourth quarter of last year. We're going to fight for price stability in the country, and that's why we've determined that the inflation rate in the current year should not be more than 12 percent. We're going to fight for the way we've spent the last 24 months paying wages and pensions, paying social benefits, and we're still paying them. We're going to fight so that the business that got weakened today, thanks to our joint position with you, would halve the core tax on business -- that's a salary tax, get an additional financial resource on one hand, and on the other hand detinize his business and increase the wages for Ukrainian citizens. We're going to fight to do the same thing last year, when we raised wages and pensions in September by 13 and 19 percent respectively, we did the same thing this year. And the first increase in wages and social standards will take place in May. We're going to fight for the Ukrainian banking system to become stable, so that Ukrainian banks will finally start lending the Ukrainian economy with a cheap and long bracelet. Because that's what it takes for the Ukrainian economy to have an additional resource. We will work with you to ensure that the obligations we have made with you before our foreign people are fulfilled. And that means that Ukraine must continue to pursue the complex but correct reforms that we have signed with the International Monetary Fund, with the World Bank, with all the key international financial organizations that today lend to the Ukrainian economy. We're going to fight for Ukrainian military and Ukrainian armies to get the same wages that we've doubled. We've doubled the level of cash for the Ukrainian Army and the Armed Forces. And finally, we will fight for the country! You don't want to fight, get out of the field and we'll do our job.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-05-m0.u24	Dear colleagues, I have to add three minutes to the general question plus, make 20 minutes of the total number of questions -- more for the MPs. Let's move on. Mustafa Najem. All right, everybody, stay on schedule.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-05-m0.u25	Good afternoon, Arsenius Petrovich! Thank you so much for coming. We are very pleased that you have finally found time for Parliament. The thing is, when you went to the elections, you said that you were elected Prime Minister, that we have a parliamentary-presidential republic. Unfortunately, you go to the bank more often than here. But here you need support, we need support for your bills, budgets and positions, and in fact, you agree on it for everyone there. The question to you is very simple, you said you'd fight for Ukraine, but in fact, you don't look much better now than Azarov, who said I was Ukraine. You're fighting for posts now, you're fighting to stay in this Cabinet of Ministers. You've made the entire country of your own ambitions a hostage. When are you going to fight for Colomoysky to get the dividends back? When are you going to fight to keep Ahmethov from putting his men in your office? When are you going to fight for the investors to really believe you? Because you see sociology, you see people supporting the government. You've made yourself a hostage, a bunch of people in a good government who can actually do something.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-05-m0.u26	30 seconds. Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-05-m0.u27	One last question for you. Tell me, please, is everyone talking about transforming the government now, and is this about you or not? Or are we going to get the futlar again? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-05-m0.u28	You asked me this very question in December-month when Parliament listened to information from the government and the Prime Minister. I told you then, and I want to answer you again. Two years ago, another parliament appointed me prime minister of government. A year ago this Parliament appointed us all to be members of the government. I went to this office, understanding all the political consequences for myself. It was I who decided to change tariffs, I decided on social policies and systems. As a politician, first of all. Along with our team. I've made all the unpopular decisions that no Prime Minister has made in 20 years, and I'm not going to do it. They're too afraid. I'm only worried about the country's ratings, and so I want to point out that we have, in fact, a parliamentary-presidential republic. You are members of Parliament, responsible members of Parliament. We are responsible members of the government. We said we'd come together, we'd go together. You have the constitutional right to submit to Parliament a resolution of mistrust of the Cabinet of Ministers. Please use this right to put to the vote the issue of the government's mistrust. If this becomes a vote, we will be proud and proud to hand over appropriate powers to the new Cabinet of Ministers. Take this step, it will be your responsibility. And now we are carrying out our responsibility: our responsibility to carry out reforms, our responsibility to keep the country, our responsibility to form the budget, our responsibility to involve billions in the country in order to keep the country moving. Answering another question of yours, you asked again, for example, about Igor Kolomoyski's company, where the dividends from Skrnafta. Mr. People's Deputy of Ukraine, I report: dividends of 1 billion 790 million were included in Ukraine's state budget in full on December 30 last year. Next. So you're asking a question, well, every word has to be answered, and that's why I answer every question you ask. Next thing you know, we're looking at a company called Ukrnafta. You know, what we've done back with you guys, we've put in a penny for a non-timely payment of dividends, we've filed a full 9.7 billion claims, all the property's been arrested. We're doing our job. We do our work in each direction. I'm going back to your other question about Bank Street. What's more, it's specific because you're an MP from Peter Dusty's Block. Bank Street. It has the Presidential Administration, and it has the head of the Ukrainian State, the President of the country. The president of the country who has the largest faction. A president who, along with the government, bears full responsibility. The President, who is the political partner of the Prime Minister, and the President, who is responsible for the fate of the country. And the Prime Minister will work with the President if that's what the President wants. The Prime Minister will be working with Parliament because I need and everyone here is sitting -- everyone! – they don't need eternal attacks and a struggle for power, they need your support. Your undisputed support. Help them and you will help the country.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-05-m0.u29	Thank you. Please, Your Honor, Igor Shurma, the Opposition Block, question.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-05-m0.u30	Igor Shurma, Opposition Block. I have a question for Arsenius Petrovich, please, you give me all my questions as my colleague Najem. You want to look at health reform not from the Minister's words, I don't even ask him because he doesn't answer the question. I suggest you do one thing, take off your glasses, cover your moustache, put on your wig and go to the clinic, to the hospital, see what's going on. And now I have a request to you, not to Kvetashvili, but to you. Please fight for him to conduct the Colleges of the Ministry of Health in order to know what is going on in the regions, for there was nothing more besides your meeting. For him to appear on the committee at least once every seven months instead of telling stories about the committee working with him. You will fight to see that this year, at least one region, is governed by the Emergency Relief Act. It's a direct function, not a legislative initiative anymore, but at least do what's ready. You fight for the fact that there were stockpiles of antifungal drugs in Ukraine and, as in Lithuania, they have them for themselves and to help us. And one last question. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-05-m0.u31	Please finish, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-05-m0.u32	And one last question. Your colleague, the minister of the economy, got sick. Did you know what he was sick of? Does it have to work for two weeks, and he just ran to the hospital, to the left hospital, for which he's going to pay the money? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-05-m0.u33	The reform of the health system was defined for 2016 as a major one. I will certainly give the floor to the Minister of Health, Mr. Kvetashvili. But to your question what has been done, let me just give you one last example. We fought and fought to transfer the purchase of drugs to international organizations. You know what the total cost saved is for just one tender -- 60 percent of the total purchases, which is what the health minister is going to say. The other one. About what we want to do in the current year. We can do so only if you help us in the same way. Seven months of the bill, which was sent by the government, is in the walls of Parliament and is not accepted. We suggest the following. We're proposing. If you have other ideas than those introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers -- we respect the parliamentary-presidential republic and parliament -- tell us what these ideas are. If you have an alternative health - care reform, show it. But if we don't move now from giving up the Soviet system, financing the health care system in the so-called cot and not going to the funding system, directly to the medical service and to the patient who gets this service, we won't be able to put in place the basics, I think, of the financial reform of Ukrainian medicine, it's the introduction of insurance. We should be honest and honest with the Ukrainian people, is there now free medicine in Ukraine? It's only written in the Constitution, but it's nowhere in reality. In view of this, the State must finance the key health services that we are obliged to provide from the State budget, starting with immediate relief and ending with a basic level of health care. The second block that we're offering you is the introduction of state insurance to let you know that you have state insurance, and if anything happens to health, then the state through the state insurance company will cover the corresponding costs. Third. Then the medical sector will begin to develop because it will have a clear funding system, clear medical protocols for every disease, a clear price for this medical protocol, and then a clear deadline for the provision of services, and its payment. That's why we need to adopt these laws, we need to speak to people honestly and honestly, and say here's our plan, I just said to you "our plan." The government only provides services that are basic and which guarantee their 100% payment. The second block, we introduce national insurance. But in order to do that, please let go of the package of laws that is in the Ukrainian Parliament. Sandro, add, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-05-m0.u34	Thank you. Mr. Shurma, I don't go to committee meetings for seven months, I was on all committees seven months ago. When I asked for 30 minutes, you didn't give me your word when you talked about the world football championship between the medics and didn't discuss the laws. You're coming out of the hall now and you won't listen to me again, as always. I stopped going to committees in October when I was ignored and laughed at. Then you started laughing at my castles, and you still haven't apologized for the committee. I ask you, how was the last committee? You didn't have a quorum! There was no quorum! Of the 13 members of the Committee, only 6. So it's all right. And the last thing that's done, I'll tell you. These are the comrades who spoke very loudly on the committees to let them know, there is the latest information on procurement that has been handed over to international organizations. Thank you for adopting these laws, some of you did not even understand why. But thank you for adopting those laws. 60 per cent difference, 60 per cent difference in the price of tuberculosis drugs. In money, it's $5.5 million per programme that went into the pockets of those comrades who are criticizing me from your committee so that you know it.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-05-m0.u35	Please, Welcome.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-05-m0.u36	Dmitry Dobrodomov, Interfractional Union of National Control. First, we ask the chairman: not only do we have rules for deputies, but also for those invited, please keep them in order for everyone to arrive. And to the Prime Minister. You said you were ready to fight, I had a question that prevented you from fighting corruption for two years, fighting schemes, fighting reforms. You're talking about banks, look at the class of bracelets. You're talking about development and a breakthrough in the field, tell me what branches have this breakthrough and talk to entrepreneurs, what's really going on? Having such a level of distrust in society -- and according to the last poll, more than 70 percent want to resign the government under your headship -- several city councils and district councils have already said, voted in favour of mistrust, how are you going to work? I don't understand. As the European Prime Minister to whom you position yourself, I have a question for you6 whether you are willing to legitimize your work to go out during the government's report and ask Parliament to express its confidence in your work.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-05-m0.u37	Thank you. Please, 30 seconds, finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-05-m0.u38	Because otherwise, both you and your Cabinet of Ministers will be illegal, both in the eyes of the people of Ukraine and in Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-05-m0.u39	Thank you, Mr. People's Deputy of Ukraine, for asking. I didn't want to resort to political rhetoric, but I had to. You're here to talk about ratings, and I'd advise you to look at the ratings of Ukrainian national deputies, and we're not far from each other. [[B in m in s a l in]] All the Ukrainian authorities are facing a challenge today.: we're still moving, we're moving towards the real reforms that we've started (and I'm going to stop at them separately) or we're going to play politics and fight for positions and power. If I say to you, you have a voice, vote! Vote, form a new composition of the Cabinet of Ministers, these are your constitutional powers, and I respect the position of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And I suggest we just stop discussing this because I have a different agenda. And this is the order of the day I've told you in part, and I'm going to announce it again. In the country, much talk about fighting corruption should be spoken of in exactly the same way. The fact was, over the past ten years, the biggest corruption in Ukraine has existed where? In the gas sector. Billions of dollars that came out of the state company NAC Naftogaz-Ukraine. Dozens of middlemen, hundreds of firms, and dark contracts with the Russian Federation have led to billions of dollars in taxpayers’ pockets being robbed. All previous prime ministers spoke, and previous governments succeeded. No more middlemen, no more dark Russian companies -- just direct deals. And here's the figure: if Naftogazu's deficit was negative $10 billion last year, last year is a billion, and this year Naftogaz will be the first profitable year. The other one. Everyone was talking about the fact that the fighters were all alone to get the company back under control. Many here have talked about how we're going to do this, in fact, we've forgotten that in the prime minister's office, they signed a deal with the shareholders of the Ukrnafta, which was illegal, which allowed the minority shareholder to continue to keep the company under his control. We passed the law to Parliament, you voted, we did it. Everyone said that Ukrainian oligarchs, they're invincible. How invincible is that? We are completely all state companies that have been in the sad oligarchs of the Party of Regions in the so-called lease or concession, for two years we have returned to state property. Everyone said that it was impossible to clean up corrupt officials. We've done the illustration, and we've illustrated eight hundred corrupt officials, and this is a real fight against corruption. Everyone was talking about the fact that the system of appointment of heads of state companies cannot be changed. Yes, it's not easy, yes, there's political pressure and that's what Minister of Economy Abromavichus said. I want to point out separately that I'm going to cut down any attempt right now to try and push Abromavichus or to take illegal action against him. This minister is under the protection of my faction and government.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-05-m0.u40	Please, a national MP.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-05-m0.u41	Everyone was talking about not having tenders, us.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-05-m0.u42	Arsenius Petrovich, if possible, is a little more concise, if possible. [[B in m in s a l in]] One minute, one minute, calm down, colleagues, calm down. Now I'm going to say a few words in the end that reminds me of all this. Please calm down. Please, Evlakhov and then I will give it to those who have not taken part in the questions. You know, I'll, I'll tell you what. Calm down, please. I have, I have one question. You know, Arseny Petrovich, I mean, I've heard about medicine here. A moment of your attention. Attention, one minute, I'll add this time. You talked about medicine. I agree that we need to support the initiatives that ensure that our country is reformed. Attention! Listen! This applies to all of you. This applies to all of you! And when Minister Kvetashvili of the 28th number, December, introduces a law to the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the so-called reform of health, which defines -- I will now read it, I just found this law; it's good that we haven't discussed it with colleagues -- which defines how health expenses should be allocated, which states that the processes (in the explanatory note) have been initiated for medical purposes. The process of distinctions between medical care, health care reform in Winnitsky, Dnipropetrovsk, Donetsk, and Kiev has been initiated in these areas of health care. [[Applause]] The minister writes in his explanatory note: They have demonstrated relevance and effectiveness. Is this the kind of decision the Ukrainian Parliament is supposed to make? Such decisions will not be made by the Ukrainian Parliament, regardless of the parties, irrespective of factions, regardless of political views. I think that Parliament is Ukrainian, and it needs to be weighed down to ministers, and every single time it's difficult, he's put his shoulders behind every ministry to make effective decisions. And I want to say what to do today is guilty of everything and stupid MPs. I won't give it to the deputies. [[B in m in s a l in]] This applies to all Ukrainian national deputies from the right to the left. We make the right decision. [[B in m in s a l in]] We make decisions that enable us to get the country out of the crisis. And I insist that this should be an open and constructive dialogue. We've encountered you, Arseny Petrovich, with many initiatives that were inappropriate, including in your opinion, but they were made by ministries. I read today that the Mineconomy team, which was involved in public procurement, remains in government. I welcome this because they are real experts who have put serious rules into the market for government purchases and destroyed corruption. This needs to be supported. But when we wanted to destroy decentralization, we saved it together, Arsenija Petrovich. And in many other things, we accept a common, consolidated responsibility. And I don't want to look at the possibilities of someone being stupid and someone being smarter. So I urge everyone to engage constructively and to unite and move on, not to look for the guilty in this room. I ask for respect from the government to the parliament, I ask the parliamentarians of due respect for the government. Period! I'll add five more minutes and we'll ask questions. Evlakhov. [[B in m in s a l in]] I'll give two factions who didn't participate in the discussion. Evlakhov, WFP.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-05-m0.u43	Please give the word to Olga Belkovi. Give me your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-05-m0.u44	Belkova, please. Please. It'll be the final word.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-05-m0.u45	Dearly respected colleagues, members of the government, with all due respect, I think we really need to approach very objectively what a lot of projects have actually done. I remind you, yesterday it was the parliamentarians who stood up for one of the government's ideas -- the 3074 Bill on the so-called virtual reverse. We advocated not a specific minister, not a specific idea, but the interests of Ukraine. You were talking, Arseny Petrovich, about the gas, and here you will have undeniable support. Mr. Pinzenik, Mr. Lazko spoke more than ever and supported you. And I want all of us to fight for Ukrainian production again. Tell me, where are we today and the new tax system we worked together last year? Where's all this? And what do I have to report to the companies that are planning their activities for the future? We promised them it was in the interests of Ukraine. Please tell me.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-05-m0.u46	The only MP to comply with the rules is welcome. Please answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-05-m0.u47	Thank you for asking. Our proposal is within the framework of bill 3630, and we are ready to work with you to accept the improved conditions for gas use in the country. Our proposal was to cut the rent further in 2018 until 2010 with income tax. With price cuts in the gas sector, it's obviously necessary to look at this in real terms. But we're willing to work with you to do it as quickly as possible and give business vision for the future as this regime will change for the better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-05-m0.u48	Thank you. Please, National Deputy Korchik, People's Front.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-05-m0.u49	Please pass the word to Maxim Burbak.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-05-m0.u50	Maxim Yuriovich Burbak, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-05-m0.u51	Thank you. Dear Vladimir Borisovich, we are all parliamentarians, and you are also the first among equals, let us all respect the Rules.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-05-m0.u52	I'm equal to the equal.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-05-m0.u53	The first of the equals. Thank you. Let us remember all of this. Secondly, I have a question for Mr. Pivovarsky's Minister of Infrastructure. In your report, we heard about the results of an experiment aimed at overcoming customs revenue to build roads in specific areas. I didn't hear any information about the Odessa area, how much money was there, thanks to this government experiment, to build roads?
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-05-m0.u54	Thank you. Before I answer, I want to emphasize that I'm equal to equal. I was talking about you and me. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-05-m0.u55	Your Honor, thank you for asking! In fact, in my report, I said that in the Odessa region, there was no time for this experiment. So since September 1st, it hasn't been over the revenue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-05-m0.u56	Arthur Gerasimov, Block of Petra Dustenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-05-m0.u57	Please give the floor to the People's Deputy Krivenko Victor.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-05-m0.u58	Victor Krivenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-05-m0.u59	Dear Arsenius Petrovich! In 2010, you and I spent an hour and a half talking about the future of the space sector, and then we had a full consensus with you. I want to say that in 2009, a space reform programme was adopted, which envisioned a complete reformation. Unfortunately, nothing has been done by all three of the Space Agency’s captains for this sixth year. The simple fact is that the Arsenal factory from 2005 to 2008 decreased from 4.5 thousand people to 2,000 600 people, while 600 people went to work, the average wage was 1,000 200 dollars, at a high-tech enterprise. More than a hundred thousand square feet [over 100,000 sq m] were erected, a building opposite the Henprocuratorium sold in 2007 for $380 per square metre. The director, who is the head of the strategic enterprise, made a joint venture agreement with the company where he is the founder, and his wife is the head of this company, and they put out 42,000 square meters for this company.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-05-m0.u60	Ten seconds, complete. We need to do two hours of questions to the government, not an hour of questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-05-m0.u61	In 2009, the company was able to save it by joining the KB Arsenal. And that stopped all these robberies for two years. Then through court decisions, because of the difference in government decisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-05-m0.u62	Victor, finish, please. Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-05-m0.u63	We should thank both Prime Minister Timoshenko and Oleg Lazko, who were at the factory, and they saw it all, it is all work. Now the reinstated manager, it's going on, the shells in the market are going to sell them. The request to deal with this situation and to hold separate hearings in the space field at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-05-m0.u64	Thank you. Please answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-05-m0.u65	Mr. Victor, thank you for asking. You know, you've changed the head of the National Space Agency of Ukraine, there's a new, young guy who's basically the leader of one of those other companies that's working. Please give me a question, and I'm ready to invite you and him, so that we can get to the bottom of this. And by completing "the hour of questions to the government," I would like to continue with the opinion of the Honourable Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. When we can actually make a deal, we've got a deal. So when we're together, when we're sitting down, we're fighting first, then we're getting back together, but then we make a decision, we get it right, and we get it right. That is why I support not only the mutual respect of members of Parliament and government, we are essential, we are part of the Ukrainian government, we are part of the common values and common approaches, and the common political responsibility. Political responsibility to the people of Ukraine. Our unity and our conviction are the only guarantee to move forward, so let us move on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-05-m0.u66	Thank you. "Paternity. We have three more questions, Arseny Petrovich, I'm sorry. Fatherland, Oleg Lazko. [[B in m in s a l in]] Arsenius Petrovich, three more questions, please, from the factions. Can't you see people's hands? Please, Oleg Lazko is one question. Then. Who's from the faction? People's Deputy Dubyl, then Olesis Long and the People's Deputy Kulinic. Everything, and we risk it. And the line will be Shurma, that's all.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-05-m0.u67	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. The honourable head of parliament said he would fight for every MP. I think every deputy can protect himself. Let us fight, not for MPs, but for Ukrainian citizens, for the simple laborers that this authority has led to what family to feed and how to live. That's who we have to fight for! Because for 24 years, we've only been fighting for deputies, ministers, officials. Who will fight for a mere job? And now, Arseny Petrovich, a question to you. What will you fight for? I wish you success in your struggle, only we claim that the economic policy you are currently pursuing will not lead to new jobs in the country, it will not lead to a radical increase in wages and pensions. You take a lot of credit, I don't care how many loans you've taken, I don't care how many jobs you've created, how much wages and pensions have gone up, whether people have the ability to feed their families, or whether people have the ability to bring their children to school. Your policy does not answer these questions. We're demanding a radical change in the eco.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-05-m0.u68	I'm the only one who would like to say to a great speaker: I spoke in a public language in Ukraine, I don't need to be interpreted, translated, I said what I said. Thank you very much. Or maybe we're in a minute, and you're going to answer, are we in general?
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-05-m0.u69	Please, you'll have the answer now. Please, National Deputy Dubyl, one minute. Then Long, then Culinic. And a line. All of it. And we're done. Fellows, be patient!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-05-m0.u70	Valérie Dubyl, Fatherland faction. Arsenija Petrovich, I have a question for you and the government, it's not political. Today, adults and children die in a civilized country because they do not find the money to go through chemistry. Even adults do not go because they have no funds and simply die at home. Similarly, cancerous children who are in line cannot undergo a bone marrow transplant that costs 150,000 euros. I want to ask you when. I don't want to hear the reasons, but I just want to ask you, when is the date when the construction of the OHMATDIT hospital ends, what year is it not being built? As far as our children are concerned, God forbid, we are ready to turn the whole world upside down. Let's turn the whole world around. I want from the government and I want to hear from you just the day we build the OHMATDIT hospital, where will the bone marrow transplant be? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-05-m0.u71	Thank you for such an important question. Olés Long.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-05-m0.u72	Thank you. Olesz Longi, faction of the will of the people. Dear government, not personally Prime Minister, but all together, I have one request for you. Please change the rhetoric of the "honorable coalition" to the "honorable parliament." I am now speaking on behalf of at least 100 deputies, represented by millions of people and, which, and thanks to which all the reforms have been adopted, including yesterday's reform, which we have just talked about, is transparent about public procurement. I remind you that all without exception and, in most cases, unpopular and popular reforms are being adopted together. So let's do reforms together, let's change the electoral rhetoric to today. And the second question I have to ask the honourable Minister of Transport is very specific. I represent the 102nd constituency and, in particular, the town of Zamenka, where there are 12,000 people working on the Iron Road. In connection with reform, an understandable and correct railway, taxes begin to pay, and they come from local budgets, such as in our case before.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-05-m0.u73	Thank you. Please, National Deputy Kulinich. Lock it down, answer it, and we'll finish it.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-05-m0.u74	Kulinich, 147 constituency, Poltavščina. I have a question for Finance Minister Jaresko. Mrs. Natalko, there is now a huge problem in the Poltava region of the world with the benefits of shipping. The point is that there are legal benefits for individual categories of citizens, and these categories are now greatly expanded at the expense of participants in ATOs and other categories. But there is no real compensation mechanism at the legal level. In the past year, Polish carriers have calculated their losses on interdisciplinary and intercity transports, reaching 10 million dollars. This particular question is whether the government will take any concrete initiatives to address this issue. Thank you for asking.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-05-m0.u75	Please, there was a line. Shurm's national deputy. And we're done.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-05-m0.u76	Igor Šurma. The medical question is, I'm going to Arsenius Petrovich because you're responding more adequately. Arsenius Petrovich, don't trust the minister of theory. There is no law on emergency medical care even in the project, there is no law. The laws passed on the committee do not support the committee, even the coalition does not support it, there are only two opponents. Because they reduce doctors, they close hospitals and lead to privatization. If such a minister is wise, let him not pass it on to the committee, but let him go out to the rostrum and submit such bills from the government. This is the first one. You were in Kharkiv and you. Arseny Petrovich, you were in Kharkiv, you saw the prenatal center and you were amazed at it. The same is true of Lviv: the minister promised to take control, never to appear in Lviv in a year, and this year he even missed funding for this year, and everything will stop for a year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-05-m0.u77	Thank you. Please give me a general answer. And we're done.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-05-m0.u78	Dear Oleg Valeriyovich! In response to your statement, I would like to inform you about this: we do not take credit by increasing the country’s external debt. Last year we reduced the country's gross external debt by $4.3 billion. We've restructured 15 billion US dollars, we expect Russia to bring Ukraine to justice for $3 billion, which I think were nothing but a political bribe to Yanukovic for not signing the Free Trade Agreement, and that's why the government has a moratorium on paying this debt and is not paying it back. That's why we've been doing everything right now over the last two years to make economic stability happen, first of all, by reducing the government budget deficit, and these are real figures. So we have one of the best government budget deficits. We're cutting up so-called non-professional costs -- we're optimizing the system of public authorities, including by reducing the number of public authorities. Including through the reform of the State Fiscal Service in all other executive bodies. But there's a global question about the investment you're talking about, and that's why I'm asking for your support. How can we attract investment? The first 6 we can invest only when Ukraine is still in cooperation with the International Monetary Fund. This means that we will need to continue to adopt the laws that are necessary for the specific economic reform plan reflected in our memorandum, these are our commitments and our vision of the economic plan as a Ukrainian state. The other one. If you and I adopt the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Privatisation Legislation and ultimately ensure fair and transparent privatization of non-strategic objects that have already been mentioned and I know your faction is opposed to privatizing strategic objects. And what's to be sold, because it's either the political ones of the past or the new ones and they're through the courts, because they're going to continue to control these objects, our task is to make honest and transparent privatization. Such first honest and transparent privatization should take place at the Odessa Port Facility. So we ask you to vote in favour of the Privatisation Act. Third. Investment is primarily climate. Where do we have a bad climate? And we openly acknowledge where we failed to fight corruption, which is in the State Fiscal Service. Therefore, the reform of the State Fiscal Service and the adoption of the bills introduced by the government in the reform of the DPS. Please give us this opportunity to clean up the old corruption enclave of tax collectors and corrupt tax inspectors and change the entire administration system and attitude towards Ukrainian business. Including, we suggest eliminating the tax police and creating a financial investigation service. This is also the law, so support us. The third is by deregulation. We had a couple of deregulation packages. I thank Parliament for voting for them. But we have a few more packages, including those that apply to Ukraine's "doing business in Ukraine" rating. We didn't do it last year for unclear reasons, well, we just couldn't make a deal. Now we need to make a number of legislative changes, starting with the power grid connection system and ending with the enterprise registration system in order to improve our performance. And then what I have to say is, what's outside the government is the judicial and law enforcement system. Well, if the law enforcement system of special organs continues to be used to conduct the search or to open the criminal proceedings, no investor will go. If the courts continue to be corrupt, and you have taken the first step in making changes to the Constitution, no investor will go either. That's why you and I need to complete judicial reform in the current year, and we need to finally create a State Bureau of Investigation, appoint a leader there, take back the investigation function from the prosecutor's office, and allow a new law enforcement agency to work so that it doesn't intimidate investors, but persecute criminals. In public companies, we've already announced that the government has created a nomination committee. We have transferred all appointments to heads of state companies from the ministers, from the government, or from the Prime Minister to the nomination committee, which has been transferred directly to the Ministry of Economics of Ukraine. The top-60 state-owned company will be reappointed solely by independent nominations of its committee, just like we did on NAC Naftogaz Ukraine. NAK Naftogaz becomes a completely independent company from the government, either from the Energy Minister or from anyone else. If you have one. I am addressing all members of Parliament, this must be a dialogue, this is a very serious issue -- the country's economic policy for the years to come. If you have clear visions and proposals that are real, I emphasize once again, what we can do, without population, without promises of election or post-election, and where we can achieve results. It is my duty as Prime Minister not only to listen to you, but to make your position in the economic programme fall into our common agenda, to support them and to support them. So please, we're preparing a plan of action for the next 12 months, I'm addressing all the members of Parliament, those who really want us to have something that looks like we're in countries, give us your vision, give us your suggestions. It's not going to be a thousand-page dissertation, it's specific points that we're going to propose to you and Ukrainian society in a transparent fight against corruption, economic growth, price stability, investment participation and a new order of government management and privatization. There were many questions about the Ministry of Health. I'm informed, Mr. Shurma, that you have your draft law, so I've been informed. We're ready to support your bill, so let's move forward. We don't insist that we have brilliant decisions, we don't insist, we tell you honestly, we make mistakes, we make many, but our common task is to correct them, learn to correct them. Regardless of what you're up against, give me a hint. You're not in opposition to Ukraine, are you? You're not opposed to the Ukrainian people, are you? You're opposed to the government, so you're not alone in opposition to the government, there's more than half of Parliament. But we all work together for the benefit of the Ukrainian people. That's what I'm calling you to. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-05-m0.u79	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-05-m0.u80	After Ohmatdite, we used 40 million last year. We've all met, you said to take out the head of Ohmatdit. Did you say that? Ladies and gentlemen, the Ohmatdit group, did they say or not? They did. Did the manager of OHMATTITH clean up the construction work? We're clear. Forty million was used last year, this year we predicted 390, almost 400 million dollars. So this year, we're also going to be using funds, only under your supervision. You got together last year, you didn't get a chance to use them unprofilely. We've drawn conclusions, and this year almost 400 million will be used.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-05-m0.u81	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the "hour of questions to the government" is over. Thank you to the government for answering the questions and to the Prime Minister. Dear colleagues, we're moving on. Please, Andrew Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-05-m0.u82	Dear colleagues, we still have our day-to-day parliamentary questions. And I ask you to prepare yourself, be careful to listen to your questions. Sergey Kaplina to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the verification of the legality of the release of employees of the Territorial Authorities of the State. Vladimir Parasuka to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine, on the extension of criminal conduct found open to power and official authority. [[B in m in s a l in]] ............................................................................................................................................................. Vladimir Parasuka to the deputy minister of ecology and natural resources of Ukraine, the head of the Ukrainian State Service, is temporarily acting as head of the State Sanitation and Epidemiological Service, head of the Ukrainian State Service, in exceptional situations in order to prevent an environmental disaster associated with the flow of acidic hydrants in the village of Gribovici, in the village of Veliki Gribovichi Jovkowsky district of Lviv. Vladimir Litvina spoke of the situation in Ukraine’s legal system in connection with the prolonged failure of judges. John Melniczuk to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine, Minister of Health of Ukraine, on the issue of free medical care provided by the State for children with disabilities with juvenile rheumatoid arthritis. John Melniczuk to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Head of the State Penitentiary Service of Ukraine, Minister of Justice of Ukraine for the non-admissible closure of the Latin Correctional Colony of the State Penitentiary Service of Ukraine of the Vinick Region. Group of National Deputies (Prashenka, Melniczuk and others) to the Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Regional Development, Construction and Housing of Ukraine, on the selection of investment programmes for financing at the expense of the State Regional Development Fund in 2016 in the Winnick region. Vladimir Melnicka, head of the National Fiscal Service of Ukraine, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, Head of the State Financial Inspectorate of Ukraine for the verification of financial fraud and the theft of funds. Groups of National Deputies (Korchinska, Gopko and others) to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Ukrainian Minister of Health, on the purposeless use of budgetary resources in the construction of the modern medical and diagnostic complex of the National Children's Hospital "OHMATDIT" by officials. Gregory Times to the Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine on the issues of recognition of higher education in Romania and the Republic of Moldova. Jury of the Drevijanka to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the provision of copies of transcripts of meetings of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine since December 23, 15 and December 30, 15th. Andrija Lozov to the Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Culture of Ukraine, on the possibility of agreeing on the issue of the transmission of bells, which is part of the architectural complex of the Woznesen Monastery in the city of Preyaslav-Hmelnicki, to be used at all times free of charge by the parish of the Ukrainian Orthodox Church of the Kyiv Patriarchate. Sergey Rudika to the Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Culture of Ukraine, Head of the State Agency for Roads of Ukraine, for the financing of the maintenance of the National Historical and Cultural Reserve "Cold Yar". Mikoli Kucher to the rightful district office of the National Police Department in Kiev for information on the use of criminal investigation measures No. 120141001000009153 of 21 August 2014. Tetjana Donez to the Ministry of Health of Ukraine on a report on the use of funds for the construction of the National Children's Hospital OHMATDIT in 2015. Tetjani Donec to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for a fund to pay for the work of assistant advisors of the Ukrainian People's Deputies. Vitalia Chapinoga to the Director, who is the Managing Director of the Fund for Guaranteeing the Investments of Individuals in Remuneration Guarantees. Mikhail Golka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Minister of Health of Ukraine, the head of the Ternopil district government administration for the non-closure of hospitals in the village of the town type of Highlander and the village of Maximovka Zbarazka district of Ternopil district and for the non-refundability of the Pochai district municipal hospital of the Kremenac district of Ternopil district. Mikhail Golka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine, the head of the Ternopil State Administration in order to ensure the proper level of funding of the Ternopil district vocational and technical institutions. Edward Matthew. Dear colleagues, to me the question is, I'm making a report that there'll be a break at 12:30 P.M. at 12:00, because I'm afraid we won't find any votes, so at 12:30 P.M., there'll be a break at 12.30 P.M. Edward Matviychuk to the Ministry of Regional Development, Construction and Housing of Ukraine, Odessa ODA, Odessa City Council, Odessaoblennergo Public Shareholders' Association on the need for an objective review of the collective address of residents of House 15 on the avenue of Marshall Zhukov of Odessa District for comprehensive roof repair and lighting of the surfaces and inter-floor staircases of the apartment building. Edward Matviychuk to the Ministry of Regional Development, Construction and Housing of Ukraine, Ministry of Justice of Ukraine, ODA, Odessa City Council on the use of effective measures to address the collective appeal of residents of the house, 25 on the street of the Academy of the King of Kiev district of Odessa on the need to restore and obtain the lost technical passport to a multi-room building for the further creation of a union of co-owners according to legislation. Andrija Teteruka to Henprocuror of Ukraine, Head of BSB, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, Head of the State Border Service of Ukraine on the provision of information on the transmissions, grounds, period of movement and location of self-contained drilling installations B312 - "Peter Godovanec" and B319 - "Ukraine" as well as those responsible for the supervision of the status of headship in the territorial sea and the exclusive (sea) economic zone of Ukraine, where self-contained drilling installations were located. Hennady Chekita to the Attorney General of Ukraine, the Minister of Justice of Ukraine, the Head of the State Penitentiary Service of Ukraine, temporarily acting as Head of the State Geology Service, and the nadr of Ukraine on the absence of the results of the parliamentary appeal No. 2/332-16 of 13 January 2016. Groups of National Deputies (Rybčina, Greenevich) to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the implementation of the Ukrainian Law on the Amendment of Certain Laws of Ukraine on State Support for Participants of War and Their Children, Children whose parents died in the area of ATO, War or Armed Conflict, or in mass actions of civil protest, Children registered as internally displaced persons, for the purpose of obtaining vocational and higher education" in part of the State support of certain categories of persons for obtaining vocational and higher education. Oksana Sold to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the protection of the interests of Ukrainian pipeline manufacturers. Alexander Marchenka to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the proportionality of the distribution of taxes according to the level of the territorial organization. Sergei Kudlaenka, head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Social Policy, Employment and Retirement, Head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Freedom of Speech and Information Policy, Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine, Minister of Information Policy of Ukraine on the need for urgent measures aimed at raising the level of social protection and creating safe working conditions for journalists. Robert Gorvati and Valerija Lunchenko to the Ministry of Ecology and Natural Resources of Ukraine to provide protection against the harmful effects of water in rural and agricultural areas, including the Tisa River Basin in the Zakarpatsk region. Roberta Gorvato to the Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine for the transfer of the National Institute of Lvivska Railway Station, from the state form of property to the municipal property of the territorial community of the city. Jury Lewchenka to the head of the Kyiv City State Administration for the violation of housing rights and for the establishment of an insufferable living conditions for the management of the hostel, which is at the address of the city of Kiev, the University of Akademika Tupoljeva, 16th Street and the return of the listed hostel to the municipal property of Kyiv in connection with illegal privatisation. Yurya Levchenka to the Director of the Department of State Architecture and Construction Inspection in Kiev, head of the Kyiv City Public Administration on the gross violation of the city's standards and the well-being of the LTD "Consul LTD" on the intersection of the Gongadze Avenue and the prospectus of Truth in the Podilj district of Kiev. Viktor Razwadowski to the head of the Zitomir district government regarding the promotion of the outdoor kindergarten in the village of Volosovka of the Wonderland region of the Žitomir region. Viktor Razwadowski to the head of the Žitomir District Council, head of the Zitomir ODA for the budget for 2016 for the reconstruction and repair of the kindergarten in the village of Pechanovka in the district of Žitomir. Oksana Sold to the Prime Minister of Ukraine regarding the administration of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine since 20 January 2016 No.44. Groups of national deputies (Dechtirczuk, Tretlyakow and others) to the Ministry of Defence of Ukraine on the transfer to the property of the territorial community of the city of Dubno to the construction of a combination of household services, which is on the balance sheet of the concert "Vyjtrorgservis". Bogdan Onfrik to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine on corruption in the internal affairs of the city of Kharkiv and Kharkiv. Sergio Larina to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the appeal of members of the plenary of the Kyrovograd district organization of the educational and scientific profession of Ukraine. Mikoli Lušnjak to the Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine is the Minister of Culture for the allocation of funds from the State budget to complete the restoration and disaster-recovery work. Peter Vanata to the Minister for Economic Development and Trade of Ukraine on infringement of the rights to a useful model and industrial model, as well as obstacles to public procurement. Igor Guza to the Minister of Interior of Ukraine, head of the Ukrainian State Service for Geodesy, Cartography, and Cadastre, the Attorney General of Ukraine, for the verification of the activities of the Chief Executive Officer of the State Department of the State Department of the State in the Volinsk Region. John Rybak to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for a reduction in the percentage of co-financing from local budgets. John Rybak to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Finance of Ukraine, Head of the State Service of Ukraine from an emergency situation, Head of the Chernobyl ODA on the allocation of funds from the state budget for the construction of the first line of premises for the 12th State Fire and Rescue Department from the extraordinary situation of Ukraine in the Montenegrin region. John Sporish to the Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Regional Development, Construction and Housing of Ukraine, Head of the Vinicka District State Administration for the inclusion of the village of Murovanokurilovecka District of Vinnitsk Region in the list of investment programmes and a list of regional development projects to be implemented at the expense of the State Regional Development Fund in 2016, 2017. Vladimir Aresonkova to the Minister of Finance of Ukraine on debt repayment to the budgetary organizations of the Orutsky region of the Žitomir Region, which arose before 1 January 2011 as a result of untimely financing by the state of Chernobyl payments. Vladimir Aresonkova to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the granting of relief to the crisis fighters in CHAES II, a category of disabled persons who were 80 years of age or older. Sergio Larina to the head of the National Police of Ukraine on a balanced approach to the restructuring of the regional authorities of the State Automobile Inspectorate of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine in the Kirovograd region. Vladimir Litvina to Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Defence of Ukraine for the Legalization of Housing and the Warm Warming Season of Military Pensioners. Tetjana Crnoval to the head of the Antimonopoly Committee of Ukraine, Minister of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine, on the need to verify the beneficiaries of Glusco Energy S/A. and affiliate companies with Russian VAT "NK" Rosneft. Alexander Abdullin to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the allocation of funds for construction and immediate deployment of a self-propelled sewage collector in the city of Dubrovice of the Plain Region to halt the pollution of the River Mountain by unpolluted streams, to avoid the threat of the spread of a negative epidemiological situation among the inhabitants of the Dubrovnik region, and to remove justified claims from this matter from the environmental authorities of the Republic of Belarus. Sergia Labazuk to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine, the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, the Secretary of the National Security and Defence Council of Ukraine for the preservation of the Voloko Police Department of the National Police of the Hmeljna Region as part of the decentralization process. Michael Bondar to the Minister of Energy and Coal Industry of Ukraine on plans and measures for the implementation of the investment project for construction in the Jovkovsky and part of the Sokal region of the Lviv region, the "Ljubeljska" mine No. 1-2. Igora Shurma to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the threat to life and health of the population of Ukraine as a result of unprofessional activities by the Ministry of Health of Ukraine. Igor Shurma to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the results of the investigation into the work of the Ukrainian Ministry of Health on deaths during the period of further immunization against polio. Vitalia Gudzenka to the head of the Road Service in the Kyiv region for the capital repair of the roadways of the overall use of the Kyiv region. Vitalia Gudzenka to the head of the Kiev ODA on the implementation and implementation of specific programmes, projects and measures for the development of agro-industrial production in the region of Bilocerkowsk, Voddarski, Skurirsk, Stavishtenski, Tarostian and Tetijov regions of the Kyiv region for 2016. Alexander Marchenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the facts of the ruse of Ukrainian schools in the capital of Ukraine, Kiev. Michael Bondar to the commander of the National Guard of Ukraine, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine for the registration of the National Guard Battalion of Ukraine, the name Hero of Ukraine, General Sergey Kulczycke, as a separate legal person, who will be subordinated to the Northern Territorial Command of the National Guard of Ukraine. Alexander Gerega to the head of the Ukrainian State Property Fund for the improper use of public property by the Public Shareholders Association of the Slavut factory ZBW. Alexander Gerega to the Ukrainian Defence Minister for the improper use of former defence objects located in Slavuta. Artema Ilyuk to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the results of the competitive selection of the head of the state-owned enterprise "Specialized Maritime Port "Octjabrsk". Sergey Kaplin to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, on the investigation into the inaction of the Poltava City Head, which led to the tragic death of two people. Vladislav Buhareva to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for setting a reasonable price for natural gas for the needs of the population. Vladislav Buharev to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the development and implementation of a new tax system that will stimulate agricultural production, especially small and medium-sized enterprises. Andrija Derkača to the Prime Minister of Ukraine to address the issue of insecure medical personnel in rural areas. Andrija Derkač to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Minister of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine, Minister of Justice of Ukraine, Head of the Ukrainian Presidential Administration for Bringing the work of the authorities of Ukraine in accordance with the Constitution of Ukraine and European standards in the field of human rights in connection with efforts under the terms of the fight against corruption to violate the right to personal life of Ukrainian citizens and the right to personal and confidential data. Vladimir Husak to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine, Minister of Economic Development and Trade of Ukraine regarding the provision of information on the targeted use of tariffs for the transport of goods by rail and the priority direction of investments to the public limited company Ukrazalznica in the 16th year. Gregory Times to the new village head of the Chernobyl region for the publication of information on the use of public funds, which is managed by the executive committee of the Novoselice City Council of the Chernobyl Region, on the only web portal for the use of public funds. Alexander Suprunenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the question of giving Ukraine's State Property Fund an inappropriate answer to my parliamentary request. Alexander Suprunka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the improvement of the rules for the provision of central heating services, the provision of cold and hot water and water supply. Victor Krivenk to the Ministry of Economic Development and Trade of Ukraine, the State Reserve Agency of Ukraine for the purchase of fuel-oil materials to the state reserve of Ukraine. Stepan Kuba to the head of the Kiev City State Administration for the preservation of the square of the Heavenly 100th on the street of Mikhailivska in Kiev. Stepan Kubeva to the Head of the National Bank of Ukraine for information on the operation of the National Bank of Ukraine in the area of monetary and monetary regulation. Alexander Villukla to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for dissatisfaction with the response of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine since 18 January 16th, on a request from the deputy on 15 December 15th. Alexander Villukla to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the provision of the budget of Ukraine for the payment of the social assistance debt of 30% of the minimum pension before retirement to children of war according to the available court decisions and the relevant decisions of the European Court of Human Rights. Groups of National Deputies (Dublika, Krivenka) to the Attorney General of Ukraine, the Head of the SBU on the distribution in Ukraine of information materials that call for a violent change or the overthrow of the constitutional system or the capture of state authority. Irina Sisoyenko to the head of the Kyiv District State Administration for providing information on the extent of the actual funding of municipal health care facilities in the Kyiv region. Irina Sisoyenko to the Minister of Health of Ukraine for the provision of information on disease rates. Romana Macola to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the issue of the transfer to the municipal property of the city of Slaviti of the object of the immovable property of the military unit A-3845. Romana Macola to the first deputy head of Hmelnické ODA on a positive solution to the issue of the inclusion of the Regional Development Investment Program "Sonic House for Children with Special Needs" in Shepetyvka, in the National Development Fund of the Hmelnické Oblast. Dmitri Linka to the Attorney General's Office of Ukraine, the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, the National Anti-Corruption Bureau of Ukraine, the National Fiscal Service of Ukraine, the Chamber of Commerce and Industry of Ukraine, the Dnipropetrov Chamber of Commerce and Industry concerning possible unscrupulous business activities in the alcohol sector and tax evasion. Groups of National Deputies (Korczynski, Rybczynski, Suhjevic) to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the closure of Ukrainian air for video and audio products of the Russian Federation. Mr. Vasil Janicki to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Regional Development, Minister of Energy and Coal Industry of Ukraine, on the issue of compensation for differences in tariffs on thermal energy, centralized water supply and water management of the AES satellite cities. Irina Ephraimov to the Attorney General of Ukraine, heads of the Security Service of Ukraine, heads of the High Council of Justice, heads of the State Fiscal Service of Ukraine on the verification of the abuse of office, the commission of unlawful and corrupt actions by judges of the Father and Komarova. Vasil Pétovka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the award of subsidies for the medical facilities of the Tachiv region and the Rakhiv region of Zakarpat. John Balloga to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Prime Minister of Ukraine, for the payment of consumers for joining electrical installations. Dmitra Dobrodomov to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine, on the basis of the restructuring and the accession of Bukovin State Financial and Economic University to the National University of Cherniewec. Dmitra Dobrodomov to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine, Henprocuror of Ukraine, on the inaction of the Government, which led to the insecure of anti-terrorist fighters by prosthetics abroad. Sergia Labazuk and Andrija Nemirowski to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the National Commission for State Regulations in the Field of Energy and Municipal Services for Unwarranted Tariffs for the Supply of Gas to the Population. Sergey Vlasenka to the Head of the National Penitentiary Service of Ukraine, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine for the appointment of the Head of the Institute of Criminal Enforcement of the Republic of Ukraine. Barasha, who was directly involved in political persecution during the time of Janukovich’s presidency. Sergija Vlasenka to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the improper review by the Attorney General of Ukraine of the parliamentary request for a corruption component during the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine to pay payments to the European Court of Human Rights for payment by the State of Ukraine to Agrocomplex 335,036,547 (three hundred and thirty-five million, thirty-six thousand and forty-seven) Andrea Shipka to the Minister of Health of Ukraine for the conservation of the health sector of Ordjonikidze Dnipropetrovsk. Andrea Shipka to the Minister of Finance of Ukraine regarding the allocation of funds from the State Budget for the financing of individual, vital expenses of the city of Ordjonikidze Dnipropetrovsk. Jacob Besbach to the Human Rights Council of Ukraine, the Council of Judges, the Office of the Attorney-General of Ukraine on ensuring the continued observance of the judicial safeguards. Groups of National Deputies (Besbach, Melniczuk, Solvara) to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine, on the use of measures to provide free of charge to disabled children, other persons with technical and other means of rehabilitation at the expense of the state budget. Victor Krivenk to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the Henprosecutory of Ukraine, the State Property Fund of Ukraine, the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine, the State Financial Inspectorate of Ukraine, the State Enterprise Arsenal for the Return of Property of the State Enterprise Arsenal. Ostapa One to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, Dnipropetrovska ODA on the legality of construction and the operation of the farm TOV "Agroprominest". Anatolya Denisenka to the Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine on the use of urgent and urgent measures to repair the engineering networks of the production unit "Basic Construction and Installation Management" of the regional branch "South Railway", "Urzsalznica" with the aim of providing quality water supply and watering consumers. Groups of National Deputies (Kupria, Láška and others) to Henprocuror of Ukraine on the removal of parliamentary immunity from the Ukrainian National Deputy Kononenko Igor Vitaliyovich and on the appeal to foreign financial institutions for the discharge of Attorney General Shokin Viktor Mikolaiovich. Andrija Illenka, acting head of the government of the Public Shareholders Association, Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine, for the correction of train traffic by Mikolayev-Herson-Kiyev. Andrea Illenka to the head of the Kyiv City State Administration for proper cleaning in the area of the Bykownian Forest. Groups of National Deputies (Solvara, Besbaha) to Henprocuror of Ukraine, Kyiv City Head, on the prevention of the transfer to private property of the TV Foundation for the Development of Building Initiatives, the construction and construction of the Children's Specialized, Psych neurological Salut Sanatorium in the Shevchenk district of Kyiv. Ruslan Solvar to the National Anti-Corruption Bureau of Ukraine, the Ministry of Agriculture Policy of Ukraine and Food, the State Service of Ukraine on Geodesy, Cartography and Cadastre, the Prosecutor's Office of the Kyiv Region on the facts of land violations in the General Office. Victor Romanyuk to the Director of the National Anti-Corruption Bureau of Ukraine, the first deputy prosecutor of Kiev city to commit corruption offences by officials of the Ukrainian State Agency for the Administration of the Aliens Zone. Olega Kulinić to the Minister of Finance of Ukraine, Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine, Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine, for the development of a mechanism for compensation for the transfer of pension categories of citizens on inter-city, internal and inter-district routes. Oleg Kulinić to the President of the National Academy of Agricultural Sciences of Ukraine, Minister of Agriculture Policy and Food of Ukraine for the transfer of parts of the land of the state-owned enterprise "Stepne Research Farm" of the Polish State Agricultural Research Station of the Institute of Pigry and Agricultural Production of the National Academy of Agricultural Sciences of Ukraine. Sergey Firemarck to the Minister of Interior of Ukraine regarding the protection of the right to property of the State. Alexia Lensky to the Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine on the use of response measures with a view to managing effectively the cost of the rehabilitation of the Chernobyl nuclear power plant disaster bombers and the purchase of sanitation routes for citizens affected by the Chernobyl disaster in sufficient quantities. Alexia Lensky to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the use of response measures aimed at reforming the Ukrainian State Road Agency and establishing an active body based on it that can function properly, providing Ukrainians with transportable road cover. Andrija Lopushanski to the Minister for Agriculture and Food of Ukraine, Head of the State Forest Resources Agency of Ukraine for the creation of a natural reserve in the territory of Old Samobirski, Turkovski, Skoliv region of the Lviv region, and for the establishment of a moratorium on deforestation. Andrija Lopushanski to the Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine, Head of the State Agency for Roads of Ukraine, for the implementation of the capital repair of the road of state importance N-13 Lviv-Sambib-Uzhgrad on the Sambir-Uzęcki region in the Lviv region. Ruslana Demchak to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the improper conduct of pre-trial investigations by the Ukrainian Ministry of Internal Affairs in the Winnitsky region. Jury Bublika to Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Interior of Ukraine on illegal interference with the activities of the State Enterprise Stepne, the Society's limited responsibility for the Agrogroup of Demeter and the National Academy of Agricultural Sciences of Ukraine, exerting pressure on the conclusion of questionable agreements to seize its land owned by the State. Vitalia Stasuka to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the intensification of the pre-trial investigation revealed by the fact that he committed criminal offences by former Prosecutor General Victor Pshonka of Ukraine and National Deputy to Ukraine Artem Pshonka. Vitalia Stasuka to the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine on the activation of pretrial investigation in separate criminal conduct. Jaroslava Markevich to the Head of the National Commission, which regulates national energy and municipal services in the area of consumer rights violations when making a contract for the provision of gas services. The questions will be after the break, or you will vote to cancel the break. Oleg Petrenk to the Ministry of Ecology and Natural Resources of Ukraine, State Environmental Inspection of Ukraine, Cherkaske ODA, Public Prosecutor's Office of the Cherkas region for the verification of the legality of the forgetfulness. Colleagues, time spent reading queries, are exhausted. According to the Rules, we now have a break until 12:30. And I don't have the mechanisms to move it on my own, and I'm afraid that the voices to move it in the room might not be enough. So I'm going to call it a 12-hour break until 12:30. And at 12:30, please gather in the hall to continue our important work.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-05-m0.u83	Dear colleagues, break time is over. Please come into the hall and take up jobs. Honorary colleagues, the profile committee addressed the Head of the Supreme Council, and today the Head of the Supreme Council invited us to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Head of the National Bank of Ukraine, Valery Alexiyev Gontarev, with a report on the state of the state's monetary and credit market. There's an offer to give 10 minutes for Valeria Alexiyevny's report, and then 10 minutes for questions and answers. Similarly, we have a government report. One minute to the oral question and two minutes to answer it. If there's no objection to that rule, then we'll start speaking out from the deputies, we have a certain amount of time, and I invite the head of the National Bank of Ukraine, Valeria Alexiyev Gontareva, to report. Please have 10 minutes under the Rules for Information to Deputies. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-05-m0.u84	Good afternoon, distinguished national MPs! I'm so glad to be here. And today I'm going to tell you about the monetary policy of the National Bank and the current currency market situation. So let's start with one of the key decisions of the National Bank we consider to be compliance with a flexible exchange rate regime and a non-return to exchange rate. The National Bank has finally become the regulator of the monetary and credit market, not the liability for the exchange rate of the bracelets they made during the fixed exchange rate. From now on in every developed country, the central bank is responsible for the price and financial stability of the state. This is his primary legislative function. You voted in favour of the amendments to the National Bank of Ukraine Act, and now our current mandate is to ensure price and financial stability in order to promote sustained economic growth in the state. We recognize that the transition to flexible courses has taken place very painfully. A year ago, it coincided with the escalation of the conflict in our eastern part of the country and was accompanied by a steep devaluation of the bracelet. Unfortunately, Ukrainians today are still not used to thinking about price categories because they still think about course categories and care about each course. And I would like to stress that you don't have to take the fluctuation course that's been seen for the last few months as something extraordinary. When a flexible course was introduced, the National Bank warned that such fluctuations would occur. The exchange rate is determined by the ratio of demand and foreign currency supply, and foreign currency demand and supply changes every day. As a result, fluctuation can lead to both depreciation of the national currency and strengthening of the national currency. And this is happening every day in all the world markets with all the world's currencies. And it's not to panic, it's to understand why this is happening. Let's first look at the situation in the interbank currency market. Today, the interbank currency market, the exchange rate in the interbank market, is 25.80 by 26. The dynamics of the course have recently been determined by both temporary and fundamental market factors. First of all, let's point out the situational factors that are traditional at the beginning of the year. First of all, at the beginning of the year, business activity falls seasonally, which cannot help but reflect on the supply of currency in the interbank currency market. Also, as the National Bank has repeatedly stressed, excessive exchange rates since early January have been associated with a large number of weekends. Because we were celebrating with you and we only came to the office on January 11. Also, as you know, at the end of December, 30 billion dollars were paid out of a single treasury account, including a large amount of VAT debt, which gave additional liquidity to the bank's customers, who were directing it to buy currency in the interbank currency market. It is for the purpose of avoiding such shocks of liquidity in individual periods that the National Bank always advocates that all inflows of money into the economy, including in the budget, are always projected, timely and evenly distributed over the year. In the last days, unfortunately, another factor added is political instability, which creates uncertainty about the future of the country and can become the basis for widespread demand for currency. Resonant news from the political scene is always reflected in the dynamics of financial markets, and today’s situation is no exception. For example, investors in Ukrainian sovereign bonds began selling government debt, fearing the deterioration of our country’s short - term capacity. This has led to a shift in the revenue curve of national eurobonds, and so political news is spreading the exchange rate of our national currency. All of these factors increase the impact of the major fundamental factors that have pushed and, unfortunately, will push the national currency rate this year. This is about making our environment worse. Last year, the current balance of payments account was balanced for the first time in 10 years. Its deficit was $200 million or 0.2 percent of GDP, well, it's balanced, 0.2 is very small. By comparison, in 2013, the current account deficit was $16.5 billion, or 10 percent of our GDP. It was a deficit in the current account of 16.5 billion in 2013, and we've reached a deficit-balanced almost zero in the current year's account. Last year. And so once again, I emphasize that last year was the first year when we predicted a balanced current score and when it actually happened. And that means that by devaluation, the rate of the bracelets has become balanced and has helped balance our current score. But unfortunately, from a balanced current account last year, we're going to go into a deficit current account this year. On our new pronoisseurs, it's going to be $2.5 billion or 3 percent of GDP this year. We expect the current account deficit of 3 percent of GDP this year when it was balanced last year, as I said. Why did this happen? First of all, the price decreases in world raw materials markets. Along with oil prices, prices of steel, food, which provides a left - hand share of the currency in Ukraine, are declining in parallel. January. The average daily sales of currency from metallurgy and manufacturing have dropped to a quarter compared to December. A quarter compared to December, minus 25 percent was only compared to December. And if you compare January to January last year and this year, only metallurgy showed negative 39 percent. An additional factor is the restrictions on exports of products to the Russian Federation and the transit of domestic goods by Russian territory to third countries in Asia. We estimate that out of the 2.5 billion deficits in the current account, 1.1 billion in the current year will be caused by these constraints. Among other fundamental factors of devaluation is the devaluation of the currencies of our trading partners. Now the currencies of all the countries of the world are devaluation relative to the dollar. There are no currencies that don't depreciate. Since the beginning of 2015 it has been a Kazakh denunciation, a Belarusian ruble, a Russian ruble. All the countries that trade commodities. And the SND countries are a special one, a very large devaluation. This brings down the competitive advantages of Ukrainian exports in markets not only in these countries, but also in third countries where we export our products. As a result of the situational and fundamental factors during January, the currency in the country declined by 27 percent compared to December, and the sale of the currency in the interbank market fell by 43 percent. Although basic exchange rates take place in the interbank market, the population is, of course, more concerned about the cash exchange rate of the national currency. And we always have, cash, a little higher than interbank. This is explained by the fact that additional factors influence the currency exchange rate. Thus: The situational and fundamental factors and the cash course have additional factors. The first and most important factor is the mood of the population. So please don't speculate on the subject of bracelets, so as not to provoke excess demand. The second factor is the seasonal factor of winter holidays, vacations that I have mentioned many times. The third factor is excess liquidity. As I have already pointed out, at the end of December, several tens of billions of dollars were paid out of a single treasury account, of which four billion dollars were paid for social benefits that were not planned, and this money was partly directed to the cash market of the currency. What are the odds of the course this year? Seasonal factors remained behind because seasonality is January, it's already passed. True, there was a new one, as I mentioned, that is political instability. The sooner the situation on the political side is resolved, the less the rate of the bracelet will be adjusted. It must also be understood that the risks of a fundamental nature that can influence the course are beyond the influence of the National Bank. And a deeper fall in prices for raw materials, and a stronger devaluation of the currencies of our trading partners can lead to a greater deficit.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-05-m0.u85	Then please give me one more minute and then the question-answer. One minute, finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-05-m0.u86	I have a lot of information, but about the course, let's finish the course, and I'm already on the question. The last thing I'm going to do is answer the questions. That's why all of this can be reflected in the course because the exchange rate is a mirror of our country's balance of payments. At the same time, we should not forget that all these risks can be partially dissipated by other factors. First of all, because of the low energy prices, because we are importers of energy carriers. Secondly, thanks to the inflow of investments during the privatization of state-owned enterprises. You know, 17 billion in the budget has already been budgeted, but the National Bank is counting on us to reach $1 billion in privatization this year, so in our projected balance of payments, we've already projected that. This is going to cancel out our current account deficit. So we expect that this, you support privatization, this billion will come to our country. Thirdly, because our country is under the umbrella of international organizations. In Davos, we agreed with the IMF on all technical issues and we expect a memorandum to be signed soon.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-05-m0.u87	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I'm asking you to prepare for the recording so everyone can get to their jobs.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-05-m0.u88	[[Unheard]]
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-05-m0.u89	You'll be able to answer questions, because the question is just a minute, and the answer is two. Colleagues, everyone in position? Please record the oral question. Please. Goose Igor Volodymyrovich. Please turn on the microphone. We've adjusted it a little bit.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-05-m0.u90	Good afternoon. Igor Gus, People's Front faction, 19 constituency. Mrs. Gontareva, you have a question of the next character. Are you making any predictions or not? Is that what you do? You can tell the Ukrainian people in 2016 and you can answer for those words in your actions, so what will be the rate of the dollar to which people can count, because you understand very well that the misunderstanding of the situation, the unstable perception of the situation, it makes the entire economic situation and the situation of each person worse. Please tell me, I think a lot of people are interested. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-05-m0.u91	The mandate of the National Bank is to ensure price and financial stability in the country. You voted in favour of this mandate last summer. So I'm going to answer for price stability. Inflation forecast for this year is 12 percent. The National Bank launched an inflation target early this year. And so our main goal is to achieve 12 percent of inflation. But as you can understand, our course has a profound impact on our inflation, because the so-called pass through effect with devaluation has been reflected last year in our course as 20 percent of ours. Our inflation, and 23 percent was inflation, which was added by our tariffs. Thus, the National Bank sees its target as 12 percent this year. And that's why the course is confusing, too, because it's necessary. But the National Bank will never go against the trend. The National Bank can only smooth out excessive fluctuations and situational fluctuations. Today, for example, the National Bank has sold 50 million through an auction to smooth the situation. These are the situational fluctuations, these situational fluctuations, unfortunately, these are our political crises now, not seasonal factors. So we came out with market support.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-05-m0.u92	Dear colleagues, we have had a discussion: factions' heads require factions, not writing. Drevijanko Yuri Bogdanovich, turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-05-m0.u93	I'll answer all the questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-05-m0.u94	Yuri Derevyanko, Will Party. Dear Mrs. Gontareva, you spoke in your speech about what we should get used to the currency fluctuations, the fluctuations in the course, and you said it was normal in all other countries. And, little by little, you've talked about everyone reacting calmly. But in all other countries, when the rate is more than 5 percent, I don't say 10 percent anymore, over a period of time or two, it's already a collapse. How did the National Bank react early this year when the currency fluctuated more than 5-10 percent? And what course will we have by the end of the year? Because all importers are heading in, they're putting a huge supply of price stability, and it's very harmful to prices, and inflation as a whole. So get a clear sense of the economy and our entrepreneurs, what course you're going to be and what exactly you're going to be doing when you're going to be going 5-10 percent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-05-m0.u95	Once again, I emphasize that the National Bank will never do anything if this course is consistent with the fundamentals of why it happened to our course. But when we see the situational factors, the National Bank is very active and, above all, from the beginning of January because they were seasonal, situational factors, not fundamental factors. Because fundamental factors are what will happen to us this year. If you see something very seasonal, it's a seasonal, seven-minute, one-minute factor. Thus, the National Bank sold currency in the interbank market five times and sold more than $120 million. And today the National Bank is selling the currency again because it's a factor, again, it's not a fundamental factor. Because the political crisis is unfortunately causing a panic in the market. Today the course is now at 25. 80-26. The National Bank is responsible for inflation and price stability and financial stability in the state. I told you, our inflation target this year is 12 percent. And to achieve it, we can't afford the devaluation that we have because we never reach it. But I'm not going to predict the course because the National Bank is responsible for inflation. You gave us that mandate last year. For financial stability and for price and financial stability.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-05-m0.u96	12 percent is our target for this year, next year is 8 percent, for 2018 is 6 percent, and our long-term inflation target is 5 percent, and so that lending in Ukraine is 5 percent.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-05-m0.u97	Thank you. Olga Belkova, Peter Dustock's Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-05-m0.u98	Dearest.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-05-m0.u99	I'd like to make a statement on the microphone. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-05-m0.u100	Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to draw your attention to a very important question. As you know, we as the Supreme Council have repealed the law on the 5 percent import congregation. But that law referred to critical imports, including imports of natural gas. Today, a number of companies are calling on us and asking you to pay attention, and to change your internal regulations 581 and 124, and to give them priority on their demand for gas. As you know, without Ukraine's gas today, without imported, it won't be able to make it through this season. Please pay attention, meet them, and I am convinced that there are still a number of other companies with similar requirements. I realize that perfumes may not be so important today with special currency regulations, but gas.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-05-m0.u101	Answer. We sent a letter to the Ministry of Economics in advance, which was in December of this year, when we realized that there would be no more critical imports since the beginning of the year. Unfortunately, the National Bank cannot call something critical, not something critical. And we asked the Ministry of Economics to confirm the same letter that we were working on before what a critical import is. Unfortunately, the Ministry of Economics told us that they wouldn't do that. But after that we sent a letter to our Prime Minister and our Prime Minister immediately gave the order to sign this letter in critical terms because we have no questions. We know it's critical, we even know what it involves, but unfortunately it's not an authorization from the National Bank. If it were in our jurisdiction, we'd do it on January 1st, because it's clear to us.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-05-m0.u102	Thank you. Yuri Bereza, People's Front, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-05-m0.u103	Madam Head of the National Bank, good afternoon! I'm going to start with a question, and I'm going to continue with Igor Lapin, and I'm going with the Russian banks in Ukraine. When you come in or you come to town or town and you see Sberbank Russia, how do you think I should feel? And please continue Igor Lapin.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-05-m0.u104	Igor Lapin, People's Front. I want to ask you a little bit more specifically about my brothers Berez, please say Alpha Bank and other Russian banks today are supposed to be actually 30 percent of the financial market in Ukraine. I'm interested in yesterday's press conference, Peter Avenue, a friend of Putin's, who was given permission to purchase the "Alpha Bank" in Ukraine. I wonder who the curator of this equipment is and whether you appreciate the risks, what the Russian capital is today.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-05-m0.u105	Answer? First of all, with regard to Russian banks, I want to stress once again that Ukrainian banks with Russian capital are operating in Ukraine. We have three banks with state-owned Russian capital, so these banks are always under the special attention of our country's central bank, the National Bank. So there are our curators, the first stress test we had in 2014, they recapitalized all their institutions. The second stress test they passed, they signed a program to recapitalize their financial institutions. There's nothing they didn't pay back, or money, or they didn't pay in time, or they didn't pay in time, and there's nothing. So if there's a decision by the LNB about banks, if you realize that there are no questions from regulators, but everyone has to understand that 26 billion accounts of our commercial customers and 22 billion accounts of our individuals are there today. If someone gives us 50 billion today so that we can cover this for our Ukrainians, our customers.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-05-m0.u106	It's there because we can't nationalize 15 percent of the banking system. But if there's a decision by the LNB about these banks, about the sanctions, we'll do it. As for the Alpha Bank, that was the second question. First of all, Alpha Bank, I can tell you that they work in Russia, they work in Ukraine, and now they still work in five countries in Central and Eastern Europe. Because if you see the beneficiary owners of the bank, these banks own the holding company that's in Luxembourg. If you see it, because Alpha Bank is a child. I'm going to talk about the beneficiary owners.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-05-m0.u107	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-05-m0.u108	I'm sorry I went to tell you. As far as the beneficiaries are concerned. They have a daughter bank in Ukraine, and there's a daughter bank in the Russian Federation. This is not in Ukraine. Not a bank in the Russian Federation. Beneficiary owners are all known as the Alpha Group, this is Mr. Friedman, this is Mr. Aven and five others. They've got it. Mr. Aven, Mr. Friedman, the majority shareholder, as far as I know, is English citizenship, or Israel. I don't.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-05-m0.u109	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-05-m0.u110	He's from Lviv. He's a citizen.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-05-m0.u111	Mrs. Gontareva. Mr. Lazko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-05-m0.u112	Russian citizenship, to us at the National Bank, he did not offer Russian citizenship.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-05-m0.u113	Please take your emotions off, the questions are asked by way of giving the word. Wooden, you have been given the word! The Supreme Council gives the floor to the microphone, not the shouting of the hall. It's not the bazaar, it's the Supreme Council of Ukraine! Colleagues, time allocated for questions of the national MPs, are exhausted. According to the Rules. Guys, calm down! I'll tell you again. I'm done. Thus, the 10 minutes set aside by the Rules of Procedure for Deputies are exhausted. According to the Rules, factions that had no opportunity to speak. Yes, according to the Rules, article 34, paragraph 3, read the Rules, factions without words have the right to speak. Dear colleagues! And that's why I want to call you, I can't ask you a question outside the Rules, because then things start out out of control, because then all MPs raise their hands, and it's not clear what the principle is. So, colleagues, we still have an hour to speak from the deputies who will also ask questions, and why could we speak? And that's why we're operating on the Rules. Mrs. Gontareva, stay! Yes! Now Oleg Lazko came to me, please, one minute from the Radical Party. I won't! [[B in m in s a l in]] Oleg Lazko.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-05-m0.u114	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Dear Valery Alexiyevna is so pleased to ask a better banker of all times and peoples, as you are called. But I have a very simple question to ask you, my dear, dearly beloved Ukrainian citizens: did you read the Constitution, did you read article 99 of the Constitution, where the responsibility of the National Bank -- ensuring the stability of the monetary unit -- is the primary function? Are you telling me that pensioners and saints are guilty of devaluation bracelets? You're telling me that people are responsible for the wages you've gotten, that you're dropping your bracelet? So it seems to me that the most responsible person is you personally, because you're robbing people, you've underestimated wages and pensions, you're through the Deposit Guarantee Fund of the debrant that property that's left in the banks. And you, my dear, the best banker, deserve other epithets, the reverend Valery of Alexyevna. Get out of here!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-05-m0.u115	Are you going to answer?
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-05-m0.u116	I can. I have a very good answer: first of all, when we started here, we had a deficit in the balance of payments minus 16.5 billion, last year it was zero. When I started this job, NAC Naftogazu's deficit was 100 billion, zero this year. We have a cleared banking system, we already have inflation targeting, I want to tell you about inflation 12 percent. I'm proud of my National Bank team, all I can tell you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-05-m0.u117	Thank you. And the last question is Royal. Self-help didn't have anyone, did it? Ostrikova, okay. Queen, Ostrikova, and then we're done. Please, Queen.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-05-m0.u118	Dear colleagues, respected by Valeria Alexeevna. I'm here, yeah. You know, when I listen to your report, I want to ask you what country we're talking about, what country will be the inflation of 12 percent, 8 percent, 6 percent? Let us be realistic, for all international institutions say that Ukraine will have a minimum of 25 to 27 per cent of inflation this year. Why is inflation understated? Well, we understand why, because non-indexation of pensions, non-indexing of wages and huge savings. With today's wrong macro-indicator of 83 billion dollars, you don't add money to the public budget, and you don't index pensions and wages. That is why I believe that our task today is to really recognize what inflation will be like and to come up with a real indexation of pensions and wages. We're going to raise people's consumer capacity today, we're going to raise the economy. Because today.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-05-m0.u119	Ostrikova, Deputy Ostrikov.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-05-m0.u120	Can I answer that?
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-05-m0.u121	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-05-m0.u122	Unfortunately, the last year in our country was inflation, which has been the highest since 1995, was 43 percent: 23 of it is a rise in regulatory tariffs and 20 is the so-called basic inflation for which the National Bank is responsible. So this year our, well, our population was poor because there were prices because there was inflation, not because there was a dollar, but because we had such a high inflation. And this is the main task of the National Bank is price stability. And that's why. Well, we can't go out with you five percent since the 44s. So our target is phased out: 12th year, 8th year, 6th year, and only at the end of 2019 - 5. This is our target, well, we have to reach it! How can we achieve, if it is a political crisis, price markets? We have a very small and very open economy. Come on. The real sector's up. What can I tell you?Oh, my God! The National Bank can only be its own. For base inflation to be held accountable. Base inflation next year will be 12 percent 3.5 percent because administrative tariffs will also rise. So our job now is to keep between 8 and 9 percent of our basic inflation. It's our job.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-05-m0.u123	Thank you. The last question is Deputy Ostrikav. And we're going to the record for the performance. Who would like to take part in the "hour of speeches of the deputies," please come into the hall and prepare for the recording. Please, Ostrikak.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-05-m0.u124	Dear lady, head! [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear lady, please tell me, why is it so difficult for a simple enterprise in the real sector that you so want to raise, to buy a currency for today's import contract, if we're good with a balance of payments, how did you just inform us? Why are they forcing a simple enterprise to split applications? Why are they searching for all comets and contracts in the invasions? Why did you give a letter? Is it not clear how he refers to Nazbank's authority under the Risk Transactions Act? Now a simple Ukrainian enterprise needs not only to be responsible for itself but also to know the beneficiaries of its foreign partner. Why are they asking the beneficiaries of the companies they are. What shares are traded on the stock market and thus refuse to purchase currencies? If we're doing so well with the balance of payments, when will the payment restrictions be lifted? Here the government has reported to us today that it is for foreign investments in Ukraine. Unless these restrictions are conducive to foreign capital coming here without possibility.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-05-m0.u125	First of all, nobody likes it when the National Bank checks contracts, when it checks beneficial owners, and when it checks offshore accounts. Believe me, nobody likes it. And that's why when you said that someone was splitting up there to avoid being controlled, to verify the National Bank, you'd better send me this list, who's doing it, because we're going to be dealing with these companies. Let's move on. We have, you know, limitations. We're not that good with the balance of payments. I said that unfortunately, we have a deficit in our current balance of payments. Our balance of payments was last year, the balance of payments was in plus, 700 million plus just because it was the money of international financial organizations. That's the only way we can get something right now, unfortunately. But I agree with you if we don't. Let's pay dividends, there can be no new investment. But the road map that we agreed with the International Monetary Fund is based not on dates, but on achievements such as reserves. By the end of the last year, we had planned 18 billion reserves. Did we get it? No, we only had 13.3 at the end of last year. Why? Because we didn't get all five billion from international organizations. That's how it works. We're ready to do this liberalisation, but we need to get some indicators, and we don't have them. [[B in m in s a l in]] Maybe even before, maybe even if we are now, because dividends are our priority, we have the first one. We won't be able to invest in the country if we don't pay dividends.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-05-m0.u126	It takes one minute for the Fatherland faction. Please turn Krulkov on for one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-05-m0.u127	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear Mrs. Head of the National Bank, a question to you. You know, while you're running the National Bank, unfortunately, there hasn't been such a mistrust in the banking system as before. It's just that, first of all, they can't take their money away from those who once trusted banks and deposited it because they just don't give it away. And loans are issued at such interest rates that no one can just take a small business or a medium-sized business or just citizens for consumer loans. I'll have a question for you next time. Please tell me, what happened to the costs of taxpayers of Ukrainian taxes that the National Bank has decided to pay to those banks that have been bankrupt and have disappeared to date? Who's going to pay that money back, what's the order? And how will taxpayers be able to see their money again? And when does the National Bank report to the Ukrainian people for this?
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-05-m0.u128	You can answer that. So many questions, let's start with the banking system. Our banking system wasn't that sick, even now the International Monetary Fund Program, it was in my speech, unfortunately I couldn't tell you today, even with the International Monetary Fund even in February last year, when we signed the IFF program, we planned for four years to recapitalize the banking system. Yeah, for the beginning of this year, right now? On April 1, this year, the bank's capital, it's possible to have a capital adequacy of zero. Well, can you understand that if you're familiar with the banking business? Capital adequacy should be 10, but unfortunately this has happened in our country. First of all, we've cleaned up all these zombie banks, all the banks that were laundering money. And after that, what happened to our banks? It was a war, it was an annexation of Crimea, they lost assets, it was a devaluation of bracelets, it was. And it had a negative impact on their balance. How can our banks be very reliable when they have an adequacy of capital allowed to have a "star"? If you remember the last time before the New Year you voted Bill 2449, I am very, very grateful for that because our banking system was outlawed before. [[B in m in s a l in]] Refunding. Last time, I remember showing a slide that the National Bank last year, I told you, it was 110 billion, and this year, I can report at the end of the year, 99. We're the ones who got the money back. And this time I showed you that this is 2008, 2014 is when they were released, and I've already returned them. So you can just give me a medal for refunding money to the Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-05-m0.u129	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the time for information is over. Thank you, Valery Aleksyevna, for the discussion. And now we still have time for that. Everyone, please get ready and sign up for the "Victory." Thank you. Good-bye. I'd like you to make a recording of the performances at the Miscellaneous. Drevijanko Yuri Bogdanovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-05-m0.u130	Yuri Derevyanko, political party of Will. I want to tell everyone today that the Supreme Council over the past two weeks and most in the Supreme Council has been fully sabotaging the procedures and reforms of decentralization in the transfer of land to the united territorial communities outside the population. I attended the Conciliation Council twice every Monday and asked the Chief of the Supreme Council, Mr. Groysman, to include these important bills in the agenda for the reform of decentralization. At the same time, he gave and supported what I thanked him for, a corresponding commission to the Agrarian Policy Committee. But unfortunately, neither the committee had considered it nor had the political will to put these bills into the agenda. Why are these laws not included? Because there's a whole land mafia that's still working on the Janukovitch scheme, when the land outside the settlement was transferred to the government of the State Commission, when two years ago, local councils, district government administrations, took part in the decision-making process for each such land area, and these lands were used much more effectively. I don't understand why this sabotage is taking place at the level of most of the Supreme Council, the head of the Supreme Council, or perhaps the government, including. Maybe we should call the names of those "watchers" or everyone else according to the methodology that's going on in the Mineconomy today. But, dear colleagues, if we do not want to block the process of decentralization, if we do not want to betray those people who have taken this desperate and bold step, we have united. We are simply obliged to include Bills 3510 and 3510-1 in the order of the day, to stop this corrupt scheme with a land-river outside the population. And allowing united territorial communities to influence and manage the land, to transfer it to municipal property within united territorial communities. Today the government has spoken of fighting for all and destroying all corruption schemes. Please, this is one of the most powerful, powerful corruption schemes ever since Janukovich stayed and worked. Not enough, I would like to say that all of these today, this is today's Prime Minister's show that the government is actively fighting corruption, is actively conducting reforms that are not really true. Because today, none of our Ukrainian citizens can heal themselves or survive, our pensioner cannot live at the end of the day for those pennies. And the best result of any reform is the well-being of our people. I appeal to all the national MPs: to give a proper assessment of the government's activities, to send it in full resignation, and to fully update the government's composition. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-05-m0.u131	Thank you. Anna Romanova, Self-Help.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-05-m0.u132	Anna Romanova, Self Help Union. Dear colleagues! Dear people of Ukraine! We've just seen the show as the Prime Minister reported, saw and heard him cynically say that the Ukrainians' income has increased by 13 percent. But the thing is, this lie, I don't know how much you can have an elementary conscience, that kind of thing to say. Because budgeters are actually regular doctors, they're kindergarten teachers, they're teachers, they actually got less than 40 percent to 10 percent in January 2016. So the person who got 2,000 dollars of wages, he didn't get 200 dollars in January. Why did this happen? Because our government, which is now reporting on improving social standards, has introduced this 3 percent indexation standard. If inflation is more than 3 percent monthly, then wages are indexed if it is less than 3 percent, then wages are not indexed. What happened as a result? What has happened is that wages have now not been indexed and paid off to people at the age of 2008. Please tell me, what is the rise in social standards and the real income of the population? Not enough of the bracelet devaluations, not enough of the price rises all the time, and now these little pieces of people are already in complete despair, they don't know how to go on living. And the government reports on what they've gained, that people have become better people. So, of course, it cannot go on like this. Government, if he says he's going to fight, he's not going anywhere, well, what can we fight for is that the Congo is behind us right now, at the level of development, at the level of population income, and we, if we fall (?To Congo, that's the only reason the government has to fight or how it imagines it. So the government has to go in its full composition to resign and to the parliamentary-presidential republic where Parliament, as representatives of the people, determines who should rule the government and who should be in the government, we are already saying that the government should resign with the Prime Minister. And that is what the national MPs, as well as all the people of Ukraine, need to listen to. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-05-m0.u133	Halasuk Viktor Valeriyovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-05-m0.u134	Dear Andrew Volodymyrovich, distinguished colleagues, the government claims unity, but who needs the unity that brings citizens to poverty, entrepreneurs to the worsening of the business climate, and the country to the debt dependency? We need to unite in order to modernize the country, not for the purpose of circular delivery or preservation of the oligarchy system. The country’s economy has gone into deep economic peaks, look at all the key indicators, investments, production, exports, freight, and even trade today in the red zone. This is a multi-year economic winter, which the government and the National Bank will consistently preserve. The economy needs immediate heating, sector by sector, industry by sector, and the government continues to freeze it with the National Bank. There's a need for structural modernisation and economic stimulus, and the government is once again tightening the belts to the population, and it's acquiring new foreign loans for food. The economy will be, or the specific people will be destroyed, first, Minister Abromavichus, I respect him as an individual, I think he's a decent and courageous man, but we definitely don't share the economic policy he pursues. That concentration on privatization and deregulation, which leaves no room for industrial policy, for investment policy, the economic results of this, we are all with you, like all Ukrainian citizens, we see wonderfully. The need for a targeted socio-economic development programme should be offered by the Minister of Economy and the Minister of Finance. I believe that the financial and economic policies of Abromavichus, Jaresko, the credit policy of Gontarev, are now no less evil for the country than what is happening at the higher levels of power, including in the area of corruption. For example, you look at the Head of the National Bank of Honduras officially opposed the creation of an export credit agency in Ukraine, which is why virtually all European countries have done so, so they are developing their exports -- this position is anti-producer, it is anti-government. Finance Minister Jaresko, by artificially imposing tax neutrality on Ukraine, instead of stimulating economic growth, eliminating special tax regimes, preserves, by now, the raw material system and block the introduction of investment incentives for the real economy. Moreover, I was even approached by some businessmen to avoid criticizing Jaresco. I understand it's not my own initiative. So what I'm saying is, no one is going to affect me, because it's a matter of principle, it's an economic policy issue, it's a question in which country we're all going to live in. I live in Ukraine. My children will live in Ukraine, so I don't care. And if one of some of the pilot reformers thinks they're going to reform and then enjoy the results under another sun, it's not the option that sets up all the Ukrainian entrepreneurs, investors, employers, industrialists and citizens who pay.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-05-m0.u135	30 seconds, please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-05-m0.u136	in any European country. So the real priorities are investment, jobs, manufacturing and increasing your tax base. This is the position of the Radical Party, and we urge everyone to support this economic programme to save Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-05-m0.u137	Thank you. Sergey Anatolyevich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-05-m0.u138	Good afternoon, colleagues! Arsenija Petrovich is criticized for his speech today, and I would like to thank him for showing his true face that he, with such contempt, reported such cynicism in Parliament. And, in principle, it deprives us of any illusions for us to vote in favour of his resignation. So he's actually telling us to vote. We should not keep this government in power. What's happening now is, of course, an exhibition. We're told, "Let's do a reboot," and then they're returning to the government of the already beaten airmen ministers who resigned. Remember, we voted several times in Parliament for even one minister, Kvetashvili? He was standing here on the stand, and we said, "Who's got you covered with viewers? What is this corruption around you?" He couldn't answer. He left a few months ago. Then yesterday he says, "I'm calling off the application, I'm coming back to work." It doesn't even look funny, it's just bullying common sense and the whole Ukrainian community. Instead of going back, Minister Abromavichus said about corruption in the Ukrainian government, about how the "sirs" cardinals put all state-run curators. And I support him because he's not coming back, he's not doing it against his conscience, he's staying in his position. He accused a colleague of Cononka's faction of corruption. Instead of explaining it, we've heard some very absurd words, "And I'm not my house," while even I, reading the same media, the same Ukrainian truth, I know, for example, Cononenko is the curator of the armory in Zaporozhye oblenergo, where huge sums of money are being removed from the company where Surkis and the brothers are sitting. And it's happening in the eyes of the whole state. I know about the Crucifixion, there's the viewers of it, I know about the company Ukratransamak, which is also mentioned by Abromavichus. I know about the People's Front and about Martinenko, who recently worked in this room, but took it and went under public pressure. For example, a company called the United Mining and Chemical Company, which combines the titanium-uranium industry. It's where they put the paper, the Bolwerk company, which takes all the product and sells it for export. We're looking at who the founders of this company are. Retired. 80 years old, Grandpa. Let's go deeper, let's see that this same man is in another uranium company that's already under investigation at the National Anti-Corruption Bureau, and Martinenko is going to investigate this case. Let's see, it turns out it's an enterprise where the end-beneficiaries are the same as in Zhuaniya and Martinique. In short, corruption around businesses. Instead of privatization, we have what state-owned enterprises have become pockets for political projects. So we need a real reboot. We need a new Prime Minister who won't be burdened by corruption charges, we need a new Minister of Internal Affairs, not the one who's already being published on the cover of the magazines about his schemes in gas equipment. We need a new Henprosecutor, not the one who linked himself to the diamond prosecutors. And we need the resignation of the Syrian cardinals from Parliament so that they don't affect the political process or tax state enterprises anymore. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-05-m0.u139	Thank you. Timis Grigory Ivanovich, please. Aah! He's handing over the fish. Yes! I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-05-m0.u140	Dear colleagues, today we have actually witnessed not just the farce, but the master-class for those who want to be bullied by Ukrainian society, just as an example of the abuse of Ukrainian people's MPs, of Ukrainian parliamentaryism as an institution in the state. This only means that we should not stop with you, that we are on the right track, and our colleague Oleg Barna has a list of national deputies who are willing to sign for the resignation of the government. And I urge everyone to continue this work, to collect 150 signatures, and yet to put this question to a vote in the session room. I'd like to say why I personally signed the bill. Not long ago, we talked and asked the Prime Minister: "Will everything be all right in the education sector?" He assured us that everything would be fine, but instead of actually increasing wages for our education, we got a 13 percent drop in all the allowances and some kind of ephemeral allowance, which actually cut teachers' salaries. Today, we had the opportunity to meet with the students of the Bukovin National Financial and Economic University of Cherniv, which violently put the Cabinet of Ministers, in public hearings, together with the Chernivsky National University, at the same time put at risk the education of all students and the vast labour community, in fact, out of work. We have a terrible situation today in the forest sector, where the Cabinet of Ministers is essentially not missing bills that can improve the situation in this sector, we have good registered bills today to abolish customs collection for import of timber-processing equipment and decommissioning VAT for this equipment, which could provide and be an engine to create jobs, new jobs in the forest sector. Instead, today the issue has stopped, is not considered, and the import moratorium, export of Western Ukraine’s timber is already in place. We have a terrible road situation today. Today it's been reported that thanks to the experiment, the Chernobyl area has 104 million, it has in its accounts, but instead some of the plots want to use these funds in their own interests. So there should be transparent competitions, transparent tendering for the use of these roads and direct tendering in the Chernobyl area. I think you can say a lot of things, but I want to thank all the people that. To all the national deputies who have stayed here today on Friday and are still working. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-05-m0.u141	Thank you. Squirrel passes the word Boyko. I'd like to have a word with you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-05-m0.u142	Dear colleagues, the People's Front has always spoken, talked and talked about supporting decentralization, supporting government and supporting local self-government. Instead, I urge all my colleagues to pay attention to the pianist pseudo in this reform. Please, when we sign any draft law with you, we have to at least read it. We don't have to be able to destroy the government's pseudo-piar bills. Now I'm talking about the so-called Oedes reform package. Of the 27 bills they're trying to submit through the MPs, which are totally anti-Ukrainian. Dear colleagues, I invite you to read them and to point out that this is a pure pianist. One of these bills is a constant plagiarism of what has already been done by the government. Let me give you an example. It's a government service. All that was presented was essentially the State Service Act that you and I adopted. Or else it's deregulation. Or a reform of the administration. All of this already is, and all of this is already working with the help of the government and with the help of Parliament. There are other bills. The ones that are essentially completely anti-constitutional and the ones that are going to break up the budget at all. And then there's the third direction: Separatist. I'll read it to you. For example, "Special Customs Treatment for the Odessa Region." This is a special legal regime governing urban activities in the Odessa region, a special legal regime governing the sale of land and municipal property and rights in the form of an electronic auction in the Odessa region. And other innovations that there are no MPs in any of the bills are absurd. For example, the land reform proposed by the Odessa reform package. It suggests using land to reason with the owner without urban activity and taking it into account without any agreement. Imagine, on Christianism, a factory or on the Dniprovi coast, a clearing house. It's a disgrace to Parliament. I therefore urge that each of us parliamentarians be responsible for their signature, for their vote. And I also want to talk to my colleagues who are being misconstrued and expressing themselves, and they don't answer for what they're saying. Try to put your mandate on equal terms and to answer for a lie in court. We're all very brave with mandates here. Without mandates, on an equal footing, we're responsible for what we can say and what we're saying. And who is criticizing the government, please go to the government! Take responsibility for the country and work, we'll just support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-05-m0.u143	Thank you. Scrum gives Eutushka a word for the performance. Yutushka, come on. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-05-m0.u144	Sergey Eutuszek, Plainshine, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear fellow countrymen, honourable chairman, distinguished Ukrainian people! Today we have witnessed a series of, as it were, shows that the entire Ukrainian government has shown us. Reporting or coming to the "government hour," ministers talked about some development, talked about some reforms, only the Ukrainian people don't understand what these reforms are. And one thing he understands is that their pockets, their tables are less and less able to feed their children, to eat food. I want to say that only the welfare of the Ukrainian people can be the only criterion for assessing the actions of the government. And the "Fatherland" faction clearly says that it's impossible to look at retirement in terms of individual ministers. We do not fully support the entire social policy pursued by the Ukrainian government. I'd like to invite Mrs. Natalie Jaresco to the Great Volin for the weekend, which includes Volinsky, Ravensky, Žitomirsk, and show you where you need to take the tens of billions of bracelets that sit in the pockets of corrupters, to show you how to extract the amber that crosses it. And I'll say it's a militia investigation, because people understand and know. And we need to change that kind of philosophy when we're looking for funds even here in the session room, we're voting on different inadequacies in the agreement between the IMF and someone else. We have a very rich nation, rich in resources of our own, and we can not take any credit and ask for no money from either the IMF or other creditors, but we can provide proper funding for our industries and medical and educational, and all of them at our own expense. I also want to address Minister Andriy Beervarsky. You know, there was enthusiasm at the beginning of the work of today's parliament. We've seen ministerial committee meetings. Where is the presence of these ministers now? I recall a meeting at the Plains in the walls of the district government when Andrew Pivovarsky, the minister of infrastructure, promised that the Rowne - Sarna - Starocostin road would be repaired. And then they saw the application. Now we have seen another statement when the minister returns to the government and is ready to keep his promises. Andrew, where are your promises, where is your way? In general, you've promised journalists, with all the executives, that this road would be repaired. So I want to stress that again.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-05-m0.u145	Ten seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-05-m0.u146	. That we don't share such a policy: a policy of deception, a policy of real promises, but unrealistic. Real failures. So the whole government has to resign.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-05-m0.u147	Rosenblatt Borislav conveys the word of Andrew Antonichtuk. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-05-m0.u148	Good afternoon, respectable company. I regret that there are no fashion channels in my performance, and I understand the scandals may be over. I would like to draw the attention of honourable parliamentarians, our respected society, to a huge problem. I'm asking you to improve the financing of the Border Service. The expenditure of Ukraine’s State budget in 2016 threatens to carry out tasks of protection and defence of Ukraine’s state border. For more than a year now, it took the present direction to create a war - free border service. Today, there are 37,000 trained soldiers who guard and defend the borders of Ukraine with weapons in their hands. We all remember how this country leaned against the courage of the border guards of the Lugansk band, the boys who fought under Zenopil and Sauvur Mogila. Repeated calls by the State Border Service to the Cabinet of Ministers, the National Security and Defence Council, have failed to deliver results to the Supreme Council. As of today, the minimum wage of the Ukrainian Armed Forces and the National Guard is 7,000 dollars, despite 2,000,900 dollars of the Ukrainian State Border Service. Imagine a borderline family of four who live on such a salary. Today, the release begins and there is a shortage of personnel. In addition, the risk may be caused by the explosion of Euro-integration processes associated with the liberalisation of the visa-free regime and the free trade zone. There is a catastrophic shortage of $1 billion,785 million for the Ukrainian State Border Service this year. It's 300 million dollars on a video tower that's located along the border. 256 million dollars for visa-free liberalisation, or we just won't get it. 200 million dollars for material and technical supplies is food plus property. One billion 29 million dollars in cash. There is a way out, a respected society, to support Irina Friz 3782's bill to amend Ukraine's law. I emphasize that someone who does not feed his border guards will feed the strangers.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-05-m0.u149	Bob's Gennady Borisovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-05-m0.u150	Oleg Kulinic, 147th constituency, Poltavščina. Honorable Chairman, Honorable Colleagues, Honourable Voters! In this year’s government budget, Kabdin refused to finance a series of social articles by handing them over to local budgets for ransom. I remind you that just recently, teachers from all over the country were covering the street of Gruszewski, demanding a return to state funding. Yesterday the Supreme Council was forced to address these issues in an orderly fashion, and Parliament passed the Laws on Trade and Technology, which I hope will relieve the tension in society. But there's still one huge problem: the problem with the supply of fuel. This problem will have to be solved by the local authorities, and this is compensation for the extended passage. I'm a senior deputy in Poland. In the Poltava region, 117 thousand people are entitled to appropriate benefits. Last year, about 44 million dollars were compensated for suburban and urban transports to Poltavščina. No one compensated for the city’s interdisciplinary transport, since there was no compensation, even though the law stipulated it. And the carriers accounted for their losses, and they're calculating it at 10 million dollars. Today, during the "hours of questions to the government," I asked this question to the Minister of Finance, Mrs. Jaresko, whether the government has any initiatives and specific programs to address this issue. The answer was not because there was probably nothing to talk about. The state has now left the local budgets with no funds and no algorithm to account for the benefits. Each area solves these problems differently, and, for example, in Poltavska, parts of the districts have allocated funds from the district budgets, but this is just compensation for urban and suburban transport. The Poltava District Council went differently -- and it supported changes to the district social protection program, which will partially relieve the tension. But this is a matter of state and it needs to be resolved at the level of the state, and it needs to be decided immediately. So I asked the Minister of Finance, the Ministry of Infrastructure, and the Ministry of Social Policy for a request to work urgently for the benefit categories of citizens. The first is the compensation mechanism. The second is the method of calculating transportation. And the third is the source of compensation for this passage. Dear colleagues, when the government promised us decentralization, it was about making local communities self-sufficient, economically independent. But in practice, we see very different things when communities get huge burdens, and their incomes are completely out of proportion with their expenses. I think it's a public problem, and that's why we need to solve it immediately to relieve the social tension in society. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-05-m0.u151	Thank you. Please, Evlakh's Anatoly, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-05-m0.u152	Dear Chairman, distinguished colleagues, distinguished people of Ukraine, I thank you for your opportunity to speak. Anatoly Evlakhov, 207 constituency, Chernigovishte Thank you to the previous MP, Kulinich, who spoke, he mentioned the real problem that we had made with such hasty adoption of the night budget. And the next year, like this tradition in Parliament, we start with what we do at night. And unfortunately, this year this tradition has returned. This week, the Supreme Council was partially decided on the issue of financing vocational education. Of course, this only delays the problem, for local budgets are not fully capable of financing the industry and the lack of real fiscal decentralization has led to this. And I want to dispel some of the government's myths that there is real decentralization. Local budgets, which were increased by 40 percent, are nothing more than inflation, which in 2015 accounted for almost 45 percent. In Ukraine, GDP is declining, what could be the growth in local budgets? No decentralization actually took place, since no taxes were transferred from the center, but only an additional collection was introduced in the form of excise duties and real estate taxes. Since the beginning of 2016, local budgets, in addition to trade unions, have also received an insurmountable burden on themselves in the form of school meals, the transportation of benefits to passengers. And what did the State give local budgets in return? Only an opportunity to raise the property tax. And if local budgets come from farmers in agrarian areas, such as Polissa, such as Carpathians, the problem of local budgets has become more acute this year than ever. Each year, millions of cubic metres of wood are produced on the Polissa and in the mountains, while the rent is spent on logging, bypassing the budgets of cities and districts, and going to higher - level budgets. At the end of last year, I was invited to change the budget. Amendments to the Tax Code and increase by 40 per cent of the rent on forest production. And the standard has already been in effect since January 1st of the year. In order not to balance the budget, I propose that this difference be sent to the local budgets of the cities where the wood is cut. And now I'm asking for a Parliamentary Committee of Profiles, a Committee of Budgets.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-05-m0.u153	Please, 10 seconds, finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-05-m0.u154	I ask the PSC and the Supreme Council to review it immediately and to receive it at the next meeting. On a national scale, this amount is about 100 million dollars, but for cities and districts.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-05-m0.u155	Thank you. Igor Šurma, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-05-m0.u156	Igor Shurma, Opposition Block. What is happening today in Ukraine, especially today in the session hall, is not called an absurd theater. The Minister's office reports that there are reforms going on, that the economy is getting on our feet. You're opening an online release of any kind, Bloomberg rating: Ukraine is fifth, fifth place among unhappy economies. What is in store for us, especially in the health system? Under these circumstances, when the minister applies for release seven months ago, and today he says, "I've changed my mind. I changed my mind, I want to, I want to." What happens to those who want but cannot? This is our future in health care. There has never been such a catastrophic health situation. This position of Kabmin and the Ministry of Profiles shows a complete failure in health reform and, most tragically, the further destruction of health care as a system. Over the course of the year, officials did not notice that targeted programs were not being implemented. The Ministry did not provide medical supplies and medical supplies to patients without knowing that the State had allocated funds. It's probably because neither the Prime Minister nor his team nor the Minister himself goes to pharmacies and doesn't look at prices. They don't go to clinics, they don't go to hospitals, and they don't see how our people are being treated. For a year now, we have heard promises from the Ministry of Health about reforming the implementation of health insurance, a transparent system of public procurement with the participation of international organizations. There is no law on compulsory public social insurance today. Once again, I'm underlining Kabmina, the words of the minister of theory that this law is going to be, we've been listening for a year. There is no draft law. Okay. The long - awaited Law on the Transfer of Drugs to International Organizations was passed and passed. Where are the low-priced UNICEF drugs? Why do people die today? Because there are simply no drugs in hospitals. Today, more than 200 people have died from the flu alone, and I am not talking about complications anymore. In their report, it was reported that funds were transferred to international organizations and that 60 percent had been saved. Why not buy antifungal drugs at the cost? Why does Lithuania have those drugs and give us a gift that we don't have for ourselves? I'd like to talk about the Decommunization Act. They name the streets, destroy the monuments, and there's a Lenin principle in human resources policy: "Be a cook, a milkmaid can rule the state." Unfortunately, our positions of responsibility are today: the Ministry of Health – historian, infrastructure – historian, the police are the minister of education from Georgia. So it turns out that these days, they continue to cook and feed our ministries and our budgets to those who are not professionals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-05-m0.u157	You don't have to insult historians. I'm a historian too. Musi Oleg Stepanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-05-m0.u158	Good afternoon, distinguished national MPs! Unfortunately, very few of us are traditionally left in the hall. I'd go to the Ukrainian people because today we've witnessed another derby and a trade in power, but the derby and the highest level of trade. When merchants come to power, it kills the Ukrainian people. And we see one request from one minister of economy who seems to be from a European country, from Lithuania. We see statements from other ministers, we see statements that, by the way, were made by the Prime Minister who had already resigned, and you remember that was a year and a half ago, and he withdrew his application. And then a strange situation begins. The strange thing is that the Ukrainian people do not determine who should govern our country, not the Ukrainian Parliament, which is the constitutional right and the duty to determine who rules the Ukrainian state, and in three hours there are 11 ambassadors of our esteemed states and friends who are involved in the internal affairs of Ukraine -- and they are giving instructions as to how the Ukrainian Parliament should conduct itself, how the Ukrainian government should conduct itself, how the Ukrainian President should conduct himself. Where is our pride in you? Where is our national consciousness with you? I understand that one of the coalition's factions has 80 people from "the herd." But it's okay, on the one hand, with Russia against the opposition, the "opposite blocks" of the so-called and former regions, on the IMF's side, on the EU's agenda, the EBRD, the European Commissions, the United States. Oh, come on. When will we take care of ourselves and work for the good of the Ukrainian people? Look at the state of every person, every pensioner, every budgetman! Priority for us what? A deal with the IMF? Or the Minsk Treaty? Would keeping the Budapest Memorandum be a priority? Therefore, I think that on February 16, a conscious Ukrainian Parliament is clearly obliged to send these political bankruptcys to political waste. I sincerely hope that we, the Ukrainian Parliament, will not have to suffer and carry our colleagues here, as was the case in Armenia. Glory to Ukraine! Make the right conclusions.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-05-m0.u159	Thank you. Boyko gives the word to Yemen. Let's get to the show.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-05-m0.u160	Dear colleagues, dear Ukrainians! Leonid Jemetz, the city of Kyiv, the major district, Pechersky, Shevchenkovsky, and half of the region of Solomon. I'm going to move on to the essence of my question, let me just take a little splinter after decommunization. The monument is, according to the reference work, a work of art, and I'm sorry, Lenin's statues have no aesthetic value or artistic value. So they're puttin' it right, and it's time to go, and it's time for them to go. And now, essentially, the question. I want to speak now as a major deputy, because the question concerns the exclusive question of the majority and the particular street: the street of Barbus, the question of houses around house 28. Once there was a nursery, and the inhabitants of these houses, the surrounding ones, were able to walk to this nursery and take their children there. But it happened that the city of Kiev had turned this nursery into a desert, and then it was a construction site. And Vitaly Klitschko, when he was running for office in the city of Kiev, promised (twice, by the way), and promised twice that the issue of illegal forgetfulness would not just be asked, but resolved. So I want to tell the whole Ukrainian people that the question is not what's going on, it's getting worse every day. Because there's already been a colliding with the aunts. Friends, well, I'm sorry, "in the bath" of aunts today, after we stood back on Maidan, that we hoped we were changing the rules on which our country would exist today, including in these matters. But once again, the boys in the balaclava with the bits begin to defend the interests of the builder against the community, while the community, which has legal grounds for standing there, asking questions and demanding law enforcement. And the city head, who was supposed to be in front of that community with us, is gone, not today, but gone for two years. For two years, my community and I have been trying to get to Vitali Klitschka to meet to discuss these issues. For two years he has been refusing to comply with the law in this meeting. We're being sent to see some of the deputies we're forced to meet, and the next day they're being taken out of these deputies, and the question isn't solved again. So I am responsiblely reporting that we have sent, sorry, a final warning to Vitalia Klitschka with a request, and we are very politely asking the city's head to meet with its own community that has chosen him. I further report that to implement a law that provides for the status of a national MP to be given to a national MP along with a community of rights and obligations.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-05-m0.u161	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-05-m0.u162	. And it's the official's duty to hold such a meeting. And if such a meeting does not take place, then the official has broken the law. And then we will appeal to the Attorney General to open criminal proceedings against the Kiev city head Vitali Klitka for failing to comply with the laws and for violating the promises given to the Ukrainian community and specifically to the community of Kyiv. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-05-m0.u163	Thank you. Krulko gives the word to Levchenkov. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-05-m0.u164	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223 District, Kiev City. Dear Ukrainian people, we have heard much today about the need for the government to resign. And, of course, the government really has to resign, because it's a government of criminals, the Prime Minister has to sit in prison, like most ministers. And there's not much to talk about. But there is one big manipulation. There's manipulation, which is what they tell you about the government resigning, and something in the country will change. No, nothing will really change in the country. Because we need to remember, and who did this government appoint? Who voted for this government that was sitting here today and lying to another? Who approved the one that stood here today and said that the National Bank was not responsible for the course, even though it was stipulated in the Constitution that the National Bank was responsible for the course. Who did all this? This was done by this Supreme Council. The question is, when someone said here, and it seems that Sergey Leschchenko was saying that there are too many gray cardinals in the Supreme Council. Yeah, we got to get rid of them. So the problem is that in the Supreme Council, "the Syrian cardinals" most, most in the Supreme Council of the so-called "sirate cardinals", are not working to any extent in the interests of society, not in the interests of the entire Ukrainian community, not in the interests of the entire Ukrainian people, most of the Ukrainian people, but working for the interests of one tenth of the population of Ukraine and actually working for the interests of their own pockets. So, in fact, there's another option besides choosing a new Supreme Council that could choose a normal government that could approve a normal Attorney General, not one that. Not the kind of Shokin that would approve, I would stress, the normal Head of the BSC that could normally handle the judicial system. Without all of this, nothing in the country will change, and everything else is just a bit of a butt-up, because all the problems come from the Supreme Council. If there are no 226 national deputies in the Supreme Council for which the interests of society would be more important than the interests of their own pockets, nothing in the country will change. Today, there are no such 226 deputies. That's why I'm talking to the national MPs right now, both here and there. People are good, well, don't manipulate, we're a change of government. We're not going to change anything by changing the government, because they're going to choose the same government. Yes. We need to get rid of Yatzenuk, get rid of all of these in the paws of our comrades, get rid of all the Connons, and so on. But without choosing a new Supreme Council, the quality of governance will not change. And, you know, I'd like you to give me 15 seconds, please, headmaster. In this context, a colleague of Yemen mentioned illegal forgetfulness, that is, a small example. Yesterday, the Supreme Economic Court, a college of five judges: Dobrolova, Gogol, Danilova, Maculski and Sweden, who had already been involved in illegal decisions, had simply stolen 147 hectares from Kiev.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-05-m0.u165	Please, 30 seconds, finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-05-m0.u166	They stole 147 hectares of land in Kiev in the middle of the Belican Forest, which Cherniwiecki once gave to Mr. Hmelnicki Vasil, such a dooligarhu-regional and who wants these 147 hectares along with Nikonovi, is a friend of Klicka and a friend of Connonka, yes, a builder, and a former deputy of Klicka, today his advisor, to build. So they gave 147 hectares in Kiev in the forest for zero dollars, zero dollars, zero dollars, this court so, this is the Mayor's Key, these are his deputies. De Procurator's Office, de.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-05-m0.u167	Well, MPs say don't take away their time. 30 seconds, I gave it exactly as I gave it to others, 30 seconds. Ten seconds. Not rarely, I give my word very often, Mr. Yuri, you don't get to speak very rarely. Ten seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-05-m0.u168	I rarely come out of the rostrum. Thank you. Ten seconds. So if we don't do everything we can to select a quality Supreme Council, an honorable Ukrainian people, such banditry will go on forever, it's up to us. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-05-m0.u169	However, I am not available, so I would like to give the floor to Martovitchki Artur Volodymyrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-05-m0.u170	Paul Kishkar, nonfractional.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-05-m0.u171	I'm sorry. Oh, Ednak did. Well, why didn't you come in, fix it? I'll give you a pause. In fact, as everyone in the Governing Council worked, the person who delivered the word was personally the one who delivered the message by way of giving the note a word and approach. It can't be that freestyle. Please excuse me, Martovitchki, I'm sorry, wait. Please come in.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-05-m0.u172	Thank you for the opportunity, Mr. Andrey.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-05-m0.u173	Kishkar.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-05-m0.u174	It is a pity that this statement, like many others, will be largely ignored and the authorities will certainly hope to take any action. First of all, it is the unprecedented oppression of former militia fighters, who are now in the Kramatoria S.I.A. because of the accusations of those individuals whose families live in Donetsk, Lugansk, and who make court cases against fighters who have had and have already received State rewards. And now there are a few positions that can help our government stand out among many governments that have finally achieved nothing. This is about the formation of our defense order, which has not yet been developed and submitted for approval by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. And so, according to the best scenario, this document will appear in Kabmin in June-July months, and the money will come to the businesses in a month or two. And then we'll be foaming into our mouths in four months, trying to execute these contracts, and then we'll put the appropriate weapons and material resources into the military units. I'm sad to say that last year was the same story. At this point in time, as did Mrs. Jaresko, with whom I had the opportunity to communicate for about 40 minutes on the search for the necessary funds for the state budget. The gaming business system remains unreformed, the people who are now commenting on the issues that legalization does not need. In fact, it's not about legalization, because when you go out the door of this room, you'll see that everything is actually playing, it's all there. The only thing is that there are no states in this business. And ordering these rules is more about overcoming corruption than about any question of budget wages. And so I'm asking you to take steps, settle this issue at the legislative level and allow the state budget to get between 4 billion and 6 billion dollars of additional revenue. And last but not least, it's an announcement about the event of the volunteer movement, which we're planning ahead on March 26th of this year. I very much ask all members and representatives to join this assembly and to express their views on the political, economic situation in the State. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-05-m0.u175	Thank you. Martovitch's Arthur Volodymyrovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-05-m0.u176	Dear colleagues! Dear voters! In my speech, I would like to present to you the problems of vocational and technical education. That not only the voters of my district are disturbing, but all, without exception, of the region of Ukraine. In accordance with article 27 of the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget 2016, expenditure on the preparation of the labour force. Professional and technical institutions and other educational institutions since 1 January 2016 have been transferred to finance the budgets of cities of regional importance. For example, the budget of the city of Pavlovgrad of Dnipropetrovska District has been transferred to the financing of the Western Donba Professional List, which teaches 501 students, of which 188 students or 38 percent of the total are young people from other areas of the Dnipropetrov region and other regions of Ukraine. To the budget of the city of Ternivka, my constituency has been transferred the funding of the Ternów Professional Mountain List, which teaches 328 students, of which 171 students or 52 percent of the total are also young people from other locations. They also teach 60 orphans who need full state support. The estimated cost of maintaining the West Donbas professional airline in 2016 is 11.8 million dollars, and the maintenance of the Ternovian mining aircraft is 5.8 million dollars. In view of the limited resources available in Pavlovgrad’s budget, expenditure is foreseen for maintaining a 3.4 million - dollar school facility that ensures the need for an establishment only in the first quarter of the current year. In the city of Ternivka, 70 percent of the demand is provided. Yesterday we supported you as a basis and as a whole a project on the financing of vocational and technical education, but this law is only a correction of mistakes, not a solution to the systemic problems of vocational education. Therefore, with a view to complying with Article 27, paragraph 6, of the State Budget Act 2016, and taking into account the limited financial resources in city budgets for the financing of professional establishments, ensuring that they continue to function, on behalf of the territorial communities, I request you to consider amending the State Budget for 2016 Act in part of the renewal of the 15th-year budget rules for the financing of professional and technical educational institutions at the expense of the state budget subsidies for the preparation of labour personnel, which today require all without exception the field of the economy of the country. Also in order to ensure the quality of the provision of education services by the local self-government authorities of my constituency, I ask you to address the issue of the development of a mechanism for the transfer of property of vocational schools, which is currently in state ownership, to municipal property, along with the management of the educational process currently being carried out by the district departments of education and science. Please consider my statement to be a parliamentary request. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-05-m0.u177	Thank you. Rudik Sergey Jaroslavovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-05-m0.u178	Sergei Rudik, 198th constituency, Cherkaščina. Dear colleagues, I wanted to draw your attention, like many of my colleagues, to the problems of education. A colleague just spoke about the problems of the roosters. Yesterday, the Supreme Council of Ukraine approved by 297 votes a key bill, which has not yet become law, because, as you know, it has not yet been signed by the President of Ukraine, who has allowed the subsidy to be returned from the state budget throughout the state to the schools, amounting to about 1 billion 850 million dollars. And on the same day, the government is adopting Order 41, with which it came to the Supreme Council today and has tried us, members of the budgetary committee to push towards this government proposal, which it is essentially proposing to review the terms of yesterday's bill and instead of a billion 850 million to direct a stabilising and so-called subsidy of only 500 million. In a digit translation, the Cherkas region will receive more than three times less subsidies instead of 50 million dollars, I'm sorry for the tautology. That's the sum, just over 13 million dollars. Of course, I will not vote in favour of this option, and today our committee has not supported this decision. But there is danger until the President signs the bill. I'm very afraid that the government officials will arrive at the Bank's, and today we've heard during the Prime Minister's presence in the government's cabinet on the questions of our colleagues, that unfortunately, the Prime Minister is more likely to be in the Bank's, not in the walls of our Parliament. Another problem that is very concerned about Chechnya is the pandemic flu problem. Regrettably, the Cherkas region lost 13 people to the disease as a result of January. And it takes, I'm sorry, for tautology, the so-called number two place in the state of mortality. Of course, many government authorities -- and the Cherkas District Authority, and the city, and the district state administrations, taking into account the situation -- introduced a quarantine that ended. The city of Kiev will end on Monday, and the city of Chercastia will end on Monday. But we have faced another important problem instead. During this time, no room was melted, and when the children were going to school, the temperature in those schools was much lower. And I'll remind you of them. I'm sorry if I have another 15 seconds. Up to 20 degrees Fahrenheit [20 ° C] in the cabinets, up to 19 degrees Fahrenheit [19 ° C] in the lobby and about the same temperature in the school corridors. The number one temperature in classes and corridors last Monday was 6.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-05-m0.u179	Please finish 10 seconds. Other deputies just won't be able to speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-05-m0.u180	I'm addressing the authorities of the state of the Cherka region, the district government administrations of the whole country, monitor the temperature regime, the economy shouldn't. From the economy of money.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-05-m0.u181	Thank you. Ostapchuk passes the word of Krivoshei, please. And then there'll be the last performance, I'll give it to you. But please don't go outside the Rules. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-05-m0.u182	Good afternoon, dear fellows! Good afternoon, dear Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-05-m0.u183	I'm sorry, break. I'm doing 15 minutes of session work until 2:15, according to my supervisor's rights. [[B in m in s a l in]] I have 15 minutes at 14:15. Thank you. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-05-m0.u184	Today, I would like to draw attention to a bill that we voted on and that came into force on September 1, 2015. This is a question that concerns the transfer of authority to places, decentralization in the field of State Architectural Inspection. My presentation today is that, according to this law, which entered on September 1, 2015, every local self-government body, namely the city councils, should have approached the State Architectural and Construction Inspection, suggesting that they were in place to create appropriate architectural and building inspection bodies that would deal with issues relating to the construction of the first, second, third and fourth categories of complexity. As of today, I would like to inform everyone, in particular, once again the city heads of our Ukrainian cities, not more than 40 just applications, and for today we have just one district city that created this body that has an appropriate department in its city, this is the city of Lutsk. There are now several more district cities — Kharkiv among them, Lviv, who are preparing for this. As for small cities, they are not actually there. There is a collapse, an honorable national MP, an honorable deputy of local councils. The Supreme Council of Ukraine, the President, the Prime Minister, the government is taking a number of steps to transfer these powers to your seats, so that you can actually have full power and control, first and foremost, and resolve the issues of illegal forgetfulness, so today you can't do that, because you just don't want to. This is actually the inaction of local authorities in places. So I'd like to draw your attention to that. In order to continue, successfully continue the transfer of authority to places, the question of decentralization of power, the question of transfer of authority in places. I ask the local authorities to comply with all the legal standards that we accept here and work for the benefit of our communities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-05-m0.u185	Last performance. But I'm asking you very much, there's going to be an open Parliament right now, we need to get ready, shorten your speech, okay, maximum. So Korczyk gives the word to Krivenkov’s deputy. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-05-m0.u186	Good day, the distinguished Ukrainian Parliament, the esteemed TV viewers, today the Head of the National Bank has told us that its main task is to ensure price and financial stability. Sadly, she may not have read the National Bank Act; there is article 6, which makes it very clear that the NBA also accepts. Oleg Valeriyovich. Thank you. That the NBA also contributes to maintaining stable economic growth. It was also stated that national banks around the world are dealing exclusively with price and financial stability. Unfortunately, I haven't been able to reach Mr. Head of the National Bank, whose resignation I've also signed, the question and give an example of the United States Federal Reserve, which is about strengthening the role of the United States in the world economy, providing credit, providing moderate interest rates, fighting unemployment without cheap money, and in the economy, first of all, in the machine building, in the processing industry, in the energy saving, there will be no jobs, and there will be no inflation in us, you know, as in the cemetery, sometimes there will be zero when there is no economic activity at all. And I'm going to try very briefly to point out the very question. I'm glad that, for example, Mr. Pivovarsky goes back to the government and the question that he raised on his salary is very important in the awareness of people and in the fight against our pseudo populists. How should tyranny be built? It's very simple. First of all, a tyrant doesn't pay his employees a salary, then they make up a bunch of permits on the spot, business can't officially live and wear bribes. Step two. We need to create 5-6 control organizations that will control the economy, these are the M.E.S., the D.A., the B.S.A., customs, all of them, not customs, but the House of Auditors, the Financialspect, and they don't have to pay them. They'll catch the clerk and the businessman, and they'll be in between. One by one to collect information. What will the tyrant get? First. It gets two corrupt sources from officials and the law enforcement system. The other one. He gets that all people on the hook that no one can officially live in, 99.9 percent in Ukraine broke the law. And anyone who acts against him is immediately pulling out a particular matter. And the third. He marginalizes the bright because the dark ones are the same, they steal, the factories drink on metal scraps. And the light that broke the law, it starts to torture itself and think that I'm just as bad. But it's impossible to officially live. In order to pay his salary, he invents a miniaturization, and he makes arrangements with officials because otherwise, he will not be able to live. So until we realize that justice is the basis for its irreparability, until we realize that we have to pay a high, decent salary, including in the public sector, as long as such shame continues. Because our oligarchs understand and pay their managers a normal salary. The shareholders of Ukraine and the Ukrainian people don't understand this, and they pay the minister $200, and then they invent where we get the corruption from. So low wages are the first guarantee of corruption. The second question is "three honest generals" is the IMF, the Public Prosecutor's Office and the BSS. That's how we fight corruption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-05-m0.u187	Thank you. Dear colleagues, it's time for the People's Deputies to speak at the Miscellaneous. I want to remind you that next week we have national MPs, colleagues, on committees, factions and groups. And the next plenary meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine will take place on Tuesday, February 16, at 10 a.m. At that, I declare the morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine closed. Thank you. And I welcome those deputies who are in the hall who continue to work until the last minute. I'll see you later. Good work on committees and factions. Good-bye.
