ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-17-m0.u1	Good morning, dear colleagues. I'm asking you to come into the hall and get ready for registration. Please. Are you ready for your registration? Dear colleagues, please register. [[10:03:21]] There were 298 deputies registered in the hall. The morning plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. We've got an hour of questions to the government in the morning, according to the Regulations. Members of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine are participating in the plenary session today. Welcome to our government. Under the Rules we have speeches from ministers and then questions-answers. And I would like to invite the first speaker of the Ukrainian Culture Minister Eugene Mikolaiovich Niszczuk. Eugene Mikolaiovich. We've got the rostrum locked down. If you'll excuse me, Mr. Eugene.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-17-m0.u2	Thank you very much. Although, of course, I would ask in the esteemed faction of the Radical for Culture to allow the rostrum. Well, no, you don't. How? [[B in m in s a l in]] Oh, sure, I get it. Okay. Then I'll start with the line of early poetry of Lena Kostenko, who wrote, "A landscape of years, years, years.".. And that would have been such an epigraph before my performance. The Honorable Head of the Supreme Council! Dear National Deputies! Dear colleagues, members of the Cabinet of Ministers! I have, of course, prescribed in my thesis numbers to give appropriate decrees by the President of Ukraine, appropriate decrees and acts by the Supreme Council, a government dedicated to the order of the observances of memorial dates and Jubilee. But I'm going to be honest, not so often not that you can't get up to the high hall, but also to a particular speech in terms of culture, to have a conversation with good friends and brothers, who are actually a lot in this room. In choosing the topic for the talk, I would describe it as an aspect of national propaganda through culture, a systematic approach to holidays and memorable dates. And that's why I mentioned that poem by Lina Vasilovna, who he started with, because that ephemeral encounter of a presumptuous girl with an old poet, the misty silhouette of Maxim Rilsky, is a metaphor for any of us meeting with the great past. We look at the eternal landscape of the Ukrainian spirit. This landscape was often plagued by foreigners, destroyed by imperial excavators, grew weeds, but in every era there were brave men who struggled with the weeds of oblivion, who in the dark of the night kept their national memory in a pale coven. Eternal glory to those with weapons, the cost of their lives, protected and conquered the cultural landscape of the Motherland, as it is protected by East heroes today. I am sure that for every fighter and volunteer the names of the great Ukrainians and the dates of the great improvements are among the strongest motivations for stability. Why are we ashamed of the term "national propaganda"? Isn't it because many of us are still disgusted with Soviet "aggression and propaganda"? Then, actually, the term got that distortion and the negative coloration. But we will not deny that there is an information war against Ukraine, that the propaganda machine of neo-Emperion worldwide shouts: there is no Ukraine, and there is no millennium history, a culture of tradition, and no language. And it is culture and its bearers that frighten the enemy the most. Not only do tanks fear invaders, they are the most feared of people who carry the word, cherish the language, and set an example for young people. That is why schools, clubs, libraries, teachers, scientists, club workers, and libraries are primarily destroyed and destroyed. Thus, a librarian in Moscow is persecuted and planted for playing. In Latin, propaganda is something that's to be spread. This is a form of communication aimed at spreading facts, arguments, and other information to influence public opinion in favour of a common cause or public position. The word Wikipedia suggests another meaning of the word propaganda is the notion of faith. I thank the MP for the decision he made to support the Ukrainian song on the radio. That's 35 percent of them in some circles -- they've been having discussions. Instead, in social networking, we were reminded that only 35 percent of the population were Ukrainians? And that's when the Crimean Tatar Jamal does most of the songs in the concerts in Ukrainian. Today, the celebration of the Memorial and the Jubilee dates, the celebration we're trying to turn into not a formality, not antagonize them too much. They are initiated not only in the walls of the Supreme Council and the ministries, but, above all, in social environments, because they are so alive and true, and they become important weapons. By taking in these walls the Order on Commemorative Dates and Jubilees in 2016, you supported these initiatives and this is very important. Because historical memory teaches, for the most dramatic and bright pages of history become examples and experiences of generations, for ancestors come out of the shadows and speak to offspring. I literally returned yesterday from the home of a brilliant actor and director, screenwriter John Mikolaychuk, where his 75th anniversary began. Visitors to John gathered thousands of people and turned the day into a day of resurrection practically on Easter. And I said that by honoring such an outstanding movie knight, we are resurrecting both the poetic film and, finally, Ukraine. And in this respect, I would like to add that maybe today or another day, there's going to be a film law that's been agreed on in an expert environment, in a wide-ranging cinematographic environment, the Ministry of Culture. And I ask you to support the initiative of the Committee on Culture and Spirituality in adopting the Film Act. I would like to name a few more national initiatives supported by you, the Ministry of Culture, and the local authorities. This Sunday will be the celebration of the 125th anniversary of the birth of Eugene Konovaltz, the cultural and artistic event "Zashki 2016" in the tenth anniversary youth festival. June 18-19 this year, the eighth festival of traditional Cobzarian art will be held in Kiev in the premises and in the territory of the National Centre for National Culture of the Museum of John Potter. This festival is based on the creative association of the Kobzarska Tzakh National Centre for National Culture, "The Museum of Ivan Gonchar" and the National Cultural Initiative Foundation, Gnat Hotkević. It has been held annually since 2003 in the context of the Trinity. The aim of the festival is to promote traditional implementation on the national instruments of Ukrainian travel singers, cobsars, bandits, lichens. The discovery of new master names and the support of capable young artists, as well as the promotion of cobzar’s art. On June 23, a national memorial day will be held 75 years after the mass executions of political prisoners in western Ukraine. It's important to celebrate the 160th anniversary of John Frank's birthday, August 27, 2016. I'm not going to count all the measures that are going to take place in Kiev, Lviv, Ivano-Frankivsky in Nagivovich. In our view, the figure of John Jakovitch Frank can become one of the key to promoting Ukrainian culture abroad. Because his international authority now works more than ever for the image of Ukraine. As an actor and minister, it is especially important to me to celebrate the 75th anniversary of Bogdan Stupka’s birth on August 27, as well. I hope to finally become a monument to the tomb of a brilliant actor with a world name. I also want to share with you the experience and stylistics of commemorative dates associated with the positive moments of Ukrainian history. And I want to remind all of Ukraine that this year we are celebrating the 20th anniversary of the Constitution and 25 years of independence of Ukraine. Over the last two years, Ukrainian society and the whole world have watched the canons of national action change. By the way, I don't want to say this word "actions" anymore, because a large number of public activists, creative, creative people, volunteers supported by the mecenati, supported by Kabmin, the President of Ukraine and his administration are offering new approaches – this is a high professional level of performance. We even sometimes hear the words "the view of the European level." Young people, in principle, are involved in these programs, including the relevance of these programs, their modern language, their technology, and their media. Our goal is to talk about the thousand-year history of nation-building, the history of the remarkable documents that have been the milestones of the constitutional process, from "Russian Truth" by Jaroslav Mudrogo, through the world's first Philip Orlik Constitution, because of the struggle and loss, because of the dream of the constitution of the ideal country of Semin Gulak-Artemowski to the constitutional night of 1996 in these walls of the Supreme Council. Similar ideas, propaganda programs, we demonstrated to society in the first celebration of the Day of Remembrance and Reconciliation on May 8, last year, in the memory days of the Heroes of the Heavenly 100 two years in a row. When last year on Independence Day, I was lucky to be the host of an international youth concert called "I, Culture Orchestra" of a project that helped us implement the Polish side, I was surprised at how many thousands of audiences on the Maidan of Independence are ready to accept classical music. It's also the result of the Dignity Revolution, it's the desire to move away from the mindless despicable past years, the desire to hear a high intensity of spirit, poetry, symphonic music. These are the consequences of new approaches, of the systemic work of innovative groups. This is a new form of advocacy of national ideas and values. This year, on the 25th anniversary of independence, we have the ambitious idea of creating a new orchestra, an orchestra of musicians born in 1991, an orchestra born independent. In the eastern part of the country, war continues, many boys and girls return home morally tired, damaged. Among the demobilized wounded are those called special needs individuals. These are our brothers and sisters, our children. The Ministry of Emergency Supports Public Initiatives for the Psychological Rehabilitation of Soldiers. Our People's Philharmonic Initiative, The Artists on the Line of Fire and others, which we started in 2014, need development, support and even more systematic work. And here, Ukrainian culture geniuses are becoming modern, history is being revived, updated, motivated by stability and victory, because then we know that and who we're protecting. It is worth noting that these days are large - scale representations of cultural projects by the artists of Donbas, where they receive a capital, where not only a capital viewer is seen, but also from Ukraine and other countries. And so we show our respect for Donbas and their talented people. Let me also raise the subject of cooperation between our ministry and the Committee on Culture and Spirituality, with the entire MP Corps. For me, the time between the previous and the current cabinet at the ministerial level did not become an inactive pause. The media has started to say "civilist," because obviously if you're going on the road to social service, you shouldn't stop. Making changes and additions to the Ukrainian Cultural Act, making decisions about the creation of the Institute of Books, which already has a legal address, has a position, structure, and in just a few days, a competition for the director of the Institute of Books will be announced. This is an opportunity to support the authors. This is an opportunity to translate the Ukrainian book into a foreign language and better works of foreign language. Foreign works are in Ukrainian. It's an opportunity to pick up the children's book. This is an opportunity to participate in the most outstanding stands, especially in the Frankfurt Fair. For me and my colleagues at the Ministry, this is a sign of an objective process of change, a way to reform the entire culture management system. We hope that very soon they'll stop saying that ministries are like "agent agency." In the future, the ministry will leave behind the function of political protection of citizens' rights to access to cultural acquisitions and to creative self-expression. And I also welcome everyone with the launch of the Ukrainian Bureau of the European Union Creative Europe programme, where a young creative person – Irina Vikirczak – has been selected objectively through the competition, and we will be able to participate in those artistic projects that are worthy of receiving European grants. This institution will promote equal access for all players in the cultural field to sources of funding, to international and national projects. Another source of support, especially important for the non-state sector of culture, is called on to become a budget cultural fund, and in July-month, we will ask for your support. To be completed. The artistic landscape in Lena Kostenko's poem is a powerful metaphor, it's passing time, generations are changing, we're gaining more experience, and we already understand the value of art gestures, the calibre of time, we're building a landscape of culture together, the great jewelers put in this soil of grain, from which our future is growing. So with your help, with our work together, we will not put our land on the ground, protect our culture, and protect us. Glory to Ukraine. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-17-m0.u3	How much do you add, Mr. Eugene? We're done, aren't we?
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-17-m0.u4	Question, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-17-m0.u5	The questions will be after both speeches, Mr. Eugene. Thank you for the report. And I invite you to the report of the Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine, Andrija Alexiyovich Revou. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-17-m0.u6	Honorable Presidium, Honourable National Deputies, Honorable Fellows, Dearly Attended! For more than two years, there has been an antiterrorist operation in Ukraine involving aggression on the part of the Russian Federation. Regrettably, Ukraine has faced a phenomenon that we have not experienced on such a scale before, and it is a matter of internally displaced persons. And this problem, the issue of protecting these people is at the centre of the attention of the whole society, of all the authorities, of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, including the Ministry of Social Policy of Ukraine. Because of military aggression on Donbassa and the annexation of Crimea, the number of internally displaced persons from the Lugansk and Donetsk regions, as well as from the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, has now exceeded 1 million, 783,000, or more than 1 million, 444,000 families. Among the total number of internally displaced persons, we have 956 thousand pensioners, nearly 72,000 disabled persons, and 234 thousand children. People who are forced to leave their homes regularly have faced many problems, ranging from temporary residence, search for it, and work to solving issues from child rearing to kindergartens, health care, and social benefits. Therefore, securing their rights is a high priority in the work of the Ministry of Social Policy of Ukraine. It has happened that virtually all the work that has been done to solve the problems of internally displaced persons has been on the side of the Ministry of Social Policy for two years. Although the problem faced by displaced persons is much broader. And so it is no coincidence that a special ministry on internally displaced persons was created today, which will join this work in the near future. We have received numerous appeals from places in connection with numerous violations of the rights of citizens to social benefits of internally displaced persons. This has to do with the legislative inadequacy of issues related to both the assignment and the termination of such payments. As early as 2014, decisions were approved regarding the collection of migrants and the provision of simplified procedures for all appropriate social guarantees. The territorial authorities of the U.S. Pension Fund provided for the payment of pensions for electronic pensions without the mandatory availability of paper documents. More than 1 million pensioners benefited from this simplified arrangement. During this period, the total amount of pensions was almost 39 billion dollars. A monthly address aid was provided to internally displaced persons to cover their living expenses. Today, nearly 220,000 families receive this help each month. And it's already funded to a total of over 1 billion 600 million bracelets, but the situation remains tense. By the end of 2015, changes had been made to Ukraine's laws on the protection of the rights and freedoms of internally displaced persons and on freedom of movement and free choice of residence in Ukraine, which required the introduction of legal and regulatory instruments by the Cabinet of Ministers in accordance with Ukraine's new laws. Unfortunately, this work, instead of the anticipated 3 months, lasted 6. And only on June 8, this year, the government approved two decrees regarding the new conditions for the registration of internally displaced persons, as well as the payment of the necessary social benefits. These decisions were prepared with the involvement of interested central executives, agreed with the National Security and Defence Board, taking the most into account the proposals that came to us from various sides, including the simplification of the internal displacement mechanism. We understand very well that fear exists in an environment of expertise from public organizations, of forced displaced persons, because there is a sad experience that once a state begins to regulate something, it immediately affects the rights and freedoms of citizens. But I want to make sure that the main goal of the documents adopted is not to create problems for internally displaced people, namely to regulate and ensure their rights and freedoms. I want to assure you that the real settlers have nothing to worry about. Only those who try to do business for people should be concerned. The goal of the Cabinet of Ministers is to ensure all the rights and freedoms of internally displaced persons. If previously the only reason, coded, was to cancel the social benefits by canceling the billing manual, then there was actually a complete vacchanal. According to some lists, according to some other information, the authorities, including those making social payments, voluntarily stopped such payments. And to date, only 350,000 pensioners have been paid off, more than 15,000 people who have been suspended from social protection. In particular, neither the regulations nor the procedures nor the manner in which the complaints were lodged were completely unregulated. Everyone who wanted to do it will say it as it is. This practice will no longer work. From now on, social benefits cannot suddenly be suspended or suspended without legal grounds. Any such information, any such action, will be taken only on a commission that is designed specifically to deal with such matters. This means that the problems of internally displaced persons move to a different level. If they were previously dealt with only by social protection agencies, the commission would now be headed by either a deputy city head, or a deputy head of the district government, and would be composed of the heads of all organs, both directly subordinate and interested. And the decisions of this commission will be binding on all. Once every six months according to established order, responsible officials will visit settlers at home, not to solve the issue of escape, but to find out the needs and problems of these people. Because they are torn away from their permanent residences, many of them have no relatives, no friends, no acquaintances, they are in a strange area. They must be cared for and, of course, they are the work of social protection agencies. All questions raised by displaced persons will be discussed publicly on these committees and public decisions made. The delegation of these functions to the college authorities will make the mechanism for making social payments more transparent and effective and will allow them to address internally displaced persons in a comprehensive manner, to resolve additional issues that are not related to social payments, to equip children in kindergartens and schools, to provide timely medical care, to provide urgent humanitarian, medical, charitable, or material assistance. So the government's decision-making raises a qualitatively new level of social protection for internally displaced persons. For internally displaced persons, almost every issue today is problematic and can only be solved by coordinating the efforts of local authorities. executive authority in places. Newly regulated and regulated issues regarding social benefits that are. the migrants are entitled to do so. Thus, these decisions are not discriminatory but are aimed at the social protection of internally displaced persons. And what I want to say is that yesterday, a selector council was held by the All-U.S., with the participation of the executive heads at the places, the district administrations, the departments of the social protection departments, where we explained to them that this was the case. These normative instruments should be applied as ensuring the rights and freedoms of citizens. We'll keep an eye on everyone. all the information that will come from the places and control that this is how these normative acts are applied. In principle, a new point is the introduction of a mechanism to control these social payments. I note that this does not apply to all internally displaced persons but only to those who receive such payments. At the same time, the introduction of an additional verification mechanism, which is envisaged by this mechanism from the local units of the Ministry of Internal Affairs, the State Migration Service, the Security Service, the National Police, is aimed at controlling social services that can also abuse their rights. Once again, the real movers will not feel any pressure from the state, for them the mechanism will be as simple and understandable as possible. I don't make the illusion that there are perfect documents. Of course, the practice of applying will point to flaws, and to the problems that will arise, we will quickly solve them. At the request of the Prime Minister of Ukraine, an appropriate working group has been set up to work on information from places, proposals from public organizations to improve the proposed mechanisms. But the purpose of these documents today is to unlock payments to people right now, because they haven't been paid that kind of social pay in months. I want to point out that in the near future, we are planning to end the work on creating an electronic register of internally displaced persons that will allow even more simplification of all the procedures related to the counting of these people, solving their problems and ultimately their social protection. We're always open to any criticism and any suggestions that come to us. And I assure you that we will do everything we can to protect the people who have suffered as a result of the events we have experienced in the last two years. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-17-m0.u7	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we will now have questions for the government and I ask you to prepare for the recording to anyone who wishes to ask a question. Please take up jobs. I remind you that one minute for every oral question, two minutes for answers. And I remind you, this is a question not from factions, but from national MPs. If one of the factions does not fall into the list, it will not mean that each faction has to speak, and this is just a statement from the deputies. Please record a question from the MPs and groups, the national MPs. Please record a question from the National Deputies. Please record. Thank you. And the word for the question is given to Ephraim’s Irina Alexienne, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-17-m0.u8	Ephraim's People's Front. Please give the word to Mikola Knieżick.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-17-m0.u9	Thank you. I have a question for Mr. Nietchuk. We talked to you about the fact that on June 24th, our committee will hold a field meeting in Krivorovna, in the Ukrainian Athens, where John Franco actually lived, 160 years from the day we're going to celebrate, Mikhailo Gruszewski 150 years from the day we're going to celebrate, a huge number of other outstanding figures. And such places should be a real pilgrimage in every culture to the future generation. But Ukrainian schoolchildren won't make it to these places. I addressed a letter to both Mr. Cuba and to the Minister of Infrastructure asking to draw attention to the terrible state of roads R-24 and R-62, which were actually destroyed after the 2008 flood in Carpathians. And now no action can be taken here, we can talk about action, but where it happened, we can't do it. I ask you to support these petitions and to draw the attention of the relevant ministries to the fact that these places are to be provided by the Magic Gutsulchina.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-17-m0.u10	Thank you very much, Mr. Mikolo, for paying attention, for this is worth hearing in terms of complexity. We are now in all the national institutions, museums, palaces that we have, for example, in the Extremity Reserve, the gathering of all the pottery, the masters, and it is not possible to go. And now we're also going to go to the Mini Infrastructure to take that into account. Because, on the one hand, we're trying to somehow patch up the holes, do something in these places, and it's impossible to get there, and it's a complex moment. Thank you for paying attention. And on that point, we're going to spread information to that event in Crevice and we're going to try and get there ourselves. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-17-m0.u11	Thank you. Please, Andrew Teteruk, People's Front.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-17-m0.u12	As long as the Council's towers are looking for a crisis manager for the Ministry of Health, I have a question for Vice Prime Minister Rosenk. I'd like to know, Mr. Vice Prime Minister, what is the state of the Ukrainian citizens' supply of vaccinations: popcorn, polio, and diphtheria, leprosy, snake bites? What are you doing now to provide our families, our children, with these vaccinations? What exactly is done, and when do we expect 100 percent of the provision to be provided with the necessary vaccinations? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-17-m0.u13	Thank you for asking. We must certainly say that these processes are related to the tendering procedures that were carried out in the past year. You know that all of the vaccine purchases, first of all, were handed over to tenders by international organizations. This was absolutely, in my opinion, a decision was made to deprive the Ministry of Health, as it were, of its impact on these processes. And to hand over those buyers, indeed, to make them a powerful international organization. In view of the fact that this process is taking place in Ukraine for the first time, of course, we have had some delays today with the provision of these vaccines after appropriate international purchases have been made. I can tell you quite clearly that today the process of supply of vaccines and other medical supplies that have been made through international procurement has already been unlocked. Supply began during the last month since the first questions were asked in this room, the process went a little bit, and we now have full supply schedules and vaccines, and medical supplies provided through international organizations in Ukraine. So far, about 1 billion dollars — out of the 2 billion dollars — have been purchased. Today the supply is directly in the region at 39 percent. These numbers show, yes, they're probably not enough yet, but they show the fact that supplies are actually coming. We try to act manually sometimes by turning to international organizations. Where supplies are delayed, humanitarian assistance can help resolve the immediate issue of vaccine availability.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-17-m0.u14	Please, one minute. Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-17-m0.u15	The presence of vaccines today in the fields. Yeah, we're in manual mode now, but hopefully next. literally during the last month, an absolute majority of deliveries will be made in Ukraine and in the case of vaccines, and in the case of appropriate medical supplies that have been made through international purchases.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-17-m0.u16	Thank you. Kishkar gives the word to the national deputy Krivenkov. Turn on the microphone, please. Guilty.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-17-m0.u17	Victor Krivenko, National Movement of Ukraine. I have a question for the Minister of Ecology. Ostap Mikhailovich, our environmental inspection in the Dnipropetrov region is somehow acting very strangely. On the one hand, we have the civic initiative of the people of Krivbasu, which, in addition to helping the ATO all the time, has revived one of the oldest parks: the Truth newspaper park. Over one and a half thousand trees were planted. Many of my colleagues, including members of the Kolo Interfractional Union in Parliament, were personally planting these trees. An inspection is coming, and without the participation of the fund’s representatives, more than 20,000 fines are being paid. All the documents are, here I can show them, all the permits, all the local control decisions, all the sanitary work, everything is. And on the other hand, the same inspection is doing a background check on my native Petrikowsky district, a check on a submerged norse farm, the farm where people were beaten. And it notes that there are no such documents as WHO, there are no such documents as dozens of predicted documents, and it just writes a footnote for this object, no.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-17-m0.u18	Please, 30 seconds, finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-17-m0.u19	does not stop this object, although this is actually a national park that is not created consciously, it is a water tank on the southwestern side. Donbas, Dnipro, Kamyansk Please respond and check in on this inspection. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-17-m0.u20	Dear Mr. Victor! Dear National Deputies! With regard to the work of environmental inspection. I have repeatedly mentioned that, unfortunately, environmental inspection in Ukraine is an outdated problem. It works ineffectively and the Ministry of Environment and Natural Resources is working today to upgrade and modernize environmental inspection. We have a working group that we already have. In the near future, I hope that he will make draft decisions on the creation of a single integrated environmental service that will bring together all the functions that will be built on new principles, as police reform has been done. We, by the way, have also involved national MPs and professionals who have helped and created new police. Please join us in this work as well, and we will check the materials you have. Unfortunately, we will have to change, including legislation that regulates the operation of environmental inspection. And let's say that what happened in the Lviv region when, according to current legislation, environmental inspection had no opportunity for three years to go to a dump site and verify compliance with environmental legislation is also unacceptable and unacceptable in a modern European country. So, Mr. Victor, I'm going to check with you the actions or omissions you're talking about. But I would very much like to support the Ministry of Ecology in the process of reforming environmental inspection in the creation of a single integrated body that would ensure monitoring, monitoring and compliance with environmental legislation in Ukraine. Thank you for your support.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-17-m0.u21	Please turn on Mr. Dudenkov's microphone from the Opposition Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-17-m0.u22	Please pass the word to Igor Mikhailovich Shurma.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-17-m0.u23	Igor Shurma, Opposition Block. I have a question for Vice Prime Minister Rosenk. I respect you very much as an expert in the social field, but I'm addressing you in rough shape. Stop lying like Kvetashvili did. So today, of the 2 billion 200 million who have been allocated to the international organization, there are no more than 400 million medicines in Ukraine. Today, there are areas where there are not even 30 percent of the medicines they need, and these are the drugs that were supposed to come in 2015, nobody unlocking anything, no money, and no drugs. Moreover, for 2016 there is neither a need nor a need, there are no tenders and we will have the same. And what I'm going to tell you is, the reform, you know what it looks like to date in October, to end the financing of health care in Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-17-m0.u24	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-17-m0.u25	Dear friends, perhaps the first question and the first request to you, as to the national deputies of Ukraine and to the coalition, to all those involved, is that there are no further questions or charges of responsibility for their duties. Obviously, today's issue is the appointment of a health minister, there are two consecutive parliamentary weeks, and I would call first for a parliamentary coalition, all the people involved, to be identified as soon as possible, and to be able to resolve the question of the appointment of a health minister, eventually and once and for all. As for the data you call it. I have official data from the Ministry of Health. I've got a chart standing in front of me today. Jehovah’s Witnesses, 7 / 15 In 2016. I'm literally going to read that out of the supply, out of the projected supply of 2 billion 197 million today, there's an amount of 854 million in the region, and there's a supply of 900 million in state-owned enterprises, corresponding to 41 percent of the supply. In particular, the United Nations Children’s Fund, UNICEF, has already delivered 39 percent of the planned volume to the region, Crown Agents Limited — 31 percent, and the United Nations Development Programme — at 46 percent. So this is data that I have as the Deputy Prime Minister of the Ministry of Health. As far as I'm
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-17-m0.u26	Thank you. Ask for another 30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-17-m0.u27	As to whether or not these data are consistent. I think that in order to exercise parliamentary control you are as a committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, including you can listen at your meeting to information from the Ministry of Health about what is coming to us today, including to me as Vice-Prime Minister of Ukraine, and you are given as a committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-17-m0.u28	Please, Alexander Dombrowski, Peter Dusty Block. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-17-m0.u29	Alexander Dombrowski, 11th constituency, Winnitzkin. I have questions, dear colleagues, to Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine Hennadia Zubko. Honourable Gennady Grigorovich, thanks to both his work and the position of Ukrainian national deputies, and the Ukrainian government, has introduced to the Supreme Council a part of the draft legislation on energy efficiency, energy conservation in Ukraine. Unfortunately, I must say that the hands of the Supreme Council have not yet reached these bills. Unfortunately, because these are critical bills, I'm paying attention to what we need to prepare for the heating season. But my question is in the following question. There are not yet two key bills in the Supreme Council: energy efficiency as a basic bill, which must be, and energy efficiency in buildings, which we also critically need to run.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-17-m0.u30	Ten seconds. Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-17-m0.u31	Which is critical for us to launch all the energy upgrade tools in the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-17-m0.u32	Dear National Deputies! Dear Alexander Georgievich! I am very grateful for this question, because when they ask how Ukrainians can reduce their accounts today, I say the main thing is to reduce consumption by energy efficient measures. And I would really like to go to my esteemed colleagues to prepare a batch vote, and maybe to set aside one day to review the energy efficiency laws that are already in Parliament, which have passed a virtually positive committee. And to the bills that Mr. Dombrowski said, I would add a very important Law on Commercial Accounting, which is the law that extends a number of consumer rights issues and the responsibility of the provider of services. And if you now list all the bills that are in Parliament, this is: Law 4334 on the production of heat from alternative sources of energy; Law 4549 on investment opportunities; Law 4581 on long-term contracts that can be made in the energy service; Law 4555 on alternative energy sources from the point of view of introducing standard pumps; Law on administrative services that enable production to be combined from both alternative sources of energy and gas; Law on alternative fuels; Law on commercial accounting of services; Law on energy efficiency of buildings; Law on energy efficiency. And the main thing is that we are now approaching the implementation of the energy efficiency fund. So I'm asking all the national MPs to pay attention again. Today, the cheapest source of gas replacement is energy efficient investment. This is the strategy that will allow the country to exit the gas import. So I would ask all the honourable people's deputies to address Parliament's leadership so that we can consider the bills that are in Parliament.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-17-m0.u33	Let me finish, 15 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-17-m0.u34	It's a bundled-up kind of thing. It's very important that this goes in the complex, and it's important that it happens right up to the end of this session. Why? Since we have time to prepare for the heating season, we can resolve a number of issues that will give us the opportunity.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-17-m0.u35	Thank you. Please have a question from the National Front of Bondar.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-17-m0.u36	Thank you. Bondar Mikhailo, 119 constituency. I have such a request to the Cabinet of Ministers. You know, the problem of miners is so big right now, they're talking about it on every air. There was, for example, a recent college on this issue, meeting with local authorities in Lviv, with representatives of mining teams. And one of the solutions to the problem is to provide miners with wages, to implement their products, is to have the Cabinet of Ministers increase the export potential of electricity, where it will still be possible to implement mining. It is a very big request to consider this arrangement as quickly as possible, to accept it, and in this way to remove even some of the problems of miners. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-17-m0.u37	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-17-m0.u38	Dear national MPs, indeed, the issue of the coal sector is the issue today that the government is working on. And today, at the level of the Ministry of Energy and Coal Industry, an appropriate working group has been set up to take care of the issue quite seriously. And first of all, we need to create an energy balance for our nation, where the fundamental component is the issue of coal industry. Therefore, we make appropriate commitments to resolve in the shortest possible time the issues that have accumulated, including the coal sector, for the time being. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-17-m0.u39	Please welcome Dmitri Evgenovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-17-m0.u40	Dmitry Welcome, People's Control Party. I have a question for the Minister of Social Affairs, Mr. Reva. Please tell me, there was a problem for two years in a row about prosthetics abroad of the ATOs, which were actually those wounded fighters, that funds were allocated. And if you have information, in 2014, they weren't developed at all. Last year, out of 150 million, there were only 17 of them, and the rest of the funds went to other programs. Now there are criminal cases and I have two questions. First. Did you conduct an internal service investigation and deal with the one who allowed this service negligence? That is how his legal guardians qualify. And the second. How will the program be implemented this year? And there won't be the same problems, because. The need for prosthetics, however, is enough abroad. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-17-m0.u41	I'll get started. Let me start to answer this question because there was a question about the last two years. And I would ask the Ukrainian National Deputies not to speculate here in this room on problems that have, in particular, disabilities and participants in an anti-terror operation. All the people that. All of our guys who needed stretching abroad last year and a half got that prosthesis. You're talking about the graphs. Last year. Really, how were the 2015 planned figures formed? When were they planning? At the end of 2014, when Ukraine’s State Budget was formed in 2015. You remember that at the time the peak of the military escalation was not yet signed by the Minsk Accords. And we really made plans with the reserve for 2015 after the boys were prosthetic abroad. But thank God that we didn’t have to spend that money, and we needed to protrude abroad at 14 people. Today, all necessary prosthetics have been made for those who needed prosthetics in 2015. Now they're preparing for prosthetics, as far as I'm concerned, about eight people. All necessary prosthetics for our ATO actors' heroes, whether internal prosthetics or external prosthetics abroad, will be done by 100 percent. The cost of this is, the necessary programs for this are, and we provide every disabled ATO participant with the necessary, and technical tools, if necessary, and prosthetics. You can have our firm guarantee of that.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-17-m0.u42	Thank you. Please, Tarasjuk Boris Ivanovich. Boris Ivanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-17-m0.u43	I'd like to give the floor to my colleague Eutusek Sergei.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-17-m0.u44	Sergey Eutuszok faction of the Fatherland. I probably don't want to question Deputy Prime Minister Hennady Grigorovich, because I don't see any representatives of the Ministry of Infrastructure. But I would like you to record and distance my sharp recommendation, in fact, which says that in Ukraine roads are being built and we see how the World Bank is helping, but these roads are being built under the name "roads killers." There is no control: 12 people die on these roads (statistically) every day, and these are just those who died right on the spot, and those who travel and die on the road, and that's three more people in the war. Therefore, controls must be implemented immediately in Ukraine. Now a working group at the Ministry of Infrastructure is working on the Road Fund Act, from which I think they're trying to exclude the 5 percent that they predicted.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-17-m0.u45	Ten seconds to complete, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-17-m0.u46	The representatives of the famous Transport Committee want to clear this rule. Take control, I'm also talking to the President of Ukraine, and let him also pay attention to the deaths of Ukrainians.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-17-m0.u47	Please, first, Minister, then, Vice Prime Minister per minute, per minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-17-m0.u48	Thank you so much for asking. What about the Road Fund Bill? That's right, the Ministry of Infrastructure is now working with a working group to draft the Road Fund Act to finally address the financing of road construction. The working group met this week on Monday, the second meeting will be held today at 3 p.m., and we invite you to talk. The question of 5 percent has been raised, discussed, and there are differing opinions on this issue. The point is, the road fund itself is already included in the road financing fund. Some deputies say that the inclusion of 5 percent separately is a repetition of the sums already involved in road construction. In the construction of roads in the cost documentation, in the plan, the project included funds for security control. So individual funding can be a duplication of these costs, and we must not let that happen either. I hope I answered your question.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-17-m0.u49	Yes, please, now, Mr. Revie's word.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-17-m0.u50	Let me add a few words to the first deputy minister of infrastructure. Once again, honourable Members, before participating in the task force, we have a rather difficult task, by September of the month to prepare the entire legislative package for the organisation of Ukrainian highways. That's why we're invited because we have a shared task. And so that the bills are there. we've been taken directly by the majority of the hall, we're inviting everyone to work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-17-m0.u51	Babak gives the word for the shepherd’s performance. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-17-m0.u52	Taras Shepherd, Self Help Union. I have a question for the first Deputy Secretary of Defense, Ivan Stepanovich Rusnak. Andrew Volodymyrovich! Mr. Chairman! Mr. Chairman, Andrew Volodymyrovich! I have a question for the First Deputy Secretary of Defense and an offer to us. The question is: Two years ago, the Hero of Ukraine, Petrakovsky, was injured by covering up the departure of our fighting unit. As a result of this injury and the failure of medical care, he is in a coma and is now in critical condition. Regrettably, the funds that we have allocated to the program and this program that needs additional funding are not the only funds that it needs in its entirety that cannot finance its treatment. So I have a request to the First Deputy Secretary of Defense, now to immediately call our medical corps, to send them to Poland, where they are being treated to do so.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-17-m0.u53	Please finish, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-17-m0.u54	To continue to consult doctors with foreign experts and to choose the best way to treat them. And, Andrew Volodymyrovich, I have a request, Andrew Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-17-m0.u55	You heard me, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-17-m0.u56	And I have a request today that, because we do not have enough resources in the state budget on behalf of the Supreme Council to apply to the local budgets, to the city councils, to our mayors in order to save our hero from all of Ukraine. It's an assignment when you're human.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-17-m0.u57	Please finish Mr. Taras, 30 seconds, but please finish already.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-17-m0.u58	This is our sacred duty when a person gave his life for his country and, thank God, saved this life, now the whole country to save his health and bring him back to his family, to his parents. Therefore, the request that we withdraw from the Supreme Council with such an initiative to the city’s budgets, to the mecenats, and these funds today must be collected urgently in order to save his life and health. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-17-m0.u59	Thank you for asking. I want to say that there is a decision by the Ukrainian Defence Minister on this issue, and on 22 June, representatives of the Ukrainian Defence Ministry leave -- this is the chief therapist, the chief neurologist, as well as a representative of the Ministry from the MoH of Ukraine, the chief neurosurgeon, they go to Poland to the clinic, where the order of preparation of conclusions and the referral of Petrakovsky to the clinic of the United States of America will be determined. So the question, in principle, is solved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-17-m0.u60	Thank you. And one last question. Mumchure Julius Valeriyovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-17-m0.u61	Please pass the word to Oleg Barney.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-17-m0.u62	Good afternoon. I have a question to the Deputy Minister of Finance and, accordingly, the Deputy Prime Minister, regarding the non-implementation of the State Fiscal Inspectorate by creating regional offices and depriving the legal person of the DFI, especially at a time when financial discipline wishes to be, in a mild sense, to be better, with the loss of operationality and increased costs of deployment, not to mention that financial discipline is being violated with local authorities. The second question concerns the Deputy Minister of Transport. A few months ago, as an appropriate commission of another old government, the director of the Borispold Solonchuk State Airport was appointed. In addition, until now this decision has not been implemented by the commission. I ask you to pay attention to the order in.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-17-m0.u63	Please, 30 seconds, finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-17-m0.u64	In order to ensure order at the State Airport, to appoint the person elected by the Commission and to ensure that the airport is properly operated. In addition, I ask you to develop a comprehensive programme to increase freight transport through water arteries and rail transport in order to ensure the preservation of the road that currently costs hundreds of millions and billions of dollars. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-17-m0.u65	Will the government answer? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-17-m0.u66	Thank you so much for asking. I would like to say that we have a difficult situation today because, on the one hand, the budget needs to be filled, and we absolutely agree with you. But on the other hand, we have a lot of business questions about the pressure that's being put on the side of the State Fiscal Service. With this in mind, the Prime Minister has today set up a working group to work on the best model and ease of business, but to enable, let's say, a positive result from the arrivals in reducing the burden on our entrepreneurs. I invite everyone to this task force. Hopefully we'll find a model that will be the most optimal and make this system functional and business-friendly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-17-m0.u67	Thank you. Honorable Colleagues and Honorable Members of the Government! There were two factions, the Fatherland factions, and the Radical Party factions -- an application for a performance. And that'll be the last statement, then the closing word from the government, and we'll finish "the hour of questions to the government." Is that gonna be a question or a speech? Factions, tell me.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-17-m0.u68	Questions to the government. Questions from two factions. Colleagues, this is according to the Rules of Procedure statements made by two factions.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-17-m0.u69	Please. Please. Turn on the microphone. Oleg Lazko will perform.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-17-m0.u70	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. When the chairman just announced that there was a question from the Radical Party, from Fatherland, see how the government got excited. What are you afraid of asking questions from the opposition faction of the Radical Party? Because you lie to people or because you have nothing to say? What are you doing, Mr. Vice Prime Minister Rosenko, jumping up and down when you recommend that you give up gas? Why don't you tell the villagers how to get the money they put in the gas, the gas pipelines to the village, the liability? Why would they burn the houses when they threw the pipes away? I have a question for Deputy Prime Minister Zubka. Why did you come here today happy, satisfied and not respond to the basics: How does a person pay the tariffs? Most importantly, the most important question. You don't answer him, you lie to people about what. I'm asking where the minister of finance is, the director of three offshore companies, Daniluk. Did he resign as director of three offshore companies, or does he continue to perform these functions? That's why we did it first.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-17-m0.u71	Please finish 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-17-m0.u72	So, first of all, we're asking you to tell the citizens in court how they'll survive in the winter, how they'll pay the tariffs, when you cancel your dragon's decree, by which you set the corrupt price for gas, 7,000 dollars for a thousand cubes, at the cost of the gas of your own production, one and a half thousand dollars. What do farmers do with the price of milk copied? What Can You Do About Fuel Prices? What Can You Do With Minimum Social Needs? That's what you have to answer for, not come here like that. They laughed, and they walked away.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-17-m0.u73	Dear colleagues, dear friends, I would like to remind you that we have 30 minutes of speeches by national deputies, we just have to be there, we have to keep a record, and then you have the right to ask questions by law. Please, the closing words of Hennadia Zubko.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-17-m0.u74	Thank you, Mr. Head. I would like at all to remind the honourable Lord of the faction that he is blocking the rostrum today and does not allow constructive conversation by the government in general with Parliament and with the Ukrainian people in order to answer all these questions. Secondly, I would like to remind the distinguished National MP that today we need to work in districts with people, yes, in order to inform them that today we need the Ukrainian people together with the Ukrainian government and with the Ukrainian Parliament to come out of the financial crisis that was created last year and the past year. And for today, the plan that the government is proposing, it gives us a concrete route map for us as a government, for Parliament with a list of bills, and for the Ukrainian people, what we need to do together in order to get into a situation where we're an energy-dependent state, we're going to take out all these corrupt risks that have been washed away by hundreds of billions of dollars from the state budget, and we're going to punish those guilty who should be in prison for it. I thank you for your attention, distinguished national deputies. Until the next meeting.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-17-m0.u75	Thank you, thank you. We have great respect for our cooperation. Thank you very much to the ministers for their active participation in the committees. Let's thank our government for the hour of work and the hour of work. We wish them success in our joint work on reforming Ukraine. Thank you, the "hour asked to the government" is over. Dear colleagues, according to the Rules, we are about to announce the parliamentary requests that have come. We have a lot of parliamentary inquiries. And we're going to try to get all of them bugged, because the national MPs who asked questions often complain that they have to wait too long to hear from the rostrum. And so to read the parliamentary questions, I invite you to speak to First Deputy Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Irina Heratchenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-17-m0.u76	Thank you, Your Honor. We actually have 261 MP requests. And we are all going to announce them today. But first came requests from Ukrainian national deputies to the President of Ukraine. As you know, under the Rules, in order to submit such a request to the President, we first need to vote in favour of the request by name and to obtain at least 150 votes, and then we need to raise 226 votes for the President. Therefore, I ask you not to leave the session room and support the request of the Ukrainian National Deputy to the President of Ukraine, Andrei Lopushanski, for the failure of the President of Ukraine to implement the decision of the 43rd Session of the Sixth Council of the Old Samobrian City Council of February 27, 2014 No2056 "To honor the memory of the Hero of Ukraine of the Saltman, Bogdan Zinovovich, resident of the city of Old Sambir. Please put to the vote in favour of this motion. [[11:13:16]] For-89 By factions, please show me. Sadly, an important request did not receive the required number of votes. My recommendation is to send this request to the President's Administration and recast it to the President. Perhaps the following Friday our deputies will come to work more responsibly. The next request from Honourable Deputy Jurija-Bogdan Shuhević to the President of Ukraine for the removal of the fine "is not subject to publication" and for the lifting of all classified legal acts by the President of Ukraine, which have established illegal pension privileges for former National Deputies of the USSR and the Soviet Union, the former First Secretaries of the Committees of the Ukrainian Republic, and so on, the members of their families who are calculating pensions, on the basis of the official salary of the Minister of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, and the suspension of the payment of pensions to these persons. Please put the vote in favour of this request. [[11:14:26]] Z-85 Unfortunately, there is no need for quantity. The factions. Thank you. Next is a request by Yuri Boyka to the President of Ukraine regarding the features of the reform of the child protection system in Ukraine, announced by the authorities of the initiative to eliminate school boarding schools by 2020. Please put, in support of this request, the vote. [[11:15:05]] Z-87 Sadly, this initiative did not take the necessary number of votes. Dear colleagues, I'm moving on to other MPs' questions. So, the request of National Deputy Victor Razwadowski to the head of the Žitomir District Council, the head of the Zitomir District Administration for the allocation of funds for the production of design and cost-saving documentation for the replacement of roof at the I-II School of Education, was made by the village of Mali Bratalov in the Lubar district of Žitomir district. Requesting Viktor Razwadowski to the Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine, head of the Žitomir District State Administration for a stopover in the area of the Žitomir-Kernovitsa road in the village of Denish of the Žitomir district of Žitomir district. Victoria Ptašnik to the Minister of Justice of Ukraine for the violation by the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine of the State Service requirements for the appointment of the Head of the Department for Judicial Work and Bankruptcy and the possible involvement of representatives of the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine in the activities of scientific and scientific forensic experts. Alexander Abdullin, acting as Minister of Health of Ukraine, President of the National Academy of Medical Sciences of Ukraine, head of the Ravenna District State Administration for an emergency operation at the Philatov Clinic and for further treatment at the expense of Kotash Milana, a child from a low-security family living in the third zone of pollution caused by an accident in ČAES in the village of Zależy Dubrovicki district of the Plain region. Valery Davidenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the urgent need to allocate funds under the budget programme KPC 2301360 "Leading Ukrainian Citizens Abroad". Mikhail Bondar is the head of the State Agency for Roads in Ukraine for inclusion in the list of roads that can be rehabilitated at the expense of the budget programme “Network Development and Maintenance of Roads for Common Use”, the road of general use of T-14-25 in the area of Kamyanka-Buzka, village of Bogdanovka (between Kamyanka-Buzko and Bousk district of Lviv Region). Michael Bondar to the head of the Supervisory Board of the Ukranafta Public Shareholders Association for the purchase of Pat "Ukrnafta" from the Russian Federation for the repair of deep-sea pumps of the ECNM (K) 5 brand and other models. Ostap Ednak to the Attorney General of Ukraine, prosecutor of the Ivano-Frankow region, regarding the provision of information on the status (result) of criminal investigations into criminal conduct committed by citizen Igor Timochko of criminal offences during his term as Director of the Department of Forestry. Arthur Martovicki to Prime Minister of Ukraine about the payment of scholarships. Vladislav Buhareva to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the allocation of funds from the State budget of Ukraine for 2016 for the capital repair of the section of the R-45 Sumi Krasnopila-Goddukhov-Valka road, which passes through the territory of the Grandpisar district of Suma Region. Vladislav Buharev to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the appeal of the members of the Labour Council of Sumska District on the speeding up of the review and adoption of the draft Ukrainian Law on the amendment of certain legislative acts of Ukraine on the extension of the powers of local self-government authorities for land administration and the strengthening of State control over land use and protection. No. 4355 of March 31, 2016.) Irina Efraemov to the Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine about the situation surrounding the closure of the Basilisk I-III District was the village of Basilovka of the Blisniukowe District of Kharkiv Region. Andrea Kota to the Head of the Ukrainian Security Service, Attorney General of Ukraine for information verification. Jacob Besbach to the Ukrainian National Bank of Human Rights, the Ukrainian Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Internal Affairs on the long-term failure to execute a court decision approved in favour of the private enterprise Agroprom-Centre. Jury of Macedonia to the head of the Supreme Qualifications Commission of Judges of Ukraine on the primary qualification of judges of the Court of Appeal of Kiev. Helen Sotnik to the Authorized Supreme Council of Ukraine for Human Rights, the Minister of Justice of Ukraine, the Head of the Ukrainian Security Service for Legal Status of the CISA of Ukraine and the Department of Judicial Investigation of Ukraine. Igor Goose to the Minister of Ecology and Natural Resources of Ukraine on the environmental situation associated with the pollution of the West Bug River. Igor Goose to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine on the need for the creation of the Vladimir-Wallin Police Department of the National Police Department of the Volinsk Region. Alexander Dehtirczuk to the Minister of Ecology and Natural Resources of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine, on the legality of the lease of water objects in the areas of the Podgajetski Rural Council of the Milinov Region by private entrepreneur Shevchuk Mikhail Josephovich. Ivan Ribakado Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine Vladimir Kistion, acting as Head of the State Agency for Roads of Ukraine, Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine for Disbursement from Ukraine's State Budget, 100 million dollars for repairing the Chernobyl road and controlling the use of budgetary resources. John Rybak to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine, Minister of Finance of Ukraine, for the consideration of the possibility of allocating funds to improve the material and technical base of the Visual College of Applied Arts of the name Scribljak. Alexia Dustenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the housing of the Vinnick garrison military. Jury Tymoshenko to the Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine on the issue of financing the Cologne Institute of State Higher Education "Pricarpat National University of Vasil Stefanik". Jury Tymoshenko to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine for the establishment of a law enforcement unit that has been conscripting and protecting Vitaly of the Conveyor, and for the prosecution of the perpetrators. Anatolia Kuzmenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the identification of issues in the system of regulation of inter-budget relations and proposals in the direction of their improvement. Anatolya Kuzmenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on how to address the issue of channelling environmental taxes on measures related to the reconstruction, construction of water networks for rural areas. Oxana Jurinec is under the responsibility of the Ukrainian Minister of Health to monitor the health of the population. Andrija Kiselov to Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine Pavel Rosenk on the need to take urgent measures to clear up the humanitarian cargo assigned to the Children's Home Center, the City Hospital and the multi-child families of the city of Pochrovska Donetsk. Vladimir Gusak to the Minister of Energy and Coal Industry of Ukraine regarding the provision of information on coal imports for 2015. Jurya Boyka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the urgent intervention and implementation of effective measures to halt uncontrolled deforestation in the Carpathian region, the effectiveness of the formulation and implementation of public policy in the area of forest management. Vitalia Gudzenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the unsatisfactory work of the Ministry of Health in providing vaccines to maternity homes and children's clinics in Biloczerkowski, Voddarski, Skuriski, Stavishtski, Tarostian and Tetijov regions of the Kyiv region. Vitalia Gudzenka to the head of the Road Service in Kiev for the capital repair of the local road (Obukhov-Deremezna-Pregonovka-Vasilov). Dmitri Dobrodomov to the Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine on the need for the improvement of the Ukrainian Act "On Public Compulsory State Pension Insurance" in part of the improvement of the social security of pensioners who retired by 2010. Dmitri Dobrodomov to the first Deputy Minister for Economic Development and Trade of Ukraine, the head of the government of the Public Stock Exchange Society, the President of the Government of the Public Stock Exchange Society, the head of the National Shareholder Company Naftogaz Ukraine, on informing the citizens of Ukraine about the budgetary resources that were aimed at paying salaries for the management of the Ukrainian gas sector. Vladimir Litvina, Acting Minister of Health of Ukraine, Head of the District Council of the Zitomir Region, Head of the Provincial Regional Administration for the Conservation of the Existing Network of Medical (Pharmaceutical) Colleges of the Žitomir Region, and foreclosure of their integration into the structure of the Municipal Higher Education Institute of the Žitomir Institute of Nursery. Vladimir Lithuania to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the use of immediate, exhaustive measures to respond to a catastrophic environmental situation. Igor Shurma to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine, on a catastrophic situation caused by the absence of vaccines, which will lead to epidemics of many infectious diseases in Ukraine. Igor Shurma to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the inadmissibility of reducing nearly 7,000 health workers in 2016 as a result of a catastrophic lack of financial and material security for the Lviv region’s health sector. Vladimir Aresonkova to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the introduction of more effective and effective methods of combating forest theft. Vladimir Aresonkova to the minister of internal affairs of Ukraine for the unification of efforts in the fight against illegal amber production. John Balloga to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for making changes to the list of beneficial fossils of state and local importance. Sergia Labazuk to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, Ministry of Health of Ukraine, on the total deficit of vaccines and medicines that prevent development and contribute to the further treatment of dangerous diseases, such as leprosy, botulism, right - hand, snake bites. Jaroslava Dubnević to the Minister of Defence of Ukraine, Deputy Attorney General of Ukraine, Chief Military Prosecutor for the conduct of an official investigation into the non-target use of the modern-day field-based second-level field hospital for NATO qualifications. Jaroslava Dubnević to the Minister of Defence of Ukraine, Military Prosecutor of the Western Region of Ukraine, Deputy Attorney General of Ukraine, Chief Military Prosecutor for the conduct of an official investigation into the situation of injury by a military officer. Mr. Vasil Janicki to Prime Minister of Ukraine, acting as Minister of Health of Ukraine and Head of the Equality District State Administration for the provision of treatment for patients with severe diseases in the Rokitni district of the Plains region. Yurya Bublika to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for violating the rights of the territorial community of the Veliorublovska Rural Council of the Kotelev Region of Poltav region through the removal of the financing of a competitive project for the acquisition of a fire vehicle for the rural council and the surrounding territorial communities. Anatoly of Denisenka to the Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine on the state of functioning of health care facilities for the recovery of children accompanied by adults. Anatoly of Denisenka to the Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine on improving housing subsidies and strengthening social protection for individual categories of citizens. Alexander Suprunenka to the Kiev City Head for taking steps to increase road safety in the Darnicki district of Kyiv. Romana Macola to the Minister of Interior of Ukraine, Attorney General of Ukraine, for an effective and impartial investigation into criminal conduct involving the illegal activity of a private enterprise called Kanstal, located on the territory of the Ulašanov Rural Council of the Slavutsk Region of the Hmelnick Region. Romana Macola to the Head of the National Fiscal Service of Ukraine regarding the provision of information on the non-timely payment of added-value tax in accordance with the March 2016 tax declaration TO "RODORS" and the use of urgent response measures to address the issue of reimbursement of the financial compensation to the undertaking. Victor Krivenk to the State Enterprise "Science and Productive Company" of the Energy and Coal Industry Department of Ukraine, the National Commission for State Regulations in the Field of Energy and Utilities, the Public Shareholders Association "BASTAN SIRELAND", the National Commission for National Security, the Anti-Monopoly Committee of Ukraine, the Association of State Property of Ukraine, the Society of State Property of the State of the Land, the Association for the "Transselektrous State", the Council of National Security and Defence of Ukraine, the Society for the Restricted Responsibility of the State of the Land of Poland, the Society for the "Transelectural Government", the Council for National Security and Defence of Ukraine. Andrija Pavelka to the Minister of Justice of Ukraine for the conduct of the verification of the circumstances set out in the address of the public organisation "Self-defence of the field in the Cherkas region" and the use of appropriate response measures. Andrija Pavelka to the procurator of the Cherka district for the examination of the circumstances set out in the address of the public organization Garant and the use of appropriate response measures. Maxima Burbak to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the addition of the II line of the hydroaccumulation power station of Dniestrówska GAES and the consideration of the initiative to create an energy island to provide electricity to EU countries. Sergey Kudlayenka to the Minister of Defence of Ukraine for the promotion of the relevant documents for the release from military service and for the verification of the legality of the conduct of the leadership of the PP B 2326 military unit. Sergey Kudlayenka to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine on taking urgent action to grant Alexander Fitchuk the status of a participant in combat. Dmitry Kolesnikov to Prime Minister of Ukraine on the bankruptcy of the municipal food community in Yellow Waters and the deprivation of children, sick people and elderly people free of charge. Mr. Dmitra Kolesnikov to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the right to receive subsidies and the right to benefits in accordance with valid legislation for the population of Ukraine. Andrija Lopushanski to the Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Regional Development, Construction and Housing of Ukraine, on the necessary arrangements for the provision of the International and New York United Territorial Communities of the Old Samobrian Region of the Lviv Region with full subsidies under the Cabinet of Ministers Decision No 200 of 16 March 2016, "Some issues for granting subsidies from the State budget to local budgets for the formation of the infrastructure of the unified territorial communities". Alexander Kodola to the Minister of Defence of Ukraine for the restoration of the violated rights of military personnel of the Ukrainian Armed Forces, Sergey Mikolaiovich. Sergei Rudika to the Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Regional Development, Construction and Housing of Ukraine, Minister of Finance of Ukraine, to increase funding for the construction (acquisition) of affordable housing for Ukrainian citizens. Sergey Rudika to the Attorney General of Ukraine for a thorough review of the lessons learned in the programme "Lustrator 7.62" from May 11, the current year of the journalist's investigation into the case of the minor stoneman Igor Slabenko. Valentina Didić to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Vice-Prime Minister of Ukraine Viacheslav Kirilenko, Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine, on the critical situation in the Dnipropetrov region's vocational and technical education system. Sergey Kaplina to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the use of urgent measures to develop and approve a national strategy to deal with waste under European standards. Sergey Kaplina to the Minister of Ecology and Natural Resources of Ukraine on the use of measures to prevent air pollution by means of a seed plant in the village of Lazirka in the region of Poltava. Mikhail Golka, head of the Ternopil District State Administration for the payment of salaries to the staff of the Vishnewetsky District Municipal Hospital in the Ternopil region. Mikhail Golovka to the Ukrainian State Road Agency, Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine, for the capital repair of the Braž-Musorovci road in the Ternopil region. Andrew Illenka to the Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine for the appointment of a direct train to connect the cities of Balta, Pervomaysk, Kirovograd and Kiev. Andrija Illenka to Kiev City Head, Head of the National Police Department of the Ukrainian National Police in Kiev, First Deputy Prosecutor of Kiev, Deputy Head of the National Police, Head of the National Police in Kiev, to verify the operation of a residential facility at Bratislava Street, 6-A in the right-wing district of Kiev, in connection with the repeated appeals of residents of nearby homes. Mr. Vasil Janicki to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the issue of financial security for the transport of extended categories of citizens. Andrija Derkac to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the violation of Ukrainian constitutional rights to education by reducing funding through artificial restrictions on the number of students allowed in rural schools. Andrija Derkača to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the permanent dissolution of labour relations and the release of Igor Prokopov from office as Head of the Ukratransgaz Pat Government for the anti-government position. Andrea Shipka to the Head of the National Police of Ukraine for the non-admission of citizens' rights. Andrija Shipka to the Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine on the restructuring of school education in the village. Eugene Daeda to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the possible actions of individual officials of the Sambir City Council. Sergija Vlasenka to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the provision of information on the management of the Office of the Attorney General of Ukraine: the conformity of the first Deputy Attorney General of Ukraine, the Deputy Prosecutor General of Ukraine, the Head of the Department of Internal Security of the Attorney General of Ukraine with the requirements set out in the Ukrainian Law on the Cleaning of Power, the Ukrainian Law on Procuratorial Affairs, which are submitted to persons who claim to take office in the Office of the Attorney General of Ukraine. Paul Kishkar to the Head of the Ukrainian Security Service on the violation of the constitutional rights of Andria Djachenko from the management of the Ukrainian Security Service in Kirovograd. Paul Kishkar to the State Property Fund of Ukraine, the National Environmental Inspectorate of Ukraine, the Prosecutor’s Office of Kiev, the Shevchenkov Regional Authority of the National Police in Kiev, for the purpose of ensuring public interest during the privatisation of the Mikolai Agricultural Plant. Alexander Kodola to the head of the government of the public shareholders association "Ukrainian Railway", Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine for the provision of proper conditions of movement and convenient access to platforms for passengers at the Lower Regional Branch Station "Southwest Railway" Pat "Ukrzalznica". Gregory Times to the head of the Montenegrin District Administration on the use of urgent measures to compensate citizens whose animals were killed as a result of the outbreak of African swine fever in the Novoseltsky region of the Cherniew region. Grigory Times to the head of the Montenegrin District Administration for the repair of solid-covered roads in the Globecki region on the basis of a subsidy from the State Budget by direction: Tarašani-Privoroki-Stanovci-Bukovka, Deep Sucieveni-Kupka-Korčivci, Petrichanka-Kamyanka. Groups of National Deputies (Palamarchy, Kishkara, Krivenka) to the Supreme Qualifications Commission of Judges of Ukraine, the State Judicial Administration of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine for the failure to secure the right of the brothers of Dchenko to review the criminal conduct of the jury and other significant violations of the requirements of criminal criminal law, the violation of the oath by the Prosecutor, the non-preservation of the fixation of the court by technical means and the non-preservation of evidence in criminal proceedings. Alexander Guerrega to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the use of career rehabilitation funds to repair the roads and the well - being of Hmělničina. Alexander Guerrega to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the extent of State aid to individual categories of citizens. Igor Popov to the Head of the National Commission, which regulates national energy and utilities regulations in order to review decisions on unjustified increases in public utilities tariffs. Oleg Kulinić to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the need for amendments to the Ukrainian Cabinet Decision of October 1, 2014, No. 509. Oleg Kulinić to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the regulation of the purchase price for milk purchased from the population. Dmitra Špenov to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Pension Fund of Ukraine, on urgent measures to protect the pension rights of women, teachers, doctors, such as the reduction of the retirement age of women to 55 years. Dmitra Sphenov to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the protection of citizens' rights from cabal tariffs for residential services. Alexander Billowola to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need to restore cleanliness and water security in the Merlo River. Vitalia Chapinoga to the Managing Director of the Fund to guarantee the contributions of natural persons in respect of delays in payment of guaranteed compensation for the contributions of natural persons. Natalia Katser-Buchkovsky to the Minister of Energy and Coal Industry of Ukraine on the current state and prospects of development of the oil, oil and coal industry, state of development of the energy strategy. Mr. Andrija Shinkovič, head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Health Care, which is responsible for the Ministry of Health of Ukraine for correcting medical reform related to administrative and territorial reform. Andrija Šinkovič to the Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine for the restoration of the movement of the train along the Shepetovka-Yvano-Frankivsk-Shepetovka route. Alexia Lensky to the Head of the Suma District Council, the head of the Suma District State Administration on the proposal for the introduction of an electronic purchase procedure for budget managers and utilities and the integration of ProZorro public procurement into the electronic system with the aim of creating a global system for monitoring government spending on the purchase of goods and funds, using appropriate response measures. Alexia Lensky to the Minister of Environment and Natural Resources of Ukraine on the need for Ukraine to fulfil its obligations to the international community in implementing the EU Environmental Protection Directive through the creation of an information system for inventories of pollutants, the use of appropriate response measures to join the single European legal space and the harmonization of standards in the environmental field and the provision of information on the steps taken in the last year in this field. Oleg Osuhovski to the Head of the State Border Service of Ukraine for preventing the breakdown of field demarcation work on the state border with the Republic of Belarus. Oleg Osuhovski to the Head of Administration of the President of Ukraine on the issue of the assignment of the honorary title of "Mother Hero." Jury Bublika to Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, on the debt owed to Hádáczsir to individual milk donors in the Poltavian region. Jurya Pavlenko to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the implementation of the State-wide Target Program "Drinking Water of Ukraine" 2011-2020. Jurya Pavlenko to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for not allowing the gas supply systems of the villagers to be shut down. Sergey Matvienkova to Prime Minister of Ukraine for compensation to residents of the Eastern Realm for damage caused by the January 24, 2015 shooting. Sergey Lechchenka to the Head of the Security Service of Ukraine on the grounds for the protection of the Ukrainian National Deputy Alexander Granowski. Alexander Revega to the head of the government of the public shareholders association "Ukrainian Railway", Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine on the need to resolve the issue of stopping the suburban trains No.6089/6090 by connecting Kiev-Zitomir-Kyiv South-West Railway to a station in a village of the city-type Kornin of the Popljen district of Žitomir district. Alexander Revega to the head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Social Policy, Employment and Pensions, Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, Minister of Justice of Ukraine, Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine, Prosecutor General of Ukraine on the uncontrolled management of property and the costs of the Zitomir District Office of the Social Insurance Fund with temporary loss of employment. Paul Rizanenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on amendments to the Road Traffic Regulations approved by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine Order of October 10, 2001, No.1306, in part on strengthening the safety of cyclists. Paul Rizanenka to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the urgent consideration of the issue of the release of members of the Council of the National Bank of Ukraine whose terms of office have been suspended for a period of time and the appointment of new members of the Council of the National Bank of Ukraine. Alexia Savchenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the use of funds from the state budget for support and development of Ukraine's APC. Groups of National Deputies (Vilkula, Kolesnikova and others) A total of 5 deputies) to the first deputy head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Rules and Organization of Work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the violation of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in part of the failure of the right to repulsion to MPs and the improper response to unethical conduct and non-compliance with the rules of parliamentary ethics. John Melniczuk to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Justice of Ukraine, for the non-admission of the closure of the city-based enterprise of the "Gravan factory of specializationbeton" of the province of Tivrov. John Melniczuk to the head of the Žmerin district council for the establishment of a re-commissioned commission on the misuse of property of the joint property of the district community regarding the premises of the Sputnik Jmerinian cinema. Irina Sisoyenko to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for amendments to the Ukrainian Defence Ministry Order No.402 from 14 August 2008. Igor Alekseieva to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on urgent measures to complete the reconstruction of a healing facility in a village of the town type Vukovinci Hmelnicki district. Igor Alekseyev to the Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Regional Development, Construction and HKG of Ukraine, on the removal of the emergency condition of the road bridge across the Wokk River on Proskurovska Street in the town of Desarzny Hmelnické region. Jury Bereza to the head of the Dnipropetrov District Council on the allocation of funds for the rehabilitation of the educational corps No. 1 and for the capital repairs covered the dormitory No. 2 of the University of Dnipropetrov of State Agrarian Economics. Jury Bereza to the head of the Dnipropetrov Regional Authority, the head of the Dnipropetrov District Council on the critical state of funding of the State Vocational and Technical Institute "West-Dniprosian Centre for Vocational and Technical Education". Groups of National Deputies (Criminal, Pober, and others) A total of 8 deputies) to the Office of the Attorney-General of Ukraine for an improper criminal investigation into a resonant accident. Taras Batenka and Alexander Dubinin to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the imposition of a moratorium on the alienation of the land of the holding of theokadastrom, which is outside the settlements. Natalia Royal and Yuri Solod to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need to address the social protection issues of the civilian population affected by the implementation of the ATO. Alexander Suprunenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine to ensure implementation of the provisions of the Ukrainian Law on the Status and Social Protection of Citizens affected by the Chernobyl disaster. Sergey Ljowczina to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the unsatisfactory situation with the provision of health services and medicines to citizens. Sergia Kiwalova to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the application of measures to cancel the increase in tariffs on heat and central heating services for the population. Vladislava Golub to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Environment and Natural Resources of Ukraine, Head of the Ukrainian Security Service, Director of the National Anti-Corruption Office, Deputy Attorney General of Ukraine, Director of the Specialised Anti-Corruption Prosecutor's Office, Head of the Cherkas District Public Administration on the environmental situation that took place in the city of Złotonosza and on the procedures for the use of public funds during the reconstruction of clean-up facilities in the city of Złotonosza by the authorities of the Złotonik KP "Miska Vodkanal". Vladislav Doub to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Director of the National Anti-Corruption Office of Ukraine, Head of Administration of the President of Ukraine, Head of the Ukrainian Security Service, Deputy Attorney General of Ukraine, Head of the Special Anti-Corruption Prosecutor's Office for the Verification of Facts That Have Signs of Corruption by the Head of the Cherka District Public Administration, Tkachenkom, who have been posted on the Internet portal "Kropiva". Groups of National Deputies (Dombrovsky, Bilkovi and others; only 11 deputies) to the Head of the National Police of Ukraine, the Head of the Ukrainian Security Service, the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine, the First Deputy Prosecutor of Kiev City, the Deputy Head of the National Police of Ukraine, the Head of the National Police Department of the National Police in Kiev, the Chief of the Ukrainian Security Service in Kiev and the Kyiv region, with regard to the investigation of the intimidation of the National Deputy of the Republic of Ukraine of Vojcitsky and the cases of the attack on her family. Alexander Dombrovsky to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Finance of Ukraine, Head of the State Fiscal Service of Ukraine, Minister of Agriculture and Food of Ukraine, Head of the State Service for Geodesy, Cartography and Cadastra, Head of the Vinicko District Administration, Vinnicko City Head, Head of the Vinnicko District Council, Head of the General Administration of the State Land Agency in the Vinicko Region, Head of the General Administration of the State Fiscal Service in the Vinicko Region for the renewal of the lease agreement between the City Council and TOV "Balkan-Imex". Tetjana Bacheviy to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the scientifically proven relevance of a nonplanned campaign to immunize Ukrainian children against polio conducted by the Ministry of Health of Ukraine in 2015 - 2016. Jury of Derevyanka to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the need to form a new coalition of MP factions within the terms provided for in the Constitution of Ukraine, in connection with the termination on 19 May 2016 of the European Ukrainian Coalition. Jaroslava Markevich to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the representation of the interests of the State, by initiating a judicial review of the decision. Jury Lewchenka to the Kiev City Head for clarification on how to implement the decision of the Kiev City Council on certain questions about the placement of temporary buildings for commercial, residential, socio-cultural or other purposes for entrepreneurship in Kiev" No.237/237 of 17 March 2016. Jury Lewchenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the use of urgent measures to eliminate the consequences of the disaster and to allocate funds to the affected inhabitants of the village of Velika Ośnica of the Yampil region of the Winnitsk Region. Valentina Nichiporenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the payment of salaries to educational and health workers of Jaskovski, Zvenigradski, Lysian, Mankovsky, Tallinn and Vatutina Cherkaskie. Edward Matviychuk to the Ministry of Regional Development, Construction and Housing of Ukraine, Ministry of Social Policy of Ukraine, Odessa District State Administration, Odessa City Council on the need for a comprehensive review of the address of the resident of the Kyiv district of Odessa Buryaczk Lydia Yuhimovna, 1926, a member of the war, who lives with the disabled daughter of the second group, in order to avoid lowering social security and service from residential issues in the area of housing and social services and to preserve the corresponding benefits. Edward Matviychuk to the Ministry of Regional Development, Construction and Housing of Ukraine, Ministry of Culture of Ukraine, Odessa District State Administration, Odessa City Council on the need for an objective review of the request of Odessa resident Andrija Goncharov for the conservation of the ecological and historical cultural significance of the French Boulevard in Odessa and the non-lethalization of high-rise areas. Roman Semenha to the Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Regional Development, Construction and Housing of Ukraine on the non-compliance with the procedure for the operation of multi-floor residential buildings with the "Circumstance" complex on the street of Prejaslavska, 23 in the city of Kharkiv. Roman Semenha to the Minister of Finance of Ukraine regarding the implementation of the Transparency Budget project. Taras Batenka and Alexander Dubinin to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine, for changes in the financing and restructuring of small-scale secondary schools to reduce social tensions in rural areas. Ruslana Demchak to the Minister of Finance of Ukraine for the change to the State budget for Ukraine for the first half of 2016 for the financial security of the reconstruction of road cover on the street of Kotsubinsko-Šerbakov in the town of Cemetery, Vinnitské district. Ruslana Demczak to the Minister of Finance of Ukraine for the promotion of the allocation of funds from the State budget of Ukraine for the first half of 2016 for the capital repair of the R-17 regional road. Yurya Shapovalova is acting as Head of the State Agency for Road Traffic in Ukraine, head of the Road Service in the Poltava region to ensure the transparency of the tender and the effective use of 251 million dollars allocated from the State Budget of Ukraine for the repair of roads R60 (Krljevec-Pyrátyin), T1716 (Horol-Piscane), M22 (Poltava-Alexandria) in the Poltava region. Anton Yatzenka to the Attorney General of Ukraine for the full, objective and comprehensive investigation of the cruel treatment of animals and the distribution of videos promoting the cult of violence and cruelty by teachers and students of the University of Alexandria. Anton Yatzenk to the Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine, Minister of Agriculture Policy and Food of Ukraine, on the purpose of being the director of the Alexandrian Technical University of Biotzerkow, the National Agrarian University of Bodjak Alexander Ivanovich, on the purpose of being Danilenko Anatolia Stepanovich as Rector of the Biloczerk National Agrarian University and on the purpose of further teaching students at the University of Bilocerk, the University of Bilocerk, on the Internet. Oleg Petrenko is responsible for Ukraine’s Ministry of Health’s responsibility to ensure a comprehensive approach to child mental health. Irina Suslowa to the head of the Supreme Qualifications Commission of Judges of Ukraine, the Head of the High Council of Justice, the Attorney-General of Ukraine for ensuring proper judicial review of criminal conduct and for attracting guilty persons to legal responsibility. Paul Djublik to the Minister of Finance of Ukraine, Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine, for the construction of a bridge across the Irsha River in the village of Rižana in the region of Žitomir. Groups of National Deputies (Dublika, Revega and others; only 6 deputies) to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the inclusion of Žitomirščina in the list of areas in which the reconstruction financing experiment has been implemented, the ongoing repair of public roads. Vadim Krivenk and Paul Dziblik to the Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine on the allocation of funds from the State Budget of Ukraine to compensate for the cost of feeding students in the 1-4 classes. Aunt Ostrikov to the Head of the National Property Fund of Ukraine on the provision of information on the legal basis for the use of public property. Borislav Bereza to the Head of the Ukrainian Antimonopoly Committee on Unwarranted Fuel Prices Helen Sotnik to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, the head of the Ukrainian Security Service, the Attorney - General of Ukraine for the investigation of crimes against life and the health of the Ukrainian national deputy and members of her family. Groups of National Deputies (Derivjanka, Melniczuk and others; only 24 deputies) to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the inaction of appointing DG "Borispil" Director General of the Jury Solonczuk Competition. Dear colleagues, I have announced all 261 requests that have come and registered for this time in the Supreme Council. And also, honourable national MPs, honourable colleagues, I inform you that I have been approached by national deputy Sergei Vlasenko in connection with his dissatisfaction with the reply to a parliamentary request. In accordance with article 226 of the Rules, I must now read, firstly, the answer that he has received on request and then give him the floor for a three-minute speech. Thus, the National Deputy Vlasenko was asked for a name, at the address of Prime Minister Vladimir Groissman of Ukraine, and he received an answer, National Deputy Vlasenko, in May of this year: "Dear Sergey Volodymyrovich, on your request, announced at the meeting of the Supreme Council on 20 May 2016, to clarify the calculation of the size of the natural gas tariff for the population of Ukraine, we report on Mineconomal Development, Minernergogil and SCREKP to consider the issues affected. You will be informed of the results. With respect, Prime Minister of Ukraine Vladimir Groissman." Sergey Vlasenko, a national MP, expressed his dissatisfaction with this answer, and I now give him my word in three minutes according to the Rules.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-17-m0.u77	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Distinguished Colleagues of the People’s Deputies! Today, from 10 to 11 p.m., we have seen such a proponent of the government's interaction with the Ukrainian Parliament, which is called the "time of the Ukrainian government" rule, when the government simply does not answer the very urgent questions that the Ukrainian people's deputies are asking, and instead corresponds to some political, totally unprofessional pianist and pianist slogans. Regrettably, another mechanism of parliamentary control over the government, such as parliamentary requests, is also totally disregarded by active government officials. I asked Prime Minister Vladimir Groysman not about any corporate conflict or interference with any government activity, and I asked the Prime Minister what was of interest to millions of Ukrainian citizens, namely, how the tariffs on natural gas were being established, on what grounds the Prime Minister had announced at the government meeting a further increase in the tariff on natural gas, which served as a basis for this. Instead of giving a simple and. a simple, clear answer as to how the tariff was based, why it was raised, which was the reason why the Prime Minister of Ukraine started playing bureaucrat football and sending me to Mine Economic Development, to the NCRECR, to some other, to his assistants, to the NCRECR. The cleaning lady. If I wanted to go to the Mine Economics, I'd go to the Mine Economics and have nothing to do with it. No problem with that. But it was the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Vladimir Groissman, who was initiating a tariff hike at the government meeting. It was Prime Minister Vladimir Groissman who insisted on voting at a government meeting, and it was Prime Minister Vladimir Groissman who then held a huge press conference to explain how it was necessary, how it was justified, and so on. And when you start asking our government specific questions, " Explain how the tariff is formed?"they're sending me to the NCREKP or somewhere else. Unfortunately, this is an absolutely unacceptable attitude of the government towards the Ukrainian people in the first place and in the exercise of the control function of the Ukrainian Parliament. Again, it didn't start today, it started with Viktor Yanukovich, who in this way ignored the demands of then opposition deputies, but for some reason it's been two years since the Dignity Revolution continues in all post-mad governments. When they can't, they don't know how to answer the MP's questions, they start hitting us off. So I demand an answer to my question. If there is no such answer, I will apply the other procedures envisaged.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-17-m0.u78	Thank you, Sir Sergei. We would like to draw attention to our distinguished colleagues from all executive authorities to the proper information of the deputies and to the requests of the national MPs. And we're going to hope that all the structures listed in the request, in response to your request, will provide information on the question of the tariffs you've been making. Dear colleagues, according to the regulations of the Supreme Council of Ukraine at 12 o'clock, I announce a recess of 30 minutes. And after that, given the lack of sufficient deputies in the session room, I think we're going to announce time with you for speeches by national deputies on various issues. In order for 226 national deputies to vote without interruption. I can't break the Rules, so I'm calling it a 30-minute break. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-17-m0.u79	Dear colleagues, please return to the session room. Please make an announcement asking the secretariat to return to the session room because the break is over. Unfortunately, dear colleagues, the number of people present in the House of People’s Deputies does not allow us to follow the order of the day and consider the bill. Thus, according to Friday’s Rules, we have time to speak to the national deputies on various issues. I hope all those who wish have returned to the session room. And I'm announcing a recording for "Rose," please. Thank you to all colleagues who wish to participate today in the heading "Victory." And I would like to invite you to the floor of the National Deputy of the Non-Flocking Mr. Matkowski, please. He gives the word to the master of Moses.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-17-m0.u80	Good afternoon, distinguished national MPs! Dear Ukrainian people! Oleg Musei, 124 constituency, Sokaltina, Red Town. In my speech today, I would like to draw the attention of Ukrainian law enforcement officials to the shameful thing that is happening in all of Lviv, not just in my district. Last week, with my voters, I received another surprise from what the privatisation of Ukraine's gas transport system, especially the district gas distribution authorities. This refers directly to the formation of the private structure of Lvivgas. And in fact, not so much of it, it turns out that they've created this company called Lvivgasbot, which in violation of current legislation, in violation of all existing intelligent and even unreasonable norms, those people who have set up gas counters at their expense, have now arranged their verification or belief so-called and massively after the trust of private, self-sustained gas calculators, they find them to be substitutable and unreal. But you know that both the government and the Supreme Council have supported the initiative to set up gas counters for our people at the expense of gas distribution companies, frauds. The only area – Lvivska – has definitely refused and refused and today requires people to whom they are obliged to set up gas counters, namely those that have gas columns and gas boilers and gas plates, and they force people to install these gas counters at their own cost. I think it's kind of a raid on private gas structures and especially Lviv's cover. In addition, they developed another scheme. It turns out that houses where the cost of installing gas meters is small, for example, 15 apartments or 20 apartments, and the cost of 1,000 bracelets respectively, they impose the installation of generally house gas meters of 60, 70,000 bracelets of conditional convenience, that people will still buy these gas meters at a private cost. I ask you to consider my address to the Office of the Attorney General of Ukraine and to the Cabinet of the Ministers of Ukraine to take action and to be unacceptable to such activities as "Lvivoblgazu" and "Lvivgaz probégé", and so that they may be obliged at last to do so by law and by law by these insolvent private officials.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-17-m0.u81	Give me 10 seconds to finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-17-m0.u82	and set up the gas counters that belong to them according to existing legislation. Thank you all. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-17-m0.u83	Thank you. The National Deputy Petrenko of the "Peter Prashenko Block" gives the floor to the National MP, Mrs. Olga the Mantis. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-17-m0.u84	Good afternoon, dear colleagues. I actually want to use my 3 minutes for 3 different applications. First. A week ago, I wrote statements and petitions to the NABU, to the State Financial Inspectorate, to the Ukrainian Security Service for corruption violations that I discovered during the purchase of medicines in various regions of Ukraine. In particular, for insulins in the same range alone, the price difference in government procurement varies by more than 100 percent. In fact, yesterday I received a letter from the NABU that they did not see in these violations of the existence of a corruption crime. So I'm going to the Ukrainian Security Service, the State Financial Inspectorate to check out all the purchases that went through the subsidy of 44 billion dollars to the region, to check the price difference and the lawfulness and competence of public purchases at such overpriced prices. Next question. In the case of supplies through international organizations of medicines for the treatment of child oncology. "Crown Agents" is an agency that has been selected among international organizations, does not supply these drugs at the right time and is now only 16 percent of 2015's needs. So please consider my request to the Ukrainian Security Service for the Ministry of Internal Affairs regarding the Crown Agents verification as a purchasing agency to which the rights of this agency belong and how it performs its function. And actually, my third address to you, my distinguished colleagues. There is a public platform for direct humanitarian assistance and support for families of the dead. If you say on the Internet, "People help people," you get to a site where in the future, I hope all 1,500 children will be gathered who lost their father in an anti-terror operation zone. Today, 200 children, 193 families, are on the platform. And I'm asking you for direct address support from these families. During the last 8 months, this platform has been operating for over 2.5 million dollars in direct aid accounts. It's not a fund, it's a direct address aid to families. And on this platform, you can get information about every family and every child that needs our help today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-17-m0.u85	Thank you, Mrs. Olga. An invitation is made to Mrs. Gopko, a non-fractional national MP.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-17-m0.u86	Good afternoon, fellow countrymen, distinguished Ukrainians and presiding lady! I'd like to summarize briefly this week in Parliament and among the historical achievements that are this increase in the part of the Ukrainian song in RadioFire, this is the joint victory of the parliamentarians of the various groups, parties and also of the artistic community, our Ukrainian musicians, which we have achieved. We were able to reach a compromise decision and now, literally three months later, 35 percent, every third song will be on the air in Ukrainian. So I would like to thank everyone, the artists, and say that this is a huge achievement. Also, our appeal to the Universal Orthodox Patriarch Warfolomy for the granting of auto-Cefalia to the Ukrainian Orthodox Church is in fact a requirement for the annulment of the decision since 1686, when our Kyiv Church was transferred to Moscow. For more than three centuries, we do not actually have our own auto-cefalia, and we very much hope that during the Ecumenical Council, which has been meeting for days and is our political call, the political position of the Ukrainian Parliament will be heard. And my personal dream, like the Kiev-Pecher Lavre, will be under the Kyiv Patriarchate of the Ukrainian community, of the church, of our identity. And nothing to do with the influence of Moscow, Putin, and all of these structures that use the church for Russian propaganda, which makes our citizens feel bad about it, will ever happen again. So I would also like to thank the authors of this text and the Hall for supporting this historic step, and we will look forward to it. And another of the achievements that was made during this week are changes to the OSB Act, which as of 1 July, all the owners of their apartments will be able to find either a management company or decide for themselves how to pay for their utilities through the JEC. And I would also like to say that this week some important bills have not been able to be considered, particularly the Single Energy Regulator Act, which is important. And Parliament is also waiting for the government to join the Hall, what was due to happen by the end of April this year is the main directions of budgetary policy for 2017. It's very important that we don't have this year's practice that we've seen for two years since the Dignity Revolution, when Parliament votes in favour of the main budget document by night 5 in the morning -- the country's budget for 2017. So we ask the government to submit, at last, what they had to do to the end of the government. The main thrusts of the budget policy so that the profiling committees can already be considered. And I call on all regions to engage actively and send their proposals through and united territorial communities so that all your priorities are reflected in the 2017 budget to solve the painful problems that there are. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-17-m0.u87	Thank you. Please welcome the national MP Illenko, who is given the word of his colleague, the distinguished national MP Marchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-17-m0.u88	Thank you. Andrew Illenko, The All-Ukrainian Freedom Union of Kiev. Dear colleagues and respected Ukrainians who are watching and listening to us, I would like to raise today an important issue regarding Ukraine’s international policy. Lately, some very strange things have been happening in the United Nations. We know that this body is supposed to be objective, which is supposed to help resolve conflicts, and in fact, I remind Ukraine is not just a member of the United Nations, but Ukraine is a founding State and is always paying, in particular, contributions to this organization. In fact, even in a row with other countries we are, we are funding this organization and its activities. Interestingly, the latest statements made by Mr. Guy Moon, who is the Secretary - General of this organization, are very strange, to say that they were not made in Petersburg, that Russia is said to be an important participant in the settlement of the conflict in Ukraine and Syria, which is completely absurd in general, because Russia is an aggressor who is carrying out and actually solving the war here and is leading this war. It is a good thing that the Ukrainian Ministry of Foreign Affairs had an adequate reaction in protest against these claims. But there is another subject on which, unfortunately, there was no such protest, although it affected not only some particular political power in Ukraine but also the entire Ukrainian state. This is a report by a special reporter on extrajudicial executions, who was present in Ukraine from September 8 to 18, 2015, and this report was posted on the UN website. What's important? That this report, which dealt with so many questions, had an interesting moment that I would like to quote so that it would be clear what it was about. It noted that all illegal volunteer battalions and formations left behind should be disbanded and disarmed or effectively included in the regular armed forces under real control and responsibility. In a similar way, ultra-nationalist groups and other armed formations such as the Right Sector, Freedom and Self-Defense should be recognized as illegal and actually disarmed and dissolved and held accountable or subject to the law. What is important about this point? First, this paragraph appeared in this text later in the original version of this report of this report in general did not appear in this paragraph at all, and we believe that the Russian lobby worked here, but what is interesting? It's about what, in particular, Freedom there is called an illegal armed group of ultra-nationalists. It's very strange to hear, because Freedom is a legal political party that has been operating legally since 1991, has a representation in Parliament, has thousands of deputies of local councils, has mayors of cities, particularly three cities of district centers. Please, three more minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-17-m0.u89	I just have to give them to you through the people who speak. 30 seconds, then. 30 seconds. [[B in m in s a l in]] After 15 people. And I'll give them to you. 30 seconds, then I'll give you my word. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-17-m0.u90	You can do it now, because it's breaking up. [[do not hear]]
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-17-m0.u91	Yes, you can.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-17-m0.u92	Accordingly, it is an accusation not just of individual political power or of individual political powers. In fact, it is an accusation by Ukraine that some illegal armed groups are operating here. I want to say that yes, indeed, hundreds of volunteers have gone through the front, or are now there. But they were there as volunteers or mobilized people who were in the Armed Forces at the National Guard, who were, yes, in the Sitch Battalion, which was from the very beginning in the IMF. Or the Carpathian Grid, which was incorporated into the 93rd Brigade, as a storm company, that is to say, it's a ridiculous accusation. But on the other hand, we understand that the question, I say again, is not "Freedom," the question is that such a lie is pouring on the entire state of Ukraine. And we have to react actively, our foreign ministry should protest not only when Mr. Guy Moon says these things, but when such slanders go on in the reports, special reporters. Although I say again about this item it was included there later, as a clear later insertion, evidently with the aim of discrediting Ukraine. So I urge our diplomats to respond more actively to these things. Once again, Ukraine is a state founder of the United Nations. We pay membership fees to this organization, we have to have a word there, and such lies must immediately find an adequate answer, and we should not simply refuse. Because what's said is just not true. It's broken by elementary evidence and there's no, well, no rational grain. Because I think it's even in Ukraine and it doesn't have to be explained, because it's obvious, but unfortunately for the world, it's going to rain on international society, it's if Ukraine doesn't shut up and react, it means it's perceived as true, and accordingly we're taking problems and risks in our international arena. So we encourage you to respond to these things. I think our foreign policy should actually be more active, it should be more proactive, we should talk more about what's really going on in Ukraine. This is a Kremlin lie, it must be crushed at every turn. And it doesn't matter what rostrum it's made of. There must always be a Ukrainian answer to that, and only then can we win the information war that is waged by the aggressor country in all international structures. Just like that. Thank you for your attention. And thank you, Madam Chairman, for giving me the opportunity to speak. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-17-m0.u93	Thank you, Your Honor. Igor Lucenko is invited to the floor by his colleague, the People's Deputy of Buharev, the "Fatherland" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-17-m0.u94	Thank you. The esteemed society forced from this rostrum to speak publicly to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Yuri Vitaliyovich Lucenka, about the things that are being done in his revenge and about which he is obviously unaware. So on April 7th, I went to the Ukrainian Security Service with a parliamentary appeal requiring that a report be drawn up by the President of Ukraine on the administrative misconduct of Dustenk. The requirement was that President Prashenko Peter Alexiyovich failed to comply with the Ukrainian Anti-Corruption Act – and did not transfer the right corporate rights to a business entity with the right license. In other words, I demanded that the powder be fined for continuing to work as a businessman, not as a president. In essence, I did not receive an answer, and I did not, to be honest, expect to receive an answer. Instead, I was personally taken by the Attorney General’s Office. At the signature of one of the current Attorney General's deputies, who, by the way, was the deputy to the previous one, I received an urgent request to provide information on whether I myself had complied with the Ukrainian Anti-Corruption Act. Did he hand over the Nardepa to another person to me as a company called the Art Space? In this regard, I report that unlike President Prashenko of Ukraine, I do not engage in entrepreneurial activities or hide businesses in offshore jurisdictions. "The Art Space" was registered to me in 2011 at a known address for every cyanide: Gruszewski,4-b. In order to prevent the Ukrainianophobia of Dmitri Tobacco, who was then vice-minister of history's monument. As a nardepian, I met the requirements of anticorruption legislation and handed the administration over to another person. On this occasion, I would like to ask Yuri Vitaliyovich Lucenka, the same person who wrote me a letter from the HPA, to contact President Prashenko with a letter of similar meaning and to request proof that Prashenko has complied with the requirements of the Ukrainian Anti-Corruption Act and transferred the corporate rights to the relevant entity of entrepreneurial activity. Ask me to inform you on the reply to the Questionnaire-Peter Alexiyovich, set up by the Ukrainian Law on the Status of the Ukrainian People's Deputy. This is my address to Mr. Lucenka, MP. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-17-m0.u95	I now give the word according to Egor Soboljev's self-help record. Please, Mr. Yegor.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-17-m0.u96	We have made several important decisions in this parliament this week, which have already been mentioned and, indeed, have something to greet each other with. For me, one of these decisions is that Parliament has finally begun to consider a bill to extend the requirements of the Law on the Cleanse of Power to candidates of the People's Deputies and candidates of the Presidents. If the person was in the KGB, if the person was the high - ranking owner of Viktor Yanukovitch, if the person was unable to explain the property of his family and decides to fly, the electorate should know about it. In our bill, it is so proposed that such a candidate should inform the electorate. The voters will decide for themselves whether they are willing to have such a representative in Parliament or such a President, or whether they do not want to vote for him. The only sanction provided for in this bill is if the candidate is lying, if he's hiding information that he's falling within the purgatory of power law, then the Central Electioner will have the right to withdraw him from the election. I think it's a very important stage in spreading the illustration to all officials who claim to be authorized by people, both to those who are appointed and to those who are elected. Among the steps Parliament has not taken this week. I think, and on behalf of all of Self-Help, I want to draw the attention of all my colleagues, which is very important as soon as possible to replace the Centre. The president finally appointed candidates for the post of Central Elections, and the Self-Help faction met with most of them. I want to say my own impression. There are prepared people who can become strong independent members of the Centre. It's important not to be played with by the name of Natalie Jaresco when they're offered, and in fact neither the President nor other important leaders of the coalition will engage and propose to appoint them. And then there will be a situation where Hendowski and Ko will continue to count the votes as they used to do, and the President will say, "I've proposed to Parliament, he's not deciding anything." Therefore, our request for Self-Help to all colleagues is to meet candidates at the Election Centre as soon as possible and to put on the vote the release of Ohendowski and Ko and the appointment of the new Central Electioner. And the last. I have a request for Parliament's leadership to take personal control of consent to bring criminal responsibility and arrest Deputy Oneshchenka. This is the first time in the history of the anti-corruption bureau they've ever filed.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-17-m0.u97	15 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-17-m0.u98	For the first time, the Anti-Corruption Bureau filed such an application with a national deputy. I think it's very important that Parliament does not hold back from agreeing to such an arrest.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-17-m0.u99	Thank you. Please welcome National Deputy Rosenblatt of Peter Dustenk's Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-17-m0.u100	Good day, dear colleagues, good day, Ukrainian people. Today, as always on Friday, we are forced to note the absence of many deputies. And that's why today, like all of us, many progressive deputies, I support those changes to the Supreme Council of Ukraine regulations that will make the deputies sit in the Supreme Council, in the premises, work and do everything they can to change the laws that we want to change, they change not only the country, but the lives of our people. But the question is different today. Today, we can say our work in a week. It wasn't very fruitful, but there were laws that we had adopted and we could take them any further, not what we were proud of, but they would really affect people's lives. One of the laws that we passed was the law on the continuation of our Jack's work, the ability to provide them with further services, but the continuity of the movement forward and the variability, the change in the integration of co-owners of multi-story buildings. Why am I so confused by this subject? Because as major cities of Zitomir, and seeing people's desire to change their lives for the better, I see that they want to do everything they can to make us OSB. But that crazy resistance that we've seen and seen on the side of some local authorities, some people who don't want it today, new businesses, they're doing everything they can to keep it from happening. They make all the information policy so that it conflicts with common sense. So today, when I go to the ministry, first of all, housing and utilities, I would like to draw their attention to the policy that they should continue. They should explain to people the advantages of these associations, the possibilities. Because even on the TV channels and this week, we're going to say, we've been talking hotly about these issues, where the already active heads of OSB were present, they've been confirming that there's no increase in utilities, where there's enough of them, well, important OSBB, it's not happening like the cost of 2 bracelets of 80 copies in Kiev per square meter, so it stays. The question is different. The question is that we have to move forward. And today, the creation of OSBB, the creation of energy-efficient measures, about what many have said today, the same Deputy Prime Minister Zubek, we must do everything we can to ensure that our people have a new quality of housing. There is no possibility of rebuilding the state today, and this can only be done because there are today grants of great states that today see only one thing that Ukraine wants to change its, well, fuel, there are energy-efficient measures to do everything to make it happen. Last question is, I'd like to ask you, Mrs. Irina, a question of amber. We do.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-17-m0.u101	30 seconds. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-17-m0.u102	That today the topic of amber has gone back because there were more important questions this week, but I still want to look back. We have very little time left to finish this summer session, and we still have to make a decision once and for all. Our navels should serve the people, not criminal criminals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-17-m0.u103	Thank you, Mr. Rosenblatt, for your active work on the amber committee. And I now give the floor to Mr. Kishkar's People's Deputy Block. Other deputies are asked to take note of their colleagues ’ speeches.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-17-m0.u104	Thank you, Madam Chairman! A brief summary last week. Let's start with winning. Our victories began with the adoption of the law on the creation of a new type of military force, the Special Operations Force. In general, the concept likes to see people transfer powers and money from inefficient governance systems to certain new elements in the structure that are effective both on the front and during, in fact, interactions with those military formations that are now involved in an anti-terrorist operation. The second and overriding victory for me personally is acceptance of 3822, which is extremely important for the state, in fact, language is an identifier, language is a defining element of the state. I think that Parliament has taken the right step to confront the protection of its sovereignty with the adoption of this law. Third. In fact, before the debate in Parliament yesterday, we collected, it seems, 15 signatures under the new edition of the Ukrainian Law on Physical Culture and Sports. We would be happy if other national MPs would join the debate, because this is a fundamental change in the relationship between the state of sports, the state of children, the state of FST, the state of public organizations or sports clubs. The state sees us as a sports customer, not as it is now written in accordance with article 5 of this law – the state is in charge of sports. The juices have to go back in time. Sports are now an active business and a first link in national health, and in fact this is the first stage in health care. So we ask you to discuss this law, ask you to make your suggestions and stand ready to support them. I would like to thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-17-m0.u105	Thank you, Mr. Kishkar. Please welcome a national deputy, Ednak, who is nonfractional.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-17-m0.u106	Honorable National Deputies, reverend people of Ukraine! I'd like to draw attention, once again, to the attention of society and the attention of journalists to the forest problem in Ukraine, but not as well as everyone is now talking about the Carpathian forests, I'd like to draw attention to the forests of the south and east of Ukraine. The point is, this year, perhaps for the first time in the history of Ukraine's independence in order to create a systemic crisis in the forest economy and to drive all the woodsheds into the stable was allocated 0 bracelets for the financing of the forest sector in the south and east. Where woodchoppers work to preserve forests from forest fires, they are given 0 bracelets from illegal edges. As early as July, I had submitted a bill to restore funding in these areas so that foresters could feed their families and purchase the necessary materials. But unfortunately, only this week did the budget committee consider this bill, Minfin said, "Deng no." And because of some debates, we've already pushed the government that's going to be preparing a bill next week that's going to be clearly grounded and funded and the sources of budgeting so that the foresters get the funding they need this year. And we expect the government to hold the position of responsibility, because when it burns, Minfin will speak in a completely different way and will seek the reserve for, God forbid, the fires going out. So I want to apologize to the foresters for taking the budget under the tree and not looking back and unfortunately causing the crisis. So I call on the foresters, in particular, not to have such a crisis, in the autumn of this. will be elected Head of Lisage under the new State Service Act for the Competition, transparently, with the participation of the public, and this is a chance to finally break the negative trend of the industry, restore confidence in this profession and in this field, and so that we don't repeat mistakes of the past. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-17-m0.u107	Thank you. And the National Deputy Vladislav Doub, who is being referred by his colleague from the "Peter Prashenko" National Deputy Sporish, is invited to the floor.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-17-m0.u108	Thank you very much. Vladislav Dove, 197th constituency, Cherkashina. First of all, I would like to congratulate the medical staff who will celebrate their professional festival on June 19th. And thank you, for example, for the employees of the Zolotani Central District Hospital, who invited me today to visit their solemn arrangements, but unfortunately I was not able to come in to speak now from the rostrum with a topic that is actually somewhat related to their activities. I am reading today, for example, news, and I read that the governor or, more specifically, the head of the Church State Administration welcomes medical professionals in the area. And where would it be more logical to welcome them, for example, in a drama theater that burned down on July 1, last year, and the district authorities have practically taken no steps to rebuild this theater? But if this were to end in the Cherkas region, I might not be so worried. Sadly, problems arise and go further. For example, there is a very important problem with the issue of decommissioning land for fighters who protect our state against the aggressor, the Russian Federation. For some reason, the head of Tkachenko’s district government decided that 33 ATO members should not receive land, and his own brother should receive these lands. And what I'm saying is that in these moments, the district authority of the Cherkas region has allocated an extra 200 hectares for the governor's brother at a time when 33 ATO participants can't get anything. Moreover, in April one of the directors of his enterprises, Mr. Bores Alexander Alexandrovich, also received 270 hectares of land. I have a feeling that the head of the Church State Administration has forgotten his predecessor, Mr. Tolub. There was such an ominous governor in Cherkashchen who was very, very badly finished and is now sitting down, resting in Spain, and still waiting for the Ukrainian court to take place. But I'm deeply convinced that we've been through a time when local authorities will think that they're local princes, that the area belongs to them, and they can do whatever they want for their own wealth, for the sake of enriching their family and their business partners. Because, for example, once again, in order to appoint the head of the State Architectural Inspectorate of Mr. Eumina, he was so helpful to Mr. Tolub, the Governor personally travels to Kiev to lobby his interests, when it's just convenient for his business partner, with whom he's also in business, so I am.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-17-m0.u109	Thank you. Please, the next speaker, Mr. Yedakov, gives the floor to his colleague from the People's Front, National Deputy Guza.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-17-m0.u110	Igor Goose, 19th Voyage Voyage. For the first time, I want to address Yuri Lucenka. A few weeks ago, you had a meeting with our 14th Brigade military and you were good enough to stop all of the persecutions of the fighters, which have been for about a year and a half, unfortunately, which the Military Prosecutor's Office is harassing, and that was the right and definitely the right thing to do. But today, in Volodymyr-Wollin City, the courts continue and, unfortunately, the military prosecutor's office in these courts, again, stands up for the punishment of ordinary fighters who, unfortunately, were abandoned by command, in their time, this year 2014, had no weapons and many other problems that we know about. What's more, they're starting to move away from the fighters and persecute our commanders today on the 14th and once again 51 brigades. Yuri Vitaliyovich, I am very much asking you to pay attention to this. I've heard your statement that you're giving 100 days to Mr. Mathios in his office, so let him do your bidding, not persecute the fighters of our heroic brigade. I am now the second question to Mr. Nasserov, Head of the State Fiscal Service. Mr. Nasirov, I've been calling for a long period of time, we've got to go to Volina soon, and that is when, I hope, a visa-free regime will be put in place, there will be a collapse, I've told you several times, I've written a statement and so on. Unfortunately, you're afraid to come to Volin. Why the collapse? As of today, there are about 1,000 600 cars standing on the border of Lviv and Volinsk, a lot of traffic now. Yes, there are problems on the part of the Polish customs office. But if the Volin brothers do, we have problems that need to be solved, not to hide our heads like an ostrich, sorry, in the sand. The question of increasing capacity at the Strait Passes, once. The question of repairing those damn scanners that were turned off out there and no one can turn them on, as one of our woe presidents said. The third question is the electronic line, the single window. When will this be implemented? Question number four: the money the European Union gave to repair the Ustelug crossing, where are they? I gave you a statement, give you an answer where you divided 3 million euros, where in the past year, beyond the last year, there were repairs, where they were buried, what's the report on these funds? So, Mr. Nasirov, I demand that you come to Volin County and deal with these problems in the city, because if you don't, we're facing an autumn collapse, if not just thousands of cars, tens of thousands of cars will stand and the capacity to pass will be completely ineffective. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-17-m0.u111	Thank you, Your Honor. Please welcome the People's Deputy of the Opposition Block, Igor Shurma.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-17-m0.u112	Igor Shurma, Opposition Block. I would like to place another emphasis on what is being done today in health care. In the original language, “The reform of medicine has not begun, the quality of medical services has not improved, doctors have not improved their lives”, ex-Minister Alexander Quintashvili eloquently acknowledged the obvious. Not a long time. A long period of time, the entire Supreme Council demands that structural changes in the health system begin. I would like to return to responsibility, and there are people in that room who are responsible for the political task of appointing Flowersville as Minister of Health. This is a responsibility to people, to doctors, and this is a responsibility to those patients. What is left in Ukraine today? As of today, we do not have a total of 100,000 health - care workers, namely, missing. Today, 100,000 people are lacking in health care. Every day 425 Ukrainian citizens of all ages die in Ukraine. Of course, some percent of those people die because they die worldwide. And no one can give an answer as to how many of them die because there are no drugs today. Again today, people who have voted a law that has entrusted international organizations with the purchase of drugs are responsible for the fact that 2 billion 200 million dollars are listed abroad today. Today, about 361 million medicines have gone to Ukraine -- 17 percent, 17 percent of the drugs that were to be in 2015. There is no tender procedure for 2016. Moreover, one of the Crown Agents suppliers is a structure that sets up around the world for third world countries, developing countries. Who brought these structures to Ukraine? I know who, but only out of respect for the parental family -- Shurma, for the letter "sh," -- I'm the two in the letter "sh" that got here, and I'm not going to popularize from this rostrum. Someone has to be responsible for our health financing catastrophe today. I've already spoken to you once. There was a Deputy Prime Minister sitting there. Listen, paradox! In the vicinity of the President and the Prime Minister in Winnice, health care remained until August. Lviv region: minus 150 million. Kharkiv area: minus 177 million. That means you have to cut into every area by 7,000 employees to fit in.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-17-m0.u113	Give me 15 seconds. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-17-m0.u114	On the eve of Health Day, I take my leave, from my colleagues on the Opposition Block, and from all those who are concerned about health issues, regardless of their political affiliation, I welcome all the medical staff with the holiday and thank them for their work.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-17-m0.u115	Thank you. I just want more people to be able to welcome the medics. And that's why I'm giving the word to the Radical Party of Laszka, leader of Oleg Laszko. He is given the word of two of his colleagues, Victor Halasyuk and Mr. Kuprienko. Six minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-17-m0.u116	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. I am now not addressing the House of Parliament because there are almost no deputies. Children of peasants, workers, and budget workers are mobilized to join the army. The MPs, the MPs, according to the army, have made their way to football in Paris yesterday and have not returned yet. At a time when millions of Ukrainians do not know how to make ends meet, at a time when most people do not see the future and the prospects, sadly, in their home country, the MPs allow themselves not to come to Parliament on Wednesdays, Thursdays, or Fridays. Can a country that is in a state of military aggression be in a state of economic decline, a time of demographic disaster, or can a country afford to have a parliament that is irresponsible, cowardly, ineffective, and politically immoral? These are rhetorical questions that I'm sure Ukraine will answer in the near future when they do. The Radical Party faction has been blocking the parliamentary rostrum for four weeks, requiring the resolution of the problems faced by Ukrainian citizens. Recently, June 9th, the National Commission for the Regulation of the Community Services Market, which is illegally led by a Russian-called Wolf, the Wolf in Sheep's Skin, has decided to raise tariffs and from July 1st, millions of Ukrainians have to pay almost all their wages for the payment of utilities, for the payment of hot water and heating. That is why, by blocking the parliamentary rostrum, we demand that the government cancel the decision to increase tariffs because the government itself is not going to meet our requirements, and this week we have appealed to the Kyiv District Administrative Court, demanding that the government's decision and the NCREKP's decision to increase tariffs be revoked. According to the Radical Party economists, the maximum price for Ukrainian citizens to consume domestic gas should be not more than 3,000 cubes per thousand square metres. The binding of the domestic gas price to the price of imported gas, as amended by Decision No. 758 of the Minister's Office (since 29 April 2016), is absolutely unfounded, a corrupt mechanism has been put in place to calculate the cost of housing and utilities. And for this corruption, Ukrainian citizens should be counted for these abuses. That's why the Radical Party faction requires the Parliament's Order to make a census of the price of gas for the population, to set an economically sound market price that can't be, given the cost of producing Ukrainian gas, it can't be more than 3,000 cubes per thousand square, 3,000 dollars per thousand square cubes. Why this corruption, why this abuse? Because those in power today, those who rob Ukrainians, they run their businesses in offshores, they don't pay taxes, Ukrainian people from small to old, they patch holes in the budget, instead we see the President, the Head of the National Bank, the Minister of Finance, the President's business environment, who don't pay taxes, they hide their assets in offshores. Our beloved peasants suffer the most as a result of anti - state, anti - human, communal genocide. Because the only source of income for millions of Ukrainian peasants is the cost of milk and vegetables. Today, most people give milk at 2.50 per liter. This means that millions of Ukrainian peasants break from bread to water and barely survive. In rural people, schools are taken away, hospitals are taken away, water is taken away, clubs are closed. Farmers, farmers, and farmers are taxed. As a result, we may not have enough crops this year. Therefore, the faction of the Radical Party is always on the watch for Ukrainian citizens, Ukrainian peasants, Ukrainian metallurgy, Ukrainian physicians, whose professional festival we celebrate on June 19th, Sunday, in connection with which we welcome. The Radical Party faction is a powerful team that protects every Ukrainian.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-17-m0.u117	Please, the Ukrainian National Deputy of the Radical Party, Mr. Halasyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-17-m0.u118	Dear Mrs. Irina, dear colleagues, the distinguished Ukrainian people! The World Bank prophesies Ukraine for this year 1 percent of economic growth. I want you all to understand what 1 percent of economic growth means. This means preserving this beggarly level, the pensions, the wages that exist today in the country. This means that at this rate of development Ukraine will never be in Europe, it is simply excluded. To develop and catch up with European countries, we need to increase by at least 7-8 percent per year economically. And this is absolutely possible, because we are a talented nation, because we have a wonderful land, because we have everything to succeed in addition to the right policy of power. Why is this happening? Because today, like the previous government, essentially replaces the programme of radical reforms needed by countries, replacing the programme of cooperation with the IMF. But what is IMF? This is the institution that provides temporary support for survival, it's a fish, not a wolf. Imagine, then, that the enterprise is governed by a credit agreement instead of a strategy. So this is what the Ukrainian government is doing today, replacing national, economic and social interests with the interests of cooperation and getting good grades from international partners. Today, our Ukrainian economy with you depends 95 percent on the price of raw materials, the price of grain, the metal, the forest round, the iron ore. Well, look, it's impossible, 95 percent. What does that mean? That means the guarantee of poverty. The same figure is only 38 percent in Japan. So today the government’s top priority is to untie the country from this raw needle and to pursue the countercyclical economic policy proposed by the Radical Party faction and our contemporaries in Parliament. Today, when more than 60 percent of the Ukrainian economy is in the shadow of the annual offshoring and tax evasion of between $8 billion and $11 billion by the United States. Today, it is easy to swim in the current, to get new credits, and to talk. That raising municipal tariffs is a reform, it's a completely anti-government, anti-Ukraine policy. We insist on changing this economic, essentially anti-economic, anti-social policy. Today you need national interests, just like all other successful countries in Poland, Turkey, Slovakia, I'm not talking about the United States anymore. The development of own production, wage increases, and pensions to ensure purchasing power, the promotion of national interest, not blind.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-17-m0.u119	Thank you, Mr. Victor. Please welcome Tetjana Ostrikova from Self-Help, who was given the word of her colleague Mrs. Boghołec.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-17-m0.u120	Good afternoon, dear colleagues. As a member of the Tax and Customs Policy Committee, I get a lot of complaints and signals from entrepreneurs, from businesses about the illegal interference of manuals in the VAT electronic administration system. Today, we have every reason to believe that such incidents and such facts of interference in the SEA VAT are not unique. This is how it's done. The taxpayer accidentally cancels, for example, the VAT payer’s testimony. The DFS then admits its fault and error, but giving a new witness or referring to the effect of that testimony, which has been annulled, is already problematic. Documents to renew the testimony go to high-ranking offices in the DFS, collect visas from various employees, and receive these visas without payment of an illegal reward for the fiscal service. The second thing about the VAT administration system is breaking contracts from the DFS in one-sided order to an electronic digital signature, as if the payer is not behind the location. Then the payer goes to the tax police, and today to confirm the whereabouts of the corresponding authorized tax police, it costs between 10 and 15 thousand dollars in Kiev. The next thing you know, it's tossing into an electronic VAT administration system the sum of a fictitious VAT. I have two living examples here, and I want to give them a sound right now, and I want to ask the Attorney General and the Head of the State Fiscal Service to give me a reasoned answer, or a criminal record of the facts. In particular, on December 31, 2015, a contract was adopted and agreed upon to recognise the electronic documents of the farm "Pustomitski". On the same day, on December 31, 46 tax receipts were registered for a total of 565,7 million dollars, on the basis of which tax credits with VAT were likely to have been created for non-legal operators who could have fictitious effects. Next. Next, I will insert VAT into the import operation that the subject did not perform. 25 March 2016 Society with limited responsibility."", registered on the street of Timothy the Structor, house 5. There was also interference with the VAT electronic administration system, where 10 million 910 thousand 562 bracelets were placed in the system after an import operation, according to customs. The customs value database, customs statistics, was not carried out by the holder. I ask the Attorney General and the Head of the State Fiscal Service to verify these facts and to register criminal conduct. For.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-17-m0.u121	15 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-17-m0.u122	Under all these facts, as national deputies, we will give our testimony as witnesses to all the facts we know from business, when the VAT electronic administration system is a direct manual intervention by DFS employees. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-17-m0.u123	Thank you, Mrs. Tetian. And now the People's Deputy Silantiev of the Radical Party, to whom his colleague Yuzkov gives the floor, is invited.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-17-m0.u124	Dennis Silantiev, faction of the Radical Party of Lacha. "The wealth of the country is not necessarily built on its own natural resources, it can be achieved even if it is not fully available, because the most important resource is man, the state just needs to create a basis for the development of human talent." This thesis by Margaret Thatcher comes to my mind more and more. Dear Ukrainian citizens, dear colleagues, I feel that politicians have forgotten the person for whom they work. The Radical Party has repeatedly stressed that there must be a person, a citizen with values, desires, aspirations, and expectations at the heart of public policy. But in view of what is happening, unfortunately, we see that the State is committing genocide to its own people. I am not an adept of conspiracy theories, but I feel like everything is being done today to destroy Ukrainians. So many slogans, so many quasi-reforms, and it's like people are getting better. To improve people. Only happiness and health — these basic needs that reflect their inner desires and desires — are increasingly gaining the status of an unfulfilled dream for millions of people. It's a lucky option. In fact, in the world since 2006, the evaluation of the nation's real well-being, such as the International Happiness Index, has been used to a full extent. Three indicators are used to calculate the index: satisfaction with life, life expectancy and ecology – this is what should become a basic programme for the development of any state, including Ukraine. Based on the International Happiness Index, our neighbours are: Belarus - 59th place, Moldova – 52nd, Slovakia – 45th and Ukraine – 111th place. For example, in terms of health, Ukraine has the highest mortality rate in Europe. UNESCO has declared Ukraine "a dying ethnic country": every year Ukraine loses more than 700,000 citizens and one third of them people of working age, every 10 Ukrainian does not live to 35 years, in separate regions of Ukraine, the rate of death -- attention! – almost the same as they were in the years of the famine. The Radical Party claims that it is necessary to form a people-centred model of government governance, which means that all government reforms and programmes should address the needs of people in terms of comfortable living conditions, self-determination and development. At the heart of the State's development strategy, there must be not a set of reforms, each of which is separated from each other by its own programs and performance indicators, which are not compatible with each other, but a list of requirements for human-focused authorities. We're on the verge and so far people, the simple man gives us a chance, and let's take advantage of it, and we'll be, and we'll remember that we're servants of the people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-17-m0.u125	The People's Deputy Sergei Leschenko of the Dusty Block, who was given the word of his colleague, Mrs. Prodan, is invited to the floor.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-17-m0.u126	Good afternoon, my friends! This week was historic in the sense that for the first time, the National Anti-Corruption Bureau, a new law enforcement body, had made an arrest to Parliament of one of the oligarchs, one of the national deputies of Mr. Alexander Oneshchenk, who was not in this sessional hall because he had fled to the coast of Lazarus to hide there from the investigation. Here's this document: 85 pages where it's completely explained how a criminal group led by Oneshchenko acted, that's what the National Anti-Corruption Bureau concluded. Mr. Onishchenko is one of the gas oligarchs of the People's Will group, who uses state property together with the company "Crushing" and, accordingly, according to the investigation conducted, it has been established that Mr. Oneshchenk has contributed to the cost of the company "Crushing" and, in other words, to the cost of Ukrainian citizens, because it is a state company. - 1 billion 600 million bracelets. This is the money the doctors, teachers, pensioners, the Armed Forces, the entire budget area of Ukraine have not received. Mr. Onishenko here is called the leader of this group, and he now accuses everyone of the political order that it is the execution of some order. In fact, for him to be an honest person, he had to stay here in the hall and explain. Instead, he put on his heels. I think the next few days he's going to show up here in Ukraine, start commenting, say it's an order again. But as soon as Parliament meets again on Tuesday or Thursday, there will be votes to remove it from its touch and further arrest, it will disappear again. Mr. Onishenko appeared in our Parliament as a result of a plot, because the Prashenko Block and the People's Front did not present any candidates in his district, and the Father's Party presented a technical candidate, and this allowed him after the Dignity Revolution to gain this inviolability. I can only imagine how much money was paid for it. In addition to Mr. Oneshenko, another historic event took place this week: NABU has announced in search of such a former MP from "The Fatherland" Mr. Dmitry Krutchev. A person who has developed a corrupt criminal scheme for withdrawing funds from the government’s entourage. In particular, he was acting on the Zaporozhye blanche for millions of dollars and the roof for him was Mr. Surkiss, and Mr. Igor Cononenko, who is the representative of the Dust Block. And these diagrams were completely covered up by our top today. Mr. Cononenko and Mr. Granowski are, in my opinion, people who today characterize corruption in the context of the President. And lately, I have repeatedly raised questions before Western diplomats about the imposition of international sanctions against representatives of today's corruption authorities. These are people, all the names you know: Kononenko, Granovski, Long, Beresenko, Martinenko, Pashinsky, Ivanchuk are the people who represent today's power to be.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-17-m0.u127	Thank you, Mr. Leschchenko. And a nonfractional national MP, Derevyanco, is invited to the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-17-m0.u128	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues! Dear colleagues! Yuri Derevyanko, political party of Will. The way his own government cares about its own people is a measure of its effectiveness. The Will Party sees a man as a major asset, and today the government is an oligarch. The Will Party is today in favour of providing people with decent living conditions, and the government today in order to provide large capitalists with profits, oligarchs and a mastery. What does a valid government do to make an ordinary Ukrainian feel more secure in his own country today? The last thing the government did was raise the minimum wage by 72 bracelets, or 5 percent. Instead of what he did today for the oligarchs and in order to destroy the Ukrainian people, it raised the tariffs on gas, so that power is now four times more expensive than its worth, it sells Ukrainian gas, and this revenue remains in the company of Crushing and those people who are running it today, as my colleague spoke of the day before. The second part of this revenue remains with the company Ukrnafta, which belongs to the oligarch of Cologne. And the third is private owners of gas wells. The government has decided to set such rules because oligarchs now own both Obelhas and wells, and the profits of 400 percent are for them. From May 1 to May 1, tariffs on gas, hot water, and other services and so - called social tariffs were doubled. The government does not stop and plans to raise once again tariffs for every Ukrainian citizen since October and April 2017, who has an average two-bedroom apartment of 60 meters per four persons on average between 2 000 and 2 000 dollars. Why is this being done? This is done to ensure the direct flow of budget funds from the budget directly into the pocket of the oligarchs. Not only from the budget, but also from the citizens who pay for these crazy tariffs. Today, the Supreme Council must stop this mess, which has become possible from the confluence of oligarchs and authorities. We see that Janukovic is gone, but his friends continue to earn money in the Ukrainians, and the schemes he has introduced are being used very effectively today. So the Will Party is proposing a plan of action to level the tariff situation. The first is to cancel the increase in the price of gas for the population. The second is the local gas to target the needs of the population and importable to the industry. The third is to lower the tariff on heating according to the reduced price of gas. The fourth is to establish a moratorium on gas tariffs for electricity supply by 31 December 2016. And most importantly, to pass the law on the NCREKP, the regulator, which today has to be independent of both the President and the Supreme Council and the government. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-17-m0.u129	Thank you, Your Honor. The National MP, Markevich, conveys the word to a non-fractional colleague — the national deputy, Levchenk. Please. Dear colleagues, we work until the second hour, because there are still those who want to speak. So we have some time yet. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-17-m0.u130	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223 District, Kiev City. Good afternoon, distinguished Ukrainian people, our television and radio audiences. I'd like to address you today more than the Mayor of Kiev, with such rather narrower, it would seem, problems, although I think they actually show a wonderful situation in the whole state. And right away, let's say, continuing the thesis of Sergei Leschchenk, our colleague who just spoke, talked about the historicity of appropriate corruption investigations, and the detentions of the future, we hope. Well, I'd like to disagree with him a little bit. I think it's the very right thing to do, what happens is these gas oligarchs are finally doing something to them. But I don't think there's anything historical here. It will be historic to arrest and imprison one of the ruling parties -- the BP, the People's Front -- when Arsenija Petrovich Yatsenuk is arrested and imprisoned for the 7 billion he stole. When arrested and placed, for example, the mayor of Kiev, Vitalia Volodymyrovich, Klitschka, who covers illegal fences and is essentially the puppet of Vadim Stolar, the president's man who runs Kiev. I don't run Kiev, I run society, I run the country, I run the country, I run the country, I run the country, I run the country, and I run the country, but Kiev is run by a bandit named Vadim Stolar, who is the puppeteer of the Klitka doll. And "The Clumsy" does everything he says to him. And what I wanted to say is, actually, one example of this situation. In 2005, even near Omelchenk Kyivradya, there were no green areas in the center of Kiev on Tatar, at the corner of the streets of Głboczycka and Tatarsk, where there are no parks at all, there are no green areas where mothers and children can find a place to walk, and it was one hectare of green area under construction, as if to the Church. This is an interesting sect called the "Government of the Church of Jesus Christ of the Last Days in Ukraine" or as the populace calls them Mormons. Yeah? There was nothing happening for 10 years in this area. Well, obviously, the area was set aside for very different reasons, not to build a church there. We and the deputy of Kyivrada from Freedom, Svetslav Kutniak, found a year ago the basis, the legal basis in the contract, to break this treaty because this treaty clearly stipulated that there was little to be built there in three years. Kiyivrad before the election, because Klitschko wanted to mate, the agreement was broken. But as soon as, unfortunately, through another lie, another bribe, Klitschko and his strike team came back to Kiev again, they immediately blocked the decision, they stopped. They stopped the process of creating a squabble in this place and started the process of restoring this land area to an illegal barrier that the entire community is up against. I'm asking you to add literally 30 seconds, Mrs. Irina.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-17-m0.u131	Ten seconds. That's what I'm adding to everyone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-17-m0.u132	Thank you. Thus, the builders brought Kyivrada and Kyivrada to court in order to annul Kyivrada’s decision. And Kyivrada's in court is pouring out, the court is fully working for the builders, the lawyer is coming.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-17-m0.u133	Thank you. I've got more. [[B in m in s a l in]] Mr. Levchenko, I've given everyone 15 seconds and look how much longer. [[B in m in s a l in]] Five seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-17-m0.u134	It's a complete court-martial. And I'm calling it in now.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-17-m0.u135	Thank you. I now give the floor to the Radical Party representative, Mr. Fisherman. Well, there are many more who would like to speak, Mr. Levchenko, Jura, I am not the censor here, but I follow the rules.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-17-m0.u136	Dear Ukrainians, the financial day in the Supreme Council is once again ruined. As the head of the profiling committee, I used to turn to Parliament’s management for several weeks in a row with letters asking questions on the consensus boards, but everything went wrong every time. We had already agreed to spend at least a financial hour, but what happened yesterday went beyond that: nearly a third of the deputies flew to Leon to watch football. We're all in pain for Ukraine, but before we close Parliament on the day of the vote or fly to France, it's a disgrace. In the country there's a war going on, in the last week military action has been intensified, our boys are dying every day, financial stability is very weak, the NBA continues to shut down domestic banks, the population and business continue to guess which bank will fall next. How can we develop an economy? Risks in the banking system continue to rise, because of the difficult state of domestic enterprises and the mistaken interest rate policy of Nitzbank's credit, the bank's assets have deteriorated. If we don't fundamentally change the policy of NBA and government, we can get to the next drop in the world's raw prices even worse. This week we were planning to consider a package of dozens of bills for reforming the financial sector. For example, consumer credit, credit promotion, and consumer protection. We've been living for 10 months without the Nazbank Council, which has to control the management of the NBA and develop the principles of monetary policy. The key regulator works in the legal field. Our committee held a public competition in the fall and proposed to Parliament its fourth, so far the issue has not been put into the order of the day. In manual mode, they are more comfortable, as they say, to clean up the banking system. It has come to the point that the associations of financial market participants have turned to us, to the leadership of the state, demanding that we stop the abuse and create a temporary commission of inquiry for the study and evaluation of Nazbank's leadership. Parliament has no right to ignore this issue. We are obliged to take systematic measures to stimulate economic development. Without that, Ukraine will face an even worse crisis in a few years. At the same time, with representatives of the financial market and industrial unions and a large group of domestic scientists, we urge the authorities to reorient financial policies into broad support for financial development, economic modernization, and the creation of new jobs. We call on the Chief of the Supreme Council and our fellow deputies to come to their senses and to think more about Ukraine's future. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-17-m0.u137	Thank you. Please welcome People's Deputy Krivenko of "Peter Prashenko's Block."
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-17-m0.u138	Dear colleagues, good afternoon. Victor Krivenko, National Movement of Ukraine. Shortly after this week's events. First, my colleagues and I, Zalishchuk, Leschenko, Bereza, Najem, Ednak, Kishkar, have registered a bill repealing the so-called Party dictatorship law. Because you and I will only listen to our foreign partners when we are comfortable. When we want to push some kind of law, we say, "That's what the IMF requires, that's what the Minsk Accords require." And when we have to follow normal rules and rules, and we want to build a dictatorship, we want all deputies to be "standing" so that no one has any idea. I hope that the decision of the Venice Commission under that law, which is twenty-eight times against the Rules, which everyone respects and so all five factions have voted that the consciences will end it. Next. As co-author of the Ukrainian Space Act, the Ukrainian language on the radio, I want to thank everyone and the authors of the alternative bill, and first of all, the public that has acted, and the Widsich, and the Musicbat, and the dozens, hundreds of our performers who have reached a political situation. It was pressure from the outside, first of all. And those MPs who were actively involved inside that we really gave a better chance of a Ukrainian song for Ukrainian performers. This week, I made inquiries to the control facilities, to the Antimonopoly Committee on a situation consisting of Mikolaivoblanergo. This organization has sent letters to its biggest customers with a demand and proposal to make a deal with such a company as Transseroppostac otherwise threatened to reduce the limits to 30 percent of the volume. I've already spoken informally with two of the big companies that have received these letters, they've really received them, I hope they're reacting as quickly as possible, including the law enforcement agencies. We were all terrified of the situation that happened recently in Vasilkov when two children were beaten. A similar situation occurred only in the fall of the year, in the Demidov district of Vishgorod, when Svetlana Sapotinska was beaten by a major who was never arrested. On the basis of which the law enforcement fees for discipline were inconvenient, a blood test for which a number of violations were committed. And we can see that, as if there are some connections in the mayor, how he is rewarded. So I asked the Attorney General to take the matter personally. Mothers and sisters cry and stand on the street every day, the whole community knows that the authorities are not working. So I strongly urge the new Attorney General to intervene and settle down.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-17-m0.u139	Thank you, Your Honor. I now give the floor to the national deputy Igor Popov of the Radical Party of Láška, to whom his colleague Lenský speaks. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-17-m0.u140	Dear voters! Last week, the National Anti - Corruption Agency approved an important decision on how the electronic register of declarations will function. The Supreme Council has adopted legislation on this. All technical regulations are being developed. As deputy head of the Anti-Corruption and Anti-Corruption Committee, I closely monitor the work of the National Anti-Corruption Agency. And what do we see? We see that the work of this agency is not needed by anyone, and more than that, there is a huge interest in the authorities to break down the work of such an institution. Four members of the agency, the heads of the agency, were taking part in a big fake contest, the competition collapsed, stalled, failed, we're behind schedule for a year. The fifth member of the agency cannot be taken out of the competition because the competition commission is being pressured to appoint someone by the quota of corrupters. The agency itself has been provided with not enough equipment to work properly there to prepare them to perform their very important function. They don't even have the Internet. Why? Why is this happening? Since August 15, the system of electronic declarations must be launched, and in the fall 50,000 of Ukraine’s highest officials will have to fill out these declarations. And the responsibility for misinformation will already be criminal. But if they could fill out the 2015 declarations, as we call for in Parliament, we passed a law on whether they could fill out, let's say, the finance minister who held administrative positions in three offshore companies in 2015. That's going to have to be stated directly. If you say so, it's a violation of the law, it's an exemption and a protocol for corruption. If not, it is a criminal responsibility for unreliable data. Would other officials, already known, already be able to state in international documents that they had these offshore companies, or would they be able to fill out such declarations without lying, without criminal responsibility? Isn't that why the national agency's work is collapsed and why they want to shut down the entire electronic declaration system that we've been fighting for? Now they've cleaned their tails, but in 2015, each person has to give the right data. The Radical Party faction blocks the rostrum to investigate all offshore schemes and lower tariffs. And these questions are intertwined. If we close off the offshore holes, if they stop stealing and burying money in offshors, then we don't have to raise tariffs because there's gonna be enough money in the state. The European Parliament has already set up an offshore commission of inquiry. The Radical Party faction with the same pattern, word for word as the European Parliament proposes to create a commission, we turn to our colleagues from other factions, give our deputies and we will work together.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-17-m0.u141	Thank you, Your Honor. National MP Dombrovski of the "Block of Petra Poroshenko" gives the floor to the National Deputy Solovia.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-17-m0.u142	Yuri Solovay, 89th constituency, Gutzulščina and Poksi. Dear colleagues, I don't always focus so much on the district from which I've been chosen and on the words "Hushchin" and "Penalty." Because it is the most picturesque, tallest and ecologically clean region in Ukraine. If you say two words, it's so-called Ukrainian Switzerland. What are the names of villages or cities in this region, such as Kosmach, Kuti, Roznev, Kosov, Vrchovina, Krivorovina, and such a list can be continued and continued. Centuries ago the most prominent Ukrainians, such as Lesia Ukraine, John Franco, Mikhailo Gruszewski, and many others, were resting in this land. Does this land and the economic potential of this land work today as it did even 100 years ago? I think the answer is obvious, no. And the reason for this is simply the unsatisfactory state of the infrastructure and, in particular, the roads in this country, and especially as a result of the flood of 2008. Thank God that we, the people's deputies in this room, together last year have managed to start an important, extremely important road construction program in the Carpathian region and we have managed to draw attention to the construction of the road, the Golden Horseshoe Carpathians, the roads of the R-24. And for these purposes, 50 million dollars were allocated last year. This year we've continued this direction and we've foreseen 50 million dollars, and I hope we can work together this year to complete the repair of the road from Kosovo to the Upper East. But that's not enough, dear fellows, it's not enough, it's a pitfall, it's 20 percent of what Gutzulščin needs today. The question of the restoration of the road from Jablounov to Kosmach remains unresolved. The question of building a road from Kosovo to Kutov remains unresolved. The question of building the road from Krivorovn to Chernivts remains unresolved. Dear colleagues! The bracelet that we put into these roads is 100 bracelets that come back in the form of taxes on the budget. And that's why I call on you, my fellow Members of Parliament, to pay attention and do everything I can to make sure that road infrastructure not only in this country (although, of course, I am most concerned about the most road infrastructure in the country of Gutzulščina), but also road infrastructure in Ukraine as a whole begins to develop because every single penny in this sector is created new jobs and these are taxes that are due tomorrow to the state budget. And so on the first floor of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I'm addressing the government and the minister of infrastructure to review the expenditure of the state budget in part of the distribution.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-17-m0.u143	Ten seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-17-m0.u144	Take a look at the costs and direct additional costs to rebuild roads in the most picturesque region, Hutzulščina. Thank you. And I invite everyone to the Green Festival in Gutzulska.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-17-m0.u145	Thank you, Your Honor! And the last speaker is the national deputy from the opposition block, Mikhail Papiev, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-17-m0.u146	Thank you. Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! Dear citizens of Ukraine! You know, I'd like to support the previous speaker in solving the issues and the Carnations, and the Gutsulchinos, and the Bukovinas. The only thing I would argue with him is that the best, most picturesque country in Ukraine is Bukovina. But the problems of the roads as a person who travels on these roads, they absolutely have to be solved -- the roads are terrible. And you know, today we've been doing a general analysis of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and how much our work today reflects these problematic issues of the people they expect from our Supreme Council of Ukraine. The efficiency of our work, it's close to zero, and this week, it's another confirmation. I want to give an example of what happened yesterday. Imagine: 80 people are starving in the Ministry of Social Policy, a disability of work disability, by which the Yatsenuk government decided in 2015-2016 to end the pension recalculation, depending on the increase in the average monthly wage in the economy of Ukraine, which would take place on 1 March each year. And in fact, no recalculation was made in 2015 by 6.5 percent, in 2016 by 20.5 percent. In fact, people stole about 30 percent of the meager even social assistance that they had all the years of independence in Ukraine. And yesterday, when that question got up for the vote in the Supreme Council of Ukraine, remember, it got 218 votes. If the presiding student were to take this decision and put it into the agenda, we have examples ten times or more, the return to the vote has been many. But somehow there was no turning back. After that, many Ukrainian national deputies, despite starving people, chose to go to the football game as their priority. By the way, in that matter, they were not agile and not known where else they would have benefited or where less they would have brought evil, or stayed here, in the Supreme Council of Ukraine, or gone there to France. But the main problem we have is that we have two weeks of work left and, given the way in which the agenda is formed, the probability is that Ukraine's tariff laws will not be adopted, that Ukraine's laws will not be adopted and that the head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine will not be adopted, so I can see that they may do everything they can to prevent it from being adopted.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-17-m0.u147	Ten seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-17-m0.u148	raising social standards and so on. So I have one proposition that Mr. Cox had. In proportion to the number of Ukrainian national deputies, it is necessary to bring the order of the day into order.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-17-m0.u149	Thank you, Your Honor. Let me remind you that all leaders of parliamentary factions can make their proposals during the Conciliation Council on the agenda. Dear colleagues! I would like to thank all those who have participated in the "hour of performances" in the heading "different." And in summarizing this very important week, once again, I would like to thank the very many national MPs who have also contributed to the liberation of the two hostages – Yuri Soloshenka and Gennady Afanassieva. We are all fighting, indeed, for all the Ukrainians to return home. The following week will be very important in the context that the Ukrainian delegation will participate in the meeting of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. And for the first time in a year and a half in this session of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, our colleague Nadia Savchenko will also participate. Which was released thanks to the efforts of the President of Ukraine, the joint efforts of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, its family, its deputies, all the people of goodwill and the international community in this month, during this month. And also, honourable colleagues, let me remind you that the following week, from June 21 to 24, the national MPs work on committees, factions and groups. On the week from June 29 to July 2, national deputies work with voters. The Conciliation Board will meet on Monday, July 4, at 10 a.m. The next plenary meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine will take place on Tuesday, July 5, at 10 a.m. Dear voters! If you're watching a meeting of the Supreme Council right now, it's not a joint blockade of the rostrum by the Radical Party and everyone else who's left, it's a collective photo of Friday night. I'm closing the morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and it's closed. Until the meeting, and fruitful work for all in committees, factions, groups and in our international delegations. Thank you.
