ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-07-m0.u1	Good morning, dear fellows! Please enter the hall, prepare for registration. Colleagues ready for registration? People's deputies please register. Please turn on the registration. Please. [[10:03:07]] 347 deputies registered. The morning plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Honorable fellow members of the national MPs, professional celebrations today are celebrated by military spies. Military intelligence is now at the front of the defense at Donbassa and abroad. On the border with Crimea. Military spies throughout the war against the Russian occupation have demonstrated high examples of heroism and self - sacrifice. Not all of their operations can be talked about, but we can firmly say that today’s Ukrainian military intelligence gives us reason to be proud of it. We wish them success, we wish them victory. Let's welcome them. [[Applause]] Colleagues, in accordance with article 25 of the Rules on Wednesday, we have 30 minutes to deliver proposals, statements, and messages to the people’s deputies. I would like to remind and point out that it's not from the factions, it's from the national MPs. Therefore, all who wish to do so are asked to prepare for the recording of the talk, which has the desire to share in the discussion. Ready? And I'm asking you to record the national MPs' performances, please. Wolf Victor Ivanovich gives the word of Halasyuk. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-07-m0.u2	Dear Andrew Volodymyrovich, distinguished fellow MPs! I want to draw your attention to the government's economic policy on a very specific example that is just so hot today. You know, you and I have adopted a moratorium on the export of unprocessed roundwood for 10 years, and this moratorium has been going on for 7 months. To date, the government is planning to cancel this moratorium, they want a loan of 600 million euros, a loan to be paid in 15 years, to sell Ukrainian industry, Ukrainian ecology, and Ukrainian prosperity. I want to show you some slides, and I want to show you the results of the moratorium that we supported with you in the first months of his work. First slide, please. Look at this: during work, the total industry, the proceeds, fell by 6 percent in the woodworking sector, by furniture, plus 12-15 percent. Next slide, please. Export. Total exports decreased by 11 percent, after woodworking plus 12 percent, or woodworking started to develop. Next slide, please. The Minister of Economics says that the moratorium gives you a minus for the budget. That is not true, he has been misinformed or deliberately misled. Look, the moratorium gives a substantial plus for the Ukrainian budget -- plus 18 percent in the United States dollars. These are substantial extra revenue. What branch shows such results today? On the slide, you can see how much investment in woodworking has increased: three and a half times during the moratorium, from $15 million to 50 million. So it's only during these first six months that investors have believed and started investing in Ukrainian woodworking -- creating new jobs, new productions, including European investors. So what does this government want to do? Sell the trust of European investors for a one-time loan? Is that what this is called government policy? At the same time, I would like to highlight your attention on the following. Next slide, please. Another one. There's a huge problem, which is that, on the one hand, we've banned the export of roundwood, except for pines, which means valuable types of wood can't be exported; but part of this wood is exported in the form of wood, half of that quantity went actually, probably in smuggling mode. These numbers are just amazing. So I have a question: why does the government, instead of dealing with this problem, dealing with smuggling, changing customs and so on, try to cancel the moratorium? That is, he translates from his head into ours with you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-07-m0.u3	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-07-m0.u4	A moratorium on the export of unprocessed wood works, gives a plus by investment, by export, by taxes. Therefore, the principle requires the Radical Party faction to preserve the moratorium, to overcome the smuggling of customs and, along with the woodworking associations, to overcome the corruption that is now in the internal market. And so you and I have to do it in every area of the Ukrainian industry, and then there will be investments, exports and taxes for the budget, not sell the country on. We don't know what the conditions are. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-07-m0.u5	Thank you. Yuri Mikolaiovich. Please, Wilkul. But, colleagues, I ask you to continue either to give me a note, or via the microphone to pass, if you don't mind, for all MPs, please. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-07-m0.u6	Dear people of Ukraine! Dear colleagues! Last autumn, the coalition passed a bill on the financing of political parties from the State budget. That is, in a poor country where power has deprived people of their jobs, money, hopes for the future, and political parties must now be financed from the State budget. The People's Front has to get 100 million, the WFP has to get 99 and the Opposition Block, and 42 million want to give. I want to state that the Opposition Block is not going to take that money anyway. We insist that this money be directed towards education. Last year, a year and a half ago, we passed a bill on a moratorium on closing schools, but said no money. The bill had not been passed in the hall, and the moratorium had not been adopted. This year 169 schools were closed, arguing that there was no money. So we have introduced Bill 5087 and insist that the money that should go to financing party officials go to finance schools so that they will not be closed to finance PTUs and to finance textbooks. Dear colleagues, I appeal to all: both the opposition and the provincial parties, if you are true patriots, vote in favour of sending the party money to the children. Or you're patriots only when you have to scream beautiful slogans and jump high, and when you have money, take it away. No! No! Vote, and then you will understand the true patriotism and who. That's all right, thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-07-m0.u7	The fisherman Sergey passes the word to Cooper for the performance. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-07-m0.u8	Dear colleagues, two months ago, doctors killed my son Stephen. It's a very difficult loss for me, so I would very much like you to think that death could still be. This happened because the doctors failed to perform their duties, because they have a thirst for wealth, because they are overwhelmed by indifference. This didn't happen anywhere, but in our central hospital, one of the best hospitals, at OHMATDIT. I'd like to address you with the question that needs our response so that we can still have a medical reform. Two months ago. Three months ago, my wife was pregnant, and one of the best lights in cardiology in Ukraine was misdiagnosed by Mr. Kurkevitch that our child had the flaws of tetrad Fallo's heart. But he specifically prescribed in an outpatient card that births require the execution of Caesar's slit and require a clear presence of professional professionals from OHMATTIT. However, she had premature childbirth. Unfortunately, I was abroad. It was at night, she was brought to the first maternity home on Obolon 2, where doctors simply, Dr. Jarmola, head of the obstetric ward, refused to provide her with medical care, took her into labor. It was a scandal. And it was only when the ambulance insisted that the water had already gone away that they said to her: ‘ Go yourself, get out of the cart and go into the delivery room. ’ There was no Caesar's cut. Misdiagnosed. What's the result? The baby was born with a broken esophagus. And in violation of all 10 - hour instructions, the baby was kept in the maternity home when each minute the acid fluid in the stomach reached the lungs. The child had bronchitis, pneumonia. After my assistants intervened, the child was transferred to OHMATDIT in the emergency room, where she was operated. However, they were infected. For a long time, we were not informed that the doctors could not find the antibodies or, as it were, could not find the antibiotics, and we did not know about the situation. One day my wife got a CPR, the baby was blue. They said, "Why are you doing this? She can't breathe!" Doctors did not respond at all, said it was normal for such a diagnosis. And it was only when he threatened to call the police at 102, that they called the ambulance, transferred it, and installed artificial breathing. And the child died. But what is it? Is that reform? We do not yet have a minister of health, we do not yet have insurance, we still have underfunding in this area. Mr. Groisman, I'm calling you from this rostrum! Reform, or rather than rule the state, you will have to rule over a cocoon in Cossack. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-07-m0.u9	Sergey Sobolev is invited to attend. He's giving John Krulk a word for the talk. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-07-m0.u10	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear Ukrainians, on behalf of the Fatherland faction, I would like to say the following important information that applied to the inter-sessional period of the summer. During the summer period, representatives of the Fatherland faction spent much of their time working at the Kyiv District Administrative Court in two cases. These are cases that are also referred by Yulia Tymoshenko and by the "Fatherland" faction to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and to the NCREKP regarding the annulment of the regulations that set the dragon's price for gas and the insurmountable municipal tariffs for Ukrainian citizens. Importantly, during this time, we were able to transfer the case from the previous court to a full session to be held by a college of three judges. This session will take place on September 23 at the Kyiv District Administrative Court, where we expect that if again in our courts the first violin won't play telephone law, and the law will work, then the court has no other argument than to cancel the Cabinet of Ministers. Which is the price of gas. Why is this price of gas set by the Cabinet of Ministers illegal? Because in accordance with article 19 of the Constitution, a cabin should act within and in the manner prescribed by law. Cabin doesn't have the authority to set gas prices. An independent controller has this authority, but it is by no means Kabmin. Even from the point of view of procedural issues, I don't say any more about economic justification, the court has to cancel this ruling. At the same time, however, we warned that there would be a gas default crisis in Ukraine, and it was totally incomprehensible how Ukrainian citizens, who could not pay for utilities for objective reasons, would take their property, their apartments. Therefore, Fatherland requires that a bill be approved in the near future and voted in this 5059 session hall, which places a moratorium on evicting Ukrainian citizens from their homes and on the removal of housing from Ukrainian citizens who cannot pay these dragon tariffs for utility services. The "Paternity" position on this issue is the following. We believe that Ukrainian citizens should have sufficient social standards to pay for fair municipal tariffs. You don't have to turn the whole country into an army of beggars who have to go with their hands out and ask for subsidies. That's why I'd like to point out that we need to vote on another bill. This is Bill 4791, which stipulates that social standards, minimum wages and pensions must be in line with the order that was approved by the Cabinet of Ministers in 2000 and provides that social standards cannot be lower than a minimum of living. If in the time of the government of Julia Timoshenko 95-98 percent.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-07-m0.u11	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-07-m0.u12	If the minimum standards were 95-98 percent of the approved methodology in the Yulia government, this year they account for 45-49 percent, half of what the citizen needs, it gets from the state. That's why I think we have to finally make government decisions, and Bills 5059 and 4791 are the primary bills to be adopted in this session room. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-07-m0.u13	Thank you. I invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy Oleg Musia.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-07-m0.u14	Good afternoon, distinguished national MPs! Oleg Musei, 124 constituency, Sokalska, non-fractional, political party People's Control. It is clear that the following treatment of Ukraine by a Moscow aggressor because it is occupying our land because it has invaded everything Ukrainian over the last 500 years is if it is a tribute to the current politics of Moscow's aggressor. I would like to draw your attention to the other side of Ukraine, the West, where Ukraine is bordering with our current friend, the Republic of Poland. You know, recently in July-month, despite the great warnings and requests of the group of Ukraine-Poland, the friendship that our distinguished Foreign Minister, Mr. Tarasyuk, has led, has been called upon by our Polish colleagues not to make hasty decisions and not to make a prejudiced decision. I believe and believe that a totally false decision and a falsified decision on the genocide of Poles by Ukrainian nationalists. Surprisingly, neither the Ukrainian President nor the Ukrainian Government nor the Ukrainian Parliament have responded in any way to this day and makes it appear that nothing has happened. To what time are we going to hide our heads in the sand and think that we're really going to be very much in the European Union, that we have great friends who, through their manipulative technology through the Polish Seim and through the Polish Senate, recognize the genocide of Polish citizens living in the territory of Poland, these Polish citizens? You know, a lot of you probably know that on August 3rd, doing the will of your constituents, because in my native Sokalska from the 43rd to the 46th year, only the Kraya Army and the 32nd Polish troops of the village were burned down with most people and with the churches where those people were, and everyone else. In addition, you know about the historical studies that have been conducted in Ukraine and in Ukraine and in Ukraine and in Ukraine and in Ukraine and in Ukraine and in Ukraine, where the sub-Station has been tortured and murdered and, murdered by the submission of the Polish state, starting with. Since the 19th, since the 18th, since its creation, 250,000 people have been resettled and chartered, and the Bereza-Kartuska is 30-34 years old. Operation Vistula – 850,000 Ukrainians were deported and 51st year, finally, the area exchange. I demand that the day-to-day session of my authorship be put in order, 5012 per issue. And I'm asking all the national deputies, just like you were on vacation.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-07-m0.u15	Ten seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-07-m0.u16	Please join all the national deputies and become co-authors of this decision. We are a proud parliament, we are a proud nation, and we are able to answer with real pride.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-07-m0.u17	Thank you. I'd like to invite you to the floor of National Deputy Andriy Shinkovitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-07-m0.u18	Glory to Ukraine! Dear colleagues, dear Ukrainian people, I was forced to go to this rostrum and step forward, distract your attention, and draw it to the situation that happened to me in the district of Hmielnick in the Theophilus region. This night, the raiding of a 3,000 - year - old factory began. Fake signatures from the owners of the company, changes to the register. Owners find blocked organs in their office. There's an extract of documents, another dissipation, because otherwise it's not called. It's a hop house today. It was actually a big shock in the morning, and it wasn't in the owners, it was in the language itself, because other entrepreneurs in all of Ukraine understand that today it can happen absolutely with everyone, absolutely with any enterprise that works and develops today, has profits. I am addressing the minister of justice from this venerable rostrum. Finally, we need to bring the system of changes to the register, because today it's extremely vulnerable. I ask you, Your Honor, to pay particular attention to the situation of the Ukrainian-2001 company, whose office is in Theophilus of the Hmelnick. The other one. I'm asking the Minister of Internal Affairs, because you can't, even if you're doing maybe even fabricated, I'm convinced that you have fabricated documents, but you have to do it in a civilized way without scaring people. Because people are primarily concerned about what? About their salary, about their work, they're afraid to lose it because there's no place to work in Ukraine today. And for their company, one of the largest sugar factories, one of the largest, where they process land, people just come in masks. Today people in masks are afraid, we have to say it honestly. What have we led the country to, dear colleagues? And why is that happening today? People need to be made clear, clearly. Because those owners who are legal, they're willing to prove their right, they're not running abroad, like the bastards we're taking away from here with you, and they're hiding. These people do not hide, they want to defend their right legally, and they want to prove that someone violated their property illegally. Let the truth prevail. And I very much ask the honourable ministers to pay attention to this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-07-m0.u19	I'd like to invite you to the floor of the People's Chamber of Commerce.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-07-m0.u20	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Dear colleagues! I'll be honest, I didn't find the strength to be present yesterday at the Peter Alexiyovich Dusty. But he was unable to analyze his performance. You know, you can't help but agree with the arguments that what happened before 2014, 21 years of independence in the matter of our military power and what happened there should be punished is 100 percent. But this certainly applies to individual ministers of the Cabinet of Ministers, including ministers of the economy. Today we have to draw all the guilty to the fact that our army is in such dire condition. But to be honest, I was intrigued by other facts. It was said that today our potential was much greater. And really, as a percentage of military spending, we've increased the total budget almost twice, even exceeded the Nativity standards. And what do we have in these two years? I now have the indexes of the famous Global FirePower Index from 2014 to 2016. And it turns out that in 2014, Ukraine ranked 21 among the 126 countries in the world, 30 in 2016. So we've lost our ratings in nine places, and we're increasing military funding. On what account? Today we've really driven our citizens into poverty, six times they've become poorer, municipal tariffs have gone up almost three times, the purchasing power of citizens has gone down five times. And they all support military spending. But today there's one question that's been very beautifully expressed in the famous song by Vladimir the High: "Where's the money, Zin?" The opposition bloc fully supports the initiative to create an investigative commission to investigate the theft of the defence budget and to bring responsibility to those who stole it from the 14th to the present. These people must be punished. And today we have to do everything we can to restore the wages, the pensions of our citizens, to finance them.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-07-m0.u21	Thank you. I'd like to invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy, Mikola Skorik.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-07-m0.u22	Dear Madam Chairman, distinguished colleagues, respected citizens of Ukraine! Last week, Ukraine began another school year. In this context, I would like to touch upon this high platform of issues that relate to the financing of the educational sector in our country. The first question is the situation around vocational and technical education. In this budget, in 2016, the government then led by Mr. Yatsenuk transferred the funding of vocational and technical education to local budgets, motivated by the fact that the so-called decentralization of local budgets has increased so much that they can finance vocational and technical education. I can only report that, in my home Odessa area, today, the deficit in the financing of vocational and technical education is 97 million dollars, and the debt on wages, on utility payments, on scholarships for students, for vocational and technical schools, among which, by the way, the majority of orphans, is 36 and a half million dollars. We're well aware that, let's say, aside from the cities of regional importance, I mean the district centers, the cities of district importance don't have the ability to finance vocational and technical education. And the transfer to finance their entire network of these facilities is actually we push them to destruction, we have to be honest with our citizens. And in this context, what do I want to propose? And in the context of preparing budget proposals 2017. The first is the amendment to the Ukrainian Budget Code for the transfer of financing of professional and technical institutions from the city budgets of cities of regional importance by excluding the cities of district centres into the district budget of the area concerned. The other one. Provision of a stable grant in 2016 to local budgets for missing amounts in local budgets. By the way, my colleague, Mr. Wilkul, has just proposed sources of such funding, including through the so-called financing of parties from the state budget. The transfer of professional and technical institutions from state property to district council municipal property, which will allow district councils to carry out the task of modernizing professional and technical institutions and resolving the issue of human resources. And the last question is the financing of textbooks. So today we're in you, you've just put in funding textbooks for 4-7 classes. To date, I have to tell you that only 50 percent of school textbooks have been received today, and I'm not talking about other classes anymore. We need to remember that you and I have a free record in the Constitution.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-07-m0.u23	Ten seconds to complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-07-m0.u24	The President and the Head of the Supreme Council, please. We've all been given 30 seconds, Mr. Parbius. I ask the President and the Head of the Supreme Council to join in this matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-07-m0.u25	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I'm cutting short not because of the challenge, but because the delay in the performance is the limitation of the next speakers. And I now declare, we give three more, we have six more minutes: Dove, Korchinska, Denisova – and we finish the performance. So three speakers now, and I'm giving the floor to Blue Vladislav, and I'm asking you to try to get into the rules.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-07-m0.u26	Thank you, Andry Volodymyrovich. Vladislav Dove, 197th constituency, Cherkashina. Dear colleagues! On Monday, a significant event took place: Ukraine’s Ministry of Economic Development and Trade announced a competition to replace four state - owned enterprises. One of these companies is the Ukrainian strategic firm Ukrichtransamak. This enterprise is strategic not only in terms of the economic development of our state but in terms of national security and security. In the company's management, there's a main pipeline for transporting ammonia to the Odeski Portal Plant. In the event of an emergency in this enterprise, life and safety — at least the inhabitants of five areas — will be at risk. That is why it is critical that the head of this enterprise becomes a professional person who will ensure the economic development of the sector and will not turn this enterprise into a corrupt mecca to enrich the people of power and its own wealth, as was the case in Yanukovich’s day. It must also be the person responsible for Ukraine’s national security. Why am I talking about this right now? Because by bureaucratic manipulation, the director of this company is Russian businessman Polozov Viktor. This person owns a business in a crane-aggressor, the Russian Federation, pays taxes there and, therefore, actually funding a Russian army that's standing in the east of Ukraine, killing our boys. In support of my words, I want to demonstrate an extraction from a register of securities in the Russian Federation, where the section "Affelized Persons" in one of his enterprises lists the residence and registration of this person. I am showing, at the end of 2015 and beyond, the original language: “The place of the legal person or the place of residence of the natural person shall be indicated only with the consent of the natural person.” So this person has agreed to disclose such information is: Russia, Smolen County, Počnok, in the original language In addition to all of this, I want to add that this person is now a member of the Church District Council. Having such people in the government of state enterprises, I strongly believe that Putin doesn't even need an army in eastern Ukraine, we don't need to fund the terrorists he finances, and his agents will do everything they can to blow up our nation from the inside. That is why I call upon you, Mr. Kubov's Honorary Fellows, and the Government of Ukraine, Prime Minister of Groisman, and the First Deputy Prime Minister of Cuba, who is responsible for the appointment, the Nominee Committee, the public sector, to ensure transparency of the competition for the appointment of the director of this enterprise and to prevent the leadership of the Ukkrimtranamiak enterprise from endangering our nation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-07-m0.u27	Thank you. Oksana Korczynska gives the floor to Oleg Laszko. Please, Mr. Oleg. And get ready for Dennis' final speech.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-07-m0.u28	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Dear colleagues! Dear citizens of Ukraine! I'd like to draw your attention to the situation in domestic animals. Today, without exaggeration, it can be said that the situation is catastrophic. I mentioned the figure: After Hitler in Ukraine in 1946, the worst for Ukrainian peasants was 4.5 million head of cattle. Today, in the 25th year of independence in Ukraine, less than two million cows. By comparison, in small New Zealand, where fewer than 5 million people live, 10 million cattle are killed. In Ukraine, with 45 million Ukrainians, fewer than two million cows are killed. Perhaps one of you does not know what a cow is. Cows are not just meat, milk, cheese, butter, and other products. A cow is a job for a peasant. If there is a cow in the village, it means that there is life in the village, there is a fire in the village, there are children in the family. That's what a cow is! What are the causes of the destruction of the animal industry? The main three. The first is price policy. Today, the purchase price of milk in the range of 2.30-2.80 per liter of milk. Less than ten cents per liter of milk! Nowhere in the world, no country has the price of milk like Ukrainian milk! The vast majority of peasants live on milk. These are the causes of poverty in the country! The second reason is that there is no government policy. This year, there are only 50 million dollars in the budget for the purchase of calves, calves, and productive cows. What is 50 million dollars? These are the tears, and those to this day, September of the month, have not yet been used. Another reason is the destruction of farms. 80 percent of milk is produced in private farms and farms. Over the past two years, more than two thousand farms have been destroyed. Raiders' passions, squeezing the land, killing farmers. Nine farmers have been killed or tortured in the last year. And the third main reason is demographics. People are getting older, people of older cows can't keep, young people are leaving. Why is he leaving? Because there's no school, there's no medicine, there's no work, there's no social sphere. So I demand from the government a radical change in this policy in terms of the village. When the president speaks yesterday and tells us that we have to sell the land, then we solve all the problems in the village. No! No! If we sell the land, we'll turn people into batteries forever. We need to radically change government policies, support villages and peasants.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-07-m0.u29	Thank you. And here's Denisova Ludmila Leontiyevna and let's move on to the day-to-day issues. Please, Mrs. Ludmila.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-07-m0.u30	Dear citizens of Ukraine, dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues, this morning you have heard what is happening on the front. In the past era, Russian occupying forces have opened fire 21 times in Ukrainian military positions. In doing so, the enemy used machine guns, firearms, and grenade launchers. The enemy doesn't want peace, he wants war. Are we ready for war? Yes, of course, the power of the spirit in our fighters is sufficient, but their military weapons need to be strengthened. On September 1, 2016, only 20 percent of the government’s arms and development budget was funded. Today, there is no combat unit equipped with at least 80 percent of the equipment. We need to ensure and continue to increase our commitment to defence and security, as Yatsenuk did, to finance the state-owned arms order, especially as soon as possible to close the additional requirements of order of 10 billion dollars. Importantly, the second time after his speech on Independence Day, the President made it clear that the top priority of the state is the ability to resist the armed aggression of the Russian Federation. This priority should be put into practice. The president called it a priority to ensure that the defense order was secured and supported the People's Front on the mandatory approval of the Special Confiscation Act. This is a constant requirement of the People's Front. We'll insist. [[Congrats]] To finally create a mechanism to confiscate the funds that Yanukovic stole from his people. Yatzenyuk's government found them back in the 15th year at Savings. They need to be taken and funded, and they need to increase the security of our state. We are confident that the honourable deputies will unite and vote in favour of the bill. The People's Front has registered Bill No. 508 which foresees that these funds, which will come from the special confiscation, must be distributed in such a way that 50 percent will be allocated to the weapons of our state and 50 percent will be allocated to support our citizens. To every pensioner who gets a pension today.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-07-m0.u31	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-07-m0.u32	who receives a pension lower than the subsistence minimum (which is more than 9 million citizens) he will receive assistance from the State for 11,30 dollars. And every teacher, every doctor, every budget worker, and 3.4 million, will receive 1,450 dollars. I think that we will all unite and adopt such a bill, and it will help our nation, our people, our citizens. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-07-m0.u33	Heroic glory! Dear colleagues, two factions have come to the fore, from the faction of the Radical Party of Oleg Lášk and the People's Front. But as a result of the discussion, we were able to agree that the break would be replaced by a speech, so that we could continue our work continuously. Paul Pinzenic is given the floor. Please. Three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-07-m0.u34	Dear Ukrainians! Dear Head! Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! Yesterday, Ukraine’s media space literally shook the message. has shaken the news of our colleague Sergey Lechchenko's purchase of elite real estate in Kiev. And our political power is somewhat concerned about the nature of this discussion. It seems that in this discussion we're going down to pops and jaundice: who lives with who, who bought the apartment, costs half a million dollars or only 300,000, and so on and so forth. Although we really have to say that it's about other things and very serious things. It's about the reputation of the Ukrainian Parliament, it's about the possible presence in the actions of individuals who have a significant impact on Ukrainian politics for many years, who hold extremely high positions, who own high-ranking media, who commit possible offences, corruption, the possible corrupt origins of money -- once, the possible avoidance of tax payments -- two, the possible undercutting of an object of taxation -- three, the possible introduction of contracts of purchase/sale of elite property, which may have the potential to have signs of fraud, four. Dear colleagues, what I'm talking about right now is not a press release. Article 214 of the Ukrainian Criminal Procedure Code defines this report as a crime report. On the basis of this report, the National Anti-Corruption Bureau of Ukraine should make a procedural decision to submit information to the Single Register of Investigations. After this information has been submitted, within 24 hours we would like to hear from the National Anti-Corruption Bureau about whether or not there are any grounds to bring criminal responsibility to the above persons mentioned in my report. I would like to receive a completely official response within the 24 hours prescribed by law. I'm reminding you that the figures of the investigations mentioned in this room are running like cockroaches. One ran to Crimea recently, according to media reports, and Sergey Lechchenko was spotted on a plane over Tbilisi last night. So I'm going to the leadership of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and I'm going to ask, did the order for Sergio Leschchenk to be deployed, and what does he do when he's here in a similar tone and not without reason? And the last. I'd like to go back to our law enforcement agencies. All we're talking about here is not just this conversation, it's about specific sets of offenses. When we talk about the fact that the people’s deputies Kaplan or Dobrodomov are working for Russian intelligence, we need to investigate. When we say that the People's Deputy Lechchenko may be involved in corruption, this must be investigated. And that's what we need.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-07-m0.u35	Thank you. Dear colleagues, with your permission, as yesterday, I will tell you our logic of the immediate action. Now there are two ratifications that are ideally unifying, and then two questions that we just couldn't physically reach yesterday -- law enforcement. Dear colleagues, I think we have a chance to get through these questions quickly, effectively, as we did yesterday. As far as I know, they unite all the deputies in the hall. And I'm asking you to invite the deputies into the hall right now and get ready for work. I ask the secretariat of the Supreme Council to announce that we are starting the vote and we are starting our work. And we're moving on to the first question of order of the day. This is a bill amending the Ukrainian Law on Ratification of the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities and the Optional Protocol thereto. The issue that regulates and leads to international standards is our legislation. And I ask everyone to discuss and decide to be alone. Colleagues, I'd like to support the proposal to review the short-term ratification, colleagues. I ask you to vote and support the consideration of the reduced procedure. Please vote. [[10:48:15.]] For-173 Decision taken. And I invite you to the report of the Minister of Social Policy, Rev. Andrija Alexiyovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-07-m0.u36	From where?
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-07-m0.u37	Turn on the microphone. I can get out of there, please. Turn the microphone on just there.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-07-m0.u38	Dear Lord Chairman, distinguished national MPs! You are considering a draft Ukrainian Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Ratification of the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities and the Optional Protocol thereto (Registration No. 0102) of 29 June 2016. The draft Act is intended to amend the Ukrainian Act on the Ratification of the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities and the Optional Protocol to it by changing the words "disabled" and "disabled" in all respects to the words "person with disabilities" and "persons with disabilities" in all respects. The bill is designed to take account of the recommendations of the United Nations Committee on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities regarding the initial report of Ukraine on the status of implementation of the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities and the Optional Protocol thereto and to implement article 4 of the Presidential Decree No. 678 of 3 December 2015 on the Revitalization of Work on the Protection of the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, and paragraph 5 of the Plan of Action for the Implementation of the National Strategy on Human Rights by 2020. The adoption of the bill will not result in additional costs either from government or from local budgets. The implementation of the draft act will allow for the introduction of existing legislation in the area of social protection of persons with disabilities in accordance with the official translation of the Conventions and the Optional Protocol. The bill is supported by a professional committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in foreign affairs and the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration. There's a request for support.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-07-m0.u39	Thank you. The co - report invites the head of the committee’s subcommittee on foreign affairs, Lucenko Irina Stepanovna. Mrs. Irina, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-07-m0.u40	Dear Mr. Head! Dear colleagues! The Committee on Foreign Affairs, at its meeting on 13 July 2016, reviewed the draft Law on Amendments to the Law on Ratification of the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities and the Optional Protocol thereto, introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, and approved the decision to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine that the draft law be adopted on the basis and in general. The bill provides in the title and text of the Ukrainian Law on the Ratification of the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities and the Optional Protocol thereto for the replacement of the word “disabled” with the word “person with disabilities”, which will fully correspond to the official translation of the Convention and the Optional Protocol to it. According to an explanatory note to the bill signed by Deputy Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine Vitali Muščinina, the implementation of the bill does not require additional expenditure on the state budget and local budgets. The main scientific and expert administration of the Supreme Council of Ukraine does not object to the ratification of the Convention. Therefore, I ask you to support the committee's decision and to adopt the Ukrainian Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the Ratification of the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities and the Optional Protocol thereto, on the basis of and in general. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-07-m0.u41	Thank you, Mrs. Irina. Dear colleagues, we're about to have a discussion. A big request: Discuss it as easily as possible. The bill is not complicated. I'm asking you to do a two-for-two, two-again. Please. Ribak Ivan Petrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-07-m0.u42	Dear colleagues! There is a proposal to support the bill and ratify the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities and the Optional Protocol accordingly, as amended. At the same time, we would like to mean that, to date, after our Ukrainian Parliament conducted essentially budgetary decentralization, local self-government authorities have received sufficient funds to enable and provide for all needs of persons with disabilities in areas directly in the population. Today we do not have essentially legal acts of accessibility in Ukraine. So I would also like to draw attention to this particular problem of our colleagues. Let's support and vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-07-m0.u43	Thank you. Now Miroshenko Yuri Romanovich. Then we move on to making a decision. Aah!? And the Front. I'm asking the people's deputies to come into the hall. And please turn on Yuri Romanovich's microphone to Miroshnick. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-07-m0.u44	Thank you, Andrey Volodymyrovich. Dear colleagues, our constituents, the world has already produced those international standards that any state that claims to be a democratic and humane state should adhere to. And today, more than ever, for our country, which has faced great challenges and trials, we must not forget the most vulnerable levels of our citizens. Therefore, it is urgent and even urgent to approve the ratification of this convention and to implement it. And the faction of the Opposition Block will certainly support the ratification of this convention. I urge all of our colleagues to vote in favour as well. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-07-m0.u45	Thank you. Please, Maxim Burbak. Turn on the microphone. And we're going into the hall, national deputies.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-07-m0.u46	Dear colleagues, I once again urge everyone to support this bill and ratify the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities and the Optional Protocol to it. But I wanted to make another statement about the position of the profile committee. We have just heard good words in support of this from our colleagues in the Environment, but never once has their representative been to our committee meeting. Now they can cry for help, for everything that needs to be done, but he's never been there. And I am also addressing all faction leaders, please delegate your representatives to such a committee that we need. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-07-m0.u47	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the discussion is over, let us move on to making a decision. I'm asking you to come into the hall, not come out, colleagues. I'm asking you to take up jobs, prepare for a decision. This is not just our international commitment, it is our help to the most vulnerable people who need our support and our duty to them. So, colleagues, I'm voting on the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the Ratification of the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities and the Optional Protocol thereto (No.0102), on the basis of and in general. Anyone who supports the proposal, please approach the workplace. Please approach the voting cards. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. Let's vote, colleagues. Please. [[10:56:50]] For 248 148 for. Decision taken. 248 for. It's been decided. Decision taken. Congratulations, Mr. Minister. Please come to me after the meeting. And we're moving on. And welcome to the committee. Let's move on to the next item in the agenda. The question, too, is not questionable and important. This is a draft decision to refer the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the House of Representatives of the United States Congress for the commencement of the consideration of Bill No. 5094, Act of Stability and Democracy in Ukraine. I'm asking you to support the proposal to consider it as a reduced procedure. Please vote, please support. Colleagues, we vote. [[10:57:55]] For 180. Decision taken. And I invite you to the report of Ukrainian National Deputy Frez Irina Vasilovna. Mrs. Irina, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-07-m0.u48	Dear Mr. Head, Your Honor, your consideration is on the appeal of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the House of Representatives of the United States Congress for the Congressional Review of the Act of Stability and Democracy in Ukraine. Congressmen have passed an appropriate bill, which is a turning point for us, because this is a US Congress demonstration of support for the people of Ukraine. First, the bill states that US sanctions against Russia should not be repealed until the Minsk Accords are fully implemented. Secondly, sanctions should not be lifted until Ukraine restores total real control over our border. Thirdly, and this is very important, the Act of Stability and Democracy in Ukraine foresees sanctions against third parties and states for violating the sanctions regime related to the occupation of the Crimea, as well as the establishment of a common policy of the NATO country to prevent the transfer of military technology and services to the Russian Federation. This is particularly important at a time when an open campaign against the aggressor country is being launched in EU countries. So I ask you very much to support today’s address to the House of Representatives of the United States Congress, since the status of this Act is now supported by the Congressional Committee, and it has already been supported by 32 congressmen. Support, please. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-07-m0.u49	Thank you. The co - report invites the head of the committee’s subcommittee on foreign affairs of Svetlana Petrovna. Mrs. Svetlana, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-07-m0.u50	Dear Mr. Head and distinguished colleagues! The Committee on Foreign Affairs, at its meeting on 15 June 2016, reviewed the bill and approved the decision to recommend to the Supreme Council that the draft regulation should be adopted on the basis and in general with a number of amendments to its text. I would like to remind you that the adoption of this decision should activate the adoption by the House of Representatives of the Congress of the United States of America of the 5094 Bill, which is called the "Stability and Democracy Act in Ukraine", which is legislatively intended to reinforce the non-recognition by the United States of America of the annexation of the Russian Federation of Crimea and the preservation of sanctions already applied against the RF in relation to both the Minsk Accords and the annexation of the Crimea, which corresponds to the strategic interests of Ukraine. I would also like to remind you that the bill provides a warning for the transfer of all military equipment and military services to Russia by NATO member states for the period of occupation by the Russian Federation of part of Ukraine. If such a bill is approved, the President of the United States will have the right to propose appropriate decisions at NATO level. I would also like to remind you that the bill provides for the creation of an international consortium that will guarantee private investment in Ukraine's economy because of its willingness to compensate for the corresponding losses due to political or military risks. So please support the committee's decision and approve the draft decision on the basis and as a whole and confirm the appeal to the House of Representatives of the United States Congress with the amendments proposed by the Committee. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-07-m0.u51	Dear colleagues, please record: two for, two against. Please. Sergey Mikolayovich Eutuszk from the "Fatherland" faction is invited to the floor.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-07-m0.u52	Sergey Eutuszek, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear Mr. Head! Yesterday, in your speech and address, you made it clear once again that we are in a state of war. So I'd like to go to all of our fellow national MPs: a very important bill or draft decree that we're currently considering, which could not and could not be held on Wednesday, this time. This is about the responsibility of the people's deputies. The second question, on a question from people who clearly ask when the war in Ukraine will end? We understand that there is no answer. Why? Because, first of all, we can only do this with our own efforts, that's when our Ukrainian Armed Forces can stop and stand their ground. And the second question is, we appeal to our partners, to our colleagues from Europe, from the United States, to either strengthen sanctions or leave them at the same level as they are. Indeed, a number of nations are already saying that they are ready to lift sanctions from the Russian Federation. So I have a question: do we have double standards? Why does Ukraine not impose sanctions on Russia? Why won't the Foreign Affairs Committee, which lacks a single vote, break up diplomatic relations with the Russian Federation, an aggressor state? Or maybe it will break up, but at the same time it will call off one voice, because one of the deputies will say that he's not cleared, so it's probably double standards. I still call for the draft ruling to be voted on, because it is a law where we ask the United States or strengthen sanctions and pressure the Russian Federation, because it is also a mechanism where we can preserve our borders and fight the enemy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-07-m0.u53	Thank you. Tymoshenko Yuri Volodymyrovich, People's Front. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-07-m0.u54	Friends, adopting this bill in any case is a powerful step towards our victory, it is a powerful help to our brothers who are at war. I'm asking everyone, not even for a minute without hesitation, think less, but work more. All for the front! All for Victory! Press "yes" and we accept this bill as soon as possible. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-07-m0.u55	The Yuslim Aunt Leonidivna, the Radical Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-07-m0.u56	Please give the word to the leader of our faction, Oleg Lazko.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-07-m0.u57	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-07-m0.u58	Colleagues, attention, serious question! Ladies and gentlemen, may I have your attention? In fact, the question is far more serious than it seems. A colleague from the People's Front offered to do less thinking, more work. This reminds me of a performance by a former speaker in the Russian State where he said that "Gosduma is not a place for discussion." This is how we live, that we do not think, but we do not know what we are doing. And then they suffer from it. the whole Ukrainian state. Now it's essentially a document. The document suggests asking the House of Representatives of Congress for support — I emphasize! - The bill. Let's imagine the situation. Someone turns to us and tells us what kind of law we should adopt, how we should vote. And what is our reaction? We don't like interference in our internal affairs. We're saying that we're not going to let anyone dictate which constitution to adopt, which laws to adopt, what language to speak, what political order to have. Why do we think that we can allow ourselves to tell our fellow congressmen what laws we can adopt? I am convinced that this decision by Parliament can be used by our opponents as an intervention in the internal affairs of American congressmen. And most of all. The bill proposed for consideration does not mention a single reference to the Budapest Memorandum, a fundamental document of the Ukrainian-American security relations. I ask: Why do we just as easily give up the Budapest Memorandum of Understanding as we did in 1994 when we gave up nuclear weapons? Stop practicing diplomacy on the level of sand in the kindergarten. We don't vote for that.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-07-m0.u59	Melniczuk Sergey Petrovich, "The will of the people." And let's go to the vote. Everyone, please come into the hall. Please, Mr. Sergei.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-07-m0.u60	The "will of the people" group will of course support this proposal. But on the other hand, we want to pay attention, because on the side of Ukraine, what did we do to strengthen sanctions against the Occupyant? And I'll tell you what. We're still working. We're selling grain to the Russian Federation through the ports. We continue to put spare parts on the nuclear power plant that is being built in the Rostov region, which will continue to supply power in Crimea. And so in many areas. How long will this continue? We ask our other partner countries to continue the sanctions, and we continue to trade with the invader ourselves. I've got everything.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-07-m0.u61	Thank you. Colleagues, we enter the hall and I, of course, my fellow national MPs will decide on their own, but this is the truth that from the first days of the Russian invasion we have called upon our European partners to side-by-side with Ukraine against the Kremlin Order and this appeal has been to all the peoples of the free world, to all the countries of the free world. And we're also addressing today, and in this case, I respect this decision of our Committee on Foreign Affairs, we have tremendous support in both the lower and the upper chambers of the United States, and I have a feeling and a conviction that this appeal will not lead to an image, to misunderstandings, but only bind our dialogue. Although I understand that all national deputies will make their own decisions, if we fail, I think it will be a bad symbolic act. Dear colleagues, please come into the hall and prepare for the vote. Please, we're taking up jobs. Colleagues, fellow colleagues, I still want an extra recommendation. Let's maybe just postpone the consideration of this bill before we go into the hall in an orderly fashion. Colleagues, Mr. Oleg, distinguished authors, I ask for support in the position that if we have no unity in this document in the room, let's postpone the vote so that there is a legitimate solution to this? There's nothing to give, you can see it in the hall, you can see it in the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-07-m0.u62	[[From the Hall]] If this is an important document, why isn't there an MMS representative? Why isn't he in his position on this act?
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-07-m0.u63	Colleagues, I'm proposing a vote on this bill. One option is to postpone its consideration and I think it will be a wise position that Parliament will not discriminate. Colleagues, do you have a position? Sir, Oleg, is this position supported? Or what is supported? So the logic is that we find a way to make this decision. Mr. Oleg, one minute, and let's make a common position that will unite the hall. But once again, the position that will unite, I ask you to look for it.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-07-m0.u64	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Thank you, Mr. Head, for paying attention to our arguments! The document is really important and we can't fail it, so we suggest we take it off the table right now, seriously rework it, predict it in this document. and move the matter forward. The Budapest Memorandum, which we must not refuse under any circumstances, must be provided for in this document. And a hundred times at each meeting, reminding our partners of their commitments, according to the Budapest Memorandum, to demand that these commitments be fulfilled under the Budapest Memorandum. Moreover, since this is about a specific bill under consideration in the United States Congress, I propose that a general appeal be made to Congress on their policy of support against Russian aggression, not specifically on the bill, so that it is not considered an external dictatorship. We don't like it when we're dictated, why do we think we can dictate something ourselves?
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-07-m0.u65	Thank you, fellows of honor! Now, Victor Pinzenik, he's going to give us the most accurate and optimal formulation. I'm asking you to turn on Mr. Victor's microphone and ask you to come into the hall and take your seats, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-07-m0.u66	Dear Head, dear colleagues! I think the room will find the right solutions in this situation, and we understand that discussions are not essentially going to go, not on the idea, but on some technical standards that need to be taken into account. No one objected to the need to approve the decision. So there's an offer that's already sounded here -- let's do it by tomorrow or after. On Friday or next plenary week, we will agree on all technical issues and introduce a coherent draft decree that will support all the factions of Parliament.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-07-m0.u67	Can I put this as a transposition of the bill? I can. Colleagues, I ask you to unite, I ask you all to come into the hall and prepare for the vote. I am voting on the proposal to postpone consideration of the draft Order on the application of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the House of Representatives of the United States of America and ask for the support of this proposal. For further processing, carry over the consideration for further processing (4735). Please vote and ask everyone to support this proposal. Please, colleagues, please vote. Please vote, colleagues. [[11:14:49]] For 232 Decision taken. I am convinced that we have done the right thing, and we have done what is right for the Ukrainian Parliament. Colleagues, now there are two bills we didn't get to yesterday. They were important, and at the same time they had the unity of the hall. I'm asking everyone to concentrate. One of them has a minimum number of amendments, that's 2255a, and the other one is a little bit longer. Please invite the deputies to the hall. And I want to ask Andrey Anatolyovich, are you reporting today? You're the second and the first is Mr. Yuri. Colleagues, we are moving on to the second reading, to the draft Law on Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts of Ukraine (to improve access to justice for persons held in institutions of previous imprisonment and execution of sentences), number 2255a. It's a second reading. And I invite you to report to the committee's report on the legal provisions of Yuri Miroshnick. Please, Mr. Yuri, we're finishing our trial yesterday.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-07-m0.u68	Thank you, Andrey Volodymyrovich. Thank you to all the national MPs who supported yesterday the three bills that were developed jointly by the working group, the members of the committee, the secretariat, the experts who thank on behalf of all the developers today to the people's deputies. But we have two important bills left. 2255a is a very simple bill to amend some Ukrainian legislation (to improve access to justice for persons held in institutions of prior imprisonment and execution of sentences). The essence of the bill is that either arrested or imprisoned persons are exempt from payment in the absence of funds from the court’s payment by a decision, action, or omission of the institution’s administration. That's how we ensure access to justice. And a man who. the right of which is violated by the Administration may prove in court that its rights must be restored. That's the whole point of this bill. There were 5 amendments, 3 of which were included, 2 not included. I think the unaccounted for will support us, even though not all of their proposals have been taken into account, including some of my amendments have not been taken into account as a result of the process. Thank you for your attention. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-07-m0.u69	Thank you. Dear colleagues, only two amendments are not included, one of them is Mr. Yuri. 2nd, which he doesn't insist on. Five o'clock, Lensky. Does Lensky insist on correction? No, it doesn't. Colleagues, two repairs. And we can move on to making a decision. I urge all deputies to enter the hall. What is the correction? I ask the secretariat of the Supreme Council to inform the deputies that there will be a vote now.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-07-m0.u70	Andrew Volodymyrovich, I would like to give the floor to the first deputy head of our committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-07-m0.u71	Who?
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-07-m0.u72	Monsieur.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-07-m0.u73	Please, Igor Mosiyczuk, one minute. As long as we're getting together, one minute, Mosiyczuk. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-07-m0.u74	Igor Mosiyczuk, Oleg Lachka Radical Party I'd like to thank the Ministry of Justice. Yesterday, after my speech, there was a reaction to the so-called health care management competition that I won, I hope, by accident, the last regime's incumbent. But right now, once again, I would like to emphasize that we are now adopting very important laws, and we will support them. At the same time, however, Minust’s human resources policy must be given great attention because the fact that the escape has just taken place has become known in the Kosovo Colony, and the administration of Korovograd is led by the man who posted the flag "LNR" when he was working in Luhansk. Therefore, consider! And we support the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-07-m0.u75	Thank you. I'm just going to make a point that we have a Kropivnicki, so the colony can only get into Kopivnitsky, and there's no other name on the map of Ukraine today. Thank you. Colleagues, let's go to the vote. From the committee, please, Knyazevitch. Turn on the microphone. And we're getting ready to make a decision. Please, Prince Ruslan.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-07-m0.u76	Dear Mr. Head, the honourable reporter! I personally support the bill and support the ideas it contains. But I just have to pay attention to the protocol and point out the following thing, the thing is that it's supposed to be here and there's a kind of liberalisation in paying off the court. You remember that at the request of the International Monetary Fund, we were forced to reproduce this standard. And now it's one of the beacons for signing a treaty with the International Monetary Fund and allocating the next tranche. I realize that this may not be a very large amount, but it would still be desirable for us to have some calculations, because once this bill has come forward, their representatives have already asked our committee to provide comprehensive information on how these indicators will affect the macrofinancial indicators already foreseen in the budget. And if it's important, and I remind you that we've been forced twice to raise the right revenue, it can change their position. So I think we need to be very careful with this and give or clear calculations, or this norm right now at this point.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-07-m0.u77	Thank you, colleagues. Everyone supports the bill. All determine its importance, its meaning, and we have all the prerequisites to accept it. And I am voting on the draft Act amending some of Ukraine's legislative acts (to improve access to justice for persons held in institutions of prior imprisonment and execution of sentences) (No.2255a) – second reading and generally. Please vote 2255a in second reading and in general. Please, colleagues, we are voting, the common position of the entire hall. [[11:21:49]] For 241 Decision taken. I welcome the authors, and I welcome the committee with quality work. From that block that we discussed, only yesterday's one law called for discussion, but I think we can work on it and adopt it quickly. Please close for 1 minute, Miroshnichenko, and let's move on to the next bill. Please, Mr. Yuri.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-07-m0.u78	Dear colleagues, I would like to pay attention to the speech by Ruslan Petrovich Knazević. I think there's the first deputy minister of justice here, and as members of the committee, we're going to prepare analytical materials so that we don't have any, they say, tension in what doesn't really affect the macroeconomic budget. That's the first one. And the second. I want to emphasize once again that our work together is highly appreciated by both the expertise and the international partners working with Ukraine. Thank you very much for your attention. And the last and most important law will be reported by the head of the committee, Kožemyakin Andriy Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-07-m0.u79	Thank you. We're moving on to the next issue of the agenda. This is a draft law amending some Ukrainian legislation on the enforcement of criminal penalties and the enforcement of the rights of convicted persons (No. 2490a). There's a lot of changes, we'll have to work. And I invite you to report to the head of the committee of Kožemjakin Andrija Anatoliyovich. Please, Mr. Andrew.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-07-m0.u80	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues! Your opinion is proposed to amend some Ukrainian legislation on the enforcement of criminal penalties and the implementation of the rights of convicted persons (2490a) prepared for consideration by the Committee in its second reading. Let me remind you that on February 5, 2016, you and I passed a very important law, the Probation Act. What is probation? The trial consists of overseeing the condemned by relying on him for certain obligations and limitations without excluding him from society. Visit the centres of probation, meet periodically with the guard officer, and participate in a variety of activities. It is this bill that has been drafted, among other things, for the purpose of legislative settlement of issues related to the introduction of probation in Ukraine. The project proposes to amend the Criminal, Criminal and Criminal Enforcement Codes of Ukraine, as well as a number of laws. The committee carefully approached the preparation of the project for the second reading. The working group was attended by representatives of the State Penitentiary Service, the Authorized Supreme Council for Human Rights, the Attorney General’s Office, the Ministry of Justice, representatives of public and law enforcement organizations, scientists. So we've got a balanced, coherent project that will allow the condemned to take advantage of their rights, positively affect the activities of the institutions of execution, improve the criminal enforcement legislation of Ukraine, and enable them to form state policies in the field of probation, and contribute to the humanization of the justice system. At the same time (under the transcript), and this is very important, I want to read proposals, two proposals from the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine. First: Part four of article 115 of the Ukrainian Penal Code reads: "Four (dot). People with disabilities I and II groups, women with more than 4 months of pregnancy, non-working women who have children in children's homes in correctional colonies, non-working men over 60 years of age and women over 55 years of age, if they do not receive pensions and persons who are free of work because of the disease, including those with active forms of tuberculosis, are provided free of charge (the dot). Convicted persons who are punished in penal colonies, food, clothing, shoes, undergarments and utility services are provided free of charge (dot)." And the second amendment. Amendments to articles 41, 246 of the Criminal Procedure and articles 5, 7, 9 of the Ukrainian Act on Operational Search Activities, replacing the "operational units of the Ukrainian State Penitentiary Service" by.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-07-m0.u81	Please turn on another minute. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-07-m0.u82	Thank you. On the "Operative Units of the Ukrainian State Criminal Enforcement Service", which will enable the Ministry of Justice to ensure that the authorities and institutions carry out the penalties for the search and search activities. In the process of preparing the project for consideration in the second reading, 118 amendments were made, 89 of them proposed to be taken into account, and 29 were rejected. The reasons for the deviation are given in the table. The committee approved the decision to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the adoption of a bill on second reading and in general, and finally to allow the Probation Act to enter into legal action. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-07-m0.u83	Thank you, Andriy Anatolyovich. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to prepare yourself for your work. 2nd National Deputy Petyovka. Is it insisting? No, it doesn't. 5th, Yuri Miroshnichenko. Don't insist. 6th, Spinov. Don't insist. Nine o'clock, Petey. Don't insist. 18th, Melniczuk. Don't insist. I've got "accounted for," Levchenko. Please turn on Yuri Lewchenko’s microphone after the 14th amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-07-m0.u84	So it's taken into account editorially. It's counted.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-07-m0.u85	Thank you. Lewchenko, Freedom, 223rd District, Kiev. It says it's "edited," the amendment, and in fact, it's unfortunately not counted at all. The point is that the bill stipulates that when a person is released from the sentence of testing pregnant women and women who have children under 7 years of age, the court relies on the responsibilities provided for in article 76. In doing so, Article 76 lists both mandatory and optional obligations, which I quote, "may be relied upon more." The point is that the construction of the standard in a similar way, namely the words “addictively relying” in its literal interpretation, will give grounds for relying on such a category of women in a mandatory manner on all the obligations provided for in article 76, without considering that the performance of individual women may not be possible during a certain period of time related to the birth or upbringing of a child, such as entering into education or official employment. This may create additional conditions for corruption. In solving the issue of release from prison for article 79. So I propose that this section of the bill be excluded. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-07-m0.u86	Mr. Yuri, are you insisting on the vote? Dear colleagues, I'm voting on amendment 18 of the People's Deputies of Lewchenko. Whoever supports this amendment, please vote. Please. [[11:29:37]] For a hundred and The decision is not taken. So 19th, Spinov, doesn't insist. 23rd doesn't insist either. 25th, Dove. Don't insist. 26th, again, the Pigeons. Don't insist. 34th, Spinov. Don't insist. 38th, Yuri Miroshnichenko. Don't insist. 44th, Spinov. Don't insist. 48th. Don't insist. 53rd, Spanov. Don't insist. 54, Yuri Miroshnichenko. Don't insist. 55th, Dove. Don't insist. 56th, Pietovka. Don't insist. 57, Five. Don't insist. 59th, Spanov. Don't insist. 55th Amendment, Dove. Dove, 55th Amendment. 65, Spinov. Don't insist. 80. Miroshenko Yuri. Mr. Yuri! Don't insist. 83. Yuri Miroshnichenko, too. Don't insist. 86. Don't insist. It's a good thing we have this one-sided position. 89, Spinov. Don't insist. Colleagues, please come into the hall. The Secretary of the Supreme Council, please inform me that a decision will be taken in a moment. 103rd Amphibians. Don't insist. 109th. Treyakov. Don't insist. 117th Melnichuk. Don't insist. Dear colleagues, in this way we have concluded the discussion, we can move on to making a decision. And, colleagues, I ask you to come into the hall and prepare for making a decision. Society, not to go out, but to go into the hall. Colleagues, one minute, please come into the hall. Please, Andriy Anatoliyovich, the closing statement. Heads of factions, please invite deputies to the Hall. Please, Mr. Andrew.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-07-m0.u87	Thank you. Dear colleagues, in this bill to amend some of Ukraine's legislative acts, there are just a few things that matter. And the work on this bill showed that a working group that brought together all interested representatives and executives, all scientists, public figures, people who fight for the rights of convicts -- all who care about the penitentiary today. to this penitentiary farm, to everyone who knows what probation is and how it works in Europe. And this group worked on this joint project. Therefore, amending the Criminal Code, the Criminal Procedure Code, the Criminal Enforcement Code, will allow this probation to live in Ukraine today and allow for the provision of everything necessary, as stated in this project, for those people who are now free from it. who are now condemned or already freed from punishment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-07-m0.u88	The pigeon did not insist on the work. [[B in m in s a l in]] Mr. Yuri, we're moving on to a decision. That's what I'm saying. Colleagues! So the working group has combined all the proposals, there is a common position of the entire room, and I am voting on the draft Law amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts to ensure the execution of criminal penalties and the realization of the rights of convicts (number 2490a) in the second reading and in general. Colleagues, please vote, please support. [[11:34:08]] For 223 I see we're not there yet, colleagues. I'll be right back. I'm going to ask you to be more careful about voting, and I'm going to ask everyone to take their jobs, and I'm going to go into the hall. I'll be back in a minute. Please take up your jobs. Yes, there are deputies who have not arrived, who have not been there, who can be voted. I hope that there will be mutual support, like previous drafts, I hope so. I propose to go back to the vote of 2490a. Please vote return to 2490a. Please vote. [[11:35:20.]] For 241 We're back, and now I'm redrafting the Act amending some Ukrainian legislation to ensure the execution of criminal penalties and the realization of the rights of convicts (number 2490a) on second reading and in general. Please vote, please support. [[11:35:54]] For 238. Decision taken. [[Applause]] I welcome the authors, and I welcome the committee with its quality work, which brought the hall together. And, dear fellows, we move on to the next chapter of the agenda. By the way, I want to thank the committee for its quality work. We've gone through a whole cluster of law enforcement issues, and we've actually made a positive decision under all the laws, except for one bill. I think we're going to work it out, and we're going to take it into the hall. I'm counting on both the committee and the authors. Now we have a number of regulations, among them the first ones that are important to the issue of education. I very much hope and hope that the MPs will be equally united in the position of discussion and decision-making. And we move on to the next chapter of the agenda, the decision, and to the draft Recommendation of Parliamentary Hearings on "Professional education as a component of providing qualified personnel with Ukraine's potential: problems and solutions." And I would like to support the proposal to consider this decision in a simplified manner. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. Please, colleagues. [[11:37:28]] For 177 Decision taken. And I invite you to report to the First Vice-Chairman of the Committee on Science and Education of Spiowakovsky Alexander Volodymirovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-07-m0.u89	Dear Head, distinguished national MPs! Your point. We are considering the Supreme Council Regulation in accordance with Parliamentary Hearing Recommendations on the Status of Vocational and Technical Education, which took place on June 1, 2016. The participants in the parliamentary hearings on "Professional education as part of the provision of Ukrainian human resources: problems and solutions", which took place on June 1, 2016 in accordance with the Supreme Council Regulation of March 30, 16, discussed the state of the art and prospects for the development of vocational education in Ukraine and expressed their vision of the development and modernization of the system of vocational and technical education. Dear colleagues! I think you all know the situation that happened after the adoption of the Budget Code and the adoption of the budget, when we actually passed it off without calculation, without strategic vision of the city of vocational and technical education and passed it on to this education chain, this level of education, professional and technical, to the local level. Then we actually went to manual control of these things. I'd like to point out that today is not the end of the government's order and that there is no end to the recruitment of students in vocational and technical schools. And we have very big problems, because today neither district councils nor local councils are actually ready to deal with these issues. These questions were being considered. We've made the right recommendations. And the request to support them. Moreover, once we support them, it will become a basis for us to take a calm look at the issue at the next parliamentary hearings on November 16 on the model of financing different educational links. That's why I'm asking you to back me up. This will give impetus to the development of vocational and technical education in Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-07-m0.u90	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please record: two for, two against. The question is, I think there is a unifying room. Please be as concise as possible so that we can make as many decisions as possible for education. Igor Mosiyczuk gives the word to Oleg Lashko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-07-m0.u91	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Since 2016, the government has decided to transfer trade unions to finance local budgets. It wasn't a mistake of the government, it was a criminal decision that resulted in the destruction of the entire system of vocational and technical education. This means that they are effectively closed. Because in local budgets, despite the lauded decentralization of the budget, they still lack their own resources to patch the holes, to repair the driveways, to turn on the lamps, and they will not be able to finance the establishments of vocational education. Why did the government make that decision? Because they don't have a policy because they don't have a vision strategy for the future country because they don't bet on the labour potential of Ukraine and the Ukrainian people because their policy is to turn Ukraine into a raw material that doesn't need high-quality hands and frames. That's about strategy. I'm not talking about other things anymore, but even more important questions, which are that in PTU institutions are mostly taught by orphans, children from underprivileged families, children from peasants, and that is to take away their vocational education, because in today's world, when you don't have professional knowledge, when you don't have health, no one needs you, neither yourself, nor family, nor people. Therefore, the Radical Party faction demands that the government, from the majority of parliament, immediately renew the financing of state-run trade schools. The Budget Resolution, which is intended to be submitted, also provides for the state funding of vocational schools.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-07-m0.u92	Vitaly Semenovich smoked, please. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-07-m0.u93	The Peter Prashenko bloc will support this resolution. And we think that the debate that took place at parliamentary hearings has shown both the strengths of professional and technical education in Ukraine and the problems that exist today. Yes, indeed, there was some mistake when funding for full vocational and technical education was transferred to local budgets last year. And today we have a number of serious problems that need to be addressed urgently. First of all, it's a problem of funding a new set of students who are enrolled in vocational and technical schools. For example, in the Luhansk region of today's district military-civil administration has not yet identified who it will finance and how it will finance. And this also applies to a number of areas where there is uncertainty about the number of children to be financed since September 1st should have been funded by now. In my opinion, it is urgent for the Ministry of Education and Science, the Ministry of Finance, to provide clarification to the district administrations, the district councils on system financing already in 2016-2017. With regard to funding for the coming year, I think we need to leave this funding through the state budget and adopt a serious programme to reform the vocational and technical education system, and then consider where to finance this system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-07-m0.u94	Thank you. Victoria Mikhailovna Vojcicka, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-07-m0.u95	I give the word to Berezuku.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-07-m0.u96	Please, Mr. Oleg.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-07-m0.u97	An accounting approach in government always leads to a fiasco. Undoubtedly, local self - government knows better how to spend money and when large cities may have the opportunity to do so, small cities and villages with PTU, unfortunately, have simply become hostages to the government’s accounting approach to development, but it does not just destroy the industry. We focus on the best and forget about just good people and normal people. In the world, only 30 percent of people, on average, enter higher education institutions, and everyone else just work and look for their jobs where they live. Unfortunately, the state and I have taken it away from you. More than that, I want to tell you, by August of the month and even now, middle school teachers are suffering from the accounting approach of the government of Ukraine and the Ministry of Finance in particular. To this day, teachers in the Thumatic region of the Frankow region have not received vacations. They say you don't think we have our own children to bring to school, buy a uniform, buy a wallet, buy books, sew books? It is a crime against the development of the country and directly a child and a human being. So today, this is my request and a request from the Self-Help faction to the Ministry of Finance, why the teachers of Ukraine and, in particular, the Frankiv region of the Thumatic region were given vacations either at the end of August or not received to this day. It's a crime against humanity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-07-m0.u98	Thank you. Sergey Melniczuk's closing statement, and in three minutes we'll move on to making a decision. Please enter the Chamber and turn on the microphone Sergio Petrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-07-m0.u99	Please pass the word to Litvina Volodymyr Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-07-m0.u100	Dear Head! Dear National Deputies! At the adoption of the budget, the Supreme Council of Ukraine voted in favour of transferring the financing of vocational education to the local level. That is why I must say, those who voted have served as the burying team of this system and those families and those children who are not the richest who have been thrown out into the streets today! We now recommend a number of measures that, I assure you, will not be implemented, because the budget plans for 2017 generally provide for the education system to throw everything into the local budgets, including the utility costs. Now local budgets, not subsidies, and local budgets will have to pay for municipal services to CTU and education in general. So I am convinced that something in the Ministry of Education, in the education system, would have to be passed on to the Ministry of Education and Science of the Year for the five functions of the Ministry of Finance then something would be done, and it was said that the accounting approach was correct, and more so that it was done by people who did not live in that country. And their children are not taught either in the PTU or in the universities of Ukraine, they are taught in everyone outside Ukraine. So let's now or tomorrow, let's look at the President's remarks to the law that we passed with you about funding at least partially for 1 billion 900 million -- PTU. Why is this not a matter for consideration by the Supreme Council? Because we're in contact with the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. The question is, What kind of people are we? We're just political halls, doing it.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-07-m0.u101	Dear colleagues and two other factions asked for a performance. From "The Fatherland" it's going to be Odarchenko, from "The Opposition Block" it's going to be Sphenov. All right, I give you my word. Turn on the microphone, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-07-m0.u102	Thank you. Dear colleagues! 183 Hersonian County, Yuri Odarchenko. I want to focus your attention on such figures that in Herson at the district center today, in the manufacturing sector, there's only four percent of the population. Imagine four percent of the population today is trying to form a budget, trying to work so that there's enough money for communities to exist. And the problem is, including there's not enough footage to work in manufacturing today. So today, translating these costs into local budgets is essentially a crime, when local budgets all the resources to not stop children from being taught are directed to this area, and in Herson it's about 100 million, and not to other areas: treatment, medical care is not enough. I am convinced that today we all have to demand that vocational education be financed from the state budget. And the Fatherland faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-07-m0.u103	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-07-m0.u104	The resolution included funds for the financing of trade and technology. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-07-m0.u105	Thank you. Matvienkov, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-07-m0.u106	Matvienkov, 57th District, Mariupol, Opposition Block. You know, respectable colleagues, here I am. Sometimes I look at the many decisions we make here by the Government, which are so indiscreet, they remind me of the days of self-government in school. You know, when schoolchildren were allowed to rock for one day, and they were driving and making these kinds of decisions. Sometimes it comes to mind, this is how we can make this decision, when instead of looking at a strategy for the development of such a serious sector in education as a vocational education that prepares the personnel that prepares the base of our future industry, I cannot choose another word from the local authorities in order to tap it there. Instead of doing a strategic development line now, instead of doing and thinking about how we are now going to grow these people, seeing what is happening in Europe today with the people, what is happening in the human beings world, how to prepare our base, we are destroying these things with our own hands today! It is clearly not what is needed to remedy this situation, but also to “hand” those who have made such a decision. We clearly support the decision taken by the Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-07-m0.u107	Thank you. Colleagues, we're talking about a discussion site, for discussion. The creation of this course in the form of parliamentary hearings. So I think there's a point to supporting it. Alexander Volodymyrovich, are you insisting? Can we vote? Then, colleagues, there will be a decision-making session in a moment, please come into the hall. A closing statement to the committee representative. Turn on the microphone, Singer Alexander, literally 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-07-m0.u108	Dear colleagues, distinguished national MPs! I mean, it was Oleg Valeriovich Lazko, and other politicians were present at these parliamentary hearings. All these things are accounted for. Our decision, which will now confirm these recommendations, will allow both the Supreme Council and the government to resolve the issue, because it is there that a vector of professional education is set up as a strategic national policy of the state. That's what I'm saying. So our vote is going to answer whether professional technical education is within national interests or not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-07-m0.u109	Thank you. So, colleagues, let's move on to making a decision. Please, we're taking up jobs. And I'm voting on the draft Parliamentary Hearing Recommendation on "Professional education as a component of providing a qualified workforce for Ukraine: problems and solutions" (number 4862). According to the committee's decision, on the basis and in general. Who supports this decision, please vote, colleagues. Vote. [[11:53:45]] For 240 It's been decided. Decision taken. Welcome to the committee. And, colleagues, we have two more decisions -- also non-conflict ones, which relate to education. According to the law given me by the Rules, I continue our work for up to 15 minutes. And I ask my colleagues not to disperse, to discuss these decisions quickly, and to give them a way to resolve it. And I would like to ask you in this respect to be all consolidated. Ote, the next draft of the Order for the appointment in 2016 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's named scholarships for the most talented young scientists (number 4859). First of all, I ask you to support its consideration of the reduced procedure and please vote. [[11:54:43]] For 169 Decision taken. And I invite you to the report of the Vice-President of the Committee on Science and Education of Sperm Alexander Volodymyrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-07-m0.u110	Dear Head, distinguished national deputies, the draft Decision to implement the Supreme Council of Ukraine decree on the establishment of named scholarships to the Supreme Council of Ukraine for the most talented young scientists since 16 March 2007. According to this decree, 30 such scholarships are awarded annually, starting in 2008, for two thousand dollars a month. But I would like to point out that only 24 applications came to the committee. We ask them to confirm, they represent virtually all of Ukraine. And 22 candidates came from the Ministry of Education and Science of Ukraine, one from the National Academy of Sciences of Ukraine and one from the National Academy of Medical Sciences of Ukraine. Of these, there are 21 doctors of science, 3 candidates of science who have already prepared doctoral dissertations. But I want to point out that we didn't get six scholarships. What does that mean? This means that our young people are losing interest in the scholarships that we're assigning, it's such a very disturbing signal to us about what's going on with the ageing of the scientific personnel of Ukraine. So I would also like to point out that the applicants represent 10 sciences, namely, technical sciences, economic, medical, agricultural, pharmaceutical, legal, political, veterinary, cultural and state administrations, covering 11 regions of Ukraine. All of this has been announced in accordance with the Voice of Ukraine, a public expertise has been conducted, no negative reactions have been received. Therefore, please support the recommendations of the Committee on Science and Education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-07-m0.u111	Dear colleagues, I'm really asking you to work dynamically. I'll normally include a discussion, but in the previous bill we've come up with a long discussion and put the following decisions at risk. Let's essentially say the bill, it's an extremely simple, brief, concise discussion. Please record two in favour, two in the opposite. Dennis's Ludmila Leontievna, People's Front, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-07-m0.u112	Please pass the word to my colleague, Berezi Yuri.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-07-m0.u113	"The People's Front" is for. And we ask the entire room to support it.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-07-m0.u114	Belkova Olga Valentine's Day, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-07-m0.u115	Thank you very much. As we continue the tradition of short speeches, our faction also supports the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-07-m0.u116	Thank you. Colleagues, can we move on to making a decision? Thank you for understanding. Thank you for your position. Mr. Sergei, it's not in the record right now, Sergei. Please, one minute, Sergey Mishchenko. In a minute, we'll go to the vote. Please don't come out, my friends. Please, Mischenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-07-m0.u117	Sergei Mishchenko, Kyivščina. Obviously, everyone will vote in favour of this decree, but I want to say that unfortunately, these decrees are one-off, that's when scholarships are not paid. I'll give you an example of the other names of the President's scholarships and the Cabinet of Ministers. This is Lupan Yulia Yuriyovna, a student of the University of Peace School of the Borispil region, who was awarded a scholarship by the President of Ukraine to win an international competition called Peter Yatzik, and then, in 14, a scholarship by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine for the victory of the All-Ukrainian Olympics in Ukrainian language and literature, and also not paid. And now they're sending this kid to write a lawsuit to get their legal scholarships. That's why it's still necessary not to destroy trust in power, take such things into control. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-07-m0.u118	Guys, let's move on to the decision-making process. I put to the vote the draft Order on the appointment in 2016 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's named scholarships for the most talented young scientists, number 4859. The committee suggests that it be accepted as a whole. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. Please, colleagues, we're voting. [[12:00:02]] For 228 Decision taken. Once again, colleagues, I continued my work until 12.15. Please stay in the hall and work, colleagues. There's only one decision left in education, and then there's two decrees. I read that I am heartbroken: Villagers ask us to rename our cities. Well, it's no discussion at all, your villages. The inhabitants of the village of Matroska ask to be renamed, depending on our decision on what the village will be called. It's one minute, one decision. Let us be responsible and support the people of the village of Matroska. Colleagues, the draft of Decree 4860 is now the draft Decision on the award of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Award to the most talented young scientists in the field of fundamental and applied research and technological development for 2015 (No4860). Colleagues, please support the consideration of the reduced procedure. Please vote. [[12:01:13]] For 186 Decision taken. I invite you to see the report by Spiowakovsky Alexander Volodymyrovich. Please. [[B in m in s a l in]] Colleagues, 10 seconds for protocol. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-07-m0.u119	Dear colleagues, very brief. 20 prizes of 20,000, that's what's being paid to the most talented young scientists in Ukraine. I want to point out that this is a three-level system. And please support. Everything was made clean, declared public. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-07-m0.u120	Are there speakers in the hall? None. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the decision-making process. I am voting on the Supreme Council of Ukraine's most talented young scientists (No. 4860). The proposal to accept it as a basis and as a whole. Please be supportive. Please vote 4,860. Please vote. [[12:02:22]] For 229 Decision taken. And, colleagues, the two decisions I was talking about. These are two decrees by Fedoruk Mikola Trochymovich. Two villages called on us to change their names. I very much ask that we look at them carefully and quickly. One decision is the draft decision to rename the village of Danina Nizhina in the Chernigiv region. The request of the community of the village. 4035a. First vote. Please support the consideration of the reduced procedure. Please. Short-term review, village name change. Vote. [[12:03:10]] For-200 Decision taken. Next. A brief report. Please, Fedoruk Mikola Trochymovich, Committee on Local Self-Government. Turn on Mikoli Trochymovich's microphone from the spot. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-07-m0.u121	Ladies and gentlemen, I will speak from my place to speed up. The Montenegrin District Council has requested us to rename the village of Danina Nizhina in the Chernigiv region to the village of Danina. One letter changes. Please vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-07-m0.u122	Colleagues, there's no need to discuss, one letter? Please be supportive. Colleagues, I'm putting to the vote a draft decree on the renaming of the village of Danina Nizhina in the Chernigiv region (4035a) on the basis and in general. Let us show respect for the local community. Vote. Please be supportive. Please, colleagues. [[12:04:18]] For 226 We're on the verge of another decision. It is also a draft decree to rename the village of Matroska Ishmael district of Odessa as well as a request from the community. Colleagues, the first vote is a reduced procedure. Please support 4036a. Please. [[12:04:52]] For 211 Decision taken. I invite you to a brief report by Fedoruk Committee representative Mikola Trochymovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-07-m0.u123	Ladies and gentlemen, it is suggested that the village of Matroska Ishmael district of Odessa should be renamed the village of Matroska (no sign). Please vote and vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-07-m0.u124	Dear people, one letter and that's a nice sign. Is there a need to discuss? We vote, we support the community. Honorary colleagues, I am voting on a draft decree to rename the village of Matroska Ishmael district of Odessa (No. 4036a). The committee's proposal as a basis and as a whole. Please vote. I'd like your support, colleagues. This is a request from the local community. Please vote. [[12:05:53]] For 226 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, the following decree 4003. But I'm afraid we won't be able to look at it the same way. I'm afraid there's going to be a discussion about it, and we're not going to get into the voices. I can see it's just, we have 226 to each other. Therefore, honourable colleagues, according to the Rules, I announce a half-hour break until 12.40. At 12.40 we'll continue our work. Thank you for the productive start of our work day. Hopefully, we'll do the same effectively after the break. At 12.40, we continue our work. Thank you. I'll see you later.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-07-m0.u125	Dear colleagues, 12:40 and the time taken for recess is exhausted. We can continue our difficult but important work for the country. We have yet another Order 4003a, an important, fundamental topic, is the draft Recommendation of Parliamentary Hearings on the topic: "The strategy of reintegration into Ukraine of the temporarily occupied territory of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and the city of Sevastopol: issues, ways, methods and ways." And I'm going to be the first to make a proposal to look at it in a simplified way. Colleagues, please come into the hall and prepare for the vote. Anyone who supports the consideration of this Order by summary procedure, please vote. Please, colleagues, we're voting. [[12:42:43]] For-53 There is a general mood to discuss the matter thoroughly. Stop laughing in the hall and knock me out. And I call for a report from the Secretary of the Committee on State Building, Regional Policy and Local Self-Government of Honcharenko Alexiyyovich. Please have 10 minutes to report.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-07-m0.u126	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Even in some way, I really hope that the deputies will come right now, because even if we talk about Crimea now and the Crimeans will see us and those who have left from there from the occupation, those who are there, but who are watching how Ukraine returns Crimea. And this, frankly, is a disgrace, what we now see: there are no deputies in the hall, and the question is mutual. Because those parliamentary hearings that went through were the first parliamentary hearings, the first parliamentary hearings on Crimea since the occupation. And so it's very important to accept these recommendations, not just to look at them formally. So I very much ask the leaders of the faction of all, please invite the deputies to the hall so that we can effectively accept these recommendations. This is simply a matter of respect for the criminals, for the Ukrainians. If we all say everywhere on all airs that Crimea was, is and will be Ukrainian, let's at least prove it by our presence in the hall and by voting for these recommendations. I would like to remind you, colleagues, that on June 15th, parliamentary hearings were held on "Strategy and reintegration into Ukraine of the temporarily occupied territory of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and the city of Sevastopol: issues, paths, methods and ways." These hearings were organized by the Committee on State Building, Regional Policy and Local Self-Government, and they were initiated by the interfractional Crimea MP and I as its leader. Of course, it's very important for us to look at the situation that has taken place around the Crimea, around the Crimeans, and that's why these hearings have been very important, and they have aroused a lot of interest in the public in experts, in the international representations of embassies. But unfortunately, they called very little attention from our Cabinet of Ministers, because there was only one minister -- this is Minister Lilia Greenevich, she was one of the Cabinet of Ministers, for which she was given a special thanks. There were no more ministers, despite repeated invitations. I think it's unacceptable, and I would like to ask the Chief of the Supreme Council to go to the Cabinet of Ministers, so that there is no such shame that when there are parliamentary hearings, still, those people who have to be responsible for any direction in the Cabinet of Ministers have come to Parliament, reported, cooperated. Otherwise it just comes out honestly, it's a shame. I'd like to draw your attention, I'd like to make my speech brief, but now I'm going to say a little bit more because I hope that my colleagues will come along. I'd like to draw your attention to the points that are in these recommendations that I think are very important. The participants in the parliamentary hearings endorsed the proposals to amend the Basic Law of Ukraine, including the removal of Sevastopol from special status and the change in the status of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea to the Crimea autonomous Republic. The idea of the recognition of Crimean Tatars, Karaites, and Crimeans by the indigenous peoples of Ukraine is also particularly noteworthy. Also supported was the proposal on the necessity of cancelling or losing the validity of Ukraine's Crimea Free Economic Zone Act and on the specificities of economic activity in Ukraine's temporarily occupied territory, because so far this shameful law has been in force. Yes, thanks to the public blockade organized by Majlis of the Crimean Tatar people along with other social organizations, economic cooperation with the occupied Crimea was virtually halted. But the law that allowed this and that was adopted in the past is still in force, and it is still in effect, and this needs to be corrected urgently. As a result of the hearings, our committee prepared appropriate recommendations and considered them at a meeting on July 13, 2016. I would like to point out that we have taken into account the proposal made by the representatives of Majlis of the Crimean Tatar people, the national MPs, the representatives of the public, the experts. Yes, we have proposed to draft a bill and adopt a bill on collaborationism, on cleansing and illustrating power in the Autonomous Republic of Crimea after it is released. We are, of course, dividing those who are simply surviving in Crimea and who are forced to do so and to receive the suusway that the occupying authorities gave them, from those who actively cooperated with the invaders and helped them seize the Ukrainian Crimea, and they have to bear responsibility for it, and they have to know about it. I would also like to refer to the technical correction in paragraph 14 of the recommendations themselves, which reads: "The State Service for the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and the city of Sevastopol," and I would like to replace this with the words "The Ministry of Temporary Occupied Territories and Temporary Displacement." At a meeting of the Committee on State Building and Local Self-Government and Regional Policy, the Committee supported the draft recommendations and registered the draft Decree 4003a on Parliamentary Hearing Recommendations on the topic: "The strategy for reintegration into Ukraine of the temporarily occupied territory of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and the city of Sevastopol: issues, ways, methods and methods." In addition to the approval of the recommendations of the regulation, the Cabinet of Ministers is obliged to inform the Supreme Council by March 1, 2017 on the status of implementation of these recommendations, as well as our Office’s mandate to issue a collection of materials based on the results of these parliamentary hearings. The committee recommended to the Supreme Council draft Decree No. 4003a to be adopted as a basis and as a whole. Now, as required by article 236 of the Rules, the Supreme Council must adopt and approve these recommendations. Colleagues, I ask you to support the committee's decision, I ask you to accept these recommendations, and I ask that we all really fill in the content of those statements that we always make, that Crimea was, is, and will be Ukrainian. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-07-m0.u127	Thank you, Mr. Alexei, but please remain in the rostrum. Mr. Alexi, if possible, is still in the rostrum because there will be more questions and answers to the full procedure. Colleagues, I'm counting on you as well as the reporter that we're going to be able to make a positive decision before the discussion is over. And I call upon the heads of factions to mobilize MPs. But since we're going in full procedure, we're going to give the word both for the factions and for the speeches for the MPs. And now we have the section "Questions and Answers to the Reporter." And I would like to ask my fellow members of the People's Deputies to record a question to the rapporteur. Please. Vitaly Semenovich, Petra Prashenko Block, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-07-m0.u128	The problem that is being raised today is very important not only for today but also for the future of our nation. And because such readings have passed, and they have been initiated by a committee of local self-government and initiated directly by Alexi Honcharenko, a deputy, is evidence that so many people are interested in this issue. How we're going to deal with the issues of occupied territories today, that's what Crimea and Donbas, depending on the future of Ukraine, depends on the future of our children. And we have to build such a strategy. How do you see, Mr. Reporter, this strategy as a whole? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-07-m0.u129	Thank you so much for asking. This is a very important question, because it's just one of the problems that we discovered at the beginning of the committee hearings, and then the parliamentary thing is that today there is no State strategy for reintegration or return to Crimea is simply not there. We demand that the National Security and Defence Council adopt such a strategy. Of course, there may be a closed section that should not be made public, but there must be an open part in it so that all people interested in it know what the state is doing, what steps it is seeing. What is more, we consider it necessary and this is in the draft recommendations for a bill to be submitted to the Supreme Council, and the Supreme Council has considered it and adopted it on a state strategy for the depopulation of Crimea. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-07-m0.u130	Thank you. Please, Andrew Alexanderovich River, People's Front.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-07-m0.u131	I ask the answer to that question. What are the ways of the Crimea, the Republic of Crimea? Crime is ours, what's wrong with people? What are the ways?
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-07-m0.u132	Thank you. Thank you for asking. We listened to all the President of Ukraine's speeches yesterday. He clearly said there not only what Crimea was, was and would be Ukrainian, but he also saw the solution to that political diplomatic path. And we all realize that today Russia has actually turned Crimea's resort peninsula into a military base, into such a prison island called Alcatras and a military base. And it's not that we're going to take Crimea by storm, we're going to understand today that it's not possible. But we also understand that if we do not work with young people so that they can come to Ukraine, enter our U.S.A., learn, maintain that relationship if we support those criminals who have come out of the occupied Crimea and live in Ukraine and have many problems, starting with the ruling of the NBA. According to which they are recognised as non-residents, ending with how to register property, public status and other things, if we don't do things within the administrative boundaries of the Herson area where people will be able to register public status, property and so on.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-07-m0.u133	Please add 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-07-m0.u134	If we don't solve all these issues, unfortunately, we're going to lose our citizens' support day after day, and we're going to lose our ability to return Crimea as soon as possible. And that's why these issues have to be resolved, and that's why these recommendations are so important. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-07-m0.u135	Thank you, Alexeiovich. Thank you for the report, for the answers. We're moving to the next chapter of the agenda, this is the "Actions from factions." I'd like the factions to record it. He'll be able to speak now! Now. Colleagues, he'll be able to speak now. Please record statements from factions. Vlasenko Sergey Volodymyrovich, faction of Fatherland. Please, Mr. Sergei.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-07-m0.u136	Thank you, Mr. Head. Dear colleagues! In fact, the parliamentary hearings on Crimea's reintegration strategy are probably the only major Ukrainian political enterprise in the last two years to address Crimea's issue and to discuss the issue of Crimea's reintegration in general. Unfortunately, the main problem is that in the 2.5 years of illegal occupation in Ukraine, there is no strategy for the reintegration of Crimea and the return of Crimea to Ukraine's real de facto jurisdiction. Unfortunately, this question is not being discussed. Regrettably, there are no decisions on this issue that would be offered to society and politics. Instead, it's all being replaced by the thesis that the only happiness for Ukraine is the Minsk Accords, there's no alternative, there's no alternative to that. But I want to remind you that the Minsk Accords don't apply to the question of Crimea. Not relevant. I want to remind everyone that the international sanctions imposed by our European and American partners against the aggressor country were based on violations of international law during the illegal annexation of the Crimea. Therefore, it is not possible to talk about the lifting of these sanctions in connection with the implementation or non - execution of the Minsk Treaties, which, I emphasize once again, do not apply to Crimea, but only after the total depopulation of Crimea can the amount of sanctions be removed or reduced. Sadly, our diplomacy does not preach these things in external relations. Sadly, even our friends in international institutions sometimes really forget the problem of Crimea. I had a case at the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe when our, one of our friends, real friends of Ukraine at the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe was preparing a report on human rights violations in occupied areas. And when Donetsk and Lugansk spoke, and there was no Crimea, I just asked this person -- and why is there no Crimea? And the man gave me an answer that was just shocking, and the man said, "And I forgot." So in the international arena, the problem of Crimea is not supported by Ukrainian diplomacy, and the President is not paying any attention to it. And a powerful testimony was that there were no representatives of both the President's Administration and the heads of government at parliamentary hearings. Unfortunately, this is a real reflection of the situation that is. I think, aside from the empty claims that Crimea will be repossessed, because in Ukraine it will be better to live and the criminals will then want to join, it's a story, it won't be necessary to develop a real one.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-07-m0.u137	30 seconds, please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-07-m0.u138	We need to develop a real strategy that will include diplomatic efforts, economic efforts, perhaps other efforts to restore territory, Ukrainian territory, which is the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, to the real composition of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-07-m0.u139	Thank you. I'd like to invite you to the floor of the People's Deputies, Vitalia Kurilo, "Peter Prashenko's Block."
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-07-m0.u140	Ladies and gentlemen, the question under consideration is very important to our country. The reintegration of Crimea, which we've been really talking about lately. And this is a question that needs to be raised every day. And we should really have a real strategy of how we're going to do this. Whether we do it today, whether we do it in a month or a year, but we should have a serious strategic plan. And we should talk about it every day. That's the same thing with us and Donbas, the reintegration of Donbas, because both Donbas and Crimea, they're going back to Ukraine, that's definitely true. And this should not call into question anyone inside or outside the country, including the Crimea itself. But they should have a clear long - term strategy as to how this will be done. And the further, and the more time goes by since the occupation of both Crimea and Donbas, the more difficult it is to do it. And more than that, we have to take that into account. I am not a supporter of those skeptics who believe that we have lost Crimea for a very long time, or even forever. Such skeptical sentiments should be crushed to the root. And for this to happen, we need the government, so we need Parliament, we need the media, we need all of society to take very many steps. This is true of both Lugansk and Donetsk regions, which are temporarily occupied. We have to constantly give the villages to these occupied territories to people who are waiting for us, that we are with them, that they are Ukrainian citizens, and that Ukraine will return to these territories. That's why the Peter Dust Block supports the approval and will vote in favour.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-07-m0.u141	Thank you. Welcome to the speech of national deputy Igor Mosiyczuk, the Radical Party of Oleg Layashka.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-07-m0.u142	It's very good that even in this semi-empty room, we raise the question of the reintegration of Crimea. Because the primacy of power in 2014 and so far has initially led to the occupation of Crimea, because there has been no order to protect Crimea, because our military has been banned from protecting Crimea, and we have to talk about it directly, honestly and openly. And to this day, our power on the diplomatic front, on other fronts, is not paying proper attention, not just to reintegrate the Crimea, I don't recognize that word, it's impossible to reintegrate from occupation. Crime must be freed, occupied territories freed, and only what is already liberated and under the power of the state of Ukraine can be reintegrated. Today, Ukrainian patriots are on the fore in Crimea, and Crimean Tatars are being repressed. And I believe that Parliament, the Ukrainian authorities, have more efforts to free Ukrainian patriots who are in prison in Crimea. The Ukrainian authorities need to pay more attention to actually establish here a full commercial and not only commercial, but also a resource blockade of Crimea, which is occupied territory. And what they're turning into the Kremlin's military base is a threat to the Ukrainian state and the Ukrainian state. We have to understand that the invasion of the peninsula is a pretty possible result, so we have to fight it accordingly. And finally. Diplomacy is good, but it has to be not edible again and not in the mine format, where it's not really about Crimea at all, it has to raise the question of the Budapest Memorandum, we have to ask the guarantor countries to honour the commitments they made. And most importantly, we have to nurture our own Armed Forces, support the resistance of patriots and Crimean Tatars to war, because wars are won exclusively by military forces, and only victory is won in battle. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-07-m0.u143	Thank you. People's MP, Helen Masorina, political party, People's Front. People's Deputy Logwinsky, People's Front.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-07-m0.u144	Dear friends, respected citizens of Ukraine, I believe that we should, at present, not even be obliged to vote and make a decision on the appointment of hearings. Maybe that won't solve the problem, but let's look into the problems that our country is facing right now. Many people are already saying, well, we're fighting corruption, Crimea -- it's not the first question, we still have to solve issues with judges, prosecutors, others, and Crimea out there because it's far away. I would like to remind you, this is our fault with you that we hear this because people don't see the future, because they don't understand when and how our nation will be freed from the invaders, because there is no strategy, there is no solution and there is no desire and no courage. I'm clear every time they ask me, "What about when Crimea is under our control?And I say, "Tomorrow he will," because so did Caddafi and other dictators, who thought that they would rule their own states for life, but somehow one day everything changed. And if the occupation of our nation began with the Crimea, then the occupation could end only if we could say that there would be a flag of Ukraine and a flag of the Crimean Tatar people. We talk a lot, and I hear a lot of thoughts about the question of Crimea, but please forgive the people asking you not to talk, but to do so, because the problems that exist, they exist every day. And they're not resolved by hearings, they're resolved by the effectiveness and desire that our parliamentarians now have for our citizens. I know the names of everyone who's been held in Crimea, and I know the names of those who will be detained tomorrow. I remember Ahtem Chigos, who said, "I know I'm being held up, but I can't show an occupation that I'm afraid of Russian mercenaries." And he left, and he was detained. He is just as Mustafa Jemilev fought for the unity of our state. And so please, dear friends, we know we have to work, we have to support those people who remain our heroes and fight for us with you, we have to help them. So I'm asking you not only for an integration strategy, but for the direct activity of depopulation of our territory to put it in order daily. [[Crimean Tatar expression]] Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-07-m0.u145	Thank you. I'd like to invite you to the floor of National Deputy Sergio Melniczuk, the "will of the people" group.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-07-m0.u146	Dear colleagues, dear Ukrainian people! Of course, the theme of the occupied Crimea is our tremendous pain and loss of this territory, the original territory of Ukraine, it's not only a blow to territorial integrity, it's a blow to national security and defense. And we need to pay attention to the question of the return of Crimea, as previous colleagues have said, every day. Every day, so that the Ukrainian, the patriot in the occupied territory, would know that they were not forgotten and that the Crimea was and would be Ukrainian. But what do we see? Ukrainian society, public organizations themselves, public activists are making every effort to return the occupied territory. State structures for this are simply, you could say, rude words have been killed. Because when there was a power blockade, there was a blockade. When both the Right Sector and other volunteer movements and representatives of the Crimean Tatar people took part, the State only, when it went into resonance, only then did it pay attention. At present, elements of an atomic power plant are being sent through the port of Mariupoli to Russia to supply electricity to the occupied Crimea. There have already been two shipments, all the documentation, and copies of the documentation I have submitted to the Ukrainian Security Service. But nothing is done to stop these supplies, yes, I now understand the currency needed for the country, but what is the currency and what is the national security of the state and the return of the Crimea in general. The next step is the generator, which is actually the heart of an atomic, any power plant. I demand that all activists, I appeal to the Crimean Tatar people, who are in Parliament, unite and do not allow the elements of this nuclear power station to be sent away so that the invader will not be able to launch this power station and not let any additional power into the occupied Crimea. The People's Will Group will support this document. It is necessary, essential. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-07-m0.u147	Thank you. I would like to invite you to the words of the National MP Irina Podowak, "The Self-Help Union."
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-07-m0.u148	Good afternoon, dear fellows! I'll start with an unpleasant one. The truth is not always pleasant. Regrettably, there are no decisions regarding Crimea in Ukraine or in world society today. There are declarations, there are the right ones, there are the right messiahs that speak both Ukrainian politics and there are international societies. But the problem is not that there are no decisions, the problem is that we are not looking for them. In addition to the Ukrainian Parliament, no one will solve the issues of occupied territories. As we can see, there is neither political will nor basic courage. We have, including, because it's a long, complicated and very traumatic process. I must say, everyone, a draft of a bill registered for temporarily occupied territories has already been published yesterday. According to the Self-Help faction, it is critical that the temporarily occupied areas of Donetsk and Lugansk and Crimea have the same status. More than a few dozen members of the various factions are co-authors of this bill, so I urge you not to cause heat in the last days, to get very familiar with the text, to be prepared to compromise and to seek compromises, because there is no one else. It is very important that we not be the Parliament that acts exclusively in the field of declarations. We will be responsible for both the decisions we make and the failure to resolve the matter. I must tell you that the recommendations of parliamentary hearings must be taken into account; we must take into account all thoughts. I must say that we must continue to act in the diplomatic field as well. We also have to go to international organizations, so that what's happening, especially in Crimea, is what's going on with the elements of genocide, unfortunately, the Ukrainian state doesn't have the opportunity to explore these things to the fullest extent that's happening there. But this is something that can help us in the future so that, not theoretically, but in the practical plane after a few years, perhaps decades later, the temporary occupied territories of Donetsk, Lugansk and Crimea will return to the bosom of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-07-m0.u149	Thank you, dear fellows. The next chapter is speeches by deputies, 15 minutes. I'm asking you to prepare for the recording of who wants to speak. And I'd like you to record the performances of the national MPs, please. Ivchenko Vadim Evgenovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-07-m0.u150	Please give the word to colleague Odarchenko Yuri Vitaliovich. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-07-m0.u151	Dear colleagues, I'd like us to be very balanced about the design of the project. which are listed in the draft rulings. And I want to stop at a few points that give me some doubts. Dear colleagues, I was in charge of the Herson district administration right at the time of the occupation of Crimea and the threat of capture, including in the Herson area. And essentially, at that point, everything was done so that we could take on displaced persons in Herson, put them in place, create conditions for those people who want to leave Crimea, including the Crimean Tatar population. Dear friends, this question needs a completely balanced and clear and peaceful attitude. You know, I am expressing a very serious doubt that we should write down in the Recommendation to the President of Ukraine the question of changing the status of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea to the Crimean Autonomous Republic. Look, today in this draft of rulings, we're kind of forcing and recommending that the President make changes to the Constitution in a very clear way. I believe that such recommendations must be led by the President from the National Security Council, from the Ukrainian Security Service in order to make a defined decision, not, you know, politically, to declare absolutely important things here for Ukraine that may have serious consequences. I want to remind you that there are 26 percent of the Ukrainian population in Crimea, and it is very important for them to hear what the Ukrainians are doing about the future of the Ukrainians. I have great respect for the Crimean Tatar population, for the people who suffer today, but I want us to make balanced decisions in our Recommendations that will not. Well, so, you know, superior. Then I am surprised at the point that there is a link in the recommendations. about the organization of a state-law experiment in the Hersonian region. What's a state-of-the-art experiment in the Hersonian region? Unfortunately, the commission did not. The committee that made such recommendations did not explain. Now there are a lot of provocations going around the Hersonian region that some of Hersonian will change their legal status. With the tension that's on the border today, I, my esteemed colleagues, would just recommend that such things be treated very carefully so that people who want to speculate that the Ukrainians have little regard for what is going to be like this highly altered status of part of the Herson area, it's very balanced. I think this is a decision that needs to be made.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-07-m0.u152	Please finish 30 seconds
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-07-m0.u153	It needs to be worked out in order to remove issues that may cause very serious tension in the south of the Hersonian region. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-07-m0.u154	Musei Oleg Stepanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-07-m0.u155	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to support the offer of a colleague who has just made a statement, Odarchenka, that the very important subject of Crimea needs not only such a vote, but also let Parliamentary hearings accept anything there, and then we will discuss it, it is extremely painful for Ukraine and extremely important, and perhaps even more priority than the open war between Russia and Ukraine on Donbassa, because the Crimea is completely occupied and recommends in parliamentary hearings that, you see, other autonomy we are currently proposing, reintegration which. Who are you going to reintegrate, please? Those people who don't exist in Ukraine? Well, let's take it seriously at least in our own eyes. So the raw decisions from a very important issue for Ukraine, such as the Ukrainian Crimea and only the Ukrainian Crimea and nothing else, I think they need serious attention from our side and development too. And I would urge you not to be quick to make decisions, but to address, including the parliamentary hearing recommendations and the President of Ukraine, in order for him to ask the question personally at all international meetings, not Donbas, but the first question he asked Crimea, but in second place, Donbas, because Donbas is known in the European Union, as Donbas knows in the United Nations Security Council, is periodically asked by our friends from the European Union, but about Crimea, you see, again, why we don't talk about it. So I would urge you to take a closer look at this question. And, Mr. Head, in the event that these recommendations are not accepted as an alternative and an additional proposal so that we may not return to this issue at all because of the next parliamentary hearings, but consider the possibility of furthering and introducing a draft recommendation of extremely important parliamentary hearings agreed with all the MPs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-07-m0.u156	Thank you very much. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-07-m0.u157	Please pass the word to Bilocerkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-07-m0.u158	To date, I want to speak as a Crimean from Sevastopol, who lived in Sevastopol until 2014. Russia's task is to remove the issue of Crimea and Sevastopol from the agenda in order for the world public to forget and not talk about it. In Crimea, I want to correct one of the previous speakers, not 26 per cent of the Ukrainian population live in the Crimea, but 100 per cent of the Ukrainian population who waits for us to give you all the necessary political assumptions to raise our heads. Because, to date, the FSB has been threatening the repression of those criminals who, despite anything, are trying to rally against the Russian authorities. Indeed, the crazy amount of work is being done to date and in Ukraine. Let us remind ourselves that the Taverian National University is restored in Kiev and the Crimean can do so. To date, hundreds of Crimeans are going to Kiev to attend the Taverian National University in Kiev. In addition, there is also a rebirth in sports: the Taurus football club has now been reborn in the championships of Ukraine and are already speaking. Therefore, the volume of work is really great, but it is very important that we and the diplomatic methods show that we will fight for Crimea and we will not retreat from a single Ukrainian citizen residing in Crimea. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-07-m0.u159	Thank you very much. Sergey Mikolaiovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-07-m0.u160	Please pass the word to Oleni Shkrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-07-m0.u161	Please, Mrs. Alona.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-07-m0.u162	Alona's splinter, Fatherland faction. Fellows, you know a lot of things have already been said, I would like to say about the topic that is least mentioned in this Parliament, it's about the subject of culture. Because we've actually lost more than just people, we've lost more than just economic enterprises, we've lost more than just territory. We haven't mentioned Crimea in almost a year, and since Mr. President, we haven't actually heard the words "Crime" in a single speech in almost a year, and at any diplomatic level, it's rarely been mentioned. And that, as Mr. Honcharenko himself said, was forgotten by our foreign partners because there was no political will of the leadership of the State to mention it. But we've forgotten about the cultural values that we've lost and we're still losing. Colleagues, let's just listen to the statistics that really impressed me at the parliamentary hearings. We have almost 35 museums in the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and 5 museums in the town of Sevastopol. It's about a million units of precious cultural values: paintings, Scythian gold, and all that. You know the situation and that we can't even calculate what was there right now because the Ministry of Culture asked the Ministry of Justice about the need for the State Security Fund and the archival service to give a list of what was there and count what was there. And so far, there's still no listing, because it's like the insurance fund provides the central authorities with this information just for money, and our state doesn't have the budget to ask for this information. And that information is still not there. It also turned out that the Ministry of Culture did not list those items that were stored in Crimean museums, which were not required in our legislation to transmit to the Ministry of Culture a list of every cultural value, every painting that was in museums and is in museums throughout Ukraine. So the Ministry of Culture doesn't even know what was there or what we've already lost. And we didn't hear any strategy about that. You know that cultural values from Crimean museums are now being transferred to Ermitage, in Ermitage they're being exhibited, and then from Ermitage they're being passed on to foreign states. And foreign nations take them to exhibitions for money and return them back to Ermitage and back to Crimea. And it's a terrible situation when we don't even try to fight for it and we don't have a strategy to return our historical values. You know, the Scythian gold, the vast historical things for the national, for the national dignity of Ukraine and for the history of the international, they were transferred from the Crimean museums of four to the Amsterdam exhibition before the occupation of Crimea and the annexation of the illegal Crimea and then not returned to Ukraine or Crimea, because the Amsterdam Museum did not actually feel the arguments of the Ukrainian side and the Ministry of Justice and said that it would not convey it to either Russia, clearly or Ukraine, although it was national pride and national exhibits of Ukraine. And to this day, the vast Crimea exhibits are located in Amsterdam, in the Amsterdam Museum. Colleagues, what are we doing? We don't have the money to actually count our valuables. We don't have the money to protect our valuables. If we don't have the money to protect culture, then we're a nation. We don't have a strategy.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-07-m0.u163	Please finish 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-07-m0.u164	The public officials who deal with this issue are, unfortunately, impressed by their free, unprofessional nature. The politicians who are leading the Ministry of Culture today are completely inactive for me. And I think there should be a professional responsibility here for those government officials who were preparing lawsuits, not storing information, not getting political responsibility, including the minister of culture and vice-premier on these issues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-07-m0.u165	Thank you. I now invite Rick's Aunt Borissovna to the floor. And I would like to report that Mrs. Tetjana is listed as non-fractional. I have a statement to make, and at the end of our session, I will read out your statement, as well as all the other deputies who have filed for entry into the faction. I ask you to prepare, give me what statements there are so that I can read at the end of the day. Mrs. Tetjana.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-07-m0.u166	I'm Zalitzek Svetlani.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-07-m0.u167	Thank you. Mrs. Svetlana, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-07-m0.u168	Dear colleagues! We are talking about Crimea today, and in this regard I want to remind you that we have an important event ahead of us, namely, on September 18, 2016, another election is scheduled for the State word of the Federal Assembly of the Russian Federation. On our land, there will be four constituencies in our Crimea, to which, in an illegal way, in violation of international legislation, representatives will be "chosen" (in paws) of representatives, i.e. representatives of deputies to the Russian Duma. In this regard, as the legislative body of Ukraine, we must appeal to the international community to prevent the legalization of the occupation of our Autonomous Republic of Crimea. Similarly, we must turn to democratic monitoring bodies, observation missions, not to allow them to refuse to observe in the four constituencies of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. And the third. Likewise today, we must call upon international bodies, international institutions, including parliamentary assemblies of various organizations, not to allow them to represent so-called elected deputies in the territory of our country, our Crimea to the Russian Duma. I would like to point out that we, as the Committee on Foreign Affairs, are already preparing such a statement in the form of a determination and will soon propose to the Supreme Council of Ukraine to support such a statement. I would also like to remind you, colleagues, also Ukrainian journalists that the General Assembly of the United Nations, in its resolution of 27 March 2014 on territorial integrity of Ukraine, confirmed its adherence to the sovereignty, political independence, unity and territorial integrity of Ukraine within its internationally recognized borders, noting that the so-called referendum held in the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and the city of Sevastopol on 16 March 2016 was not sanctioned by Ukraine and therefore cannot be the basis for any change in the status of Crimea and Sevastopol. Similarly, the UN General Assembly has called on States, international organizations and specialized institutions not to recognize any change in the status of Crimea and Sevastopol, and to refrain from actions that can be interpreted as a recognition of such changes. This means that other states, if they are in violation of this resolution are to build relations with the Russian Federation, with MPs who will be elected in Crimea to violate international legislation, could give us reason to appeal to international courts, including courts, to try representatives of such governments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-07-m0.u169	Thank you, Mrs. Svetlana. The Logwine George gives the floor to Mustafa Dzemilev. Please go to the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-07-m0.u170	Ladies and gentlemen of the people! In the Supreme Council's consideration, a draft regulation that is of considerable importance at all. This regulation provides for some steps to restore Ukraine's territorial integrity, i.e. the return of the Crimea to Ukraine's jurisdiction. But this document should probably be accepted, but I think it's no big deal if we don't get enough votes even now because this project has a number of flaws. And if we vote for him now, then we'll probably have to make some adjustments. First, parliamentary hearings were discussed, and now Mosiyczuk also said that this should not be about reintegration, but about the occupation of the liberation of Crimea from occupation. Because Crimea has left Ukraine, not as a result of some disintegration, but as a result of the sudden occupation of our territory by a foreign Power and, therefore, the title must be changed. Secondly, during the parliamentary hearings, it was repeatedly said that one significant step towards the return of the Crimea to the jurisdiction of Ukraine should be to amend the Constitution of the Autonomous Republic. And this, from the same rostrum, was spoken of by the President of our country, saying that the Autonomous Republic should be created as a form of self-determination for the indigenous people of Crimea. Therefore, there should be a recommendation by the Supreme Council of Ukraine to amend the Constitution of the Autonomous Republic accordingly. The same was said here, and it was rightly said that the Minsk Agreement did not, in a single word, mean the need to restore Ukraine's full territorial integrity, i.e. the return of Crimea to Ukraine. Therefore, among the assignments should be, whether the President, the Cabinet of Ministers, on the need to create a platform, I think, on the basis of the 1994 Budapest Memorandum on the need for the return of the Crimea to Ukraine. That is, those countries that have signed up to us when we renounce nuclear weapons, which have guaranteed us territorial integrity and security, must participate actively in restoring our territorial integrity. Finally, the recommendations of the Supreme Council of Ukraine say that in March-May 2018, additional parliamentary hearings on Crimea will be held to determine to what extent they have been carried out. That's what we're going to do in March and April.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-07-m0.u171	Please add one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-07-m0.u172	To say that we should hold parliamentary hearings on deoccupation in March 2018 is to agree in advance that by 2018 we agree with the continuation of the occupation. I think this point has to be removed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-07-m0.u173	Thank you. The time for speeches by the deputies is over, colleagues. Now, before I make a closing statement, colleagues, I'd like to say a few words. As I predicted, this was a very sensitive and delicate subject that caused much discussion in the hall. And we're actually seeing a state of affairs for this minute there's no common position in the hall of this draft regulation. But it would be the most wrong thing to reject it, and maybe I would ask that in the final word, the author of the decree would recommend a proposal, maybe we would step forward as a resolution of the U.S. Parliament to postpone its consideration so that we could give a positive vote on this proposal. Let us reflect, and if the hall unites, it would be very good for us to make a positive decision, for, I emphasize, if there is a discussion and there is no common position, it would not be right if we simply rejected the decision. I ask the heads of the faction to think about it, and I now ask the author of the decision to speak with the closing word and his proposal. And I'm asking the national deputies to come into the hall. In three minutes, there will be a vote, a decision on the Crimea, which is a very important question. And I ask the secretariat of the Supreme Council to ask the deputies to come into the hall. Please, Mr. Alexei.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-07-m0.u174	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I would like to draw your attention to a few things that have been said. First. There is the position of the committee, and the author of the decision is the Committee on State Building, Local Self-Government, and Regional Policy. The committee supports both the basis and the whole. Second of all, those colleagues who talked about ideas, suggestions. Dear friends, you have had the opportunity to do all this, to come to the parliamentary hearings that have taken place, to make all your proposals. We have repeatedly sent letters and requests for proposals to all factions and groups of the Supreme Council. Everything we've got is generalized, no offer has been rejected. But these parliamentary hearings have already taken place, and we cannot simply rewrite this text. I want to make your point that if the Supreme Council can't make any decisions on this issue, it's going to be, frankly, just a shame, it's going to be another testimony to what we're talking about more about Crimea, and when it comes to some decision-making, we're not going to be able to make it. It seems to me that, as now, unfortunately, really, there are not enough deputies in the Supreme Council's session room, it would be best if I asked the Head of the Supreme Council to consider voting on this issue for the day when we will have a sufficient number of members of the Supreme Council in the Chamber, so that we can vote effectively. Because if we can't do it again, well, it's just a shame, and we're just going to give a passport to Russian propaganda, to the Russian media to say that the Ukrainian Parliament has not conducted the occupation of Crimea in two years. For the first year and a half, he failed to hold parliamentary hearings at all, and then, after conducting them, he was unable even to confirm their recommendations. Well, what will be the face of the Ukrainian Parliament and Ukrainian deputies? There is no clear point in these recommendations when the issue of Crimean Tatar autonomy is addressed to the President of Ukraine, to consider the possibility. It's written there in such a way that, in fact, these recommendations can and should be accepted. So, colleagues, the request to you: if we don't have a vote now, let's move this question and vote to the day when we're more, enough MPs, but there's no way we're going to be ashamed of or fail to vote on this issue, because that's really going to be a shame. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-07-m0.u175	Thank you very much. I'm actually cautioned that the question is not even in the number of deputies, but in that there are different positions in the room. And that's why we need to take a consolidating position. We'll be over in a minute before the vote. I ask all the MPs to come into the hall, take up jobs and prepare for the vote. Colleagues, please invite a colleague into the hall. Heads of factions, invite the deputies into the hall and prepare for the vote. Colleagues, I, with your permission, will be the first to put to the vote the proposal made by the committee's secretary, the author of the Honcharenko Alexiyyovich bill, is an offer: to postpone the consideration of the issue so that it can be worked out and made a joint agreed decision. Is there no objection to such formulation? I think everyone was doing the same thing. For people to be in the hall, you have to go into the hall, and all the columns go into the hall. Colleagues, please mobilize. I'm making an offer. Let me put on a rating vote first. Okay? I'm going to put a rating vote to clarify the mobilisation situation in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Dear colleagues, please prepare yourself and please take part in the vote so that we can see what level of readiness we have to make a decision. Colleagues, please take part in the vote. Please vote. Please, colleagues, we're voting. [[13:41:11]] For 178. 178 for. 178 for. I'm asking you to show by factions, and I'm going to read, "Clock of Petra Poshenko" -- 79, "National Front" -- 51, "Resistance Block" -- 0, but "restraint" -- 1, "self-help" -- 22, Radical Party Lachka -- 1, "Fathership"-- 9, "Party Rebirth" -- 4, "Will of the People"-- 3. I just wanted to ask the radicals in the consultation plan: maybe there's some other compromise. The request to move, I think, is good and adequate. Your faction does not vote, perhaps you would like to hear your proposal on the matter, colleagues. Mr. Galasyuk. Please turn on the loudspeaker.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-07-m0.u176	Dear Andrey Volodymyrovich! Dear colleagues! The Radical Party's faction proposes to send this order for further processing.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-07-m0.u177	That's an offer we can make, too. We have the Rules for Predicted Form, this is to be sent to the Committee for re-reading. Will such a form be supported by a faction? Will this form be supported by all other factions, colleagues? Then I ask the people’s deputies once again to come into the hall and prepare for the decision. Colleagues, I ask you to maximize your mobility, not leave the hall, but enter the hall. And I'm voting on a proposal for a draft resolution on Parliamentary Hearing Recommendations on: "Strategy of Reintegration in Ukraine of the temporarily occupied territory of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and the city of Sevastopol: Problems, Ways, Methods and Ways" (number 4003a) to be sent to the committee for re-reading. I'm asking you to support everyone, colleagues, I'm asking you to vote. And please take part in the vote. Please, colleagues, we're voting. Please be supportive. [[13:43:59]] For-195 Please, one minute, Hotcharyenko. One minute, Hotcharyenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-07-m0.u178	Dear colleagues, it's not what I see by voting, by communicating with factions that we don't have votes in principle. The point is, there are no members in the Supreme Council right now, just physically, to vote on it. I want to ask you, Mr. Andrew, because this is it. as this is an extremely politically important, morally important issue. We all realize there'll be a lot more deputies in the hall tomorrow morning. We've fully considered the issues throughout the process, all the factions have come forward -- everyone who wants to. I'm just asking you to postpone the vote for tomorrow, and then tomorrow we can vote on it. Otherwise, it's just gonna be a shame. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-07-m0.u179	Thank you, colleagues. Dear colleagues, please let us exchange our thoughts again, and then I will have to make a decision, but only after consulting you about the decision to make. Colleagues, come on. We still have it. Over one minute, and then we'll make a decision. Let's say one more minute. Please, come on.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-07-m0.u180	Dear colleagues, I must say that not the Polish Seima's decision and our reaction to it is a tragedy and a disgrace, but our presence in the Hall today is so important to our state, to Ukraine to vote on such a decision. So I would like to support my colleague, Mr. Gonzo, and ask you to find the opportunity to vote on this issue when the MPs arrive. Where they are. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-07-m0.u181	Thank you. Logwinka, please, one minute. Logwinka, please, one minute. Please go to the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-07-m0.u182	Dear friends, as I said before, this decision is very important. But I support the statement by the leader of the Crimean Tatar people, Mustafa Djemiliev, that there are some inaccuracies. For example, I'd tell you that I'm sure that hearings in 2018 will be held in May or April, where it's necessary, because by this time, there will be our control, there will be our authority. So in this case. [[th m in s a l i]] Ours is ours, Ukrainian. And that's why I'm asking you to move this question to tomorrow, to introduce editorial regulations that will take all the notes out and vote on the editorial regulations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-09-07-m0.u183	Thank you very much, colleagues. Let's finish the discussion. Dear colleagues, only in exceptional cases did I take a step when we did not make a decision after the discussion was concluded. But I think it's coming out of the national MPs' speeches, which is actually now this exceptional case where we can pass on the decision-making process, as we did with the resolution and the appeal to the United States congressmen. Dear colleagues, given the importance of the matter, given that differences and debates regarding the decision were found not only for Parliament’s decision but in general for Ukraine’s position on the way back to occupied territories and the Crimea under Ukraine’s jurisdiction, I am taking the matter to a point when a compromise decision can be reached on the committee’s site. We're going to consider this decision when, I emphasize once again, and I'm going to refer to the author when a joint compromise is made on the committee's site for all positions, honourable colleagues. Thank you for the discussion, thank you for the thoughts that have been heard. They are not only important for the decision, they are important for our vision of the liberation of occupied territories. Now I would like to read again the announcements that came to the presidency of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. First announcement. In accordance with article 13 of the Ukrainian Law "On the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine" and article 60 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, I report the entry of the National Deputy of Rick's Aunt Borisovna as part of the parliamentary faction of the Party "Block of Peter Poroshenko" in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Let's welcome Mrs. Tetian. Welcome. [[Applause]] And welcome to Peter Dustock's Block. Next message. In accordance with article 60 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, and according to the minutes of the parliamentary faction meeting of the Party "Block of Peter Prashenka" in the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I am reporting the 8th call of 7 July 2016 that the deputy head of the Party "Block of Peter Prashenka" of the Ukrainian National Deputy Najem Mustafa be dismissed. That's two messages. I'd like to emphasize. I'll read Odarchenk's application. I want to let you know that it has to go through the entire registration process and then fall, colleagues. Wouldn't it be a gross violation if I read it? It won't be a gross violation. Then I'll read it at the request of the deputies. At the request of the deputies, I read: pursuant to article 13 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of the People's Deputy and article 60 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I report the entry of the People's Deputy Odarchenk into the faction of the "Universal Union of the Fatherland". Congratulations. [[Applause]] And congratulations, and welcome to the Fatherland faction. Dear colleagues, today we have considered a large cluster of issues, 11 decisions have been made, important bills, important decisions. But I want to stress that tomorrow will be a very important day, and the question of decentralization, and the question of deregulation, and a number of other important issues. After work, committee meetings will be held. I appeal to the National Deputies: to work as actively as possible on the committees so that tomorrow on the issues that are in order for us to be able to make joint decisions that unite the Hall. Thank you for your active and productive work, dear colleagues. And at that morning meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I declare it closed. Tomorrow at 10 a.m., our work will continue. Please, everyone is disciplined at 10 a.m. to be in the workplace. And fruitful committee work, colleagues.
