ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-21-m1.u1	Dear colleagues, the time allocated for recess is over. I'd like you to come into the hall and prepare for registration, please. Dear colleagues, please register. [[16:04:25]] Registered -333 There are 333 deputies registered in the hall. Dear colleagues, I'd like your attention, please. I've already stressed what I've done with full and open access to the presidency. But I was hoping for the responsibility of the deputies, but unfortunately, we see attempts at pressure on the presidency. And with this statement, I invite you to the words of First Deputy Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Irina Heratchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-21-m1.u2	Thank you, Your Honor. We, on behalf of the presidency: our Honourable Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the First Deputy Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Deputy Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, would like to thank you for the support you have given us in delegating to the honorable presidency. But, indeed, we need the same, especially in these early days of our work in such a new warehouse, your support for us to make this work work properly and to be clear about the rules of the Supreme Council, and to go on a daily basis. Because today there were unacceptable times when seven national deputies and a number of groups demanded that one law be put into order there at the same time, and that another law should be brought up in order. And all of this balances Parliament's work. Likewise, we appeal, fellow citizens, to each of the national MPs with a request to attend the session conscientiously, to vote, to consider the bill together. Because otherwise, you know, it's very unacceptable when we have MPs who are more active in television and talk shows than in our workplace. Thank you for your understanding. We very much ask that there be no attempt at blackmailing the presidency of the Supreme Council, a requirement that you put this bill in, because that's the only way I'm going to vote for another bill. And let's keep to the order of the day, which was consistent with the leaders of all parliamentary factions, and what every Monday we agree on a consensus council. Thank you very much for your understanding, and we hope that together we will set up such a normal professional work of the Supreme Council according to the Rules. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-21-m1.u3	Thank you. I want to report that the pressure on the presidency has no prospect of success. And we will follow the order of the day and the Rules. And I'm announcing the next issue of the agenda that we have. This is chapter "Other Reading", bill 2766. The draft Act amending the Ukrainian Television and Radio Act is the second reading. And I invite the head of the Committee on Freedom of Speech and Information Policy of Sumar Victoria Petrovna to report.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-21-m1.u4	Thank you, sir. Dear colleagues, this is a fairly simple bill. You know, since Ukraine is integrated into the European Union, according to our information legislation, there is a provision for a quota for a European information product. Nevertheless, the European information product now has a large quota of Russian information products. You and I have done quite a lot in this room to protect the Ukrainian information space from the aggressor nation's information product. This is about the European quota. We propose to recognise as European the same information product of those countries that ratified the European Convention on Trans-border Speech. This is simple enough because it means that these countries have committed themselves to making a truly European product of information rather than doing propaganda, as Russia does. Therefore, the essence of the bill is to foresee that the European product is only those countries that ratified the European Convention on Transboundary Speech. Ukraine, of course, ratified the same convention and it works for us. The second read came with 14 amendments, most of which were rejected because they predicted either an increase in the quota of a European product, or a corresponding decrease in it to leave more for the Russian information product. Therefore, the Committee on Freedom of Word and Information Policy has decided to leave the text of the law in the form that it was given and considered with those quotas of the European product. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-21-m1.u5	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, please prepare to work on the amendments. 1st Amendment, Moroko. Is it insisting? No, it doesn't. 2nd Amendment, Lensky. Don't insist. Third. Moroko. Don't insist. Fourth, Wesselova. Don't insist. 5th, Oksana Korchinska. Don't insist. Aah!? I insist, I'm sorry. Mrs. Oksana, turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-21-m1.u6	Good afternoon. Oksana Korchinska, faction of the Radical Party. Yes, I insist on voting. In this case, it's really a principle for us to protect the front here with you. Right in Parliament, when we protect our television product, and it's as important to us as possible right now to be as safe from the product of the aggressor country, the occupying country. So I insist on my amendment, yet increase the quantity of European products, increase 10 percent, that's the principle. And I think that's how we're going to protect our space and protect our space, including our neighbors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-21-m1.u7	Thank you. Please, Mrs. Victoria.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-21-m1.u8	I don't deny it. So we actually have 70 now, proposed by law, percent of the European product of 50 of them. Accordingly, the author proposes 80. I do not deny it personally, although the committee’s decision was 70 percent.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-21-m1.u9	Mrs. Oksana, you insist on voting, right? I'm voting on Amendment No. 5 of the People's Deputy of Oksana Korchinsky. Whoever supports this amendment please vote. Please vote. [[16:11:48]] For 121 The decision is not made. Next, 6th, Wesselova. Is it insisting? No, it doesn't. 7th Amendment, Andrew Illenko. Is it insisting? He insists. Please, Andrew Illenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-21-m1.u10	Andrew Illenko, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Please support this amendment, because it also applies to the protection of the quota of 80 per cent for European products, including Ukrainian products, is important. But I would like to take this opportunity to say a very important message. Literally, the city council of Kiev has just had an absolutely shameful event. The members of the Kyiv City Council of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, the people unknown, the aunts who were armed with special forces, who were unknown in the Kyiv City Council premises, attacked their deputies, inflicted many bodily injuries, were not represented, understandably, who they were. And we now call on the leadership of the law enforcement agencies, first of all the minister of the interior, to immediately go out there, to figure out in this screaming absolutely situation, because it's just like some rematch of the Yanukovic regime, what's happening right now in the Kiev City Council. But with this amendment, please support.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-21-m1.u11	Thank you. I'm putting to the vote Amendment No. 7 of the People's Deputy Illenka. Whoever supports this amendment, please vote. Please. [[16:13:25]] For a hundred and The decision is not taken. Amendment of the 8th People's Deputy Levchenka. She insists. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-21-m1.u12	Lewchenko, Freedom 223 District, Kiev City. Well, again, it's a shame that when we look at such wonderful laws, such as information security and the cultural development of the Ukrainian nation, we have it in the upper room. In the Supreme Council, about a third of the deputies are present. Well, it's a shame, to say the least. I hope that the voters will come to the right conclusions. My amendment refers to the fact that it is not enough to place quotas just for European production, it is not enough to place quotas in general because, unfortunately, they do not perform functions to protect Ukrainian language, to protect interests, in fact, Ukrainians, the vast majority of Ukrainians. According to the latest census, which unfortunately we had a long time ago, we had 78 percent of Ukrainians in Ukraine. My amendment refers to 78 percent of the total radio talk being Ukrainian. English. That's perfectly logical. It's, by the way, a similar norm is, for example, in France, similar standards are in Poland. I call on the Chamber, however, if you are the Ukrainian People's Deputies, to vote for my amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-21-m1.u13	Please, Mrs. Victoria.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-21-m1.u14	I just want to add that our committee has been working on a serious enough bill, which really provides for a quota for Ukrainian language in radiofire. I understand, yes. I don't deny it. I'm just saying that I hope that in the near future, the issue of quotas in Ukrainian is exactly what we're going to have in the hall. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-21-m1.u15	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on Amendment No. 8 of the People's Deputies of Lechchenka. Whoever supports this amendment, please vote. Please. [[16:15:32]] For-99 The decision is not taken. 9th Moroko. Don't insist. He insists. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-21-m1.u16	Andrej Vladimirovich, I'm sorry. I'm sorry. 3 revisions. The bill proposes that the transmission of European production, as well as the US and Canada, be at least 70 per cent of the weekly broadcasting volume. I do not understand the logic of such discrimination against other respected countries of the world. And why are we restricting television companies to the purchase of quality products from all over the world? What do the authors and committee members dislike, for example, India, Brazil, South Korea, Turkey, Mexico, Austria, China? What, though, did the countries of Georgia, Kazakhstan, Armenia offend us? I propose that all these countries be included in the list of producers of foreign transfers. Secondly, I propose that the percentage of revisions per month should be taken into account, not per week, as stated in the bill. I don't see the logic of such a severe restriction on TV channels. We are artificially creating problems for television companies and making the process more difficult.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-21-m1.u17	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-21-m1.u18	And Amendment 9, if we look at article 1 of the Television and Broadcasting Act, there is a definition of what a particular product of a television company is: which is wholly or partly created or financed by a television company. I propose a similar approach to the term “European Production Programme”. That is, to supplement the words “completely or partially created and funded”. 3rd Amendment and 9th Support, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-21-m1.u19	You insist on both the 3rd and the 9th, right? Okay. Please, Victoria, explain.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-21-m1.u20	The explanation is very simple, the 3 amendments we leave behind, we absolutely do not discriminate against Korea, China or Turkey, 30 percent remains for other countries, because Ukraine integrates itself into Europe, so that's why the bet was made for this. As for the 9th, well, it's a classic amendment that's going to legalize the Russian product. Because it's completely, in part, or funded by one country, it's enough to take some European company into co-producers -- and actually it's a Russian media outlet for the Ukrainian market. This was the result of an amendment of the MP. I don't mind.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-21-m1.u21	Thank you. The supporter of Amendment No. 3 of the People's Morocco, please vote. Please vote. [[16:18:40]] For-69 69 for. The decision is not made. And now the 9th amendment. Whoever supports the 9th amendment, National MP Moroko, please vote. Please vote. [[16:19:02]] For-53 53 for. The decision is not made. 10th, Princess. Is Mikola the Prince insisting? Don't insist. Colleagues, there are two adjustments left. I'm asking you to invite the deputies into the hall. There are two amendments left, an important bill. Please come into the hall. 11th, once again, the deputy of the Prince. Is it insisting? No, it's not. 12th, Oksana Korchinska. Do you insist? Yes, please, one minute, Corchinska.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-21-m1.u22	Dear National Deputies! Oksana Korchinska, faction of the Radical Party. Once again, I remind you that there is now a war in the information space. We have to keep the front there, we have to win. This victory is important for our generations, we must protect our information space. What is now not accepted in the Hall of Representatives in the second reading today is shameful. Why are we working on drafts? Why do we need a second reading if no MP can stand up for his amendment? At this point, I'm asking you to vote, and to support at this time, and to protect the Ukrainian space from an inconvenient product, from the product of the aggressor country that is now fighting against our boys in Donbas, and for the souls of our people and for the brains of our people, we are fighting in this room. Please, in this case, support Ukrainian space and protect Ukrainian air.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-21-m1.u23	Please, Victoria.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-21-m1.u24	I would say very much to Mrs. Oksano that the protection of Ukrainian information space will be if you support this bill, which is directly aimed at this and which limits really Russian information product, although I know that there are a lot of lobbyists in this room who don't want this law to be passed and want to continue to use the old Russian Blue Fire, and those who won't vote for it, are going to be the proponents of the preserved Blue Fire which the Ukrainians want to feed many years in advance, because it's cheap and angry. And as for Mrs. Corchinsky's amendment, I will personally support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-21-m1.u25	Dear colleagues, I'm voting on amendment number 12 of the People's Deputies of Oksana Korchinsky. Whoever supports this amendment, please vote. Please vote. [[16:21:48]] For a hundred and The decision is not made. The 13th Amendment of Oksana Korczynski. Are you insisting? Don't insist. And the 14th Amendment, the People's Deputy of Morocco. Is it insisting? No, it doesn't. Dear colleagues, we have thus concluded a discussion of the bill. I ask the MPs to enter the hall, an extremely important bill. I want to say my opinion. That the information war waged by the invader against Ukraine is no less important than the military war, and today it is up to each and every one of us to be able to take effective action to respond to the information war that goes on against the Ukrainian state, the responsibility of each of us. And so I ask the deputies to come into the hall and prepare for the decision. And I'll give you one minute of Victoria Sumar's closing statement.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-21-m1.u26	Ladies and gentlemen, I very much hope there will be people in this room right now, because we have a very illogical lot going on today. You and I have adopted quite a number of bills and legislative acts that really protect Ukrainian information space. And we were told that right now we're going to have a disaster without Russian media products. On the contrary, Ukrainian television channels have become quite active in recording their Ukrainian information product and have given jobs to many Ukrainian actors, screenwriters, directors, and so forth. At the same time, there's a constant temptation, there's, you know, there's a lot of old Russian programs on the bench, and you want to use them. And this creates a lot of illogicality in Ukrainian legislation. Because if we recognize Russia as Europe, it is not clear why we adopted the previous decision. We need to bring this rule down in this case: do we consider Russian media to be European? Obviously Russia is an aggressor state, obviously there's no freedom of speech there today. And it's not about information.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-21-m1.u27	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-21-m1.u28	This is about primitive propaganda with the goal of destruction, first of all, of course, in Ukraine. So I hope that we will now have voices despite lobbyists' efforts to get this bill approved in a second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-21-m1.u29	Dear colleagues, let's move on to making a decision. I'm voting on the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Television and Radio Act (as regards the definition of European Production Broadcasts) in the second reading and in general. Please vote. Please include the voting system. [[16:25:12]] For 205 I'm going to put once back on the condition that the MPs who speak of protecting Ukraine return to their jobs. I'm giving you one minute to mobilize MPs. One minute, I'm asking the factions to assemble deputies in the hall. I ask for the result of the vote to be shown on the board of the Supreme Council by factions. Dear colleagues, as far as the bill is concerned, I will place a rating vote on the Rules. I ask everyone to take up their jobs and prepare for the decision. So I'm conducting a rating vote on the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Television and Radio Act (2766). Whoever supports this bill, please vote. Please vote. [[16:27:14]] For 203 Please include the factions. Peter Poshenko's Block – 86, People's Front – 63, Opposition Block – 0, Self-help – 20, Radical Party Lachka – 2, Father's Front – 6, Rebirth Party – 4, Will of the People – 2. The ratings vote showed that there are not enough mobilization resources in the room to make this decision, so we're going to look at it in the part "from the issues discussed earlier." Thank you, Mrs. Victoria. Please take your place. Next question of the agenda. A request from the committee for the next question to be brought to light. We respect the position of the committee, we pass on the next bill. And we're going to Bill 3868. This is also a second reading. And the draft Law on Amendments to Some of Ukraine’s Laws on Reducing the Deficit Deficiency of Black Metals in the Internal Market is designed to provide first-hand protection to the needs of the defence industry and to rebuild infrastructure objects. I invite the head of the Committee on Industrial Policy and Entrepreneurship, Halasyuk Viktor Valeriyovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-21-m1.u30	Dear Andrey Volodymyrovich! Dear fellow national MPs! I present you for consideration in the second reading of the draft Law amending some of Ukraine’s laws on reducing the deficit of black metals in the internal market with a view to providing first-hand protection and reconstruction of infrastructure objects. — No. 3868. Dear colleagues, what are we talking about? This is about raising the expert export duty from 10 euros to 30 euros for three years temporarily. And at this point, cancel the registration of the relevant export contracts, i.e. cancel the quota, liberalize the metal market. This is necessary in order to provide the Ukrainian defence complex with metal products in order to ensure that the infrastructure of Donbas can be restored. This is necessary in order to save today the Ukrainian metallurgy, which has a critical deficit in this metal scrap material, which has lost nearly $5 billion in exports in the last year. This is reflected in every Ukrainian family because of the collapse of the bracelets, due to price increases. Today, Ukrainian metallurgy is a quarter of Ukrainian industry and almost a third of Ukrainian exports. Therefore, the issue of metallurgy is not a sectoral issue today that is the national economic security of the country. Dear colleagues, I would like to point out that this practice is proposed in a bill sent by the committee for second reading, and it fully responds to our international obligations to the WTO, as it refers to the corresponding 21 articles of our agreement. I made an appropriate request to the Prime Minister for appropriate notification within the WTO. Thus, the standards proposed in the bill correspond to articles 21 of our WTO Treaty are economically sound in terms of the needs of metallurgy enterprises, the defence sector, and the reconstruction of infrastructure. They are non-discriminatory because the export rate is expected to be distributed to all countries of the world, so we do not make any exceptions, nor is it temporary. Therefore, honourable colleagues, the Committee on Industrial Policy and Entrepreneurship considered the bill. I suggest that you accept it as an editorial committee today, as a whole, with technical remedies. Dear colleagues, please support the issue of the metallurgical, defence industry and the reconstruction of the infrastructure of the areas that have been lost. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-21-m1.u31	Thank you. Dear colleagues, under the Rules we must follow all the amendments that are there. And I'm announcing, I'm asking the MPs to get ready for work. 1-a, Kiselov doesn't insist. 2nd, Kiselov doesn't insist. 5th, Levenchenko. He insists. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-21-m1.u32	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223 District, Kiev City. I actually made this amendment to draw attention to one very serious problem that concerns this area and this bill in general. Indeed, the bill has its own rationality, the right bill. But there's one big "but." Which is that we actually have a metallurgical branch, which is a private monopoly. More specifically, the private is an oligopolies, these are the two main competitors that have arranged for each other, the cartel, and they are artificially holding the labour market. What does that mean? This means that this bill, which we are now voting for, which really improves the situation for the metallurgical sector, is improving exclusively for the owners, especially the two owners -- Ahmetov and Pinchuk -- of appropriate enterprises. That's it. There will be no transfer of these benefits to employees, to Ukraine's budget, to pay taxes, because they avoid paying taxes, and because of monopolization, the industry does not raise artificially paid wages. So it's very important. I'm asking you to finish for 10 seconds. It's very important, I hope those people in particular are.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-21-m1.u33	Ten seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-21-m1.u34	People who propose such bills that they not only created conditions for Ahmutov and for Pinchuk, but also voted in favour of bills to break private monopolies that would allow all these positives for the metallurgical industry to be translated into the final Ukrainian.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-21-m1.u35	Thank you. Please, Mr. Victor.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-21-m1.u36	Dear Mr. Yuri, thank you for your observation. I want to stress that Ukrainian metallurgy is 300,000 jobs in Ukraine, that's 25 percent of Ukrainian exports and the Ukrainian industry, that's almost $8 billion in the trade balance of export earnings, that's 10 billion dollars, you just think about that figure, 10 billion dollars in taxes coming into the state budget. So today it's an ostrich, it's the backbone of the Ukrainian industry and the economy. Today, we are obliged to save this area in order to build other high - tech productions on the basis of it tomorrow. And wages today in metallurgy are one and a half times higher than the average in the country, but they certainly have to raise wages for metallurgy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-21-m1.u37	Do you insist on voting? Whoever supports Amendment 5 of the People's Deputies of Lechchenk, please vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-21-m1.u38	The committee does not support this amendment. Dear colleagues, the committee does not support the amendment. [[16:34:59]] For-73
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-21-m1.u39	73 for. The decision is not made. 6th, Matvienkov. Don't insist. 7th. Kiral. Don't insist. 8th. Okay. Kiral, please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-21-m1.u40	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, the honourable reporter, is somewhere in the spirit of what Deputy Lechchenko said. Consider: 50 percent of metallurgical enterprises export scrap metal in the form of weeds. So if we're significantly increasing the expert myth of metallurgy, that's how we create an artificially huge supply in the internal market. That is, cheap raw materials, from which, in the form of weeds, these metallurgical enterprises have huge profits. Colleagues, I propose to support this amendment so that we do not create a market imbalance in scrap metal and destroy the cash market where more than 40,000 Ukrainians are employed today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-21-m1.u41	Please, Mr. Victor.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-21-m1.u42	Dear Sergey Ivanovich, a respected colleague, the truth is more expensive. If we look at world experience with you today, in countries like Indonesia, Saudi Arabia and Kazakhstan, the export of metal scrap metal is banned from the country at all, that's the first. In other countries, such as China, India, Iran, Vietnam, there are rates of 20 to 40 percent of the export duty, which provides between 30 and 80 euros in cash. So what we predicted is not only that it doesn't create any preferences compared to other countries, but it's completely at the bottom. Because if in China 80 euros, and we have 10 for today, that's the minimum step that we have to take today, because in fact, maybe we should ban the export of metal scrap.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-21-m1.u43	Thank you very much. 8th, Bezbach. Don't insist. Please turn on Bezbach’s microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-21-m1.u44	Good health to you! I wish, distinguished colleagues, to support the committee. We had a really good talk about this yesterday, and there's a lot of evidence here. But I want to say one thing, besides that there's a lot of people working there, it's already been called here, it's more than 250,000. But this mining and metallurgical complex is also an opportunity for other businesses. These are more than a thousand enterprises, tens of thousands, and where the same people who also need wages and everything else work. Please support the committee's decision. This is the first time today we have touched on what needs to be created and built, not shared. Remember, all funds are born only during the production process. Everything else is a clean redistribution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-21-m1.u45	You don't insist on voting on this amendment, do you? Don't insist. You insist, don't you? Then I'm putting amendment number 8 of the Bezbach People's Deputy. Mr. Victor. Please, Victor.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-21-m1.u46	Dear colleagues, there is the committee's decision, we insist on the committee's drafting, that is, we don't support the amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-21-m1.u47	So we heard. [[B in m in s a l in]] I'm voting on the eighth amendment, Bezbach, for the vote. Whoever supports this amendment, please vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-21-m1.u48	We don't. [[16:39:30.]] For the 110.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-21-m1.u49	The decision is not taken. Next, the seventh amendment, People's Deputy Kiral. Is he insisting? He insists.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-21-m1.u50	I was just speaking.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-21-m1.u51	Yeah, we didn't vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-21-m1.u52	The point of my amendment is to reduce it to $25. I think this is also the position of the Ministry.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-21-m1.u53	And you insist on voting, right?
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-21-m1.u54	I insist on confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-21-m1.u55	Okay. I ask you to take part in the vote. 7th Amendment, People's Deputy Kiral. Whoever supports this amendment, please vote. Please vote. [[16:40:14]] For-100 The decision is not taken. 10th People's Deputy Levchenko. Is he insisting? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-21-m1.u56	Thank you. Well, first of all, I'd still like to go again to both the rapporteur and the other deputies. I just didn't talk about the quality of this bill directly. There are some questions for him. I've been paying attention to this room, especially because, unfortunately, our bill on demonopolization is, in principle, no longer a year and a half for even discussion, that this bill is not actually going to be a positive factor for a private worker in the metallurgical sector, and for the state budget. Why? Because the left side of the added value is left directly in the pockets of the metallurgical oligarchs. And in order for this bill to have the real result that it has to have, not only to help individuals -- to vote for the demono-pollution projects, to vote for de-offshorization, to clean up transport pricing, and so on. So, of course, this is the right bill, the right one. But in no way will he help a military metallurgy. And Ukraine's budget won't help either. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-21-m1.u57	Please, Mr. Victor.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-21-m1.u58	Dear Mr. Yuri, thank you for your recommendations. There must be social responsibility, of course, but I would like to point out that this bill is not only beneficial to every metallurgy, because this bill does not allow the jobs of Ukrainian metallurgy to be stolen abroad. But this bill is convenient for every Ukrainian citizen, because if there's a branch that provides 30 percent of Ukrainian exports, if it falls, the bracelet will fall, and the prices in stores will go up even more than they did. So the whole society is interested in ensuring that Ukrainian metallurgy works and develops normally. Today, it has no money because of tariff policy, because of the dragon's policy of the National Bank, but there must be a social responsibility and an increase in wages, absolutely correct.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-21-m1.u59	Do you insist on voting, Mr. Yuri? Yuri, can you hear me? Do you insist on voting? Do you insist on voting? Please, who supports Amendment 10 of the People's Deputies of Lechchenk, please vote. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-21-m1.u60	The committee does not support this.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-21-m1.u61	[[16:42:51]] For-79 79 for. The decision is not made. 11th, Kiral. Don't insist. 12th, Goose. Don't insist. And 13th, Spinov. It's over. The last one is Spinov. Don't insist. So, colleagues, we've had a full discussion of this bill. And I'm asking you to invite the deputies into the decision-making room. Please come into the hall. Your Honor, are you ready to vote factions and deputies? An important bill, and so we don't lose it, I'm going to put in a rating vote, according to the Rules, to see how much room is mobilized. I'm asking you to take up jobs. And I'm voting on a draft law amending some of Ukraine's laws to reduce the deficit of black metals in the internal market with a view to first-hand securing the protection industry's needs and rebuilding infrastructure objects (3868). Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. Please. [[16:45:02]] For 246 246 for. And I'm voting on a draft law amending some of Ukraine's laws on reducing the deficit of black metals in the internal market with a view to first-hand securing the protection industry's needs (3868), second-reading and overall. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. Please vote. [[16:45:38]] For 268. Decision taken. Welcome to the drafters. I got an application from two factions to announce the break, but they're willing to replace it with a speech. Both factions of Oleg Lazko are invited to the rostrum. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-21-m1.u62	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Dear fellow national MPs, I'm drawing your attention to an important corruption story. Last week in this room on Friday, I asked the finance minister Alexander Daniluk why he did not register in the declarations, as a civil servant, his offshore companies, which he owns and where he is director. Throughout the country, Alexander Daniluk, from this high-ranking government rostrum, assured him that he had no offshore companies, that he had all the fibers of his soul against corruption, and that he had no companies. However, that was not true. Imprisoned by evidence, Alexander Danieluk admitted today that he is the director of three offshore companies, two of which are in Cyprus, one on the Cayman Islands. He explained, he said, a mistake he forgot to mention the three offshore companies in his declaration. I would like to point out that Alexander Daniluk, who was elected last week by the Minister of Finance of Ukraine, has been working on the State Service since 2010, with President Yanukovich's Administration, Presidential Administration of Dustenk, acting as Vice-President of the President's Administration for the election of Ukraine's Finance Minister Alexander Daniluk. For five years, Alexander Daniluk, as a top-ranking civil servant, has filled out declarations, and in no five years has he identified the three offshore companies he owned. This means that he is consciously not a mistake; he has deliberately lied to the Ukrainian society, to the tax authorities, to the Ukrainians. He hid his offshore companies, he hid his income. And that's why he didn't indicate them in the declarations. And only after we published these materials, Daniellus, after a long lie, including in this room, had he had to admit that he had three offshore companies. I'm calling on the Minister of Finance of Daniluk to apply immediately for his resignation. I call on the National Anti-Corruption Bureau of Ukraine: to immediately investigate the corruption scandal, to hide offshore scandals by the finance minister Daniluk. What government can do something when it's the government of offshore ministers, when ministers hide their wealth in offshors, when the President hides his wealth in offshors? And they don't all pay taxes together. We demand an investigation into the Parliament of the President's Offshores, the Offshores of Nazbank, the Offshores of the Minister of Finance. Shame!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-21-m1.u63	Dear colleagues, I'd like your attention. Colleagues, may I have your attention, please? I have received a request from several factions demanding that we consider today the Law of Ukraine on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on the Status and Social Protection of Citizens affected by the Chernobyl Disaster on the Social Protection of Victims, with proposals from the President, 2093. But I can't do it without the consent of the hall. I will now, at the request of a few factions, make an offer to look at it now. He's all right in the daytime, but he's still standing. But I can only do this if I have the support of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I will repeat for those deputies who do not listen to the Head of the Supreme Council. Request to establish the Law of Ukraine. Why is it so hasty? So that before April 26, we can solve this question before Chernobyl's 30th anniversary. And so this requirement is actually from all the heads of factions. I repeat, this is the Ukrainian Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on the Status and Social Protection of Citizens affected by the Chernobyl Disaster (No. 2093). Dear colleagues who support this demand of factions' heads, I now invite you to the vote. Mr. Rostick, thank you for coming, but the debate will begin only after a good hall has been put in place, if there are 226 votes for it. So please wait, we're waiting for the results of the vote. Dear colleagues, "Peter Prashenko's Block," can we vote? Wait, let the deputies into the hall. Why do deputies leave the hall and not come in? You're ready, aren't you? I'm putting to the vote a proposal that we should now consider a question that is included in the agenda, but that we should consider it now. The Ukrainian Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on the Status and Social Protection of Citizens Affected by the Chernobyl Disaster on Social Protection of Victims, with proposals by the President of Ukraine dated 06.04. 2016 (number 2093). Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. Please vote. [[16:52:10]] For 279 Decision taken. I invite you to report to the deputy head of the Ukrainian President's Office, Pavelek Rostislav Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-21-m1.u64	Dear Mr. Head! Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on 17 March 2016, the Ukrainian Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on the Status and Social Protection of Citizens affected by the Chernobyl Disaster on the Social Protection of Victims, registration number 2093, cannot be signed by the President of Ukraine for such reasons. The law that came to be signed extended significantly to those who were granted benefits and compensation as a result of the Chernobyl disaster. An ineffective and outdated mechanism for providing social benefits to all categories affected by the Chernobyl disaster is being restored. It should be noted that such an approach does not correspond to the only policy of the State in the system of reforming and granting benefits, compensation, and guarantees to individual categories of citizens by ensuring their targeting, taking into account the average monthly income of the family, particularly in section 1.6 of the coalition agreement. In doing so, these changes will result in additional costs from the state budget, which, under the constraints of budgetary resources and the substantial decline of the country's economy, will result in a budgetary imbalance that does not correspond to part three of article 95 of the Constitution of Ukraine. In addition, certain provisions of the law provide advantages that do not conform to the constitutional principles of equality of citizens before the law and the denial of privileges. The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine in its time made a proposal to return the law with observations to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. In view of the above, the Head of State stresses the need for a comprehensive settlement of the issue of the provision of State social guarantees and the improvement of the social protection of citizens, taking into account the socio-economic situation in the State and the financial capacity of the State budget. Otherwise, any guarantees will be populist and will not be implemented. In view of the above, the President of Ukraine proposes the Ukrainian Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian Act on the Status and Social Protection of Citizens affected by the Chernobyl Disaster on the Social Protection of Victims, to reject. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-21-m1.u65	Thank you very much. I invite the head of the committee on environmental policy, environmental management and the elimination of the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster, Moskalenko Jaroslav Mikolaiovich. I have a co-reporter, Moskalenko. Fish. Moskalenko gives the word to Rybaku.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-21-m1.u66	Ukraine's adopted Supreme Council of Ukraine on 17 March 2016 partially renews paragraphs and articles of the Ukrainian Act on the Status and Social Protection of Citizens, which were affected by the Chernobyl disaster, which were amended by the Ukrainian Act of 28.12.14. As for the children affected by the Chernobyl disaster. Free food in radioactive pollution areas, free travel within Ukraine to a child or a person who escorts a sick child to a treatment facility, full government provision for children before entering school, monthly payments to families for every school - age child who has become disabled as a result of the Chernobyl disaster. Retirement benefits. Those affected by the Chernobyl disaster are to a full extent. A wife or husband who has not been married for the second time is also entitled to a minor child who is a disabled person, a participant in the elimination of the effects of the Chernobyl nuclear accident, regardless of the cause of death and the Chernobyl disaster on the benefits he used for his life. In fact, in part only those related to the need for recovery and health care are recovering compensation and benefits for citizens assigned to the IV category of persons affected by the ČAES disaster. Regarding the remarks made by the President of Ukraine. With regard to the sources of funding for the law, the committee notes that the law stipulates that the main positions that require additional expenditure from the state budget of Ukraine take effect on 1 January 2017. In doing so, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine is tasked with providing the necessary funding to implement the provisions of the Ukrainian Law on the State Budget for 2017. Retirement insurance. Proposals for the lifting of pension restrictions for working pensioners affected by the Chernobyl disaster are no exception compared to the rules of current legislation, since all are defined by a wide range of working pensioners who do not have the specified limit. Pensions for citizens affected by the Chernobyl disaster are designed to reduce retirement age, as the health of the listed category of citizens has been adversely affected by radiation radiation. Participants in the elimination of the consequences of the Chernobyl AES accident are those who have worked at work with particularly harmful and particularly difficult working conditions under List No.1 of production, work, occupations, positions and indicators associated with adverse health effects of harmful radiation, chemical, physical and other factors. The State has fully guaranteed the listed category that their voluntary risk of life and health will be ensured by full socio-economic and other measures. The provisions of the Law concerning the granting of the right of a wife or a husband who has not been married for the second time, the minor children of the deceased participant in the liquidation of the consequences of the Chernobyl AES, assigned to category 1, to benefits and pension insurance regardless of the existence of a cause of death with the Chernobyl disaster, are consistent with the Ukrainian Law on the Status of War Veterans, guarantees of their social protection, benefits and guarantees to wives who have been killed, members of the military, guerrillas, and others who may be granted if they have not entered into a new marriage. The All-Ukrainian Disability Society of the Union of Chernobyl Ukraine asks for support and a proposal for a bill for consideration by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Environmental Policy, Environmental Management and the Elimination of the Effects of the Chernobyl Disaster considered the proposals of the President of Ukraine to the Ukrainian Act on Change of the Ukrainian Law on the Status and Social Protection of Citizens Affected by the Chernobyl Disaster on the Social Protection of Victims, and decided to recommend the Supreme Council of Ukraine to enact legislation in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-21-m1.u67	Thank you. Please remain in the rostrum, Mr. Fish. Please remain in the rostrum, Mr. Fish. According to the Rules, we have three minutes to ask the reporter. Dear colleagues, please sign up for a question to the reporter. Three minutes. Please. Galchenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-21-m1.u68	Please give the floor to the Royal Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-21-m1.u69	Thank you very much. We understand that 26 April is no longer on the horizon and that even if we overcome the veto on this bill, we will not solve most of the problems and issues that the Chernobyls have today. Yesterday, I was with the cannibals, the heroes, the liquidators, their children, the ones who are no longer alive in Chernobyl. And they asked for a single request from all the people's deputies, and the draft law on the award of the State prize for liquidators was in Parliament. These people are asking for not money, not aid, not supplies, but to be given this medal at the state level today, not them, it is important for their children, for those who are no longer alive to be thanked by the State, thanks to the 30th anniversary of the accident. And I'm asking the committee as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-21-m1.u70	Please answer that question.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-21-m1.u71	It's not a question anymore, it's probably a proposition and a remark. But I would like to point out to the honourable colleagues of the Ukrainian National Deputies that the fact that, in the previous vote in general for this bill, we have adopted a rule that I have already said first that this Ukrainian law takes effect since 1 January 2017, the beginning of the new fiscal year. So it's really right for you to say that even if we vote today and today the President will sign this rule will only enter into force on January 1, 2017.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-21-m1.u72	Thank you. Bezbay.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-21-m1.u73	Please give me the word Levchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-21-m1.u74	Thank you. Lewchenko, Freedom, 223 District, Kiev City. Of course, the law is very important, the veto has to be overrun, the veto has to go faster, because the veto has arrived on April 6th, if you're talking about the Chernobyl disaster all the more. And here I have a question, and please tell me, how do you, a member of the faction of WFP, comment on the fact that the head of state whose name is your faction? – made a commitment to this bill. And all of a sudden, when the People's Will Group just announced itself and agreed that it would vote in favour of the prosecutor so that Yuri Lucenko could become the prosecutor, only then did you put the issue to the veto. Please comment on such a "little," in your paws, dissonance in the order of the Supreme Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-21-m1.u75	Dear colleagues, in the comments of the President of Ukraine, it was precisely in the motivation for vetoing the bill that these were quite right, namely the question of the cost of implementing the bill for the Ukrainian budget. If we have so many benefits for today, these benefits have also been removed from the greenhouses. But nevertheless, today we are looking at this bill here in the hall, and we have representatives of the President of Ukraine. So I think if there's a vote in the hall right now, the veto will be overrun. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-21-m1.u76	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the time for discussion is over. I'm asking the national deputies to come into the hall and take up jobs. And I give one minute for Irina Heratchenko, the first deputy head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And I'd like you to invite the deputies into the hall. Please, Mrs. Irina.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-21-m1.u77	Thank you. Dear colleagues, you know, in this session room there is a majority of the political forces who before the elections in their programs have shown that they have a right centeristic ideology. And how strange it looks when the previous appeal, which belongs to the right political power, appeals today to the "leaving" of such totally populist slogans, which are absolutely impossible to perform. So let's deal with our ideology, with what you promise voters before the elections, and what the session room does very often. You know, this room once passed the Children of War Act, and never before in its life did the state implement them. So let's be responsible, not populists. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-21-m1.u78	Dear colleagues, there is the Rules of Procedure for the consideration of the matter. The first position is the result of a discussion of draft legislation with proposals by the President. The first sentence is to reject the law, as proposed by the President. Whoever supports the President's proposal, please vote. Please vote. [[17:05:41]] For-48 The offer is not accepted. The next proposal, according to the Rules, is to overcome the veto of the President of Ukraine, I remind you, this proposal requires 300 votes to pass it. Who supports the proposal to defeat the veto of the President of Ukraine, please vote. Please vote. [[17:06:19]] For 214 The decision is not taken. [[B in m in s a l in]] It's a bill. The bill is rejected. The vote is over. [[B in m in s a l in]] Please, Mr. Fishbuck, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-21-m1.u79	Dear colleagues, we have a proposal from the committee. In accordance with article 135 of the Ukrainian Rules of Procedure to Part 8, the decision of the Supreme Council that an unadopted law after reconsideration may be directed to the Main Committee. Please send this bill to the Main Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-21-m1.u80	It's a veto, it's not a re-voting. I'm being corrected by Victor Pinzenik that we don't have that form in our consideration. Thank you. The question is closed, and the bill is rejected. Dear colleagues, I have an important request for you. We've been looking at two bills that apply to the IMF, and we're missing literally a few votes. I ask now to participate in the rating vote in the return of these bills: 2506a and 2507a are drafts of the Law on Organs and Persons who Force the Enforcement of Decisions and Decisions of Other Authorities. These are draft laws that apply to IMF. Ladies and gentlemen, I've been saying that in matters of security and IMF, I'm going to be putting on return. We've only voted on them, we've only voted on them. In these matters. No, the rejected first, the first one was rejected. I'm going to bet two: 2506a and 2507a. I'm asking all the deputies we've had lunch with, and I'm asking all the deputies to be as responsible as I am. On my return to consideration of 2,506a and 2,507a, I place a rating vote. Whoever supports this proposal: return to IMF laws, support Ukraine, please vote. Please vote, colleagues. Vote. [[17:09:11]] For 178. The rating vote showed that there was no willingness to go back to the bill. I'm only going to make one more offer. I know I'm only making one more offer that came from the Self-Help faction. This is the last offer, then we go in the daytime. In order for us to have a day-to-day issue, but they continue to stress the importance of its consideration now, so that we can now consider 3,448 -- this is a bill amending the Ukrainian Tax Code on the characteristics of criminal conduct in tax matters of administrative taxes and congregations. Who supports the proposal to consider it now, please vote. Please vote. [[17:10:14]] For 238. Hall supported the proposal for a review of Bill 3448. Please, 3448. We just got back to him, so, we put him in the dayroom. Wait a minute, we'll decide. I invite you to report to the National Deputy of Ukraine, Mr. Andrija Valeriyovich. And, dear fellows, if there's still a general position on GPI, if there's a general position, we're going to look at it today. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-21-m1.u81	My colleagues, thank you very much for including this bill and for considering it. Almost every day we have a call from citizens from business, from entrepreneurs about the vacchanalia that is being carried out today by the tax police under Mr. Bilaan. Yesterday, the Committee on Freedom of Speech supported the appeal for illegal acts and for an illegal violation of a criminal case, and called Mr. Nasserov on the channel "Shuster". Yesterday the Committee on Tax and Customs Policy called today at the 18th hour Mr. Billan for the illegal acts of taxpayers in Cherkishka, and this happens every day. I'm asking you to show the video, that's what was in Church last week, how the tax police are doing right now. The main objective of the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-21-m1.u82	Dear reporter, I ask you to stop. We have to vote on an even shorter procedure. We've got you on full-time. Dear colleagues, please prepare for the vote and consider the motion for a reduced procedure, 3448. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. Please vote. [[17:12:35]] For-161 Offer supported. Please answer, according to the Rules, 3 minutes, not 10. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-21-m1.u83	Can I show you the video, right? [[Video recording broadcast]] Please look at the cameras. This happens at night in a village where ordinary women protect the business. The police, 10 in masks, used special equipment. Today. The woman lies on the ground plainly. One of the women today in a hospital with a broken arm. These are the great guys that were doing the removal of the documents at night, if you see. This is the Tax Police of the Zaporozhye District in the Cherkas region of something.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-21-m1.u84	Dear colleagues, we ask you to report the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-21-m1.u85	That's right, I'm reporting.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-21-m1.u86	Please turn off the hall, turn off the screen. I'm asking you to report the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-21-m1.u87	Please enable the presentation. Colleagues, how these matters end. A presentation, if I may. According to official statistics, we took it down and published it: 85 percent of criminal cases investigated under article 212 of the Criminal Code, tax evasion, are closed for lack of crime. Eighty-five percent. And it doesn't matter if it was Mr. Homenko, who was released, or Mr. Billan. So the bill is aimed at stopping the vacchanal, and it's actually changing what they're saying is that there can't be a criminal case at 212 until the time of the tax settlement. That is how all court practice is now in effect. We had a round table, we were supported by the judges of the Supreme Court, the Supreme Administrative, the Business Council of Ombudsperson. And we have to take them away from this guy when they're breaking thousands of cases and then they just make money on it because there's not going to be any investment climate for this kind of tax police action. Two changes: the tax liability must be reconciled, and we raise the threshold of criminal responsibility, increase it twice. This rule was envisaged in general at the time of the adoption of the Tax Code, which meant that a hundred percent of the social benefits would come from 2015. Unfortunately, this rule has been extended, and now 50 percent of the social benefits are in effect. Here, even the tax police have agreed to this position. So let's stop the vacchanal together and stop the pressure on business. We're cleaning up this function as such, and it's actually going to allow us to reduce about 3-4 thousand taxpayers, who are now simply at risk of cutting money out of business. A request for support.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-21-m1.u88	Thank you. To the co-report, we invite the head of Mrs. Yuzanin's committee of profile. Nina Petrovna, please. Please, Mrs. Jujanina.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-21-m1.u89	Dear colleagues, I am co-author of this bill, but I want to be honest to the end. The bill amends not only the Tax Code but also the Criminal Code and the Criminal Procedure Code. Very many items have been changed during workgroups. I asked my colleague to submit the amended text of the bill to the Hall. You're in a hurry, this text as you've just proposed is a good idea, but why are you doing it? You don't have to go through that text that's not even going to be accepted in Parliament for second reading. What are we going to do? I went to Kozemyakin to gather a working group and agree on the changes we are making in another committee’s field of activity. Why are we putting the text of the bill into the room today? In general, we made a lot of changes in the working group. We need to consider today's first reading of the amended text of the bill. The committee's decision was just like this: the amended text of the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-21-m1.u90	I'm asking you to behave properly.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-21-m1.u91	So, colleagues, what is your will? We can take the basis of the text, but don't be literally one fact, we really have to say good-bye to the tax police, and with their methods of work, we have to end it forever. But the text that we adopted on the committee yesterday was a piece of work in industrial parks and we adopted a policy that if the text changes before the first reading, we don't see it like that in the hall. Now you insist on reviewing the text of the bill without any changes that have been made in the working groups. I'm the committee's decision. I repeat, we're in the conclusion of the GNEU, in the conclusions of all the relevant authorities, it says that we have entered the field that is regulated.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-21-m1.u92	Thank you, dear Nina Petrovna. In the hall, I understand, there is a need to discuss this bill. Please sign in, two for, two against. Please, Rybchin, Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-21-m1.u93	Alexy Rybczyn "The Fatherland." Please pass the word to Mrs. Kugel.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-21-m1.u94	Please, Mrs. Kugel.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-21-m1.u95	Dear colleagues! Just like yesterday, the opposition was to put in order the daily offshoring bill against the offshoring faction prepared by the Fatherland faction. We now see the same opposition, because there is a committee's decision to accept this law as a basis. We see an attempt on the floor to lift the vote. Dear colleagues! We all promised our electorate to end and eliminate the tax police, she, the police, she has no right to exist in the tax collection. This is our... our duty to reform the power structures. This bill should be voted on in the first reading and then finalized with the Cabinet of Ministers and with public society. Five minutes ago, entrepreneurs from 7 kilometers called, and the police came back with no papers, and they had already taken out 7 furs. And there's no responsibility, no protocols, and there's business again. This needs to be done.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-21-m1.u96	Thank you. Please, Peter Prashenko's Block, Pavelko's National MP.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-21-m1.u97	Please pass the word to Chicken Maxim.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-21-m1.u98	Maxim Chicken, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-21-m1.u99	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, distinguished national MPs, dear friends! I have the honour of being co-author of this very important bill. Yes, indeed, I also share the rich position of our colleagues that we finally have to get rid of this tax ghetto that's been terrorizing our country for 25 years. For another 25 years, the middle class cannot finally form as the foundation of our future Ukrainian state. But I stand firm against populism. And I want to tell you the truth. Which, indeed, our colleagues today rushed too quickly and rushed to incorporate this important bill into the agenda. After all, we have to admit that we don't need toothless government organs. That we don't need government bodies that can't provide fair administration and tax recovery. That's why we have a working group in the tax committee to draft this bill. Guys, let's finally be true in front of each other. We want to be liked by bureaucrats, cashiers, and gunmen who avoid paying taxes today. Or we want to build a system that is just. I think it's a fair tax system that we have to set ourselves a goal. That's why let's not break the spear. Let's get this bill back to the committee for work today. And as soon as the next plenary week, when it's balanced, completely read, we're proud to introduce a bill into this room. There is the will to adopt this bill. The will to overcome and destroy the tax ghetto is there. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-21-m1.u100	Thank you, dear colleagues. Dobrenkov, Opposition Block. Please. Dobrenkov, Opposition Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-21-m1.u101	Dear colleagues, here's a representative of the Petra Poroshenko Block saying he has the will to break the existing system. I mean, there's no desire and will, and they want to talk about it. What's the point of the bill? And the essence of the bill is simple, and there's nothing new about it. Under the bill, all the unagreed amounts of taxpayers' tax liabilities are proposed, if they are not agreed upon, not to institute criminal proceedings, not to conduct investigative actions, not to release the tax police to the tax authority, not to intimidate taxpayers in criminal cases in 212 and 212 pr. Criminal Code of Ukraine. Since it is specified that the amount of the tax liability must be agreed upon. This misunderstanding in the legislation is now being used and all taxpayers are being intimidated. This provision does not involve taxpayers, since the State Fiscal Service has been overcriminalized, and they have excessive powers. And to say that the adoption of this bill would inevitably lead to the toothlessness of these organs is a crime against business. Because business feels good there if it's close to the taxpayers. And if he is doing business independently, he is subjected to all kinds of assaults, all kinds of pressure, unfounded prosecution of criminal proceedings. On the contrary, many foreign investors are leaving Ukraine because of the extremely criminalization of tax legislation. Therefore, the opposition bloc faction will naturally support this legislative initiative, because, once again, there is no disarmament in the arsenal, and there is not much authority. There is a specificization in the Tax Code section of the Code of Criminal Procedure that criminal liability cannot be brought to justice for non-agreed tax obligations.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-21-m1.u102	Please, Semenha, Self-help.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-21-m1.u103	I ask you to pass the word to Ostrecki.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-21-m1.u104	Semenha, Self-Help, conveys the word to Mrs. Ostrich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-21-m1.u105	Good afternoon, dear colleagues. First of all, I would like to thank the head of the Tax and Customs Committee, Mrs. Nina Petrovni Jujanini, for his truly well-balanced position in the consideration of all the laws that matter to the state. This is primarily a low crease, and we sincerely thank you. At the same time, there was no brief discussion of the position of the committee. I would like to inform all of you, colleagues, that our committee, when considering this bill, has unanimously recommended that it be adopted as a basis. What is really proposed by this bill? I propose something to lower the degree of our discussion, where passions have been eradicated. We have, first of all, declared in the coalition agreement in section IX of the refusal of the tax control cartel model. It is here and in this bill that this situation is resolved, that the threshold of criminal responsibility for tax evasion is doubled. No profound changes in the Criminal Code are made here. Next. We all know that there are countless cases of baseless reporting of a criminal offence to the sole register of prosecutions by investigators of the Tax Police. Their work figures are very low and, in general, when we analyzed their work statistics and the amount of damage they're doing to the state from year to year, I made this conclusion for myself and compared their work with their work in a taxi. They have a certain amount that they have to collect every year, it's 400-500 million dollars, and the rest of what they do is their own earnings and their terror of honest entrepreneurs. This leads us to conclude that the most common criminal conduct begins when the signs of tax evasion do not exist and the tax liability is not agreed upon; it is in the indictment either in the administrative or in the courts. So far, criminal conduct should not be violated because tax evasion is a crime.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-21-m1.u106	Thank you. Please, 10 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-21-m1.u107	So, colleagues, in summary, I ask you all to support this bill on a basis, to take into account the committee head's proposals, to take into account, indeed, a balanced state position and to work on it between the first and the second readings in the working group. We can do this to make it.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-21-m1.u108	Thank you. Please give me one minute, Yatzenko, Rebirth Group.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-21-m1.u109	Dear friends, the point is that this law is probably useful, but when my colleague Georges, with great respect for it, showed the video, because this situation was in my district, the village of Kocherzhinzi, the district of Umanski, there was, in fact, no tax workers, but there were just grumbled bandits, who were presented as tax workers in charge of a former police officer, a retired colonel. I mean, that's why. At first, they were in Odessa, and then they went to the Uman district of Chercas district with furs to pick up nuts. Therefore, there is no need to make money on tax matters, in this case, although there are many problems. And I would like to take this opportunity to make my statement as a deputy to Minister Avakov of the Ministry of Internal Affairs to put order on the routes so that such situations will not be allowed because these bandits have gone away, no one has detained them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-21-m1.u110	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we have thus concluded a discussion of this bill, and I can put it to the vote. So, dear colleagues, I'm putting the first bid on 3,448 as a base. [[B in m in s a l in]] Yuzaninius, please. Please, Eugene, one minute. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-21-m1.u111	Dear colleagues, the relevance of this bill is now "sorry." We all know about the need to bring about a system and some kind of fight against our tax militia, which is now doing a huge amount of wrong and wrong. But as there are some experts who say that we can't make such changes to KPC, honourable national MPs, now and for your requests, and for your information, you won't be able to register your information in the trial record, you won't be disturbed by such criminal conduct. Do you understand? Please, we're not the ones handling the questions. Let's take a complex approach. If these were only changes to the Tax Code, and we to the Criminal Code, and to the CPC, we are making changes.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-21-m1.u112	Please make an offer.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-21-m1.u113	I'd like you to send me to work on the committee, please. The following week, Tuesday, we will convene a committee meeting in turn and.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-21-m1.u114	Thank you, the offer is clear. So, dear colleagues, I'm going to put the first proposal as a basis. If she doesn't get the right number of votes, I'll put her on the committee for work. Will it be fair? Fair enough. So I'm putting a bill amending the Ukrainian Tax Code on the characteristics of criminal conduct in tax relations and tax administration and in the congregations. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. Please. [[17:30:39]] For-162 The decision is not taken. I'm making a second proposal. I'm asking the board to unify. I'm sending the bill to the committee for work. Dear colleagues, please gather and prepare for the vote. And I'm voting on a proposal: a draft law amending the Ukrainian Tax Code on the features of criminal conduct (3448) to return to the committee for further work. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. Please vote. [[17:31:23]] For 269 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, I need to consult with you for a moment. I ask the advice of all in attendance. We had some very difficult drafts today that we've been looking at for a long time in our second reading. But there are a few very short bills that are simple. One of them is 3863. Yeah? These are the bills that are essential for the National Police and Mustafa Najm stresses this to me; they are completely non-conflict. Yeah, society, I'm announcing, if there's room agreement, we'll set them up, Mustafa. But right now we have a draft Act (4232) amending the Ukrainian Social Television and Broadcasting Act. This is the first reading, isn't it, Victoria? First reading. And I very much ask you to support the proposal to consider it in a simplified manner. Anyone who supports the proposal for a reduced procedure, please vote. Please vote. [[17:32:54]] For-144 I'll re-set the procedure. If we don't get the votes, we'll follow the full procedure. I'll do it again. And if there's room agreement, we'll consider it. I once again put to the vote proposal 4332: the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on Social Television and Broadcasting – consideration of the reduced procedure. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. Please, colleagues, we're voting. [[17:33:39]] For-136 There is a strong belief of the MPs that we should consider this bill in full procedure. And I invite the head of the Committee on Freedom of Speech and Information Policy of Sumar Victoria Petrovna to report. Please. [[B in m in s a l in]] Ms. Victoria, the discussion has begun. Excuse me, I'll give it to you after that, I'll give it to you. Please, Mrs. Victoria.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-21-m1.u115	Dear colleagues, I honestly don't understand exactly what's going on in the hall and why we can't get 150 votes to consider a completely technical, extremely short bill signed by all members of the Committee on Information Policy from all the totally factions that join the committee. And, well, frankly, this position is surprising. And if we're dealing with political squabbles here, I don't know, some kind of interfractional, well, that's what I'm talking about, it's kind of weird, because we're obviously looking for reforms and effective decisions. The bill is just called upon to bring about a very concrete reform: the creation of Social Television in Ukraine. The situation is that you and I have adopted a bill that allows for the creation in Ukraine of a first language in history to become a public language. This is a serious enough bill, which is recognized by experts as a more faithful law, which is recognized by experts as one of the best. But we have a technical problem, an extremely technical problem. The point is that according to the law that we have adopted with you, the study "Criminal Film" was part of a social language, but the study "Criminal Film" revealed a lot of farm disputes and contentions. And that's why she can't get into public speaking right now, and that's why it's blocking the process of creating social language as such. We've had more than one meeting with our NTCU colleagues, and we've decided that the only way to unlock this process is to provide for a special arrangement for the integration of the "Criminal Film", which is to be determined by the Cabinet of Ministers, and that by the time these litigation takes place there, the "Criminal Film" will be added to the public language. And this will actually allow the process of creating a social language in Ukraine to be completed in the near future. It seems to me that this should be important to all the factions of Parliament. All your representatives, honourable colleagues, representatives of all the factions of Parliament are today in the Supervisory Board of Social Speech and it's very important that it works for us, and that we see in Ukraine, at last, really independent of private owners, of the oligarchs of the TV channel. It is true that the political fate of many of us depends on this, for today the owners are very often in charge of whom and how to show. Social speech in this context can be the answer to a question. Appropriately, since it was a technical bill, the Committee on Freedom of Speech and Information Policy approved the decision to invite the Supreme Council to adopt the bill in the first reading and in general. In particular, it's about a change to article 1 of the Law and Transitional Regulations, and it's determined that I've already said that Ukrainian television studio "Scretelefilm" joins the public language by turning it into a public stock company, 100 percent of which belongs to a state with further accession to the NSO's PAT. Changes in Transitions determine that the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine has to define a separate order of transformation of the DP "Ukrainian Television Studio "Stricken Film" based on the actual state of state enterprises. That's what I'm talking about. State-owned enterprise. That's actually the whole thing that we don't want to look at under a reduced procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-21-m1.u116	Colleagues, according to the Rules, three minutes for the interview. Is there a question for the reporter? None. Please, Mrs. Victoria, thank you for the report. I'm asking you to record the factions. Who wants the factions to express themselves? Alexandra Kugel, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-21-m1.u117	Alexander Kugel, "The Fatherland" faction. In supporting this technical bill, I want to draw the attention of the committee and my colleagues to a very serious problem. Which one of our colleagues was on the "Citizen Radio" public, as it is now called, was the National Radio, and who's driving in areas and seeing what state the radio is now, we're in very serious danger. Regrettably, we again have quotas and families offered by the head of social television and radio. This means that the same is true on television. And that's why I'm asking the committee to consider the possibility, and we're going to apply for this bill to separate a social radio from a social television station. So that we don't have the monopoly of one party, and we don't have the quota for freedom of speech again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-21-m1.u118	Thank you. Now I give the word to Balitsky Eugene of the Opposition Block. And I would like to say that I will announce your application as soon as I have considered the matter. Please, Balitsky Eugene, Opposition Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-21-m1.u119	Eugeny Balicki, 80 district, Melitopol city, Melitopol district. Please give the floor to Royal Natale Jurievna.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-21-m1.u120	The honourable colleagues, the bill, violate the Constitution of Ukraine. And we propose that we stop making decisions in this room that are contrary to the Constitution and that today bring chaos not only to the public administration system, not only to the social protection of citizens, but also to the media. And before drafting, proposals are being submitted, please respect yourselves, respect your colleagues and do not need to cover up completely impractical draft decisions today. And I also want to turn to the Hall to the effect that this law may be important, but after today and tomorrow we will leave for almost two weeks of committee work, in the districts, and Parliament will not work. During this time, tariffs will rise once again, during which time will be the anniversary of the Chernobyl accident, during which time will be the 71st anniversary of the Great Homeland War. And we propose tomorrow to focus all our attention on making socially important and socially responsible decisions. Today, we must signal to the whole country that we are adequate, that we can unite on a professional subject and make the decisions that people expect us to make today. Not the populist, not the loud, but the important, responsible decisions that would allow today to bring the social world back to the country. Because when Parliament rests and every person gets a new payment, and the veterans go to celebrate the Day of Victory and the Chernobyls come together at that time, think for yourselves what words they will remember for all the members of this Parliament. So let's think about it, and at least for a little while, we will work qualitatively, professionally and together for the sake of peace and for the well-being of our people. Therefore, I ask the presiding officer to set up a social agenda for tomorrow and the Chamber to support it at the same time. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-21-m1.u121	Gregory Sverk, Peter Dust Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-21-m1.u122	Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to draw your attention to the fact that the conflict that took place on the CD's Shretelefilm has for a few months stalled the creation of a social language. The entire Freedom of Speech Committee took part in the resolution of this conflict. And this law is one that corresponds to one side of the conflict between the labour force and the leadership of the NTC. So please, let's calmly support this technical bill and start working.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-21-m1.u123	Thank you very much. Bondar Mikhailo People's Front.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-21-m1.u124	Bondar Mikhailo, 119 constituency. The People's Front will also support this bill. And he urges all his colleagues to support him, too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-21-m1.u125	Thank you very much. Lenski of the "Radical Party" gives the word to Oleg Lašek.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-21-m1.u126	Oleg Lazko, "Radical Party." Dear colleagues, I would like to draw your attention to the extremely difficult situation that happened today in the former National Radio Company in Ukraine after we passed the Social Speech Act. The former national radio company, which has always been the center of the Ukrainian spirit, of the Ukrainian word, of the Ukrainian culture, has in fact been exposed to the periphery of attention in the general system of national language because the advantage is given to the television language. Instead, we see mass contractions in the National Radio Company, we see a reduction in the airtime of speech, a product made by high professionals, professionals, worthy journalists in the National Radio Company. We should also remember that most of the people who listen to the National Radio Company are those who have a live radio, they're villagers, they're people who don't have the ability to buy a receiver to listen to the OCHA speech. In addition, the National Radio Company is extremely important in the structure of the country's information security, given that Russia today is leading a hybrid war against us and the information response to the Russian hybrid war is no less important than the army, than the Security Service, the National Guard or law enforcement agencies. So I am addressing the honourable head of the committee, everyone in this Hall, Victoria Sumar, with an immediate proposal to amend the Law on Social Speech and to foresee the functioning of the National Radio Company as a separate legal person in the general public-speaking system. In fact, radio journalists today have played a different role both in the budget plan and in the direction of social speech, and the main focus is on television. As a person who has had the opportunity and the privilege of performing a lot on the airs of the National Radio Company, I know how important this word is, we remember well - known radio journalists: Anatoly Turken, Andrew Derep, Dmitri Ponomarczuk. I can call the mass of other names known radio journalists. So I'm asking and I'm paying attention to the leadership of public speaking, the leadership of the Cabinet of Ministers, that in today's extremely difficult conditions, when we're facing a hybrid war, taking in fact, undoing the activities of the National Broadcaster, that's a crime, that's an absolutely unacceptable thing. So I demand the utmost attention and support of our national radio station.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-21-m1.u127	Thank you. Alexander Opanasenko, Self-Help.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-21-m1.u128	Dear colleagues, the Self-Help United faction unreservedly supports changes to this law. It's a completely technical law, and we all need to gather together, gather voices and continue, and finally complete this important reform of Ukrainian social speech. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-21-m1.u129	Thank you. Our next chapter is speeches by national MPs. Anyone who wishes to participate in the discussion, please hold the record. Presentations by the National Deputies. Andrew Teteruk, People's Front. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-21-m1.u130	Please pass on the word of Victoria Sumar.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-21-m1.u131	Colleagues, about the radio. Without denying the importance of the radio, why was the committee in a position of union? Because a social language is primarily a standard. And our representatives with you should be able, in fact, to observe as a supervisory board both on television and on the radio, because we were uniting, in fact, a management system. But somehow the national radio company doesn't really want this one government. I'll tell you why. It's in a very nice place in Hristtica, 24, there near there they're going to, and Krestletick, 26, next to they're going to build a building on the street of Grinchenko, where it's taken to this land. And very often property disputes, the very desire for property is not a desire to unite in one structure, because there is already someone there from the direction of a previous structure who wants to get an apartment there. Actually, "Scretelefilm" is a story about the same thing. When, if you'll excuse me, the Shretelefilm, which is on the shore of the Russian Channel, let's call things by its names, build a few multistory floors, and now it's blocking us from making social speech. We can distribute all these documents here to the deputies. But there can be no such thing as, if you don't mind, someone's desire for apartments and square meters, and on the eye of the buildings that we have built on behalf of a public radio, hostage being a whole system and a huge reform of the creation of a truly independent language. To all who are concerned about information security, I highly recommend voting in favour of a law that brings Russian information product out of Europe. Because these woes for information security, rather than making specific decisions, resemble not very good screwdrivers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-21-m1.u132	Thank you. Yuri Lewchenko gives the word to Andrew Illenck. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-21-m1.u133	Andrew Illenko, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, the city of Kiev. Respectful colleagues certainly need to vote on this technical law. I think that today, unfortunately, there was also another important law that my colleague has just talked about, which unfortunately was broken today in the Supreme Council, and it also applied to providing the information security of our state, unfortunately, with not enough votes, it's very bad. This indicates that in the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I mean the Quota Act, unfortunately, there is not enough political will to make similar decisions. And this indicates that this Supreme Council does not fulfill the commitments it made to the voters before the last elections to protect the national information space. But I also can't now, speaking out of the Supreme Council's rostrum, not to mention the absolutely screaming incident that is happening here today in the capital city of Kiev, in the Kyiv City Council. When completely unknown people in masks with special equipment were not installed, armored, without any identification, they took up the first floor of the Kiev City Council. When the members of the Kyiv City Council of Freedom approached them and asked who you were, on what grounds you were here, the response was force, in fact one of the deputies was taken hostage, dragged into a bus, and the other of our deputies went to rescue him and started fighting them, and there was a huge fight. One of the deputies of the Kiev City Council of Oleg Heleway, who, by the way, was the deputy of the seventh vocation, was hospitalized, he's not a young man anymore, he's in the hospital right now, he's getting beat up, it's all happening in front of the police that hasn't responded, in fact, to that. After those who did it directly, they were immediately sent to the Shevchenkow Police Department, but they were unable to carry out their actions properly and to detain those who did this worthless thing. We claim that we will not just leave this situation, we will demand real investigation, punishment of the guilty, I am convinced that no normal work is being done, unfortunately, by the Kiev City Council after that does not say until there is real investigation and punishment of the guilty. And under this law, of course, we have to vote, but it's a shame that other important laws to protect information space, especially the one that was in order today, are failing in the Supreme Council. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-21-m1.u134	Dmitri Linko, Radical Party. Instructs Loco’s Word. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-21-m1.u135	Andrey Lozovy, Radical Party of Lazka. Last night in his apartment in Neteshin Hmelnicki district, this large city, where the atomic station is located, was found dead by Ukrainian journalist Olga Moroz, the editor-in-chief of Neteshinski Messenger. A journalist who has highlighted in her materials one of the biggest problems today in this country is the illegal logging of the forest, when our wealth, which has been given by God, is being destroyed in an ungodly way, destroying nature, stealing from every Ukrainian family, so that the forest is our national wealth. The Ukrainian journalist who explains this is being killed in an ungodly manner, and together with the silence of our law enforcement agencies, this is something that is kept silent in the upper room, something that is somehow the head of the important faction of the BPT.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-21-m1.u136	Mr. Andrew, I ask you to speak on the subject of this bill. Mr. Andrew, I ask you to speak on the subject of this bill, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-21-m1.u137	Will she be with this country? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-21-m1.u138	Dear colleagues, it is my right, as stipulated by the Rules, to stop him when he speaks out of the question. I'm asking you, colleagues, to follow this standard. Dear colleagues, we still do. Is there a need for a closing statement by the chairman of the committee of Victoria Sumar? A vote is about to take place. I ask you to come into the hall and prepare for the vote. Dear factions, I ask you to call the deputies. And I give you the word Victoria Sumar for the closing word. Please, Mrs. Victoria.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-21-m1.u139	I won't be spending much time. I think there's an understanding that this is a technical bill. If all the committee members put their signatures under him, there's no political dispute here, he'll just let us finish the case that we started with you. So the request to put it first for a vote, because it's going to be difficult to put it in the second. And believe me, we're going through a lot of damage because we can't complete this process because we're spending on auditing, and we can't do an audit of everything that's in the National Television and in the Radio Company because the process is currently blocked because of property disputes over apartments, D.C. I very much ask you to unlock this process now, but by signal vote, to see if there are voices, because there may not be a period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-21-m1.u140	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm going to put this bill on the ranking vote right now. Please come into the hall and take your jobs. It's really technical and it's very important at the same time. And I'm putting a rating vote on the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on Social Television and Radio Broadcasting, 4232. Please vote, colleagues. Please take part in the vote. Please. [[17:56:16]] For 210 We didn't make it. I'll do it again, company, but it'll only be one more time. It was a rating vote, it doesn't need a return. So I'm asking the deputies to come into the hall and take jobs. I'm re-voting, 4232. Anyone who supports it, please vote. 4232, please. [[17:57:08]] For 218. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, there are not enough votes to make a decision. This is, to my deep conviction, a very bad sign for society. I spoke yesterday and started a session of the Supreme Council on the subject of discipline. I would like to point out that I will not continue to sign any missions during the plenary weeks. [[Applause]] No expeditions, because we are now disrespecting the entire Ukrainian society for our visit. Dear colleagues, there are no votes for this bill. I've had an announcement to announce a break at the request of two factions -- the deputy faction of the Opposition Block and the MP faction of the Renewal Group. And they're asking for a statement instead of a break. [[B in m in s a l in]] Please, Queen.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-21-m1.u141	Dear colleagues, I ask you to stay in the hall for one more minute and remember that 26 April is the 30th anniversary of the Chernobyl nuclear accident. And you and I are sitting in this room, living on this earth, our children are living under the clear skies today, thanks to the tens, hundreds, thousands of victims of those people who have protected the world from the Chernobyl accident. And they did not then ask what they would have for it, whether they would have money in their budget and whether they would be compensated. They have come to protect our family with you. And they did their duty. And today they have earned us to honor the memory of the dead and to give away the little we are able to give you alive. To honor and honor their children, their grandchildren, their wives, who are left alone, alone with their problems in our country. On 26 April, most of you will go along with the black people to lay flowers on the graves of the dead. But think of how each of us will look them in the eye when we have not been able to overcome a small veto in this room. We have not been able to gain strength and give at least the few opportunities that we have with you. And not even for them, but for our conscience to you, for the sake of remembering those 71 years ago, 30 years ago, today protects our country with you. I therefore ask you, my distinguished colleagues, tomorrow to raise the first question about the consideration of the draft draft law on the protection of Chernobyl and to give you our opportunity to give what we are in a position to support these people. And now I ask that you announce a minute of silence and honor the memory of those people who have protected the world and who are no longer for the sake of the peaceful heavens over our country.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-21-m1.u142	I declare a moment of silence. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-21-m1.u143	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-21-m1.u144	Thank you, everyone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-04-21-m1.u145	Dear colleagues, 6 p.m., we have exhausted our time to hold a plenary meeting. Tomorrow we're meeting at 10 o'clock to continue our work. And now for the evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I declare closed. Dear colleagues, I'll see you tomorrow.
