ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-28-m0.u1	Dear colleagues, please come into the hall, take your seats, prepare for the opening of the meeting. Please come into the hall and sit down, colleagues. Colleagues, please sit down. Good morning. Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! Dear guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! Please meet the President of Ukraine, Peter Alexiyovich Prashenko. [[Applause]] Honourable National Deputies, distinguished guests of our meeting, participate in the National Deputys of Ukraine's Supreme Council of Ukraine; Ukrainian National Deputies; Ukrainian Presidents Leonid Makarovich Kravčuk, Leonid Danilovich Kuchma, Viktor Andryovich Yushchenko ; Ukrainian Cabinet of Ministers ; Ukrainian Supreme Council of Ukraine's previous vocations, Alexander Aleksandrovich. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] [[Applause]] [[Applause]] [[Applause]] Former prime ministers of Ukraine; heads of judicial branch; present to the officials elected by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, appoints and agrees to serve. [[Applause]] Also present are the leaders of the churches and of the religious unifications of Ukraine. [[Applause]] Also present are representatives of the diplomatic corps, public organizations, and the media. [[Applause]] Honourable National Deputies, distinguished guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the 20th anniversary of the Constitution of Ukraine, I declare open.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-28-m0.u2	Glory to Ukraine! The president of Ukraine, Peter Alexiyovich Poroshenko, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-28-m0.u3	"In the name of the Father and of the Son and of the Holy Spirit, God glorified in the Trinity." These are, dedicated fathers, dear Ukrainian people, distinguished national MPs, a high-priority community, not only a fragment of prayer, from these words begins one of the most important documents in our Ukrainian ethnic history, which is called "Contracts and Decisions of the Rights and Freedoms of the Zaporozky Army between the archduke Lord Philip Orlik, the chosen German of the Zaporzik Army, and the chief general, the colonels, and the army of Zaporzik, who, by long tradition and by military rules have been approved by both parties by free voting." Look at the words. Of course, from the height of today much could be sworn to in this document. But in April 1710, more than 316 years ago, when the world was dominated by absolute monarchies, in which all power was concentrated in one hand, tens of years remained until the American War of Independence, and tens of years remained until the Great French Revolution, and our Ukrainian ancestors had essentially formed a republican and democratic manifesto. A manifesto who had been ahead of his time for many years. They designed a political system in which no one, I quote, "would not dare to attribute to himself pertinence and the right to self-government." And in order to prevent similar self-government injustice, which I'm citing again, the "Hegemn government" has also adopted appropriate paragraphs, contracts and regulations. When preparing for our congregations with you, he took a small tour of the past. Not only did he embrace the Constitution of Philip Orlik but he also embraced the Constitution of the Ukrainian People’s Republic and the laws on Ukraine’s temporary state system, which were published by Hetman Paul Krapadsky. All of this is part of our Ukrainian history. And a valid Constitution is also a historical one, but at the same time a living and practical document. And it is with him that we should confide in our political actions every day. We must honor him and respect him. Is that how we view the Constitution for 20 years? Sadly, no. And now, from a distance of years, we see that her attempts at an illegal, violent audit have never led to anything good. The country and society have paid a very high price for this, and this is an important lesson for all of us in the future. But I see no reason to question the form of government enshrined in the current Constitution. The parliamentary-presidential model is one of the consequences of the Dignity Revolution, just like the indicator of our involvement in European political culture. The President, the Parliament, the government -- we must all learn to work by the rules and guarantee the continuity of the political system. The attitude toward the Basic Law should not depend on either the position of a particular politician or the current political position in the state. Therefore, I do not intend to abuse the subject of changes to the Constitution, and we will continue to be balanced, responsible, cautious as we are now. In my opinion, the changes to the Constitution should be of a "point" nature at the moment, to be prepared carefully, based on a broad public debate, with the participation of Ukrainian lawyers and with expertise from such highly respected European structures as the Venice Commission. And the main thing is to approve strictly of all the procedures that the Constitution itself requires in order to change it for whom. An example of such responsible work to improve the Basic Law is that of you, dear national deputies, we have just demonstrated. Amendments to the Constitution in part of the judiciary are made in full responsibility of itself. Tomorrow will be the promulgation of the Act on Changes to the Constitution in Part of Justice, which I signed. Of course. I wish it were published today, but today is a holiday day, newspapers do not go out, and the right to rest is also one of the rights guaranteed by the Constitution. The changes that the Supreme Council finally voted for at the beginning of the month are very small, but these changes are fundamental. Why? Because today the truth in the courts is very hard for us Ukrainians to find. Millions of people yearn for justice, justice was the main requirement of the Dignity Revolution, so could I not initiate judicial reform? Did we not have to find the compromise when over 300 national deputies supported it? Isn't that the president's job and the president's duty? And once again, I would like to thank each of the national MPs who voted for constitutional change. This is an integral reform. This is a reform of reforms that is the prerequisite and guarantee of all other transformations. What is the key to judicial reform? The profound and fundamental upgrade of the judicial corps is once again. Hard control, including public, by virtue of virtue of virtue, of the incomes and expenses of the judges, is two. Canceling the unlimited inviolability of judges is three. The elimination of political influences and the independence of the judiciary is four. And here I have deliberately and voluntarily given in to some of the valid presidential powers. We dear friends are at the threshold of fundamental changes in the judicial system. But let us not forget that the sowers do not reap immediately. It takes time to grow, to bite, and to mature. Courts don't change in one day. It will take several years to implement reforms. But as a result of this delicate work, all Ukrainians will get a new judicial system, what they want -- more honest, more independent, more fair. And by the end of this year, a new Supreme Court of Ukraine will be formed on a competitive basis. Lawyers from outside the judicial system will also be able to participate in the competition. I urge them now to become actively involved in reform. And after signing the amendments to the Constitution in part of justice, he wanted to know about the state of affairs of another draft amendment to the Basic Law, which deals with decentralization. I would like to remind you that the first reading approved them on August 31st last year. And because of external and internal circumstances, they are linked to our political and diplomatic struggle to restore Ukraine's territorial integrity and sovereignty. When we define the sequence of our actions in this regard, we use a famous folk saying that teaches us not to put a cart in front of a horse. Obviously, to make changes to the Constitution, there are clear previous conditions of a particularly secure nature. A full and long mode of ceasefire must be established. Russia, the aggressor country, the occupying country, must withdraw all its troops, weapons and technology from Ukraine. The special monitoring mission of the OSCE is to have full access to all of Ukraine's unsupervised territory, as well as to establish continuous monitoring of the temporarily uncontrolled area of the Ukrainian-Russian border. In addition, there will be a real disarmament of all illegal groups in this area, the establishment of security zones. The deployment of an armed police mission of the OSCE should be an important guarantee against military provocations and compliance with the ceasefire regime, as well as ensuring the security of the future electoral process. At the same time, tangible progress must be made regarding the release of all hostages and Ukrainian political prisoners. [[Applause]] I would like to stress that local elections, not under the battleships, but under our Ukrainian law and in strict compliance with the criteria and standards of the OSCE, are designed to identify those who, in the interests of the communities, will have new opportunities for decentralization. And that, by the way, applies to everyone, not just individual areas of Donbas. Only under such conditions will I be willing to appeal to the Supreme Council to vote in favour of these changes in the second reading. [[Applause]] And I'd like to calm down, not today, not tomorrow, not July 4th, how they spread every lie here, but how the clear last security conditions will be met. [[Applause]] I suppose I have upset those who are constantly feeding on speculation on this subject. But my position is principle, and yesterday I once again led her to the knowledge of our European partners while in Brussels. By the way, it's very important that you're in Brussels. It's very important, by the way, that in Brussels these meetings take place after breakfast. This is the only country in Ukraine that has this kind of attention to the European Union today. First country! Where the leaders of the European Union met with us after the Brexite to discuss further progress and development of our issues. I'm sure that's the position today, and it can prove to you that I only came back this morning from Brussels at four o'clock in the morning to find the full understanding of our European partners. [[Applause]] Just like the day-to-day dispossession of Donbas, the question of the return of Crimea. And once again, I stress that we have to start the process of making changes and additions to chapter X of the Constitution of Ukraine, which is called the "Autonomous Republic of Crimea." Yes, Mr. Mustafa and Mr. Rephat? That's what I was talking about during the festive session, and we're going to do it together. [[Applause]] These changes, to a full extent, stem from the inherent right of the Crimean Tatar people to self - determination in the form of a sovereign and independent Ukrainian state. [[Applause]] Of course, with the full guarantee of equal rights and civil liberties for ethnic Ukrainians, Russians, and other ethnic groups on the peninsula. Dear Ukrainians! Dear National Deputies! Compliance with the basic values proclaimed by the Basic Law and the need to improve the Basic Law should be organically combined in the work of the Ukrainian Parliament. It is symbolic that Midan in front of the House of the Supreme Council is called the square of the Constitution. And every Ukrainian citizen should know and be able to implement the basic laws of rights and duties, and the state in the person of its institutions should provide the right conditions for such a comprehensive implementation for which all the reforms we have planned must be successfully implemented. 20 years ago, the Ukrainian Parliament adopted the modern Constitution of an independent Ukraine. This, of course, is not the great term during which the United States Constitution functions. But in this relatively short period of time, we have all been able to make sure that our Constitution is a quality, effective and viable legal document that we can all be proud of. And during this time, the state has undergone a host of trials and has changed, above all, over the past 2.5 years. We are firmly on the path of freedom, democracy and European reforms, and I want to stress that we will not turn this way. With Constitution Day, dear Ukrainians! [[Applause]] And glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-28-m0.u4	Honourable National Deputies, distinguished guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, are invited to the floor by the first President of Ukraine, Leonid Makarovich Kravchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-28-m0.u5	Good Health for All! With a feast of you! [[Applause]] Your Honor, Mr. President, the Honourable Head of the Supreme Council, ladies and gentlemen! In this room, historical decisions have changed not only the face of Ukraine but also the face of Europe and the world. Here on August 24 we adopted the Ukrainian State Independence Act, strengthened by the will of the Ukrainian people. This year, it is 25 years of independence of Ukraine and 25 years of the collapse of the most terrible empire, the Soviet Union. [[Applause]] Twenty years of implementation of our Constitution. It seemed that all the prerequisites for us to build an independent democratic Ukraine were created in this very room and the will of the Ukrainian people. I want to thank all who are present in this room, and these are the creators of the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine that have joined this historic one. to these historical events. It's a good thing you've done and we're doing a big state thing. Ukraine lives, Ukraine develops, and this is the most important summary of this story of the 25-year and 20-year history of our Ukrainian Constitution. Unfortunately, however, the foundations that were created for the construction of the new state quickly began to disintegrate, and the elections that took place in Ukraine: both parliamentary and presidential, very quickly ate up all the drafting of the Constitution, and nihilism developed in the Supreme Council. He was stationed in the state, in society, and then national deputies, elected, came to this room, and instead of building a state, systematically by uniting their forces, there was a struggle that, once again, did not always contribute to strengthening the principles of the Constitution. I want to ask everyone one question. Please tell me, has the Constitution ever been implemented in the history of Ukraine?
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-28-m0.u6	Now I'm starting with the presidents, I say I was doing it in Ukraine, I said. And the fact that the Constitution is not being implemented means that the foundation for Ukraine’s life, the construction of Ukraine as such, does not exist. You know, I'm standing in the same position that you're all standing in. I'm not saying that the Constitution was being implemented with the first President. The only thing I want to say is she wasn't there. [[(Laughter) (Applause)]] But let's be honest with each of us so that we can implement the Constitution, maybe each of the presidents will do it. And let's ask ourselves, why don't the presidents, including the Constitution, I say, including. Because we have great powers of presidents in the Constitution, but there is no responsibility of presidents. [[Applause]] That is why the presidents of Ukraine, including your humble servant, often served as secretaries-general of the CPD. They're taking over, and there's no responsibility. As long as we don't solve this fundamental issue, so that each feather does not carry its own plough and its responsibility, but is written down in the law, the terms defined by law, we cannot build a successful Ukrainian state. The whole world is reforming right now, look: Europe is reforming, the world as a whole is reforming, the organizations of the world are reforming, at least the issue of reforming them is being raised. The Orthodox Church is reforming. As a state where the Orthodox Church has the highest weight, we must not be partial to these processes. So we need to start a real reform of the Ukrainian state, starting with every human being and ending with the President. It's better to light a little candle than to curse the dark. And thousands of words are written, the best speeches are not worth any practical words written in the Constitution and laws. This last one is beautiful shapes, and they need to be treated with respect. But the main thing is to write a new approach to life. We have, finally, starting today, in this room, where we have MPs in attendance, and today's deputies, and the President, and the Government, and the Supreme Council, to set up a task -- to write, to make changes to the Constitution that would suit the interests, strategic interests, of the Ukrainian people, and to stop juggling the Constitution -- to do so. Each official’s responsibility must be recorded in the Constitution. I am truly grateful that you and I have thought about how to do this. The President of Ukraine expressed his position, which I support in general, because it is the position of the construction of the Ukrainian State. All we need is a united effort to bring everyone together, starting with the President of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-28-m0.u7	Thank you, Leonid Makarovich. The words are given to Yuri Mikhailovich Zakopac, who, since July 2014, defended Ukraine’s sovereignty and independence in an advanced way, participated in the liberation of the population: Dangerous and Lisichansk. [[Applause]] From February to April 2015, he was commander of the battle machine of the 3rd Battalion 93rd individual mechanized brigade. [[Applause]] I was involved in defense of Piska’s settlement. I've been stabbed. Rewarded by the Order of Courage and the Medal of Homeland Defender. I invite Yuri Mikhailovich to the floor.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-28-m0.u8	Comrade President, Supreme Commander of the Armed Forces of Ukraine! Ladies and gentlemen of the presidents! The Honorable Head of the Supreme Council! Ladies and gentlemen of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! Dear community! I'm an equal in the Constitution. And since I was a child, I had dreamed of becoming a military man, but I could never believe that I would become a military man in time of war. I could not believe that at that young age I would have to defend my country, its constitutional system, with a weapon in my hands. I saw after Maydan's victory that the enemy would not give up. I knew that our people had only won the battle then, but I had not yet won the battle. So when the Crimea and East Ukraine were occupied, I went without hesitation to protect my home land from the Russian aggressor. My parents taught me, "Love your country and be ready to protect it." They supported my choice to go to the front. [[Applause]] They, my grandmother, pray for me every day. I want to thank them for raising me as a patriot of Ukraine. [[Applause]] I'm learning now. Today, I am studying at the National Academy of Land Army by the name of Gehtman Peter Sagaidakny. So I'm taking the instruction of my commanding officer, Senior Lieutenant Alexander Saka, a graduate of the Academy, who, in defense of the village of Pisca, told me, "Kalino, you're not a soldier, you're an officer." My commander always impressed me with his courage, his reasonableness, his first fight, and he always cared for each and every one of us. That, in my opinion, should be every officer of the new Ukrainian army. I want to be with such people, and that is with them, we will build the Ukrainian Armed Forces, which will be a model for all the countries of the world. 20 years ago, the Constitution was adopted, but now every word of it, every article is protected on the front page. Alongside the battle are the volunteers who support us on the front, the chaplains who have become our spiritual mentors, the millions of ordinary Ukrainians who in word and deed support our heroic army. Each of us is a defender of the Constitution and Ukraine. Our strength, our strength in unity, and our enemy know this, in every effort to bring us into our ranks of sorrow. I'm talking to you not only of myself, but of the comrades who are now on the front. Let us forget all the minor things that separate us and strengthen our determination to build a democratic and prosperous Ukraine. For us military personnel, it is important that there is no problem of social protection for the Ukrainian soldier and his family so that the issue of strengthening the country’s security is always kept high on the walls of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. We are fulfilling and fulfilling our constitutional obligation, and we hope that you will be our reliable backdrop. There's no weekend on the front. And every Ukrainian has to work hard and responsiblely to pay his respects to the country. Welcome to all of you, the Day of the Constitution of Ukraine. And at the end of his speech, I would like to say to our prophet Taras Grigorovich Shevchenka: "Fight, you will fight, God will help you! Ukraine, in unity, your strength and glory." The glory of the hero of Ukraine! Glory to Ukraine! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-28-m0.u9	Thanks, buddy. The head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, second and fifth calls by Alexander Alexander Moroz, is invited to attend. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-28-m0.u10	Dear heads of state, parliament, government officials, distinguished members of the session, as if I had left yesterday, not for 20 years, but yesterday I left this hall. And in all these years, I'm going to learn the lessons of the Constitution, and I'm going to hear a few of them now. Because the adoption of the Constitution is a step commensurate with the declaration of independence, it is a recognition of the irreversibility of our people's historic choice. The final stage of work on the basic law demonstrated the consolidation of various political powers in Parliament and society. It is an example of the need for joint efforts by the left, the right, the centrist, the radicals, the anarchists, the nationalists, the socialists, because they are worth something within their own state. For in enmity the state is not built up! And we have many examples in recent decades of damage to the state’s construction by not being able to hear each other’s thoughts. I have every reason today to make such an appeal, to praise the first and second MPs, to the true statesmen, to the real fighters for Ukraine's independence. [[Applause]] I use this appeal by accident, and I appeal to Peter Alexiyovich as the subject of the legislative initiative and the guarantor of the Constitution, and note that in one of the laws recently adopted on the fighters, and so forth, the MPs of the two parties seemed to have brought both independence and the act, and the Constitution, and so on. And it was very, very hard to do. So thank these people. And I have great respect for everyone regardless of what political views they then held or are now following. The other one. By declaring independence and adopting the Constitution, we counted on a different state of state, a different quality of life for people and society, democracy and social justice. These principles of statehood are laid down mainly by law, and they're being ignored. So what I would like to say is that, I'm sure, many people care about it, it's not the Constitution that's responsible for us living like this, it's those who broke the Constitution, who didn't follow it regardless of what position it was. Once again, the Constitution is innocent, it is indeed a good and thorough document. Third. Democracy is the only part of social life that is needed. The people, the Constitution after him, then the power formed by the people on the basis of the Constitution. We have done, unfortunately, a long-lasting practice, yes, the people, as they consider it, are doing another thing, then the authorities, and then the Constitution, which seems to serve power, is wrong, this turn has to be done, it has to be done, it has to be done in practice, then it will be a completely different situation. That's not the way it should be. Two Maidans have demanded "Freedom for man!"and rights and freedoms can only be guaranteed in a democratic country. In this sense of the European choice of Ukraine, we must make this choice ourselves, no one will come to us to do it, to fight corruption, to change the electoral system, to make the courts decent and so forth. That is what we ourselves must do, and in this regard we must take responsibility. Four. The European model is primarily self-government. The 2004 Amendment Constitution provided for the creation of conditions under which a person becomes a citizen, responsible for the creation of power, the quality of his life, the family, the community, the country, and the state. This revolution is not just going to happen, but it is necessary that if we want to become a truly leading country, we have to create these conditions. It's not arithmetic that needs to be based on human rights, the rights of the community, the rights of the community. I would think we should start reforming the tax, budgetary system, reforming local self-government, and the law. This is going to be a real decentralization. Today’s unification of communities, which sometimes goes beyond the law, is incomprehensible as to how it is formed, while I would like to contact the representative of the Ministry of Justice: we have the Law on the Statute of Communities, but the Ministry of Justice has denied administration, district, justice to register these statutes, and the district authorities have not delegated such authority. And for months now, they have been told that they are taking action. These measures are worth half an hour to sign. You have to respect the community, then you have to respect all the structures of power. And one more thing. One intelligent dialectic, more than a hundred years ago, concluded that in order not to be wrong about change, we must first resolve the general and then the details. Regarding our social relationship, it means: first, the text of the amended Constitution, and then all the other things: judicial reform, prosecutorial issues, local self-government, electoral system and so on. Then there will be a complex solution to the problem. I'm reminding you this because three years will soon pass, as in the Legal Gazette, the text of the amended version of the valid Constitution, with the requirements of two courses, with the proposals of the Venice Commission, with the recommendations of the local authorities. What society needs must be done, for without changing these things, things will not solve some of the general problems. Let us make the necessary changes by asking for the people’s support, for Ukraine really needs the National Constitution, the Constitution is binding and the same for all. Thank you for your attention, once again, I would like to express my gratitude to the MPs of the I-II convocation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-28-m0.u11	Dear colleagues, from the peers of the Constitution, give the floor to a young generation, the intern of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Ivanni Fedko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-28-m0.u12	Congratulations, Mr. President, Mr. Head, ladies and gentlemen! Have each of us considered what the Ukrainian State is for, and what is its purpose? The state exists to ensure the rights of its citizens, which is its content. Our Constitution was adopted 20 years ago, but the sentence, "Ukraine is the rule of law" was more like a declared course than a real state of things. As a result, corrupt justice, the police state, lack of justice and justice. But there was the Dignity Revolution and it gave us a chance to start over. In this room is my peer, an ordinary Ukrainian boy, you've heard him before, just like everyone else. He went to schools like me, walked with us in the yard, and he was our best friend. But today he is one of those who protects Ukrainian independence and protects Ukraine from enemy attacks. He is very young, but he has already seen death, seen the death of his brothers. He was very young, but he saw the cruelty of war. He does not complain of fate, continues to courageously carry his flag like that cross without waiting for a reward. Today's difficult situation is Ukraine's high pay for the irresponsibility of politicians and the ignorance of citizens in particular, ignorance of its history, culture and language, inaction and adaptation. Even the world’s best Constitution can ensure the success of the State only because of the high legal culture and the natural need to respect and enforce the law. And the rule of law is only going to be where there's demand for it. The practice of constant control of power is of great benefit, and it should be based on civil society. They are free people who know their rights and responsibilities, people who feel responsible for Ukraine, the world, and future generations. Let me turn to the young Ukrainians. We cannot change our past, and our future is unknown to us. All we have is a brief moment today, which is full of both possibilities and risks, but this should not stop our confident and bold progress towards the rule of law. Of course, it is naive to say or call this a simple way, but as Richard Bach put it, each dream is given along with the forces necessary to accomplish it. In carrying out the Ukrainian dream, it's important to understand each of us, and are we ready to unite, and are we ready to leave this "hot edge"? All of us do well to remember that Ukraine begins with a family, but it does not end. This is especially evident in war when our supporters go to protect the family, the family, but as a result, they protect 45 million Ukrainians. So I urge Ukrainian youths, who often complain about the complexity of Ukrainian realities, to dream and act in spite of obstacles, infidelity, and difficulties. Let us not seek a better life outside our country, seeking Ukraine in our hearts. Let us work daily, acquire new knowledge and new skills, be educated, creative, proactive, and, above all, responsible young Ukrainians. Let us be successful Ukrainians in business, in science, in politics, in production, in art, in sports, and so forth. It is likely that the path will be unforgivable, there is still much work to be done to make our country a European state of conscious citizens and a responsible state. But I am sure that only under such conditions will this be the best monument to a fallen hero, so discerningly looking at us from the yellow portraits. I want the Ukrainians to be happy and rich. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-28-m0.u13	Dear National Deputies! Dear guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! The head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Andri Parubai, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-28-m0.u14	Holy Fathers! Mr. President, honourable fellow MPs and this call, and previous appeals, honourable officials, judges, diplomats! Dear Ukrainians! Today, we are meeting to celebrate the 20th anniversary of the adoption of the Constitution of Ukraine, the Basic Law of our State. And even though we only celebrate 20 years of the history of the creation of our law, in fact, it has a thousand-year history. Thousands of years ago, our land had a law and lived by it. It was the law of Grand Prince Jaroslav, "Russian Truth," our famous ancestor, whose grave is not far from here -- 500 meters away, in St. Sofia. "Russian Truth" is the Constitution of Ukraine. The founding fathers of our nation gave us the first law that was incredibly progressive at a time that was one for all. Justice came to our earth. "Don't let the strong destroy the weak," Prince Vladimir Monamach taught. The light of Russian-Ukrainian law has spread to the east. The great prince Jaroslav gave the New Towners the Statute of the Great Prince Jaroslav. He said, "Go and hold it like he wrote to you." To the novices, the laws of Jaroslav became relics that were protected and swore by oaths and oaths. So the law from Ukraine has spread far beyond Ukraine-Russia. Throughout history, Ukrainians have improved their rights in their lands. Next were the Lithuanian Statutes, the Statute of 1529, which was based on Jaroslav's Russian Truth and Roman Canonic Law. It was adopted as a law that had the same power for all citizens of the Lithuanian-Russian State, regardless of their condition. He became Europe’s first systematized body of laws in various areas of law. 1710 The Constitution of the Rights and Freedoms of the Zaporezian Philip Orlik Army is one of the most progressive legal instruments in the world of that era. I recall that the Constitution of the United States was adopted only in 1787, and the Constitution of the Russian Empire was adopted only in 1905. Fighting for their freedom with the Russian occupation, the Ukrainians continued to create their basic law, which as a phoenix of ashes was revived in the mountain fights. The Constitution of the Ukrainian People's Republic is the Basic Law of the Ukrainian People's Republic, adopted by the Central Council on 29 April 1918. And the Ukrainians proved that the struggle for freedom, for the right to live on their land, and for its law leads to victory. We chose Ukraine's independence. On June 28, 1996, the Constitution of Ukraine was adopted in these walls, on ancient Kyiv hills, on which legends led the apostle Andrew the firstborn. We restored our state and our law at nine o'clock 18 minutes, after 24 hours of continuous work, the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopted and enacted the Basic Law of Ukraine. [[Applause]] It was in these walls that the words were first said: "The Supreme Council of Ukraine, on behalf of the Ukrainian people, citizens of Ukraine of all nationalities, expressing the sovereign will of the people, based on the centuries-old history of the Ukrainian nation, and on the basis of the Ukrainian nation's right to self-determination, in order to ensure the human rights and freedoms and conditions of life, in order to strengthen the civil evil on earth of Ukraine, seeking to develop and strengthen the democratic, social, legal state, recognizing the responsibility of God, its own conscience, previous, present and future generations, based on the Ukraine's Declaration of Independence of 24 August 1991, endorsed on 1 December 1991 by the universal vote, accepts this Constitution, the Basic Law of Ukraine. " And I want to thank all of the deputies here who made this historic for Ukraine for a moment, from all of us, and from the MPs of the current vocation. [[Applause]] The struggle for the right to live by our law and on our earth continues. Article 1 of the Constitution: "Ukraine is a sovereign and independent, democratic, social, legal state." For these words, our independence stood and fought in Kiev for the Mayan of Dignity. Ukraine’s territory within the existing border is complete and intact. In every letter, every word of the Basic Law is fought by Russian invaders, our boys in the east with one of the world's largest occupying armies. And the enemy has found that our right to live by law, our right to freedom, is exonerated by the burning metal of destroyed enemy tanks. The very desire of the Ukrainians for freedom as a sacred original value does not rest those who simply do not understand these words and for whom slavery is more important to the king than will. What is the task of Ukrainians and Ukrainian authorities? To do everything possible for every person, every citizen in our country, to feel the justice of our law. Our task is to make this great book the basis for the lives of Ukrainians, because there is no word in the Constitution about corruption, injustice, unfair courts or corrupt law enforcement. Our lives must be worthy of our law. This Supreme Council has already taken great steps to implement the articles of the Basic Law. It was in those walls that laws were passed to restore the viability of the Ukrainian army. We have increased the National Armed Forces to 250,000. It was in these walls that anticorruption laws were passed. It was in these walls that an anticorruption prosecutor was created. It was in these walls that we created the National Anti-Corruption Bureau. It was in these walls that we passed laws to create an honest police force. It was this Supreme Council of Ukraine that passed laws to create a public electronic purchasing system called ProZorro, that public procurement became open. It is this Parliament that has passed all the laws necessary to open property registers to combat corruption. It was in these walls that we passed laws for a visa-free regime with the European Union. And it was in these walls that we voted "clean Thursday laws," the decommunization laws that we're expelling the demons of "Russian peace" from Ukraine. [[Applause]] And hundreds of other laws to enforce the justice laid down in the Basic Law. I believe it is in those walls that we will endorse the will of the Ukrainian people to ratify membership in the European Union. And I believe that it is in these walls that we will ratify Ukraine's NATO membership agreement. [[Applause]] The history of our Millennial Basic Law, as well as the history of the Ukrainian people, who for thousands of years have defended and defended their right to live freely and with dignity, as well as our desire to carry freedom and light. With the festival of all! The Ukrainian State and its Law were created by knights of the Kyiv Russia, by soldiers of Svetoslav and Danil Galicki. They were created under the slopes of Sagajdach and Hmielnick. The pages of the Ukrainian Constitution and independence are those of the UNR, the Republic of the Netherlands and the Ukrainian rebel army. And today, behind our Law and our independence are our soldiers on the eastern front under the Doña airport, Marianka, in the audio prom zone, protecting our freedom and our right. So this day, Ukrainian soldiers, my special greetings. [[Applause]] Welcome to the celebration, to the celebration of the Constitution. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-28-m0.u15	Thank you, Mr. President, Prime Minister of Ukraine, but all those who participated in the High Council. Thank you, Fathers, for participating in our meeting. But at this our celebrations are not yet complete. I am pleased to invite everyone to the Towers of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to participate in the ceremony of the specialization of the envelope with the original brand "June 28 – Day of the Constitution of Ukraine". After the special services ceremony, photography will take place in the square of the Constitution, in front of the Supreme Council to commemorate this momentous day. And our meeting at the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. Glory to Ukraine! Heroic glory!
