ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-17-m0.u1	Good morning, dear colleagues. Good morning! I'm asking you to come into the hall, get ready for registration. Colleagues, are we all ready to register? Please take up jobs, get ready for registration. Dear colleagues, please prepare for your registration and please conduct your registration. Please, colleagues, let's register. [[10:05:03]] There are 346 deputies registered in the hall. The morning plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Colleagues, before I go to the first question of order of the day, I'm going to give you a brief explanation of the logic of today. If there is a willingness to hear and listen in the hall. So the first question is 4,941 about the energy efficiency of buildings. This is our debt, which has remained since the day of the HKG. It's supported by all the factions, I think we'll go through it painlessly. Then we'll have three questions -- a cluster of issues that relate to the resistance to domestic violence. These questions also have common ground. In the support room, and I think we'll go through it painlessly. The next question we have is 5333, this is about the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, on which Chubarov insisted, and this is also a question that is supported by everyone in the room. Colleagues, this is the question that will stand before the "day of infrastructure." There will also be a short block of inclusion in the agenda of the session, where there will be proposals both from the Peter Poshenko Block and from the People's Front and from the Fatherland to put the agenda into order. Because there are bills that haven't been included in our general package. And, colleagues, I would also like to inform you that today two organizational issues will be considered. One is the distribution of national deputies by committee, those national deputies who have recently become national deputies and are not distributed by committee. We kind of found a compromise general solution, and about the twelfth -- the first hour in the hall we're going to try to go through it again with the hope that there's going to be a compromise. And there will be an offer to move one week of session from January to the end of November at the beginning of December. These are the two questions that may trigger some discussion. And I'd like them to talk to each other before we go to the vote. About 12:30, we'll go to the day of infrastructure, transport and road construction. For about a month both the committee and the ministers of profile prepared themselves for the consideration of these issues. And I hope we can get through this cluster of questions in a systematic and qualitative way. This, colleagues, is the logic of today. And I would like the hall to be actively involved in the work and in the discussion of the bill. There is now a demand for a break from two factions: the Self-Help faction and the faction. From the Self-Help faction and what's the second faction? And the Radical Party. Two factions are required to take a break, but they are willing to replace it for the performance. Now there's going to be a faction performance. And then we immediately move on to the first question of the agenda. Who will act? The two factions are invited to the speech by Yegor Soboljev. Three minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-17-m0.u2	The Self-Help faction considers it unacceptable and shameful to delay Parliament's decision to bring the criminal responsibility of the Novinsky People's Deputy. If there are doubts about the work of the Attorney General's Office as their investigation, here are the signatures for the resignation of Attorney General Yuri Lucenk. Anyone can express their position in order to have an effective Attorney General. But under the limitations of the Henprocuratorate to commit its own sin: to make a circular message, to cover up a member of parliament from the investigation, is a disgrace to the entire parliament. There's no party here that didn't promise the voters before the election that we'd undo the inviolability for all the national MPs. Let us keep this promise. Self-help will not take part in Parliament's vote until it is put to the vote by the appeal to the criminal responsibility of Vadim Novinski. We believe that, as representatives of the people, we have the first to show in this room that we are beginning with ourselves, that the message between the present and the former leadership of the state will be broken. And then people will trust this parliament, not lose confidence in it more and more.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-17-m0.u3	Thank you. There is no form of transmission, Oleg Valeriyovich. There is no such form. My colleagues, I haven't told you yet, but I have to do so under the Rules that the morning plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is being declared open. I would also like to inform you that today is the birthday of the national deputies: Michael Leontiusz Bondar. Welcome to our brothers, the Guardian Michael Bondar. [[Applause]] Helens of Constantine Condratuk. Hello. [[Applause]] And Michael Ivanovich Lanja. [[Applause]] And we're going to look at the first issue of the agenda -- this is the draft Energy Efficiency of Buildings Act (4941). And, colleagues, I'm going to be the first to put forward a proposal to deal with this issue in a simplified way. Everyone, please take your seats and prepare for the vote. So, colleagues, I'm voting on the proposal for a brief procedure for the draft Energy Efficiency of Buildings Act (4941). Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. Please vote. [[10:12:26]] For-126 Colleagues, I'm going to put the vote again. I'm going to ask you to take the job. And I want to let you know, colleagues, I've given you a list of the questions that are, and if we follow the full procedure, we're just not going to get to them. So I ask you to organize a hall, ask the heads of factions to organize a hall, to take up jobs, and to prepare for the vote. Now, colleagues, I'm going to re-supply the motion for a reduced procedure. Please take your seats and prepare for the vote. Colleagues ready to vote? I'm re-voting the draft Energy Efficiency of Buildings Act. Please vote and please support. [[10:14:48]] For-153 Decision taken. And I invite you to report to the Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Regional Development of Construction and Housing of Zubko Hennady Grigorovovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-17-m0.u4	Dear Mr. Head, the esteemed First Vice Speaker, the honourable colleagues! I'd like to literally focus your attention for a few minutes. I understand that there are political issues that today hinder the normal consideration of the process towards the economic independence of the state. But in order to focus you a little bit, yes, and look at what's already done, I'd like to ask you to include this short video to understand what the Energy Efficiency of Buildings Act really does. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-17-m0.u5	Thank you. Thank you, fellows of honor! I'd like to ask you to just say thank you to those people who are the best heads of OSB right now. This is Luck (Julia Sabatyuk), this is Dnipro (Klimko Stefania), this is Miroshnichenko Tamara (Town of Dnipro), this is Klimko (Town of Lviv), Bondaruk (Town of Lutsk) and Huchenko Roman (Town of Sumi). You know, now what's going on in the country with the topic of modernization. What you're doing with an energy-auditer. I think it's more than that, because the issue of lack of a legislative basis, as a commercial accounting law, as a housing services law, as an energy efficiency law, as a law that can help every Ukrainian family, on an energy efficiency fund, is what people do when they don't have a legislative base, taking hot loans, introducing energy efficiency. But it is important for us not only to have opportunities in this market, but also to be responsible. And that's why the question of conducting energy audits, of certifying people who are conducting, who are responsible for this direction, who can not only analyze the situation, but also provide guidance on how to influence future consumption, that law is what makes it possible to move forward. I realize that there's a lot of controversy, and I want to show that these four laws are the basis, the basis not only for energy efficiency, but generally for the future independence of the state. And give me the next slide. And it also corresponds to 31 directives that fit those things that will allow as a foundation, as a basis for making the certification of energy auditors first, to make them responsible, so that people who want to implement understand the efficiency of spending their money, and, most importantly, those who prepare projects that prepare energy audits can then be held accountable for the recommendations given. Also, give the next slide. And I would also like to say exactly what it is.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-17-m0.u6	Please add two more minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-17-m0.u7	It's people who can directly choose performers, choose the lowest cost of services, choose the kind of aid that can be provided either through a warm loan, or through an energy efficiency fund, or through the program of our international partners already implemented through IFP. But this requires a base, a base that will allow and continue in the next year’s program of warm loans, the introduction of an energy efficiency fund and, above all, the unification of all our international partners. Why is this important? Because this law, which is the foundation, makes it clear that efficiency is evaluated. This law makes it possible to unite virtually all of them, and today we are supported, this is the World Bank, this is the AFC, this is the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, these are all of our international partners that have long helped us to develop laws and are willing to continue to spend money on energy efficiency. Yesterday we literally received a letter from all our public organizations, an expert environment in support of this bill. This is also the Reanimation Package of Reforms, and this is the resistance community organization, which is the energy-efficient cities of Ukraine. Virtually all today are united in order for the Supreme Council to take a step and allow this audit to take place. The last thing I'd like to say is that, you know, we finally learned, just in the Ukrainians, when we go to the store and buy or scratch, or microwave oven, or maybe a washing machine, to look around, and what this technique uses to save money for the family budget, and, most importantly, by looking at the certificate, to figure out how much we're going to spend in the exploitation of these objects. And I would like to ask, and we, when we live in our homes, in our apartments, don't want to know exactly what we eat and how we can reduce our consumption of our own housing. It's very important. Why? Because not only do we live in this apartment, but we do.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-17-m0.u8	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-17-m0.u9	So I would just like to call on all the political parties, all the national MPs who are concerned about citizens, who want to cut their bills, who want to get energy savings in general, take a simple step, but it's also a simple economic step towards saving and implementing energy efficiency. I would also like to warn you that there are many rumors that industrial buildings will also be subject to compulsory certification.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-17-m0.u10	Ten seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-17-m0.u11	That a lot of people are going to have to conduct energy audits, but that's what we can count on in the second reading. On the first reading, I would like to ask you to adopt this law. We can also increase the deadlines for mandatory implementation.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-17-m0.u12	Mr. Gennady, the microphone is off, thank you. I invite you to the report of the Committee on Urban Construction and Housing of Dmitri Andriyevsky. I think he'll complement what you didn't say, Mr. Hennaday. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-17-m0.u13	Dear Andrew Volodymyrovich! Dear colleagues! This is an extremely important law, which is one of the five laws that initiates real reforms in housing and utilities. The Committee on Construction, Urban and Housing at its September 21st meeting considered this bill. We've taken into account the conclusions of other committees and we've taken into account the conclusion of the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration and we're proposing to adopt this bill as a basis. Indeed, there are a number of questions, including our colleagues who speak them. I'm sure that when I prepare for the second reading of these questions, these comments could be taken into account. Once again, I want to say that this bill has to answer the main questions of today: where we are, what we can do in the near future in terms of energy efficiency, and what we can do in the near future. I would also like to point out that even the vote in the first reading of this bill opens up the possibility for the government to continue negotiations with international financial institutions to provide additional and financial support, which can then go to an energy efficiency fund. I would also like to point out that we are waiting on the government in our profile committee for the fifth, the last law, it is technical, the Energy Efficiency Fund Act. But to adopt this law, to vote and move on in energy efficiency, to increase the energy-efficient technologies of our housing and utilities can't be done without the adoption of this very important law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-17-m0.u14	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please record: two for, two against. Thank you. From Fatherland, Yvchenko gives Ryubka a word for the performance. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-17-m0.u15	Alexy Rybchin, Fatherland faction, Donetskina, head of the energy efficiency and energy conservation subcommittee. Indeed, this is a vital bill for the sectors. But unfortunately, I can't say that energy efficiency is a priority for this government. You can talk about energy efficiency, you can watch these great movies, but when you look at the budget by 2017, you can see that 800 million dollars are just spent on energy efficiency, and for example 50 billion dollars is on subsidies, and this government priority should be the other way around. Secondly, energy efficiency must be integrated into social life. It's really good money. And also really good money that's going to be distributed to energy management and energy audits that are going to be created is positive money. But negative, I can say about this law, which is a substitution of notion. This law is not about energy efficiency of buildings, it's about energy performances and building, as recorded in the 31st directive. And we also think of it as the "Paternity" faction, which was a mistake when we integrated two European directives: the 27th -- the energy efficiency of buildings and the 31st into one whole. It knocks people down, because it's a lot to say. Many are created about the energy efficiency fund. But the most time-consuming innovation we think is that energy-efficient certificates should be given to people. We don't have a really perfect subsidy system yet. We have people getting promoted payments, and as a government, you have problems with that. Because you're responsible for the fact that people get paid up. The monetary mechanisms of these subsidies have not yet been effective. So the "Paternity" faction will only support this bill until the second reading after the exclusion is made that these certificates will be obtained by the public sector. These certificates should be on the Supreme Council building, on the government building. And for the second reading, I demand that the government buildings, you come here and educate on how many government buildings have been given these certificates. That's right, it's in European -- don't touch people until they're working this mechanism on themselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-17-m0.u16	Thank you. From the Radical Party, Linko gives the floor to Oleg Laszko.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-17-m0.u17	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Dear citizens of Ukraine, my fellow countrymen, I would like to inform you of the most wonderful news. Yesterday, at the initiative of the President of Poland, the Polish Parliament adopted a law that reduces the retirement age for men and women. Good news for the Poles. Now, I would like such pleasant news to be received by the Ukrainians when the Polish President initiates a reduction in the retirement age for the Poles, our President vetoes our law, which the Radical Party deputies, with the support of most parliaments, have achieved and accepted, that Ukrainian women, our trojans of saltin, should be able to retire at 55 years of age. That's why I'm calling on President Poshenko to follow the example of my Polish colleague and to recall my veto to our law, which allows Ukrainian women to retire at 55 years of age. I also have a request to the government and Prime Minister Groisman. We ask you to support our initiative and raise pensions for half a million Ukrainian pensioners who receive less than a thousand dollars. Half a million Ukrainians receive a pension of 949 dollars. We've registered the law that requires us to set a pension at the minimum of living -- 1,400 dollars a month and index it to the inflation index. The Ukrainian Parliament should support Ukrainian pensioners, restore the right of Ukrainian women at 55 years of age to retire and establish a pension, at least 4 thousand dollars a month for our pensioners.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-17-m0.u18	Thank you. I remind you that we are discussing a bill on energy efficiency of buildings, not pensions now. And the word from "Peter Prashenko's Block" is welcome to the People's Deputy of Barna. Please, Mr. Stephen.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-17-m0.u19	Praise Jesus Christ! You know, the self-help faction statement is a little bit interesting. Just yesterday, recently, we spoke at a closed meeting of the committee, addressing the head of the Yegor Sobolev committee as not to rush into a single statement of decisions that do not correspond to a certain degree of objectivity. And if at a meeting of the last committee that heard the report of the rapists on the investigation of crimes in Maidan, as well as the victims' lawyers, as well as the victims killed in Middan, as well as the lawyers, respectively, clearly stated that they had claims against police representatives, the IMF, who did not provide information on "brekutata" and justice. There were no questions. There were no questions. Moreover, they had some questions right next to Horbatuk, which prompted the appropriate action of the Attorney General to speed up the proceedings. So I'm very much asking the self-help representatives not to be a contributor to the resignation of any procurator. Let us be objective in looking into matters and planting them in a proper manner. And whoever does is helping them. Moreover, yesterday we were outraged by all decisions made by the regulatory committee, which did not give permission to attract, remove the intrepidity of the deputy of Novinski. The Attorney General in our legal state, where everyone talks about justice before the law, should not swear to the MPs to remove the inviolability, especially "rhygs," or those who are involved in the crimes in Maidan. And our faction clearly and unanimously requires that.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-17-m0.u20	Please give me 30 seconds to finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-17-m0.u21	not to hide behind the children's backs, not to hide behind people's backs, not to hide behind the heroes of Maidan and the ATO, not to hide behind their inviolability, but to eventually remove this parliamentary inviolability, to put the day-to-day issue into order and to vote on it. And that's the only way we're going to be called a just, legal Ukrainian state. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-17-m0.u22	Thank you. Now, please, from the Opposition Block, Mrs. Royal. And then from the People's Front, Mrs. Sumar. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-17-m0.u23	Dear colleagues! Today, poverty has become a national threat to Ukraine. And now that you and I are considering a bill that's not being reduced by tariffs that doesn't explain to people why they got so many inadequate payments. For people who do not explain why, as well as for what means people will be able to pay tariffs today, I believe that the consideration of this bill is totally irrelevant. We are primarily obliged today to explain to every citizen of our country what is happening in tariff policy. Decide to lower tariffs. And make adequate decisions on improving social standards. We've heard stories here about how they're going to raise the minimum wage. Then I want to address all the people's deputies, look.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-17-m0.u24	30 seconds, finish, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-17-m0.u25	Look at Bill 5130. So that no one in this room can say that they haven't seen, read, or know what to vote for. Because 5130 they propose to destroy the social protection of Ukrainian citizens in our country. This bill will not be supported! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-17-m0.u26	Please, Mrs. Sumar of the People's Front.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-17-m0.u27	Who, but not just the law that we're considering right now. What, is he inactive, colleagues? We have a question of energy efficiency. In November of the month, isn't it relevant now? Yeah, everybody got payments yesterday. Yeah, everybody's in shock. Well, let's face it, the country is in shock. And it's only in November that we're looking at a bill to make our buildings energy efficient. We're being shown a movie. Because it says here that there is a foundation for state policy and information security in the field of energy efficiency. And this movie six months ago, in the summer, you couldn't show what you had to do in the houses to make them more energy efficient? Couldn't you make a video to tell people how to warm them up? You couldn't have offered the program eventually, how do you buy a boiler that lets you keep those payments smaller? Do we want to show it in November? And now what.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-17-m0.u28	30 seconds to complete, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-17-m0.u29	In the past winter, subsidies were used to warm up. Now, colleagues, this is one of the priorities. This law needs to be adopted, it needs to be adopted so that people don't pay to examine these buildings in terms of energy efficiency and the supply of energy to make them energy efficient, to make it a state program. And I want to see here a state energy saving program in a country that will finally lower these tariffs to.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-17-m0.u30	Dear colleagues, the discussion is over. I'm asking all my colleagues to come into the hall. I ask everyone to take up jobs, prepare for the vote, colleagues. I wasn't in the hall when there were speeches. I am addressing all the people's deputies, reminding Ukraine's law that in the Supreme Council of Ukraine we speak the national Ukrainian language. I have been asked by all the national deputies to prepare for the presentations to remember the law of Ukraine: in the national language we speak from the rostrum of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. So, colleagues, one minute now, Gennady Zubko is the closing statement. And in a minute, we're moving on to making a decision. Please, Mr. Hennadia.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-17-m0.u31	Ladies and gentlemen, I have heard your speeches. And I'd like to say first of all, and thank both the factions of the BP, and the factions of the Fatherland, and the Radical Party, and the People's Front. Why? Because two years later, the Yatsenuk government is still together, and now our government is continuing to run a program of warm loans. And 164 thousand families have already taken advantage of the opportunity not only to put in hot boilers, but also to keep their apartments warm and warm through OSBB. Today, the mass of calls from people to continue the program of warm loans for the following year. But the basic question is to do it qualitatively and effectively. And I just want to say what it is for people. The fact that the issue is a matter of necessity can be postponed between the first and the second readings by 2021. The fact that the issue is the protection of people is a priority. The fact that we can correct it today and take into account all the practical rights of the national MPs is clear. And that's why I would still like to encourage everyone today to take the first step up.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-17-m0.u32	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-17-m0.u33	Taking the first step toward building a foundation, the foundation that has allowed Europe to save five times less energy today in order to fuel not only housing but other social facilities. And I'd like to call every deputy, please communicate in your majority districts with the heads of the OSBB and with the people who have already introduced these things. When 73 percent.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-17-m0.u34	Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the decision-making process. Please, we occupy jobs, this is an important bill that unites all factions, and all experts, and the public, have spoken for its adoption. It is important that we be careful when voting. And I emphasize, we only vote it as a basis, we can make all the corrections between the first and the second readings. And I'm voting on the draft Energy Efficiency of Buildings Act (No. 4941) on the proposal of a committee on a basis, colleagues, just as a basis. Please vote and please support the bill unanimously. Please vote: energy efficiency of buildings (4941) as a basis. Please vote, colleagues. [[10:41:12]] For 186 Colleagues, I'm going to put the next motions for a vote. Colleagues, if I were to return to the committee for re-reading, would there be support? I still have to put the Rules, the committee, on the subject of the legislative initiative. But I think so. The committee, yes, I say, the committee. Do You Support? Colleagues, will we be able to unite around the proposals to the committee? Please, come on, I'll invite the deputies into the hall, and I'll make the next motion for a vote. Colleagues, I will now put to the vote the next sentence, according to the Rules: send it to the committee to prepare for the re-reading of the first reading, colleagues. If there's a warning, it'll give us a positive, good result. I'm asking you to come into the hall, and I'm going to put this proposal to the vote now, to the committee to prepare for the re-reading. So, colleagues, I'm putting a motion to vote, to send to the committee for a re-reading of the draft Energy Efficiency of Buildings Act (4941). Whoever supports this proposal, please vote, colleagues. Please vote. [[10:43:27]] For 235 Decision taken. Thank you. Let's move on to the next issue of the agenda, this is the draft Law 5294 on Prevention and Opposition to Domestic Violence. Colleagues, please support his consideration of the reduced procedure, please vote. [[10:44:06]] For-161 Decision taken. And I invite you to report to Deputy Minister of Social Policy Fedorovich Natalia Volodymyrna. Please, Mrs. Natala.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-17-m0.u35	Dear Mr. Head! Dear National Deputies! Man, his life and health, his honour and dignity, his integrity and security are recognized in Ukraine as the highest social value. Human and civil rights violations are manifest in one way or another in every country of the world, including Ukraine. One such manifestation is domestic violence. I'm asking you to turn on the video.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-17-m0.u36	Please turn on the video.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-17-m0.u37	Ladies and gentlemen, the drafting of this bill has shown the unity of all branches of power, the unity of all the MPs, the unity of the Supreme Council Head, the deputies, the leaders of all factions, the representatives of the IFF "Equal Opportunities", the government, international organizations, public organizations, society. The problem of domestic violence is very serious. Functioning in five eastern areas as a form of emergency response to domestic violence by mobile brigades shows that 73 percent of domestic violence victims have never addressed the problem of providing assistance. According to statistics by social protection authorities, between 110 and 150,000 people are subjected to domestic violence each year. Our bill is a completely new approach, a new system of response to domestic violence that we have had to propose, taking into account European standards, taking into account the situation in Ukraine, taking into account that there is legislation in Ukraine to combat domestic violence, but it is ineffective, and the situation in Ukraine shows this inefficiency. This bill suggests a new approach, the essence of which is the complexity of providing assistance, it's the functioning of support services, it's round-the-clock hotlines. The first is that they function around the clock; the second is that the professionals who work with them are experts who are able to consult a quality person who asks for help in an emergency of violence. They're experts who can redirect people who ask for help. It's the creation of specialized shelters, it's the involvement of public organizations, it's the involvement of experts. One of the important things about this bill is that a child who is a witness to violence is recognized as a victim and receiving the entire aid package. This is a new approach, and it is very important because we understand how it affects a child who is a witness of what is happening in the family, of its future destiny, of its self - confidence, of its ability to be a full citizen. This problem is extrapolated by the situation in Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-17-m0.u38	Let me finish, 30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-17-m0.u39	The return of the atolls also deepens the problem. We ask you to support this bill, we've passed the committees, we'll take all your comments into account, especially on gender issues. We're going to delete that term at the request and at the recommendation of all factions, we're going to work out and consider your proposals. We ask you to support this bill, it is very necessary for our country, for our society and for the entire Ukrainian people. Please support this bill, this is our joint work.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-17-m0.u40	Thank you, Mrs Fedorovich. Dear colleagues, we are discussing an extremely important bill and I would like to ask for respect for the speakers in the hall. Mrs. Fedorovich, you can go to the government's bed. And the word for the report is given to the first deputy head of the Committee on Family, Youth Policy, and Sport, Mikola Veliczovich. And once again, I urge my colleagues to listen carefully to the speakers, showing respect for each other.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-17-m0.u41	Madam Irina, honourable colleagues, the bill is intended to ensure that the requirements of the Council of Europe Convention on the Prevention and Combating of Violence against Women and Domestic Violence are included in Ukrainian legislation. The bill proposes to identify organizational and legal principles for preventing and combating domestic violence, the main thrust of the implementation of State policy in the field of prevention and combating domestic violence, aimed at protecting the rights and interests of those affected by such violence. The main scientific and expert office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine proposes to adopt a bill based on observations. During the discussion of the bill, members of the committee supported the proposal to accept it as a basis. Since the adoption of the bill will ensure a comprehensive approach to combating domestic violence, the substantial addition of existing instruments to such fighting, the improvement of the protection of victims from domestic violence. At the same time, the draft of the bill for the second reading took into account the comments of experts and public organizations, including the introduction of more explicit definitions of terms such as "genderly motivated violence" and "discrimination by the signs of sex". The committee also supports the proposal that just came out of the mouth of Deputy Minister of Social Policy Natalia Fedorovich that the term "gender" should be removed from the project. The committee has a positive experience of working groups preparing drafts for second reading. Therefore, an appropriate working group will be set up, with the participation of all interested parties, who will quickly prepare the bill for consideration in the second reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-17-m0.u42	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear colleagues, the bill is now under discussion and I ask the factions to sign up for the discussion. We have two in favour, two in the opposite direction, but given the importance of the issues, all factions will be able to speak. Please sign in. Please, from the People's Front, Mrs. Denisov's national deputy. Mrs. Ludmila, the People's Front!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-17-m0.u43	Dear colleagues, may I have Mrs. Vojciekhowski's word, please? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-17-m0.u44	Please, Svetlana Vojciekhovska. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-17-m0.u45	Dear colleagues, the bill that we are currently considering is aimed at agreeing on the provisions of the current legislation of Ukraine in preparation for the ratification of the Istanbul Convention. Domestic violence is an extremely shameful phenomenon of our life today, which is being suffered by representatives of both articles. But of course, women and children suffer the most and most of all. I want to give you examples of this violence because the victims of this little war are 93 percent. 90 percent of women. In the 2000s, there were 80,000 phone calls a year, and according to the latest, it was 150 victims who turned in and reported cases. But this figure isn't final, because it's only thought to be 10 or 15 percent of the actual violence that's happening. 35 percent of women in the hospital are injured. Dear colleagues, I very much invite you to vote in favour of this bill today. At the People's Front faction, it was decided that we would support the first reading and correct the issues Mrs. Fedorovich was talking about. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-17-m0.u46	Mrs. Svetlana, I want to apologize to you for the session room. There's our respectable colleague, and there's such a mess in the hall! Dear colleagues, I urge you to listen to each other, please! This is Mrs. Vojciekhovska speaking, speaking the position of the key faction of Parliament -- the People's Front -- no one is listening to her. That can't be right! Please welcome the representative of Irina Lucenko's "Peter Prashenko Block." I ask the attention of my distinguished colleagues when our deputies speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-17-m0.u47	Dear colleagues, more than 20 social organizations were working on this project. This project brought the hall together. What problem is highlighted by this bill today? Every year -- I've been doing statistics for the last five years -- the internal affairs authorities have seen between 110,000 and 165 thousand women suffer from violence. Every year, 3 million children become witnesses or victims of domestic violence. 80 percent of homeless people who left home suffered domestic violence. These are mostly women and children. Of the 100 percent in the hospital, 50 percent are battered pregnant women. All of them give birth to sick children. 95 percent of marriages break up because of domestic violence. These figures say that you need a closed-door policy to move home and make it a state policy. The proposed bill says that the state is starting to deal with the problem in the family. We know how poor the population today is, we know how the country is made by weapons, but we cannot allow stability and equality in the family. It's been splashed into a social life. Natalia Fedorovich as deputy minister assured you, and I'm saying under the transcript that the concept of gender as such will be thrown out of this bill, the concept of "sexual orientation" will be regulated, based on the Christian values of this room. Please, I give you my word as the national MP who reported this bill to the House Committee and the young, once again under the transcript.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-17-m0.u48	30 seconds, finish, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-17-m0.u49	Do not let this problem remain at home. In front of you is a woman who is closed to her mouth, who is ashamed to talk about her domestic problems. Think of children who will have psychological problems in their next life. I gave you my word. Please unite and support this state policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-17-m0.u50	Mrs. Irina, thank you for your work. Please, from the Opposition Block, Yuri Miroshnichenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-17-m0.u51	Dear voters! Dear colleagues! Yuri Miroshnichenko, Opposition Block. You know, it would seem, on the one hand, there's nothing to discuss, violence is unacceptable in any civilized society and more in the family. And that's what the Istanbul Convention is talking about, and that's what the two bills that we're talking about right now are talking about. And what is the new quality proposed in this Istanbul Convention and in these laws? From the issue of criminal justice, from sanctions simply for violence, what we now have in criminal law is introduced a whole mechanism of preventive rehabilitation measures, it is possible to cure the family from this problem, to preserve it if possible, to prevent the suffering of children, women, sometimes men, regardless of sex. And I think that this mechanism should certainly be implemented in our country. The only thing the deputy minister and our colleagues who spoke to me were the position of the All-Ukrainian Council of Churches, which was about the introduction of gender and sexual orientation through these laws. This is unacceptable in our society. And we've heard under the transcript that they're going to be deleted for second reading. In this way, I think we can support both this law and the next one, and the convention. And I really hope that we'll all keep an eye on them so that they won't be represented on the second reading. So, dear colleagues, I think that each of us feels responsible for the state of affairs in this problem. And I think we're going to vote together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-17-m0.u52	Mr. Yuri, thank you for your political position. Please, the Radical Party of Oleg Láška, Igor Mósiyczuk is invited to the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-17-m0.u53	Praise Jesus Christ! We are now considering an extremely important bill. Important to society, important to the family, which is the foundation of society. But at the same time, this bill lays down things that are unacceptable to Ukrainian society, which are unacceptable to the Ukrainian Church, which are unacceptable to every Ukrainian who realizes that. Therefore, the Radical Party faction will not support this law, the bill. He suggests that he be returned to the committee. With the participation of representatives of the All - Ukrainian Council of Churches, the Ukrainian clergy, he was brought to the ethical standards acceptable in Ukrainian society and brought to the Parliamentary Hall as soon as possible. After such refinement, the faction of the Radical Party, with the participation of the Ukrainian clergy, will support the bill with both hands. And finally. Dear colleagues, let us stop killing the Ukrainian Church, the Ukrainian spirituality, impose foreign values, and we will be guided by Ukrainian traditions, Ukrainian spirituality, cherishing and developing them. With all due respect to Ukrainian women, the faction won't support it. And finally. I want to pay attention and ask the Ukrainian women, the ones who hung this poster, to take it off. Because you're covering the faces of those who are now being tortured in Moscow! Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-17-m0.u54	Dear colleagues from the Radical Party, I would like to point out that the Law on Prevention and Opposition to Domestic Violence applies to both Ukrainian and Ukrainian children, not just Ukrainian women. So let's make a good comment here on the laws that are being discussed. John Krulko is invited to the floor by the "Fatherland" faction. Have not the factions who have not yet spoken come forward to take the floor? Please let me know. Mr. Krulco.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-17-m0.u55	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. Of course, the issue of resistance to domestic violence is an important issue that Parliament should address. But I would like us, if we were to address domestic violence, to do just that and not try under the laws that really need to deal with some crisis situations today to resolve the things that we already have in place. I want to ask myself and everyone here. In every poll where we record is the sex of a man and a woman and we put a branch of a man or a woman's sex. Explain to me why we should enter a gender. Are we unable to understand our article? So I'd like to propose, my dear colleagues, the next thing. Let's really do this bill today, which is, were the drafters of the bill from the committee that, in preparing for the second reading, would remove all the norms against which it stands, including the All-Ukrainian Council of Churches.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-17-m0.u56	30 seconds to complete, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-17-m0.u57	Let us remove all the standards that the All - Ukrainian Council of Churches is speaking against. And I ask, Madam Chairman, that you give a protocol commission to the working group when preparing the bill for second reading, if it is approved that it should necessarily involve representatives of the All-Ukrainian Council of Churches in the working group and take into account the proposals they will make to the bill in order for it to really address the problem that today is in society, namely opposition.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-17-m0.u58	Dear colleagues, unfortunately, there's a game in the hall. I want to address the Radical Party. Mr. Lazko! Lies Lazko! Oleg Lazko! I just got off the phone with Mrs. Lucenko Irina. And, Oleg Lazko, I'm addressing you. Now in your heated discussion, you haven't heard your esteemed colleague from the "Fatherland" faction, who made the presentation with the next proposal, but I want you to hear her hall. What will now be created is a working group on a committee where representatives of the Council of Churches will enter to complete the second reading of the bill, which has now been discussed in the room in order for us to now support this bill in the first reading. As chairman, I think this is a proposal that was made in the statement made by the representative of the Block of Peter Poroshenko, in the presentation by the representative of Fatherland, in the presentation by the representative in fact of the Opposition Block, and that's essentially what the Radical Party was talking about, that it is necessary for the second reading to join the Council of Churches in order to work together to work out the rules of law. Do I understand the room correctly? Now I'm giving Lucenko Irina, who works in this group, and the Ministry of Profiles, a minute to sum it up. And I ask my colleagues to meet in the session room so that we can vote. Please, Mrs. Irina.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-17-m0.u59	Dear colleagues! We just got off the phone with the leader of the Radical Party, the factions. We agreed that I would confirm once again under the transcript, that the concept of "gender" as such would be thrown out of this law, now under the transcript, and the notion of "sexual orientation" would be under the transcript. That we're going to create a working group, and in the second reading, this bill is going to be out of the question. We're already, under the transcript, we're throwing it away. I'm asking you, November 25th, November 25th, the whole world celebrates 10 days of Stop Violence against Women, Children, Trafficking in Human Beings, etc. Let's show that Ukraine not only notes and weeps over this problem, but Ukraine makes it a state policy.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-17-m0.u60	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Now listen carefully to the presentation of the Ministry of Profiles. I think there's going to be something that's going to unite the hall right now. Listen carefully, I'm asking you to give a speech by a representative of the department of profile. Mrs. Natala, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-17-m0.u61	Ladies and gentlemen, under the transcript, I want to say that we are removing the concept of "gender" from this bill and that there is no mention of sexual orientation in the bill. I have a bill, please look at it. We'll take into account all the comments you've made. And in fact, the bill is a document aimed at resisting violence. There's no question about any sexual orientation, we're removing the concept of "gender" from this bill. I want to tell you that when we worked in the city of Lviv as Head of Social Protection, we were involved in the work of monks. Father Oleg, who is a monk from the Salesian Congregation, worked for the chiefs of the church, and we had Father Roman Lagos, who is a redemptor, and we had Sister Anastasia, who is a nun. We work with the Church systematically in the provision of social services and in what we call social protection and the Church in the service. That's why the law has no idea of sexual orientation, and the Gender we're removing. I'm asking you to support me. In fact, we've come to a very important point.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-17-m0.u62	Thank you. Now, dear fellows, I see your hands up. I want to redefine what came out of the profile department. First. The issue of the domestic violence bill primarily concerns Ukrainian children, people of all ages -- both men and women. And really Ukrainian women, but also men. This is a question that concerns all of Ukrainian society. The other one. A representative of the Department of Profiles just stated that now, under the transcript, the concept of "gender" is being removed from this bill. I'm going to sound like the chairman, and now the concept of "gender" and "sexual" is being deleted. This concept is being deleted. And in this option, we ask that in the first reading, we now support this bill with the creation of a working group on the committee of profile, where the representatives of the Council of Churches will enter to redraft this bill for the second reading. It seems to me that we have united the hall so that we do not go now. We vote in the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-17-m0.u63	Dear colleagues, we can either continue the discussion or vote. Come on, fellows, I'll put it up. Look. May I have your attention in the hall now, colleagues! I see some warnings that the minister's representative has just announced. This can be declared as an item; there is a third paragraph that can be deleted. Simply mentioning a gender is removed from all sections. I'm announcing it by putting it to a vote. Yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-17-m0.u64	It's an deletion from the End Positions. Dear colleagues, the concept of gender.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-17-m0.u65	My colleagues, thank you. And so when we make a proposal to remove all mentions of gender from the bill, I think it's going to be this position that will bring everybody together. Am I saying it right? Friends, Wisely or Not? All right, let's take a minute, if it's so important, give it a minute. One minute is Easy, one minute is Miroshnichenko, one minute is Ungurian. Please, but let's make suggestions as to how it should be formulated for the vote. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-17-m0.u66	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Dear colleagues and deputies, I can't understand what law we're considering with you? What about family protection or sexual orientation? What do you women hide behind sex? What you do not like about the Ukrainian family is beyond me. What do you dislike about Ukrainian values? If you want to give us other values here, take them for yourself. This is your right, who are you sleeping with, what are you doing there, why are you bringing society into this? Therefore, the protection of Ukrainian women is a sacred duty for every man. Sexual orientation is everyone's personal business. Go for a walk!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-17-m0.u67	Myrrhichenko, one minute. Yuri Miroshnichenko, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-17-m0.u68	Dear colleagues, the Opposition Block, which I now represent, from which I have been given the word, of course, will not allow any discrimination or violence against women and children. But once again, I stress what was said to both the Deputy Minister and the First Deputy Head of the Supreme Council, from this first reading, all references to gender and sexual orientation are now deleted in the vote. This is article 4, paragraph 3, article 21, marked 2, and all other references to gender and sexual orientation. Then we can vote. The mechanism itself is useful and necessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-17-m0.u69	So, your Honorable colleagues, one more minute, the Hungarians, and we vote. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-17-m0.u70	Dear colleagues! First of all, I want to thank our colleagues: Irina Lucenko, Svetlani Wojciechowski, Irina Heraszczenko – for the really important topic that they have raised. It's really important. But the second, unfortunately, under this topic, we were trying to define something like: "gender" as opposed to "stand down." So there's a man and a woman sex, and there's another concept that we're trying to implement in law as a general. They're roles, some kind of behavior, and they say they're already 58 of these types. Today's bill mentions about a hundred references to this "gender." And that's why we have to, really, either clean now, or clean up until the second reading. But then you have to delete, really, everything, because it's really, really much here. It's really a lot here. Thus, in general support of the idea of combating domestic violence, which is absolutely true, equality of rights and women, this is supported by the Church, Christianity and our hall, and common sense. But we don't.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-17-m0.u71	Thank you, colleagues. Thank you. We're already repeating the same fourth time. There was a clear proposal that sounded like this. Vote on the basis of removing all references to gender throughout the body of the law. And like that. I'll put it to a vote. Please prepare to make a decision. And I'm voting on the draft Law on Prevention and Opposition to Domestic Violence (No. 5994) on the basis of excluding all references to gender throughout the text, and in that formulation, I'm putting the vote on the basis, just as a basis. [[Noise Nodes]] And sexual orientation, okay. By deleting the references to these two terms throughout the body of the law. In this formulation, I put the vote to the vote. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to vote. Please, colleagues, we're voting. [[11:14:28]] For 238. Decision taken. I want to do a productive job for my second reading. Dear colleagues, we are moving to the next draft law (4952), which is the draft Act amending some of the laws of Ukraine in connection with the ratification of the Council of Europe Convention on the Prevention of Violence against Women and Domestic Violence and the fight against these phenomena, 4952 is an extension, they stand in one block. And I ask you to support the consideration of the reduced procedure. Please vote. [[11:15:29]] For-164 I'm inviting you. Decision taken. I invite you to report to the National Deputy of Ukraine Lucenko Irina Stepanovna. Mrs. Irina, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-17-m0.u72	Dear colleagues, your attention is offered on the final part of the Istanbul Convention on the Prevention and Opposition of Domestic Violence. This is actually the offender’s responsibility to the victim. This bill is a parliamentary bill. It was signed by more than 50 Supreme Council deputies, all faction leaders, vice-speakers. All the leading organizations supported him and worked on him. The police were working on it, the prosecutor's office was working on it, the judges were working on it, and so many times these perpetrators were tried and tried by women who, after the 20th time of domestic violence, committed the same kind of violence against other members of the family. So this is an extremely important problem that has been concentrated right now in this period. Ukraine is in such a triangle of problems that are causing domestic violence. This is actually classical domestic violence, which remains behind closed doors. Our boys are returning from the front, our heroes. Many of them have post - traumatic syndrome. Many of them are disabled, many of whom are insulted by the state. And their war continues, in fact, within the family — over the woman and over the children. We now have 1 million 700,000 displaced persons in the country — temporarily displaced persons who, in connection with the aggression in eastern Ukraine, have lost their homes, lost their small homeland, and thus, with such problems, move them into the family. This triangle of family problems is actually becoming a national problem of internal security and defence. This bill proposes to differentiate responsibility.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-17-m0.u73	Please finish, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-17-m0.u74	The bill proposes to differentiate the liability of the offender from the prohibition: When domestic violence occurs, the offender is separated from the victim. The following is the fact that we abolish the concept of a fine for such acts, since the fine actually rests on the family. But we're introducing the concept of "correction program" where the offender will be dealt with by psychologists, rehabilitists. They'll pick it up.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-17-m0.u75	Please, just a minute. Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-17-m0.u76	And in fact, depending on the amount of domestic violence he has shown, criminal responsibility will also take place. The concept of "special prosecutor," "special investigator", "special judge" is being introduced, which will be taught and will be able to work properly with the victims. I ask you very much, except for the political state, we must form a society that is not tolerant of such actions. This law on non-domestic violence, on zero tolerance. I'm asking you to support him. I repeat, under the transcript. It mentions the term "sexual orientation," and it will be removed from this law for second reading. This is a remark that I take consciously, which I support, saying all this in front of the hall, and I ask you to support the hall. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-17-m0.u77	Thank you, Mrs. Irina, for your work. The word for the report is given to the head of the Committee on Legal Protection of Andrija Kozemyakin.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-17-m0.u78	Dear Chairman! Dear National Deputies! A law enforcement committee has considered the draft Ukrainian Act amending certain laws of Ukraine in connection with the ratification of the Council of Europe Convention on the Prevention and Control of Violence against Women and Domestic Violence (No. 4952). The proposed project is aimed at the implementation of the Ukrainian Criminal and Criminal Procedure Legislation, the provisions of this Convention. The Council of Europe convention on the prevention of violence against women (women) and domestic violence and the fight against these phenomena is the Istanbul Convention, as has already been said by speakers. The law also imposes restrictive measures on a person who has committed domestic violence, is responsible for domestic violence, illegal abortion or sterilization, forced marriage, and so forth. After reviewing the bill, members of the committee yesterday noted that its adoption would allow for additional measures aimed at creating preventive, protective and criminal justice mechanisms to combat various forms of violence against women and children. Although the scientific expertise has written 12 points of reference on six pages, there is, in fact, something to work on for the second reading, because it changes completely, is rewritten, a new article 152 is introduced. (this is rape), and there are quite a lot of questions about this in lawyers and professionals. But the members of the committee, which today consists of men, to support Ukrainian women and children, of course, supported the bill and suggested that the Supreme Council consider it and support it as a basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-17-m0.u79	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I ask you to sign up for this bill: two for, two against. Of course, all factions will have the opportunity to speak. I'd like to take another look at all the colleagues in this room. Well, let's still be fair to Ukrainian women. The question of domestic violence, once again, concerns children, elderly people, all articles, two articles: men and women. Unfortunately, first of all. That's the first story. And a second. So you and I don't have to throw the baby out of the cradle during the bill discussion. Gender issues mean only sex and equality in English, and not just sexual equality, as they try to impose on us. And this is a session room, not a prayer room. Let us keep this in mind during the discussion of draft laws. Please, Mr. Vanat of the People's Front. We're discussing a bill, proposals.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-17-m0.u80	Vanat, People's Front. Please pass the word to Paul Ungurian.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-17-m0.u81	Please, Mr. Unguran.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-17-m0.u82	Dear Chairman! Dear colleagues! Indeed, another very important bill we are considering today. I want to thank the colleagues who developed it, here's a large copyright team led by our colleague, Irina Lucenko. And this is also Maria Ionova, Svetlana Vojciekhovska, Irina Heratschenko, many other colleagues signed. Indeed, we need to protect women and families in general from domestic violence. And it will be our legislative step to normalize, to some extent even to make a more severe sanction, what causes family members to commit violence, to insult, to beat each other. And really, we have to do this. The only position I agree with and the author who told us that we should use signs that define a certain norm on violence. Use those signs that are in Ukrainian legislation. We support the commission of a criminal offence on the grounds of racial, national, or religious enmity or strife, or sexual affiliation. All of this is the fundamental natural rights of man as enshrined in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. But when it comes to acquired rights, which are not protected and which are their own rights, which are given either by each State or not, Ukraine is a conservative state, a State with Christian views, and so forth. And so in general, without any discrimination or violence, I invite you to vote, but without definition, sexual orientation. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-17-m0.u83	Thank you, Your Honor. Please, from Peter Prashenko's Block, Oleg Barna gives the word to Mrs. Irina Suslowy, who at the Committee on Foreign Affairs is very professionally involved in these matters.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-17-m0.u84	Dear colleagues! Irina Suslova, head of the Gender Equality and Non-discrimination Subcommittee. This bill is directly related to the previous bill. That's why the Peter Dust Block faction will also support it. It is intended to amend the Criminal and Procedural Codes. In doing so, implement the criminal and criminal legislation of Ukraine as part of the Istanbul Convention. It should be noted that June 17th was the previous one. Last year, parliamentary hearings were held on "Family Policy in Ukraine: Goals and Objectives" on which the whole cluster of issues focused on domestic violence. As a result of the hearings, recommendations were drawn up that are reflected in the bill. Dear colleagues, I'm calling on you from the Peter Prashenko Block, and I would like to urge you to support this bill for a systematic fight against such a disgraceful phenomenon as domestic violence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-17-m0.u85	Thank you, Your Honor. Please, Anton Yatzenko of the Rebirth Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-17-m0.u86	Dear colleagues, the adoption of this law is a test of civilization for all, of European choice. Because today, unfortunately, we all read, and seniors still often see children being beaten up in the family, beating up women. And let us now vote for all the halls of this law in order to give the battle to the Shariks who, in general, have been in our country for many years, regrettably, feel very frivolous. I'd like everyone's support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-17-m0.u87	Thank you for your position, Your Honor. Please, from the Opposition Block, Yuri Miroshnichenko. And also, those factions that aren't registered, give a signal to whoever wants to speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-17-m0.u88	Dear voters! Dear colleagues! Yuri Miroshnichenko, Opposition Block. Well, actually, the three bills that we're considering are the only ones that make up the system. If all the mechanisms were put in place in the first bill, the bill tells us how sanctions would be applied, punishment for those who committed domestic violence. And that's why the people's deputies prepared this law. He was approved yesterday at the meeting of our profile committee. But again, I'm paying attention to the position of the All-Ukrainian Council of Churches. And our colleague, Irina Lucenko, said that she recommended that we vote in the first reading with the deletion of all references to sexual orientation. In fact, it is a category that, according to Paul Ungurian correctly, is not part of Ukrainian legislation and is introduced to the beliefs of our citizens and the All-Ukrainian Council of Churches, which is not appropriate because sex fully includes and outlines all the necessary signs of the classification of such crimes as domestic violence. Dear colleagues, I stress again, under the transcript: voting in the first reading with the deletion of a sign such as sexual orientation. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-17-m0.u89	Thank you, Mr. Yuri. Dear colleagues, we haven't heard from Fatherland, the Radical Party of Laska. Is there anyone interested in this bill? Please, Mr. Mosiyczuk, give me your word for one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-17-m0.u90	The Radical Party faction is ready to support this bill in its first reading under conditions that have just been broadcast, namely, that all sexual orientation positions will be removed. Let us, indeed, stop killing Ukrainian spirituality, Ukrainian tradition. Let us focus, not on foreign values, but on our own Ukrainian values. Let us cherish our spirituality. Let us approach ratification and implementation of foreign legislation, but in no way harm Ukrainian spirituality, Ukrainian traditions, Ukrainian identity. So in the event that a protocol is now announced to remove the issue of sexual orientation, on the first reading, our faction is ready to support the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-17-m0.u91	Thank you. Dear colleagues, from that group that worked on the bill, ask Mrs. Irina Lucenko for the floor. Irina Stepanovna Lucenko, please. And we're going to go to the vote, and I'm asking my colleague to return to the session room. And I would like to draw your attention to Yuri Miroshnick's words, which he rightly pointed out in this case, that the three bills that we are currently discussing are a package. And they provide an opportunity to increase the responsibility for domestic violence. And now we're talking about a bill that doesn't have any definitions that are so disturbing about this session hall. This bill discusses the issue of increasing responsibility for domestic violence. Mrs. Irina, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-17-m0.u92	Dear colleagues, I feel that the Hall is ready to support this bill in the first reading. But I'm asking you to turn on the video and see who else is ready to support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-17-m0.u93	Please, it's the MPs who are approaching the session room. I'm asking you to turn on the video for one minute. Members, please return to the vote. [[Video recording broadcast]] Thank you, Your Honor. Now we're going to the vote, I think all the strong support the position of our soldiers, today the Ukrainian army has the most confidence. By removing the standard of sexual orientation. Dear colleagues, we wait, now the Head of the Supreme Council returns to the presidency and we begin the vote. Mr. Andrey, we've discussed the bill, we're putting it to the vote in support of the first reading, removing the norm on sexual orientation.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-17-m0.u94	Dear colleagues, ready to vote? So I am voting on the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine in connection with the ratification of the Council of Europe Convention on the Prevention and Control of Violence against Women and Domestic Violence (No. 4952) on the basis of the removal from all body standards of the bill of references to sexual orientation. Is that correct? Let's vote responsibly, colleagues. So, who supports this decision on the basis of this formulation that I've defined for the transcript, please vote, colleagues, please support. [[11:34:04]] For 244 Decision taken. I want to be productive about the second reading of the bill. And the last of the blocks is the draft law on ratification of the European Council Convention on the Prevention of Violence against Women and Domestic Violence and on combating these phenomena (number 0119). And I'm asking you to support the proposal to consider it with a reduced procedure, colleagues. Please vote, please support. [[11:34:58]] For 181 Decision taken. And I invite you to report to Deputy Minister of Social Policy Fedorovich Natalia Volodymyrna. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-17-m0.u95	Thank you, sweetheart. Please turn on the sound.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-17-m0.u96	Ladies and gentlemen, we ask you to support our civilized understanding of the problem and to support the ratification of this important document for our nation, to which Ukraine joined in 2011. Please support your vote, our choice to fight this problem, the package of action, and the system approach. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-17-m0.u97	Thank you, Your Honor. And now we're handing over the word for a report to the head of the subcommittee on foreign affairs, the committee's subcommittee on foreign affairs to Irina Lucenko. Mrs. Irina, please go to the microphone. Ms. Lucenko, please report to the Istanbul Convention, which Ukraine has been ratifying for almost six years.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-17-m0.u98	Dear colleagues, this law provides for only two points. The fact that Ukraine, which was signed in 2011, will recognize this convention, which will not only talk about fighting domestic violence, but will create an effective mechanism to protect these 165 thousand women who suffer each year, these 1.5 thousand women who die of domestic violence every year. And this trend is increasing, especially in the Syrian zone. I call on the Opposition Block to support this bill, because it applies primarily to your territory where the greatest atrocities are taking place, where women and children are being put in front of tanks. Please, Hall, support and ratify this State policy for the protection of women and children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-17-m0.u99	Thank you. Dear colleagues, there were voices in the hall that we were moving on to the vote. Is there, after all, a need to discuss the Istanbul Convention with us? Vote? Vote. [[Noise Nodes]] There are those who want to talk about it, please sign in: two for, two against. I would like to thank the agitators for the Istanbul Convention, our heads of government and the prosecutor's office, it's very important when they support the struggle against domestic violence at the state level, it's very important. And once again, I emphasize that this is true of children, men, elderly people. Please, Maxim Burbak of the People's Front. Mr. Maxime, we're sure you'll support that, too.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-17-m0.u100	Please give my word to my colleague Svetlana Mikhailny Vojciekhovsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-17-m0.u101	Mrs. Svetlana, who has done a lot of work to ratify the convention, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-17-m0.u102	Dear colleagues, thank you very much for the little work I've done and, first of all, I would like to thank the national MP Irina Suslowy, who. Oh, Lucenka. I'm sorry, I'm afraid. which has given us a lot of strength and time to go this long way, over two years to ratify the Istanbul Convention. And I would also like to mark the Ministry of Social Policy in the person of Mrs Fedorovich, who also worked extremely actively on the ratification of the Istanbul Convention. As a country in 2011, we still signed under the most comprehensive international legal instrument on the protection of women and children. And if we ratify this convention today, it will enable us to understand that the fight against violence against women and children is a duty of the State, and it will enable government organizations and others to create a network and adequate protection for these defenceless moments. The bill establishes a clear link between the achievement of equality between women and men and the eradication of violence against women. I ask everyone to vote. The People's Front faction will support the ratification of the Istanbul Convention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-17-m0.u103	Thank you to our distinguished faction of the People's Front. Please, from Petar Dust Block, Olena Matuzko.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-17-m0.u104	Please pass the word to Mary Ionova.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-17-m0.u105	Please turn on Mary's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-17-m0.u106	Dear colleagues, I would like to say that this is a package of bills, and ratification is a final step. And it was an extremely difficult, systematic work being done as a government, as well as national MPs, as well as non-governmental organizations, as well as international organizations. And this is true of both women and children and men. And really, after this ratification, to implement the convention, we're going to have a lot of, a lot of work to do, especially in the regions. So I encourage the hall to complete this stage, ratify the basic law and start working. Thank you. Change shameful statistics. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-17-m0.u107	Thank you for taking the Peter Dusty Block. And now the position of the Opposition Block is presented by Mr Papiev. Please, he wants to represent the position of his faction from the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-17-m0.u108	Thank you. Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine, Your Honor! You know, this Istanbul convention is complicated enough. I would like to remind you that not all countries of the European Union have now ratified the convention. For example, when a convention was held in Poland, both the Catholic Church and a very broad discussion was held in Poland. For example, in order for you to understand that we are now law-abiding, I will give you just one quote from article 3 of this Convention. It speaks of a gender that means socially entrenched roles, behavior, activity, and characteristics that a certain society considers appropriate for women and men. That is, after the ratification of this Convention, the main ones are. No longer will the physical signs of a man or a woman be the main signs of whether this person identifies himself as a man or identifies him as a woman. And apiori, if you have a physiological man standing before you, you can't go to him until he identifies himself by the gender he belongs to. I mean, Your Honor, it's quite a discussional position, and I think it's premature for us not to have a broad discussion, including in public organizations, in religious religions, we are now in such a hurry to ratify this Convention. Let's think about it again, let's talk about social harmony in this question, because it's complicated enough. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-17-m0.u109	Now. Dear colleagues, are there still willing to speak from factions and groups? Mr. Papiev, I want to inform you that Poland has ratified this Convention. She ratified with her warnings. We're hearing today during the discussion in the session room of the billing that goes in the package, that this session hall has its own as much as the notes, and they have spoken, and they've been voted. And that's why I want to appeal to the chairman of the Opposition Block to ask you to support this Convention with your votes, because it's important, in a package. Without ratification of this Convention, the laws, the bills that we voted on in the first reading, they don't work. And the work of the session hall, the committees, the profile ministries, it's essentially not worth anything if we don't ratify this very important convention right now. Now we have a few more speakers: from the Radical Party, from the Rebirth Group, the representative of Mrs., the committee, the working group of Mrs. Lucenko. And at this time, please consult with your faction. Counsel, please, because it's wrong if we don't now support the third bill of such an important cluster of issues. Please, Mr. Yatzenko. Then there's Mr. Mosiyczuk. It was as if all those who wished to speak were speaking.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-17-m0.u110	Dear colleagues, let's be consistent, we've already passed two laws, we've removed everything related to the word "gender". So it's okay if we ratify this convention now. And what's more, there was a reference to the distinguished colleague of Papiev, and I respect him very much. But! Reference to the Catholic Church. But did not the Catholic Church in its time do the Inquisition, the Crusades, and everything else? Let us be civilized people in the twenty-first century and support this ratification. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-17-m0.u111	Yeah, still wanted by Fatherland. So first, Mr. Mosiyczuk of the Radical Party, a minute. Then "Fatherland," Krulko, a minute. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-17-m0.u112	Dear colleagues! An extremely important moment and an extremely important understanding, indeed, to support the ratification of the Council of Europe convention, which is about preventing violence against women and domestic violence. Sadly, however, this convention contains standards that are unacceptable to Ukrainian society for Ukrainian spirituality. So the Radical Party faction is now proposing to postpone consideration of this ratification, to prepare appropriate warnings, as we did in the ratification of other international agreements. And those positions, which are unacceptable to Ukrainian society and to Ukrainian spirituality, should be brought to the attention of the appropriate ones. Otherwise we don't vote for this ratification.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-17-m0.u113	Thank you. Respectful colleagues, well, domestic violence is also unacceptable to Ukrainian spirituality, the Ukrainian family. Please accept that. Agree that domestic violence is unacceptable to our tradition, culture, and spirituality. Please, Ivan Krulko, one minute. And then the replica, 30 seconds, Mr. Papiev. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-17-m0.u114	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues! Well, in the previous two bills, we found consensus in this room by removing from the bill those categories that today do not accept Ukrainian society and do not accept Ukrainian national tradition. So it seems to me that in order for us to ratify this convention and ratify it, I support the fact that this convention by spirit is the right thing to do. But at the same time, the individual categories contained in this convention are those that are already introducing the same concepts through the convention format and making them part of the national legislation of Ukraine. So I'd like to remind you here of how Parliament acted when we were encouraged, in particular, by the agreement on Ukraine's entry into the SND. Then the Ukrainian Parliament acted very wisely by ratifying this agreement, but can it be concluded, please?
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-17-m0.u115	Please finish 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-17-m0.u116	Parliament ratified the SND Agreement, but with such warnings that essentially allowed Ukraine to avoid membership in this organization as a full-fledged organisation. That's why I'm talking again. Let us act here in accordance with our national interests and Ukrainian national tradition. We'll write out a proper warning for this convention. Not out of voice, but they should be written into the body of the ratification law. And after that, by uniting the entire room, we will ratify this very needed convention, which will be aimed at resisting domestic violence. And once again, I'd like to go to the whole room. Because we did yesterday.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-17-m0.u117	30 seconds to complete. Please, offer, position of the faction, John. 15 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-17-m0.u118	The position of the Fatherland faction is that we believe that the convention should be ratified with warnings. So we're proposing that we be able to write these warnings in the ratification law, and we've ratified this convention with them. Please listen to this proposal and let us do as the law requires. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-17-m0.u119	Please, 30 seconds, Mr. Papiev.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-17-m0.u120	Thank you. Dear Mrs. Irina, I am grateful that you have confirmed the truth of my words that Poland, a member of the European Union, had a very broad discussion and that the ratification of this convention was followed by warnings. Now you're saying that we're going to accept, yes, and then we're going to do some other things after this law. I want to remind you of the Constitution of Ukraine, that international conventions, they have status above national legislation. Therefore, dear colleagues, our faction supports the Law on Resisting Violence. But we will not vote for this convention without warning. Thank you. We voted.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-17-m0.u121	I will. Dear colleagues, here comes the debate of the stick. They're still willing to come out of factions. This is a violation of the Rules. BPP, Igor Solovay. He's given 30 seconds. And we're going to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-17-m0.u122	Yuri Solovay, 89th constituency, Gutzulščina and Poksi. Dear colleagues, I believe that Ukraine has always been a cradle of Christian values. And that's always been what made our state different. And we have to do everything we can to preserve this unique Ukrainian path. I agree that many European values must be accepted. But not with those who undermine the foundations of Christianity, including our nation. And so, I think that the standards that are set today at the Istanbul Convention are absolutely destroying Ukrainian identity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-17-m0.u123	Dear colleagues, we are now discussing the ratification of the convention concerning the Council of Europe. The head of our parliamentary delegation to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, Vladimir Ariev, asks for the floor. One minute, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-17-m0.u124	Dear colleagues! I'll be in in 30 seconds. I mean, are we currently arguing about religious motives or about human rights? Read this convention carefully, it applies only to human rights. And Ukraine, when it joined the Council of Europe, made a commitment to gradually ratify all the conventions of the Council of Europe. So in this case, if we don't do it now, and if we're going to talk about screeches again now, we're going to get a welcome from Putin right here in the hall, and he's just going to be happy about our position. Thank you. I propose voting, supporting and ratifying, showing that Ukraine is a European state and is fulfilling its obligations.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-17-m0.u125	Dear colleagues, here's a summary of what happened in the hall. It seems to me that when we discuss such important subjects, I'm not the chairman right now, I can go out to the rostrum and just take the word as Ukraine's national deputy, but I'll let myself say it. We have no right with you just as educated people of the 21st century and politicians to mix two spheres. The first is international terminology. And once again, I want to emphasize that the concept of gender has nothing to do with what they're trying to tell us right now. It just means gender and equality, and it's about equality in all spheres. Gender equality is also the right to be men and women and to represent Ukrainian politics on equal terms. That's the first one. The other one. This convention, it has nothing to do with those, in fact, warnings regarding violations of traditional Ukrainian traditions there and so forth. We are now talking about fighting domestic violence and this work. And you and I are here to protect human rights as a civilized European state. Irina Lucenko asked for the floor. I see everyone raise their hands, well, please, I beg Mrs. Irina to sum it up and then the same profile department sums up a minute. And, Oleg, we see.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-17-m0.u126	Irina Lucenko was given the floor. From the rostrum, right? Ah, he's telling Krulkov. Please, Ivan Krulko.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-17-m0.u127	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues, I'd like us to really give very proper seats in this room. The first post office, the Fatherland faction, supports the ratification of this convention and fights all forms of domestic violence. But at the same time, let's look at the experience of the countries that ratified this convention. So the experience of these countries shows that all the things that are dangerous are needed for the national identity, for our culture, for our traditions, you have to make it clear in the Ratification Act, you can't say anything out loud. So my proposal is very clear, let the committee work on these issues for a week, we'll write out a clear warning bill for the convention, and then we'll have this convention ratified to the full. At the same time, I would like to pay attention to one more thing. You know what the government is offering us, which is a warning to do before this convention, it's very important to listen. That article 30, paragraph 2, of the convention will not apply to Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-17-m0.u128	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-17-m0.u129	It is envisaged that adequate public compensation will be paid to those who have suffered bodily harm or health problems as much as the damage is not covered by other sources. Is that the warning we need to make? I'm against making warnings that we won't pay compensation if people get hurt by violence. This is where the state has to pay compensation. So let's go back to the committee, we're throwing that warning away, and we're including those warnings that are really necessary for our national identity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-17-m0.u130	Colleagues, there will be two more speeches and then we'll move on to making a decision. One minute, Oleg Lazko and final Irina Lucenko, then we move on to making a decision. So I ask everyone to come into the hall, and in two minutes there will be a vote. Please, Oleg Easy, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-17-m0.u131	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. It is hardly possible for anyone to suspect members of the Radical Party that we are supporting sexual relations in the family. We are firmly opposed to the abuse of the family, against the humiliation of the family, and we are responsible for the State’s protection of the family. Stress: The nation was protecting the Ukrainian traditional family. When you talk about the ratification of the convention, look at neighbouring Poland, they ratified this convention with warnings that are acceptable to Polish society. We propose to do the same. Ratify this Convention with warnings that are acceptable exclusively to Ukrainian society to maintain moral values and the Ukrainian family, and the Ukrainian Church. One of the chairmans here told us that this was not a temple or a prayer. Everyone's temple should be in the shower. It is not necessary to go to the temple to believe in the Lord God and to share traditional Ukrainian family values.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-17-m0.u132	Please, Irina Lucenko, one minute. And I'm asking everyone to take up jobs.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-17-m0.u133	Dear colleagues, after hearing the opinion of the Hall and understanding that the Hall is ready to support, but with the warnings that have already been made in the Hall, I propose that this bill be returned to the Committee on Foreign Affairs in order to work out the warnings, as other countries have ratified them. We have our warnings, but I see a room ready to support them, we need to find a consolidated position. So please support my offer. And thank you all for working together.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-17-m0.u134	Thank you. Dear colleagues, is there not a warning that I should immediately propose the proposal that the authors have made and that the committee supports by shaking its head? Hanna, do you support me? Supports the committee. Colleagues, I'll put her to the vote right away. I'm asking everyone to settle down so we don't give our partners a bad sign. I'm going to put the votes on the committee for work, colleagues, right? Is it accepted? So I'm voting on the draft Law on Ratification of the Council of Europe Convention on the Prevention of Violence against Women and Domestic Violence and on combating these phenomena (number 0119) to return to the committee for further work. Do you understand the position? Whoever supports this proposal, please vote, colleagues. Please vote. Please be supportive. [[12:00:27]] For 249 Decision taken. It was a compromise decision, but I think it's the right decision that shows a willingness to make decisions after consultations. Dear colleagues, we now have a 30-minute recess according to the Rules. At 12:30, I ask you to be in the hall to consider the next bill. This is an important bill, initiated by Mr. Chubarov, to support our Ukrainian television channels that worked in Crimea. And I'm asking everyone at 12:30 to be in the session room to continue our work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-17-m0.u135	Dear colleagues, we're running out of time for a break. Please come into the hall and prepare for the continuation of our work. Dear colleagues, the following day’s issue is the draft Law amending the Code of Budgets of Ukraine (for programs supporting radio companies in the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and the city of Sevastopol). It's a question that was insisted on by both Chubarov and the Crimean Tatars, and I hope that the entire hall will support it. I'm asking you to come into the hall. The first one will be my proposal, which is the consideration of the reduced procedure. Please come into the hall, we're taking up jobs. After that, we move on to the block of infrastructure, transport and road construction. Colleagues, I'm just explaining the logic. If we don't even find the votes for the reduced procedure right now, we're going to go full, and we're going to move the transport to an hour in the right direction. I see that all the members of the Transport Committee are actively working in the hall so that we can vote in favour of the shorter procedure, yes. Okay. Colleagues, I won't wait for 10 to 15 minutes, I'll put a motion to vote for a reduced procedure. If it's not supported, we'll move on to the full procedure. Eugenius Valerius Capinus is in place? Yes, there is. Then we'll be able to get to the bottom of this. Not yet, not yet, not yet. And, colleagues, I'm voting on the proposal to review Bill 5333 for a reduced procedure. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. Please support me. [[12:39:53]] Z-87 Please. [[B in m in s a l in]] I'm being correctly pointed out that this is a budgetary issue, and it needs to be discussed in detail. It's not an intermediate question. I'll do it again. And if there are no votes, let's move on to full consideration. So, colleagues, I'm re-voting the motion for a reduced procedure. And if there are no votes, we're going to go to the full procedure for the consideration of Bill 5333. So, colleagues, I'm putting to the vote once again, for the last time, a proposal for a reduced procedure. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. Please vote. [[12:41:24]] For 105 The decision is not made. You're asking for factions? Please. Block of Petra Poshenko – 48, National Front – 45, Opposition Block – 0, Self-help – 0, Father's Day – 0, Radical Party Lachka – 1, Rebirth Party – 0, Will of the People – 3. Dear colleagues, I'm not saying he's not in the hall. No, it's in the hall, yeah. I'm only in favour of the one who voted in favour. Guys, it's okay, it's okay. We are moving on to full reading, and I invite you to the report of Capinus Eugenia Valeriyovich, Deputy Minister of Finance. Please have 10 minutes to report.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-17-m0.u136	Dear National Deputies! Dear Andrew Volodymyrovich! I would like to draw your attention to the bill amending the Code of Budgets of Ukraine (for programmes supporting radio companies in the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and the city of Sevastopol). The country's humanitarian, social and economic policies are based on the protection and full implementation of the national, cultural, social, political rights of Ukrainian citizens, including indigenous peoples and national minorities. In this regard, the information provided by Crimean Tatars currently living in the Autonomous Republic of Crimea becomes extremely relevant. In this regard, we suggest that we consider supporting individual television companies that are currently broadcasting in the territory of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. Nonstate television companies operating in the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and the city of Sevastopol play a leading role in this area and objectively provide information to people living in the area. Ukraine’s budget code has now established that only national television, social television, and radio, press and other programs are being implemented from Ukraine’s State Budget. In this connection, the bill submitted for your consideration contains a rule on the possibility of State support for television companies operating in the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and the city of Sevastopol to give the Cabinet of Ministers the right to determine in 2016 the direction of the use of budgetary resources for the stated purpose. This funding will be provided under the funding provided for in the 2016 State Budget. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-17-m0.u137	Thank you very much. Please, three minutes, question to the reporter. Please hold the recording. Krivenka, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-17-m0.u138	Krivenko Victor, National Movement of Ukraine. Yesterday we discussed this issue on a committee, and it was unanimously supported. And I want to remind you that there was a very powerful Ukrainian People's Movement organization in Crimea that was primarily based on cooperation with the Crimean Tatar population. We've had a faction all these years in the Supreme Council, which is the only one who didn't support the election to capture Crimea in February 14. The ATR channel has always cooperated and helped, and it's been an honest reflection of the right processes in Crimea that have been going on. So I ask my colleagues to urge all their colleagues to return to the hall and to support this archival bill, which gives the right signal, including those who are now fighting for Ukraine, while in occupied territory. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-17-m0.u139	Thank you. From the People's Front, Logwinsky. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-17-m0.u140	Dear friends! Dear colleagues! We need to understand this is not about supporting the radio company, it's about arming our citizens during the war, and it's not just in the east, it's not just through armed conflict, it's about propaganda that's the worst weapon. That is why we must support, arm our citizens, our television companies, in order to protect the interests of our country, protect those people who are now fighting the occupying Crimea and provide support. So I think we should treat this bill as much as the arms of our armies. I'd like everyone to vote. Please be supportive. Crime is Ukraine! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-17-m0.u141	Please, Mr. Eugene, you are. Is that a question or a speech? It's obviously more of a performance, isn't it?
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-17-m0.u142	If I may have two words.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-17-m0.u143	Please. Please, Mr. Eugene, of course.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-17-m0.u144	Dear National Deputies! I would like to point out that today it is extremely important to report information to citizens in the occupied territory in the occupied territory. Therefore, supporting such channels, supporting, providing reliable information is vital. Therefore, I would like to vote in favour of this bill and allow people to receive reliable information.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-17-m0.u145	And last question, Odarchenko of Fatherland, Yuri Vitaliyovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-17-m0.u146	Yuri Odarchenko, Fatherland, Hersonian. You know, for several years now Crimea has been occupied, and I hope that the adoption of this bill will help create an additional, powerful information signal that will reach the local population. Sadly, there is virtually nothing done today. And the citizens, who live in the border areas, are basically getting a signal coming from the Russian Federation. Please tell me, isn't it even more important, more important to be absolutely systematic there in terms of administration? Now, there's a situation in Genichesk where Russia sold its information signal that they're going to be giving in Crimea from the Russian Federation. And the basis of that signal is the completely clear inaction of the local authorities, who in a few years did nothing to make it gas. Or more importantly, it's simple.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-17-m0.u147	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-17-m0.u148	Distinguished People's Deputies! We're asking you to support this bill in order to set up a job, to support the channels that are running people's information in this area today. And help them to provide this information in full, in full compliance with the needs of Ukraine today.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-17-m0.u149	Thank you. I want you to know that this is a full-time review. We're going to have factions from the deputies. There will be questions. And I'm sure anyone who wants to speak will. Now it's three minutes away, they're exhausted. And that's why I thank Eugenia Valeriovich for the report. Please sit down. And I invite the head of the Committee's Committee on Budget Ischeikin Kostin Evgenovich to report. Please, Mr. Constantine.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-17-m0.u150	Dear Andrew Volodymyrovich! Dear colleagues and invited! The Committee on Budget Issues at its meeting on 16 November considered the government bill number 5333. The bill proposes to settle the issue of providing financial support to broadcasters operating in the territory of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and Sevastopol in 2016. To this end, in the Final Positions of the Budget Code, it is proposed that the government be given appropriate powers as an exception to the provisions of article 87 of the Code. According to the Ministry of Finance, the adoption of the bill will not require additional budget allocations. GNEU's Office of the Supreme Council made separate comments and proposals, including the lack of financial and economic justification. Taking into account the requirements of effective legislation and the purpose of drafting the bill, as well as the specificities of television companies operating in the territory of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and Sevastopol, the Committee on Budget Affairs proposes to clarify paragraph 1 of the bill, indicating the provision of information services by these broadcasters. In view of the foregoing, the Committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council a draft law under number 5333 to be adopted on the basis and generally as a law taking into account the proposals for clarifying the text of paragraph 1 of the bill, as indicated in the Committee's letter to the bill. The committee, together with the Chief Legal Authority of the Supreme Council, should be provided with the necessary editorial and technical clarifications in the drafting of the law. Please support the committee's decision. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-17-m0.u151	Thank you. Stay in the rostrum, three minutes of question-answer. Mr. Constantine, on the rostrum. Three minutes. Please record the question to the reporter.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-17-m0.u152	Just wish.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-17-m0.u153	Brigadier Alexander Mikhailovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-17-m0.u154	Dear colleagues, 2014 has brought disaster not only to the whole country but also to a large number of Donbas, Luhansk, and Crimea channels. And if during this period of television channels that worked in Donetsk, in Lugansk, they're using local authorities, using some kind of advertising to run and continue their business, and they've held onto it, then the Crimea channels, unfortunately they can't do that without the help of the state. Therefore, it is vital that we adopt this law today in order to allow the Crimean channels to communicate information to the people of Crimea and not only to the people of Crimea but also to those who are interested in Crimea, to those who have moved from Crimea to other territories, and through our promotion and our vote, they will be given access to important information for them. So the faction will vote yes. And I urge you all to support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-17-m0.u155	It's not really a question, it's a speech. Let's move on to the next one. Kodola Alexander Mikhailovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-17-m0.u156	Alexander Kodolah. I'm asking you to give the floor to my colleague, Mikola Knieżick.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-17-m0.u157	Thank you. The People's Front faction will obviously support this bill, as will all initiatives related to the restoration of historical justice in relation to the Crimean Tatar people, the restoration of Ukraine's full territorial integrity and the guarantee of all rights to the Crimean Tatar people. For the rights of the Crimean Tatars, we Ukrainians should fight for our rights because there is no other country to support this suffering people who have suffered so much from the occupation during their long history. When we talk about the media, about the language of broadcasts, all the laws that are going through our committee right now, whether it's the Film Act or any other law, the role of the Crimean Tatar language is highlighted and highlighted as the role of the root language for Ukraine. So obviously we have to support the Crimecatarian Media Support Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-17-m0.u158	Thank you. I understand it's a performance, too. And there's only one minute left, Jacenko Anton Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-17-m0.u159	Dear colleagues! What surprises me in this law is that, really, instead of using money either for the needs of the army, yes, direct, or for medicine, or for the treatment of sick children, we actually want to channel money into subsidizing some commercial structure today. And in principle, I realize that it might be necessary, but in other equals, you should probably throw this money on something else. So I'm sure we won't support it, and I'm very surprised that the Ministry of Finance brings things like this. Would you like to know how much is planned for this? For the electorate to hear it now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-17-m0.u160	Please answer, Mr. Constantine.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-17-m0.u161	Once again, I would like to make it clear that this requires additional funding. And the amount we're talking about is up to 30 million dollars. What's more, it's already been allocated, we'd just like to clarify its direction. My colleagues, once again, I ask everyone to support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-17-m0.u162	Thank you. Question time's up. Thank you, Constantine Eugeneovich. Now I'm recording from the factions. So please record the factions, please. From the People's Front faction to the word "Sumar Victoria Petrovna." I'm sorry, I gave the floor to Sümar Victoria Petrovney. Please, Sumar Victoria Petrovna. "Fatherland" is written down, but after three performances, it's written down. Sumar Victoria Petrovna will be the first to speak, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-17-m0.u163	I'm sorry, if I'm written down as chairman of the committee, let me just say something about this bill. You know, I was very surprised at the previous speaker, and I'm not going to remind you of the last name he says, and that's why we're referring this money there. And I'll tell you why. You know why? Now you're all worried that we've lost Crimea, and now you're looking for the culprits who lost it. And I'm going to tell you that for 20 years you've done everything you can to make sure that there's no Crimean Tatar or Ukrainian TV channels, and that there's only a Russian idea of what the reality is. And that's why we lost Crimea. Because they believed in the Right Sector, which would cut up the entire Russian population. And of the Crimean Tatars, who were always Ukrainians in Crimea, Ukrainians, real Ukrainians in Crimea, and representatives of Ukraine in Crimea, Ukraine did not really care. Today, we must pay tribute to this people, who remain there today, in the occupied area of Crimea. And today, "ATR" is a television company that says Kiev, where debts that don't continue to be licensed don't want to give that license for free. Think about it. It's being watched by those Crimean Tatar people on the satellite, on the Internet, they're watching it, believe me, I know that. Sometimes you go there and you tell everyone what we want to return to Crimea. I've never seen any Ukrainian politics there that honestly confessed to the ATR channel that Ukraine doesn't want to return Crimea. Everyone says we're going to return the Crimea, no one really says how. But this channel is now considering whether to move to Lithuania, for the Lithuanians are willing to give them money to pursue a policy for the Crimean Tatar people who are currently suffering from occupation, and Ukraine is not ready to provide such funds. What a shame it is to underestimate these things today and to talk about the need for these funds to be directed toward something else! This bill clearly needs to be supported, supported by Crimean Tatars and ensured Ukraine's information presence in Crimea.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-17-m0.u164	Thank you, Mrs. Victoria. Please, from the Fatherland faction, National Deputy Odarchenko. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-17-m0.u165	Yuri Odarchenko, Fatherland faction. Respectful colleagues certainly need to support the financing of such channels. But I'm a little surprised by the way it's handled. We, as members of the Supreme Council, are solely responsible for our distribution of budgets. And decide where these funds are going. But something is being suggested today to address this issue, not through budget changes, but now, at a time when it was possible to make such a decision, including for the following year, but through the transfer of powers to the Cabinet of Ministers, which, in manual mode, has to deal with these issues. As far as I'm concerned, this is a failure of the budget committee, because the issue of financing such channels would have to be resolved, but by allocating funds directly to their needs rather than making them ask for money in the Cabinet of Ministers. That's wrong, you'd have to make changes to the budget. The second question to be raised. Of course, information is objective for people living in Crimea, the Crimean Peninsula, and in the Hersonian region near the border. But the most important, clear, effective work of local leadership that would create conditions for people living there to understand and feel that the authorities are taking care of them today. See what happened recently in Genichesk. Genesis is an area of the Hersson region that is close to Hersson, which is not enough gas to keep the population warm during the winter. Despite the fact that this problem has already risen two years ago, nothing is done during this period, the created conditions for provocations that the Russian Federation is doing today, claiming that they are giving Ukraine gas as charity. What Is the Basis? Absolute inaction, incompetence, unprofessionalness of all branches of power. When the Herson Archery, the members of the High Council representing Hersonskin, appealed to the government, to Minenergo-Nasalik, to Zubka, the vice-premier of regional development, to Naftogazu, none of them knew who had to take care of the issue of gas supply in Genicesk. No one is even going to raise the subject. We just want people to say that it's okay. First of all, I'm talking to representatives of the vast majority, get your ministers to solve these problems in places and not just through channels, but to prove that the Ukrainian authorities are looking after those who are next door.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-17-m0.u166	Thirty seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-17-m0.u167	And I insist that Prime Minister Groisman immediately determine who will decide in the Cabinet of Ministers the issue of gas supply and everything is done to make the provocations of the Russian Federation impossible, and the population of the Hellenic region of the Hersonian region understand that the state is concerned about their interests. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-17-m0.u168	Thank you. Please, Arthur Gerasimov, from the faction of Peter Prashenko, gives the word Rephat Chubarov, then from the group "Rebirth" Anton Yatzenko and then from the Crimean Tatars, asks George Logwinsky to represent them. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-17-m0.u169	Dear colleagues, I'm going to have a bit of a hard time speaking, because I'm not going to ask anything, I'm trying to explain something to you. During 23 years of sovereignty, the real Ukraine, the actual and legal one, the Crimean Tatars, had 2.5 hours of telephony per week. Two and a half hours a week, we were able to watch and speak our own language on Ukrainian television channels. It was a nation that had not had its own school for 50 years, whose language was forbidden. Then we gathered our forces in Crimea, we invited people, we created one of the most powerful television channels in Crimea, it was the first before the occupation. But the Russians came, they took the Crimea. We couldn't, we couldn't all protect Crimea together. In a year. But we've been holding onto this channel for a year, and you remember, ATR was the only channel around the world online that demonstrated how Russian aggression goes. There was no more channel. They took this from us. We took our children: journalists, operators. We moved them to Kiev. 60 people we've settled here, working on this channel. We're going out, we haven't stopped for a day, we're going out. But we can't cover everything. At the beginning of this year, last year, funds for resettlement, deportation of previously deported Crimean Tatars and persons of other nationalities were foreseen for the 2016 budget. Yes, indeed, it was then necessary to think hard about how to write down the government so that we would not now consider the matter. But they couldn't do it, it lasted longer than this year. And now the government is proposing to redistribute this money that is provided in the state budget -- there seems to be 35 million or 36 million, I don't remember exactly right now -- in order to cover this television channel in three languages: Ukrainian, Crimecatarian and Russian, to cover this channel of rental of premises here in Kiev, not housing, but manufacturing premises; and to cover the Ukrainian content for this channel. So make up your mind. I don't understand, I know how it is now, in Crimea, they're listening to us, with which, well, attention, because they live on this channel, they live on this channel. We can't deliver drugs or textbooks, we can't help those people. Let's give them a word, a word through the TV channel ATR. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-17-m0.u170	Thank you. Now, please, from. Thank you. Now from Rebirth, Anton Yatzenko. And then, "The will of the people" asks Oles the Long Word. And we'll vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-17-m0.u171	Dear colleagues, I understand that this is the Supreme Council, that everyone has the right to express his opinion. We believe that today there is no comprehensive concept of Ukrainian information policy on Crimea, unfortunately. And the language is now actually redistributing 30 million dollars into a particular company, a television company. We think that this money could be much more useful, with all due respect for previous reporters. Once again, this company isn't in state ownership today, and the general concept of Ukrainian, if I'm not mistaken, we've accepted that we're going to stop financing any media at all. So I understand that, in general, we can't, unfortunately, vote for 30 million dollars of any private television company. Even the one they're talking about right now. And there's nothing here that's been said to be embarrassing. Because money could be sent, for example, for treatment, for help to movers, for help from ATOs, anywhere. And that's why I want to be made an enemy of the press here right now, but I think it's wrong to be in charge of this bill right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-17-m0.u172	Thank you. Dear colleagues, indeed, according to the Rules, all MPs have the right to express their position from the Supreme Council's rostrum, so I would like to give the floor to Oles Long from the Rebirth Group. We have deputies from non-fractionals who want to join us. And I urge my colleagues to return to the session room, this is a very important vote regarding the support of our brothers -- Crimean Tatars and their television channel. Please, Olesia.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-17-m0.u173	Thank you for the word. Long, faction of the will of the people. Dear Chairman, we certainly support this bill. I spoke and took the word, not in the essence of the bill itself, but in the form of its adoption. If you don't mind, I'd ask you to put up a vote first, because the show in the hall wants better, and I'm very afraid that this beautiful bill, appropriate and correct, would not have been ruined simply because of the lack of the necessary number of deputies in the room. So I ask you to put it to a vote before the adoption. Thank you. I want his acceptance, a successful vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-17-m0.u174	Thank you. We don't have that standard under the Rules, so I'm going to appeal to colleagues who are now in the pools in the dining room. Yesterday an extremely important UN resolution was adopted, which we discussed after the violation of human rights in Crimea. And you know, one of the key rights that's violated there is the right to freedom of speech. The Ukrainian Parliament has much more to support the right of criminals to freedom of speech and to support this television channel. Please return to the session room. Please, George Logwinsky. Then Borislav Bereza. And then we vote. I ask my colleagues to return to the session room.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-17-m0.u175	Dear friends! Dear TV setters! We need to understand what we're looking at right now. We're looking at a very simple question. Should we, in fact, pursue the return of our territory? Should this room deal with internally displaced persons? And who are the people left now, after the annexation by the Russian Federation, in Crimea? Who are they? Are they traitors or are these people heroes? And how can we support them? You know, we all, the whole of Ukraine, looked very carefully at the electronic declarations. And you know, a lot of our colleagues, well, they didn't want to serve, they hid something. And I have nothing to hide, for example, because there's funding in the expense line for internally displaced persons, because there's nowhere to live. My expenses include funding the legal support of people who are now being captured in Crimea. I have the expense of helping others. But the question of why we are as human beings and citizens, and that's how society works, is now at our own expense to fight for Ukraine, for Crimea. Aren't we ashamed of this hall that we left our citizens? And you know how now the Crimean Tatars in Crimea refer to "ATR"? Just as people used to listen to "The Voice of America" during the Soviet Union. It's the same, it's a secret. Because any information that spreads about Crimea being Ukraine is criminal responsibility. And now people are afraid to inform, to support Ukraine. There are those who, even at the risk of arrest, go and protect us with you. So now it's a very simple question. Do we still think that these people, our heroes, need support? Information support is the same! Support, in fact, for measures designed to protect these citizens. So right now in this case, I'm asking everyone to check that those MPs who are now elsewhere instead of supporting our citizens who are fighting for us are out of bounds, I'm asking you to publish these names. And so our Ukraine knows who the heroes are. Millie! Vatan! Kirim! Victory will follow us! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-17-m0.u176	Please, the national MP, Borislav Bereza. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-17-m0.u177	Dear colleagues! Very often, the words say, "Crime is Ukraine." But by speaking those words alone, we will not return Crimea home. We will never return Crimea because we need not only to talk but also to do so. Besides, we have to finance it. When we say, "Crime is Ukraine," before that, the people of Crimea are Ukraine. These are the people who want to have contact with mainland Ukraine. These are the people who expect our help. And we have no right to hurt them. Moreover, I can tell you that if we don't have any communication with the Crimea, in 2-3 generations everything will change. And the generation, that's five years tops. Let us not deceive ourselves. What is being done now to bring back Crimea? Very little, very little. But that's what we have to do. We have to fund the only television company that informs Crimean Tatars and Ukrainians who are now in the occupied Crimea and turn these, these actions of Ukraine to, Crimea to Ukraine, I'm sorry. And I want to say to those who say 30 million dollars want to be cut. I don't think it's the kind of person who's called the "tender mafia" who needs to tell this room where the money's going. I hope we all have the understanding to vote for this. But what I want to say is more. I'm very ashamed that there aren't 226 votes in this room on Thursday, and we see it. Now there are no deputies in the room who should vote for the laws that the Ukrainians are waiting for. Now there's going to be an exam in the room, if we can't vote on that question, then why are we all going here? Is this a business club, or is this the Supreme Council, which is supposed to save Ukraine? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-17-m0.u178	Thank you. Dear colleagues, look at the story. The more we speak, the more. Even so, we've got people in the hall, everyone's coming out quietly. So I don't want us breaking the rules anymore. I call on colleagues who are now in the towers that are now communicating with the media, who are now in the dining room, please go back to the session room. We will now put to the vote the draft Law amending the Code of Budgets of Ukraine (for programmes supporting radio companies of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and the city of Sevastopol). This is about supporting the right of criminals to freedom of expression as a key civil law. And raise your hand still Mr. Kishkar. I'd be happy to give you a word, but this is no longer a rule, and the BP factions have been speaking. Dear colleagues, we are waiting for our colleagues and chairman to approach the hall and we will put the matter to the vote. And please return to the session room. Dear colleagues, the regulations don't give us the right to vote. I don't want to. I urge my colleague to return to the session room, please. Ladies and gentlemen, we are returned by the honourable chairman, and we put this bill to the vote. And now, carefully monitor, please, all criminals, all Crimean Tatars for how this bill is voted. We ask the deputies to return to the session room.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-17-m0.u179	Colleagues, please move on to making decisions. Everyone, please take your jobs. Colleagues, if I put it on the alert, explain it to me. What? And if not, then explain it to me. He's a great scholar of the Rules. There is no voting mechanism, there is no voting mechanism. But there is a mechanism to assemble all of its groups, to put them in the hall and to vote, and there is such a mechanism. There's a mechanism for everyone to go into the hall and take their seats. There is such a mechanism. And you should use it as much as you can: invite all the members of your group into the hall to participate in the vote. This is the right way to make a decision. My colleagues, please don't leave the hall, we'll come in the other way. So I'm voting on the draft Law amending the Ukrainian Budget Code (for programmes supporting the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and Sevastopol) (number 5333) on the proposal of a committee on the basis and in general. Colleagues, please vote, please support, vote, colleagues. Please support the Crimean Tatars, our brothers. [[13:18:41]] For 214 We'll wait for the deputies, I'll put them up again, but we have to wait for the ten deputies. Invite the factions to the hall. No, the discussion is over, the decision-making process is under way. There is no discussion at the time of the decision. Please invite the deputies to the hall, I'll wait for the time, please invite the deputies to the hall, I'll put them on return, please. Colleagues, please take your jobs. I'll put you back. So, colleagues, I'm proposing to go back to voting for the draft Law amending the Ukrainian Budget Code (for support programs and radio companies of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and the city of Sevastopol) (number 5333). I'm asking everyone to take their jobs now and vote for their return. We need to support Crimean Tatars not only on air but rather on our own direct duty, voting in the hall, and working time. I ask you to vote, I ask you to support the proposal to return to consideration. Please vote. Please vote. [[13:20:59]] For 228 We're back. I now put to the vote the draft Law amending the Ukrainian Budget Code (for programmes supporting the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and the city of Sevastopol) (number 5333) on the basis and overall of the committee's decision. Please vote and please support, colleagues. Please vote. [[13:21:38]] For 227 Decision taken. Welcome, Mr. Chubarov. Welcome to our colleagues in Crimean Tatars. Colleagues, please, I want to make a message, colleagues. The next block in the agenda, I was asked to move the authors because there were very few people in the room, and we are moving to the next order of the day and to the road block. And I'm asking everyone to prepare for the road block. We've been preparing both our committee for a long time, and the ministry is shaping this block, and I'm counting on us all to work together to look at this block together. And I'm announcing a draft of Law 4014a, this is a bill amending the Ukrainian Law on Sources of Financing for the Ukrainian Road Economy on improving the financing mechanism for the road sector. It's a second reading, it doesn't need a vote for a particular procedure. And I invite the head of the Dubnevic Transport Committee, Jaroslav Vasilovich, to report. Please, Mr. Jaroslav, we're starting a review of our block.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-17-m0.u180	Good afternoon, Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs! The proposed bill to amend the Ukrainian Law on Road Finance Sources for Improving the Financing of the Road Sector (Registration No. 4014a, dated 15.07.2016), adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine in its first reading, on the basis of and in the short term of preparation, was proposed for consideration. The bill envisages the establishment of a State road fund that will allow for increased funding and significantly improve road traffic conditions, provide financial resources to local authorities that are planning to transfer local roads, allocate funds for road safety and infrastructure as part of the reform. In preparing the bill for second reading, 63 suggestions were made to the comparative table. As a result of the consideration of the proposals received at the Transport Committee meeting on 02.11.2016, 35 proposals were included, part of 5 proposals were taken into account, three proposals were edited, and 20 proposals were rejected. The draft, prepared for the second reading, preserves the concept and key positions of the first reading. The changes took place on 1 January 2018 to harmonize with the Ukrainian State Budget Bill for 2017 (registration number 5000, dated 15 September 2016). In the corresponding rates of excise duty in the State Road Fund in 2018 – 50 per cent, in 2019 – 75 per cent, in 2020 – 100 per cent. By decision of the Transport Committee of 02.11.2016, the Supreme Council of Ukraine was recommended to adopt the draft law (registration number 4014a) on second reading and in general. I would like to stress that the President of Ukraine, Peter Prashenko, has defined this bill as urgent. Please support the adoption of Bill No. 4014a on second reading and in general.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-17-m0.u181	Thank you, Your Honor. Colleagues, we don't have an unforeseeable report on this bill. But the head of the department of profile asks for a summary word after the discussion. Now I'm asking a colleague to sign up for a two-for-two, two-to-one. Pan. [[B in m in s a l in]] I'm sorry, dear colleagues, this is the second reading. I'm sorry. We're going straight, if you'll excuse me. Excuse me, please. Amendment No. 1 of the Vadatoursky People's Deputy. Do you have a wish? Don't insist. Amendment No. 2 of the Vadatoursky People's Deputy. Don't insist. I'm sorry, fellows, we went to the first reading today, so I didn't get a bit of an idea. Amendment No. 13 of the People's Deputy Levchenka. He insists. Please, 13th.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-17-m0.u182	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223rd District, Kiev. Now they're trying to push a bill under very nice words, which for the first time in Ukrainian legislation will include the concept of paid road. It's kind of like that, you know, we have nothing else to tax people for: the utility no longer has to pay, the small and medium-sized business is being destroyed, the middle class is almost gone, the social standards are getting worse, let's do more road taxes, let's do more pay roads. I think the next step of this power, as in the Middle Ages, is the tax on windows, so how many windows -- that tax is going to pay, and then the tax on air, and so on. You know, in the face of today's crisis, under the conditions of today's absolutely terrible socio-economic situation in the country, it's totally unacceptable to introduce the concept of paid roads into legislation. Because it will end with you building beautiful pay-as-you-go drugs, driving 5 percent of the population, and the rest of the people will be walking around on the ground, or not driving at all, because money on these pay-as-you-go roads is not.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-17-m0.u183	Thank you. Ten seconds, finish Mr. Lewchenk so he can get nervous. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-17-m0.u184	Well, you know, it's hard not to get nervous when it's offered to our disadvantaged country. So my amendment is to cancel, remove from the law signs, any mention of paid roads. This is totally unacceptable in today’s Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-17-m0.u185	Thank you. The position is clear. Dear colleagues, we're putting the number 13 amendment to the vote of the Honourable People's Deputy Levchenk. Please be supportive. [[13:28:25]] For-81 Yuri, 81 national deputies supported your amendment. Sadly, it does not pass. Let's move on, dear fellows. Amendment number 17, I was told, but it's counted. It's accounted for, do you want confirmation? Next amendment number 21 of the people's deputy Gusaka. National MP Gusak, do you insist? No, it doesn't. Amendment number 27, People's Deputy Bondar. Is the National Deputy Bondar insisting? I can't see. Amendment number 28, Yvchenka. Yvchenko insists. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-17-m0.u186	Dear colleagues, you and I are creating a powerful mechanism to solve the road problem. But what did I offer, and what did my colleagues not support? I suggested that all the funds that would be collected from excise duty, there, payments, congregations, and so forth, should be automatically distributed to each area according to the length of the hard - covered roads. So that the districts don't run into the area and ask the MPs not to run to the committee and ask, automatically: there's 300 kilometers -- every mile they get the money, they've got the tender and they've done it. This is decentralization: to every community, to every district. And believe me, that's what they're supposed to be. I'll make a second amendment. I'm asking us to support it, otherwise it won't work, because they're going to be re-creating projects where they're going to build, harmonize with Kabmin, and we're going to answer to people again when and how the road costs went. That's why I'm offering: automatically to each area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-17-m0.u187	Dear colleagues, under the pressure of the MP, we are putting Amendment 28 to the vote, National Deputy Yvchenka. Please vote. [[13:30:35]] For-98 98 national deputies were supported. No, you're not. Next up: 29th National Deputy Bondar. Don't insist. National MP Yatzenko, 31st, no insistence. 41st National MP Vadatursky. Don't insist. 43rd Solovay. Is he insisting? Solovay, 43rd? He insists. Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-17-m0.u188	Ladies and gentlemen, I call first of all on all colleagues in Parliament to support this historic law that regulates the future and forever the work. State position in the area of state construction. As far as I'm concerned, it's rather technical, because article 4 stipulates that district, urban and rural budgets create territorial funds every year, but we've released the budgets of the territorial communities in the definition. Therefore, my amendment concerns the addition of a point on the territorial communities that have already been created and which should also be able to provide for the respective territorial road funds in their budgets. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-17-m0.u189	Thank you. Let us put to the vote, fellow believers, amendment No. 43 of the Soloviah People’s Deputies. Anyone who supports it, please vote. [[13:32:17]] For-98 98 national deputies supported your amendment. Let's go. It's not coming through. Next 44th. Are you insisting? Please use the Solovia microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-17-m0.u190	Dear colleagues, this amendment is also referred to as the previous amendment and also refers to a technical moment, which is simply a rule on the budgets of the territorial communities. I also ask colleagues to support and, nevertheless, to note that the territorial communities as well as cities, villages and district budgets should be able to form in their own structure a special fund – the corresponding territorial road funds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-17-m0.u191	Let us place the vote on the amendment of Nomre 44 of Thessalonica. [[13:33:17]] For the 110. 110 National Deputies. It's not working. 45th Amendment. People's MP Solovay. Don't insist. 46th National Deputy Solovay. He insists. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-17-m0.u192	Dear colleagues, this is an important amendment. I'd like, by the way, maybe the head of the committee would have commented, maybe she was somewhere further along the line. It refers specifically to the authority’s mandate to determine the number of roads and the amounts to be allocated for repairing these roads. And according to my amendment, I suggested that it be done by the executive authorities themselves. For example, district administrations, or after reforming them, executive committees of district administrations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-17-m0.u193	Please comment, 30 seconds, head of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-17-m0.u194	This amendment is taken into account in previous amendments, which are more widely described by a group of national deputies, this is included.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-17-m0.u195	Please. Takes it down, doesn't insist on voting. However, Mr. Levchenko, whose amendment is 48, is partly taken into account, insists that it is small. Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-17-m0.u196	It's not really about what's important about these private roads again. I would now like to turn to all the so-called opposition forces that are constantly talking about people's concern, the big tariffs, the big taxes and so on. Think very carefully before voting for this law, because there is another privacy here again. Once again, the state cancels its functions. You know, I have this feeling that when we're in the power of stealing that's only interesting to rob a state, and to run it in the state, actually, it's not interesting to run it, because it's all handed over to the private sector, private court executives, private administrators, now private roads, it's going to be private police, well, it's essentially private already, but it's going to be official private, private courts. What's the state for anyway? And the state is just to fill the pockets of the checkers. So I still call for this amendment to be voted on as a whole. Take care of private roads. And for those who are going to talk about what it is all over the world, there's actually a mass of developed countries that don't have any private roads.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-17-m0.u197	I understand your position. The pressure of the Levchenk People’s Deputy is in full measure. His, more faithfully, laid out, amendment number 48 to the vote as a whole. Please be supportive. [[13:36:10]] For-97 Yuri, 97 deputies are the only ones who supported your amendment. So, unfortunately, she's deflecting. 49 Amendment of the Vadaturian People’s Deputy Don't insist. 52nd National Deputy Ivchenka. He insists. Please, the microphone of the Ivchenka People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-17-m0.u198	Dear colleagues! Another problem is that there's no decentralization in the manual, no automatic distribution of funds, just like Fatherland suggested. For each region to know for the next year how many miles it has and how much it will receive automatically. And the second problem is that not all those congregations and not all those taxes have to go to a special fund. For example, if you and I don't know, the city of Cherkas, the city of Canov, the city of Cremenchuk, the city of Mikolai and Herson, they're on the rivers. Did you know that part of the excise is going to the docks, to the bottom, and to the development of our water transport?Oh, my God! You're accumulating it for the roads today. Where are we going to make money for others? Do you understand? So we have to be fairly systematic and watch when we're allocating these funds and what we're going to accumulate. Why do I say that because we prescribe in the article that all excise duty will be, and what do we charge barges with? We're charging diesel. And this whole excise is gonna go on the road. So I'm not sure it's the right decision. I'm not that right, but it's the second problem that's in this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-17-m0.u199	You insist that we put this amendment to the vote, right? We insist on the insistence of the national MP Ichchenka, and he does not insist. He didn't insist, he just expressed his position. Amendment No. 53 of the Vadatoursky People's Deputy. He doesn't insist. And the national MP, Gusak, insists on Amendment 54. Please, the microphone of the people's deputy Gusak.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-17-m0.u200	Dear colleagues, dear presiding officer! Dear Ukrainians! When we're on the road, we lose in other places. And most of all, we're losing Ukrainians. In Ukraine, five times as many people die on the road to a registered car as in EU countries! Ukraine and Ukraine deserve high - quality and safe roads. And we will support this bill. But the sooner we start rebuilding our roads, the better for everyone. The adoption of this amendment will allow us to channel a little more money on our roads the following year. Please put her to the vote and support her.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-17-m0.u201	I understand your position. Dear colleagues, I'm voting on Amendment 54 of Mr. Gusak's National MP. Please support me. [[13:39:30.]] For-96 96 national deputies were supported. That's not enough. The amendment is rejected. Next 55th Ivchenka. Are you insisting? Don't insist. And the 58th National Deputy Ivchenka. Are you insisting? Don't insist. 59th People's Deputy Guska. National MP Gusak, are you insisting? 59 doesn't insist. Dear colleagues, our distinguished Head of the Supreme Council has returned to the hall. We will now proceed to the vote. I ask the deputies to return to the session room and there was a desire, and the request of Mr. Omelan's professional minister to sum up our discussion of this bill in a second reading. According to the rules, he has the right to speak on this bill as a professional minister. And at this time, dear Mr. Yuri, I very much want the national deputies to meet in the session room. Because by order, they have to be here, right, and vote for the bills. No, please, from the place, from the place. Yeah.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-17-m0.u202	Please, colleagues, we'll be in the hall in one minute and we'll move on to making a decision. I'm asking you to invite the deputies into the hall. And please, one minute is the omelian. Mr. Omelyan.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-17-m0.u203	Thank you, Mr. Head. This is, in fact, a historically crucial moment for the Ukrainian Parliament and for Ukraine. Today, we can use our hands to create a stable tool for restoring Ukrainian roads, so that 90 percent of the 170,000 kilometers we have are normal, quality and safe for our citizens. If we want to have a good economy, we have to build roads. It is the foundation that is the source of Ukraine’s permanent well - being. Please support.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-17-m0.u204	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, if you'd like to come into the hall, let's move on to making a decision. Colleagues. Yes, colleagues, please move on to the decision-making process. Please, colleagues, let's go into the hall. And I'm voting on a bill amending the Ukrainian Law on Road Finance Sources for Improving the Road Finance Facility (number 4014a). The Committee's conclusion: second reading and the whole. Colleagues, please back up, please vote. This is the result of long work and ministry and committee. And I ask you to vote in favour of this bill (4014a) in the second reading and in general. Vote, colleagues, please. [[13:42:52]] For 248 The law is passed. Welcome to the committee. Hello, friends, you. And we're going straight to the next question. Now you're going to have a report on the next bill, and you're going to be able to say everything. Let's move on to the next question of order of the day. So 4015a is the next bill. This is a draft law amending the Ukrainian Budget Code to improve the financing mechanism for the road sector. Colleagues, we've moved on to the next bill. We've already moved on to the next bill. And the next draft of Law 4015a, this is also second reading, colleagues. And I invite the head of the committee's subcommittee on the budget, Ischeikin Kostin Evgeniyovich, and then Jaroslav Dubnevich. Please, Mr. Constantine.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-17-m0.u205	Dear Andrew Volodymyrovich, distinguished colleagues and guests! The Committee on Budget Questions prepared Bill 4015a for second reading. The bill included 65 proposals, of which 41 are proposed, five in another edition and nine in part. All the proposals were worked out along with Minfin, Mini-Infrastructure, Ukrawtododor and were in line with the final edition of the 4014a bill. In summary, the final text of the bill proposes the following. First. In order not to allow the balance sheet of the general budget of the State budget to postpone the entry into force of the relevant law from 2017 to 2018 and to foresee a transitional period for the filling of the road fund, establishing that the relevant excise tax and customs duties are included in the special state budget fund in 2018 of 50 per cent, in 2019 75 per cent, since 2020 100 per cent. It's different. To clarify the ratios of direct allocation of road fund costs by predicting 5 percent instead of the three road safety fund costs by reducing between 62 percent and 60 percent of the cost of public road development. Third. In order to ensure parliamentary control over the distribution of funds, the Fund has established that the list of construction, reconstruction, and repair of public roads is approved by the government in agreement with the Budget Committee. A similar list regarding roads of local importance, streets and roads of municipal property is approved by the relevant district, the Kyiv City Administration, in agreement with the Ukrainian Todor and the Budget Committee. Fourthly, it is possible to provide for the construction, reconstruction, repair and maintenance of streets and roads of municipal property in populated areas no more than 20 per cent of the corresponding subsidy from the State budget to local budgets. As a result of the review, the Committee on Budget Affairs adopted the following decision. To recommend to the Supreme Council a bill of 4015a to adopt in a second reading as a whole as a law in the final text proposed by the committee in a comparative table to the bill. Please support the committee's decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-17-m0.u206	Thank you. Let's go to the repairs, stay in the rostrum. So 3rd, Vadatursky. Don't insist. Four, Vadatursky. Don't insist. 5th, Levenchenko. He insists. Turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-17-m0.u207	Thank you. First of all, my amendment applies again to the same private roads. But first, I turn to the stenographer. I voted after the last vote, which was extended by the Party of the Regions, over 40 members of the Party of the Regions voted, and, by the way, let some progressive ministers think about it, and why their laws follow the votes of the Party of the Regions. There was a button-up, actually in the "cloud" right now there are people 13-15, and they've given 23 votes. I appealed to the Head of the Supreme Council, sadly, the Head of the Supreme Council refused to put the vote to the vote. I'm speaking publicly again now that the discussion has passed, there's been buttoning, absolutely illegal, violation of the Constitution, put to the vote. And after this amendment, once again, it applies to private roads. Do you want to tax Ukrainians with all possible means? Well, you don't actually have a conscience. People will give you a proper grade in a year or two. I demand that my amendment be put to the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-17-m0.u208	Thank you. I'll put it to a vote, but I'll comment. First of all, the call to me was when we moved on to the next question of order of the day. Second of all, I'm asking you to tell me who voted non-personally. And as always, whenever I've been approached by MPs, I'll put it to the vote. Please tell me who voted nonpersonally, and I will put the vote to the vote as I did each time. Now I'm putting to the vote amendment number five of the People's Deputy Levchenk, which the Committee considered in part. Whoever supports Amendment 5 please vote. Please. [[13:49:05]] For 1052 The decision is not taken. 6 Amendment of the People's Deputy Levchenka. Don't insist. 7th, Goose. Don't insist. 9th, Goose. Don't insist. 12th, Bondar. Don't insist. 15th, Bondar. Don't insist. 20th, Levenchenko. He insists. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-17-m0.u209	Thank you. Again, my amendment concerns private roads. First of all, it's about buttoning. I specifically told you who knocked. He buttoned "The Cloud," and they were in room 15, giving 23 votes specifically. So it's every single one of them that's been buttoned up. Well, also "Rebirth" is the same thing that they don't have, and they buttoned it. Unfortunately, there is no response. We see a lot of these selective approaches, very often an active coalition is very friendly with the Party of Regions. Well, perhaps there is a common interest in the Ukrainian people. Just as common interests link the introduction of private roads. Private roads that leave 90 percent of the Ukrainian people behind and outside their cars. Because you're creating, in fact, museum roads. There will be automobiles where you and your trailers will be fine, quickly, yes, there will be no problems, and the rest of the Ukrainians will be on electricity or on rural roads. That's where you're going. That's why I'm asking you to make my amendment for confirmation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-17-m0.u210	Now I'm going to ask you to confirm this amendment. Yeah, I'll give you a line. I'll give you a line. After the vote, I'll give you a line. But first, I'm putting to the vote amendment number 20 of the People's Deputy Levchenk. Whoever supports this amendment, which the committee has rejected, please vote. Please. [[13:51:13]] For-84 The decision is not taken. Replica, one minute. Shurma, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-17-m0.u211	Igor Shurma, Opposition Block. Dear colleagues, we are now trying to bring together Parliament, all of us, around painful issues. This was true of domestic violence, and all factions voted without exception, and the same is true today in the case of road farming. If anyone sees any falsification, please record and sound. And if anyone has eaten the flies and has gallons, let him not go into the session room.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-17-m0.u212	I ask you not to use offensive language in the session hall of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. 23 Amendment, Vadatursky. Don't insist. 24th, Vadatursky. Don't insist. What's that? What's the number? 18th. What's the number? 17th Amendment. Here are the authors: Ischejkin, Dubnevich, Gorbunov, Omelchenko. All right, the 17th Amendment of Eutuszka, please. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-17-m0.u213	Sergey Eutuszek, "The Fatherland" faction. Thank you, Mr. Head, for giving me your word. And what I'm saying is that it's a very strange position of the Ministry of Finance for these kinds of bills. I know that when we worked on this bill in different working groups, we clearly anticipated deadlines. And those terms weren't exactly what we're now asked to vote on, until 2020. To our great conviction, we've made clear where to take the money, and this is also from the profits of a corrupt body like Naftogaz, where 20 billion can be taken and directed not only to social programs, but also to roads. And this is amber, the same one that sits in the pockets of billions of corrupt people in their pockets. They're the same deofshoring and everything. So it's a very strange position. And I would also like to thank, Mr. Constantine, the Committee on Budgets as a whole, which has considered this amendment: with regard to the allocation of 5 percent for traffic safety. Twelve people die on the road today.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-17-m0.u214	Ten seconds to complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-17-m0.u215	Thank you, all of you. Igor Vasjunik, Mikola Kadikalo, Vitaly Korčik, and all other national deputies also joined in this amendment. Thank you for your position.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-17-m0.u216	Do you insist on voting? No, it doesn't. Okay. 27th Amendment, Solovay. He insists. Please, Mr. Solovay.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-17-m0.u217	Dear colleagues, first of all, I want to thank you for accepting 4014a. And this law is the historical laws for the road sector, because they regulate the process that a Ukrainian car driver who pays the cost in the form of fuel prices is going to target the roads and get what's important to the low level. My amendment relates to the expansion of the possibilities for the formation of a territorial road fund, since the current draft law only provides for subsidies. And I propose to complement the mechanism for the formation of a territorial road fund also with other additional sources that are clearly defined in this amendment. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-17-m0.u218	Do you insist on voting? Colleagues supporting Amendment 27, National Deputy Solovia, please vote. The committee turned her down. Please vote. [[13:55:25]] For-98 The decision is not made. 22 revisions. Partially counted. National MP Lewchenko insists. Please, Lechchenk's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-17-m0.u219	Thank you. Well, first of all, when I respond to a statement from the Party of Regions, I would advise them to keep track of what flies are eaten by a relative of Dopa, yes, their videos are playing all over the Internet that he was eating -- before they tell anyone else, actually. Or they come into the session room, they're smoking, and then they're talking about someone. And I'm talking to the Ukrainian people. Dear Ukrainian people, look in detail, please, who is running the roads today and through whom you will literally have to pay tomorrow to travel several hundred miles from one district center to another. It's a formal coalition today, but it also has constant partners, de facto partners, it's a Party of Regions. BPP, the People's Front, the People's Party of Regions, these are the people who are giving you pay roads today. Think about it, people are good, please, before the next election. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-17-m0.u220	After the amendment, do you insist on voting?
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-17-m0.u221	Yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-17-m0.u222	Who supports amendment No. 22 of the People's Deputy Levchenk, which is part of the committee, please vote. Please. [[13:56:56]] For-68 The decision is not made. Guys, we've got a few changes left. I ask you to come into the hall and prepare for the decision. In three minutes, the decision will be made. 28th, Bondar. Don't insist. 39th, Goose. Don't insist. 43rd, Goose. Don't insist. 48th, Solovay. Don't insist. 50th, Yatzenka. Don't insist. 52, Goose. Don't insist. 57th, Yvchenko. Don't insist. He insists, doesn't he? Please turn on the microphone, 57th Yvchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-17-m0.u223	Dear colleagues, Vadim Yvchenko, "The Fatherland" faction. What other problems are there in this law? For example, the direct use of road fund funds is not targeted, directly related to road repair and improvement. They can also target the translation of foreign - language contracts, the translation of investment proposals, and investment international arrangements in investment projects, presentations, and so on. Or we're doing road repairs, and let's talk about it, and let's put all this unnecessary stuff away, where the money just goes corrupt. And secondly, colleagues. Why in the 18th year, 50. I'd like an answer from the committee. 50, and in the 20th year, 100? What's going to happen in two years to get us 100 percent, well, 50 percent to increase the direct filling of this fund, the special road fund.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-17-m0.u224	Please finish 10 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-17-m0.u225	And it's my amendment that says that since the 18th year we're 5 percent, that's 50, 55, and that's how we come, well, I have 75 percent proposed in the 18th year. And 5 percent every year.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-17-m0.u226	Do you insist on voting? So who supports the amendment of Nomre 57 of the national deputy Yvchenka please vote. The committee rejected the amendment. Please vote. [[13:59:33]] For-78 The decision is not made. I'll give you my closing statement. 59th, Goose. Don't insist. 60th, Yvchenko. Don't insist. 61st, Goose. Don't insist. And so, colleagues, we've been through all the adjustments. I'm giving you one minute to speak to the head of the Committee of Ischeikin Constantine Eugeniovich. Please invite everyone into the hall. In a moment, the decision will be made. Please come into the hall, we're taking up jobs. Mr. Ishkin, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-17-m0.u227	Thank you, Andrey Volodymyrovich. Dear colleagues, thank you all for actively supporting this bill. And I want to pay attention, colleagues, all present and Ukrainians, to the fact that the question of paid roads was being considered on the budget committee. And I want to assure you that for the average Ukrainians, the roads were and will remain free. It is only in the context of making sure that heavy vehicles, including foreign vehicles, do not disrupt Ukrainian roads. So we give the Cabinet of Ministers the right to determine what parameters and what corresponding pay will be charged. Thank you for your support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-17-m0.u228	Thank you, colleagues. So let's move on to making a decision. Colleagues, I'm putting the bill to a vote, first of all, I'm going to continue for 15 minutes. I am voting on the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Budget Code to improve the financing mechanism for the road sector (number 4015a) in the second reading and in general. Please vote and please support, colleagues. Please vote. Please be supportive. [[14:01:51]] For 243 Colleagues, please remain alert. 243 for. Decision taken. Please tell me, who knocked? Who buttoned it? There's information, attention, everyone stay put, colleagues! I'll put it on the vote. Colleagues, please return to your seats. I'm betting on voting. The signal came from the hall, where the facts of the nonpersonal vote were taking place. And once again, I put to the vote draft Law 4015a in second reading and in general. Please vote. Please support, colleagues, the work of our colleagues. Let's vote, colleagues. 4015a in second reading and in general. [[14:03:01]] For 235 Decision taken. The law is passed. Hey, fellas, can I see you for a minute? We need to put one of the bills, the colleagues, into the agenda, 5319, on the financing of the European Union. If there's room support, funding for Euro. If there is, so that we can look at the financing of "Europe" today, colleagues. I'll put it in place, please. It's 30 seconds, colleagues. Who supports the inclusion in the agenda of the decision-making session, including 5319, please vote, please support the financing of Euro. Please vote. Please, who's backing up. Please support us so that we can vote 5319 after lunch. Please vote. [[14:04:06]] For-191 It's not a decision, colleagues. I see. Colleagues, I can make 50 laws now. You can only be warned in advance, they don't stand a chance. Colleagues, according to the Rules, I'm calling it a break. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. At 16 o'clock, we'll continue our work, the block of infrastructure. And I very much ask everyone to be in the workplace at 4:00 to continue our work. Please.
