ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-18-m0.u1	Good morning, fellow countrymen. Please take your seats in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Please, Your Honor, we're taking our seats. Traditionally, Friday is an hour of questions to the government. We have an appropriate agenda that we can consider today, laws. And I'd like everyone to focus on the job. Now, if you'll excuse me, I'd like to prepare for your registration, distinguished national deputies. Please. Please include the "Council" system for the registration of Ukrainian national deputies. Please register. [[10:03:20]] 301 national deputies registered in the Supreme Council of Ukraine and we are starting our work. I declare the morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine open. Set order in the cabinet's bed, Hennaday Grigorovitch. Ladies and gentlemen, take your seats. Let's start with an hour of questions to the government. Please, Hennady Grigorovich Zubko, Vice Prime Minister of Ukraine. 15 minutes, come in.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-18-m0.u2	Dear National Deputies! I'd like to ask your attention because there are a lot of questions on the "hour of questions to the government" that are really interested in the people's deputies and, in principle, help the executive power work on many issues. So I'm going to go on the list of issues that have been asked before, and so that we can explain all of those issues, problems and ways of addressing them with regard to both international activities and decentralization reform, with regard to energy efficiency reform, with regard to our cooperation with Parliament in general, in order to really bring to a close those decisions that were very important in 2015. So I would like, first of all, to start with the issue of international cooperation and, directly, cooperation with the Islamic Republic of Iran. People’s deputies asked how our delegation was and held an intergovernmental commission. And I can tell you that really, after a 12-year break between the Islamic Republic of Iran and Ukraine has been restored. And a memorandum was signed between the Government of Ukraine and Iran, which pursues two main objectives: food security for the Islamic Republic of Iran and energy security for Ukraine. Therefore, several specific projects were discussed and included in the memorandum. It means that those projects and those contracts that were terminated after the sanctions were imposed, they are now being renewed. And specific projects that relate to joint aviation related to joint infrastructure projects that relate to the involvement of our machine builders and energy engineers in joint projects in Iran. This is a possibility of practically investing from the Iranian Republic to Ukraine in terms of privatization of Ukrainian enterprises. So the whole procedure that was reinstated on the intergovernmental commission is now starting its way, first of all, with the renewal of those contracts that were, and second of all new projects that can be implemented jointly. Ukraine, by the way, has a very high potential in this direction, because a lot of what was built out of infrastructure projects in the Islamic Republic of Iran has been done by Ukrainian professionals, carried out by Ukrainian enterprises and, most of all, was done very well and guaranteed to date all the objects that were built over 10-20 years ago. The second block of questions that referred to, by the way, Vladimir Vasilovich Demchisin, I don't see him here right now, he headed this commission and, in principle, he was successful. The second cluster of issues is what concerns the most crucial reform in Ukraine, and I think it is. Why? Because it is Ukraine, with 25 years of independence, that has not changed the system of government. Therefore, the question of decentralization, the transfer of powers to places and the support of Parliament in this process and in 2015 in terms of budgetary decentralization and in terms of the adoption of laws that have already allowed for the practical unification of 159 communities, and all the laws that have already been adopted, are the main ones waiting for adoption since the adoption of the amendments to the Constitution in part of decentralization. Once again, reform is under way, reform is under way, people who are already united have a direct budget relationship since January 1st; people who are already united have support from the state, but we need to make every effort at all levels of power, at the level of the area, the area, we need to accept the changes to the Constitution. And Parliament, I think, will make such a decision to pass the point of irreversibility on matters of decentralization of government. I would like to point out that it is with the support of Parliament that it is with the support of the Speaker of Parliament that a decision has been made to support those projects that are currently in the community and which are being proposed for consideration. Three billion for the Regional Development Fund, one billion as a subsidy to support the united territorial communities are already under way. Last Wednesday, a draft decree was adopted that allows today’s united territorial communities to carry out investment projects involving the cost of one billion support for the unification of the territorial community. The distribution system is very simple. And I would like the national MPs and Ukrainians who are already in the united communities and who are planning to be united to understand clearly that the larger the territory that is in the community, the more the rural population that is in the community, the more the infrastructure issues that arise in the community will be supported by the state. So this project shows that the largest Lyman community in the Donetsk region is the largest community in the territory of the united territorial communities, the People’s Community, which is in the Zitomir region. They received the greatest support from the State, given that they have a large territory, a large population, they have the opportunity to invest more, and that is why the State is more supportive of infrastructure projects. At the same time, I would like to say that yesterday was literally the first session of the Commission to consider investment projects that relate to the direction of the Regional Development Fund. To be honest, we now see a very weak initiative from the regions from the point of view of investment projects. If 852,844 projects were implemented last year, this year we see only 335 projects, unfortunately only 201 were taken away. Why? Since many projects are not prepared, they do not meet the requirements. And the main thing is that there is no co-financing from the communities that proposed these projects. So please, I'm addressing everyone. including the national MPs, who are majors, who work in districts, who see what the situation is like, join this process and help our communities prepare high-quality projects. Why? Because 3 billion dollars, they are, they're waiting for projects and they're going to be taken out to be supported by the state itself. I would also like to talk about the second year in a series of online platforms, an open system where every Ukrainian citizen can see the open. the selected project, where it is executed, where it is located, who is responsible, how much money is used. And most importantly, when it's put into service. Today we have a concrete reform that has gone into place, and we see that it is 159 communities that have entered into their budgetary responsibilities since 1 January 2016, have the possibility of direct budgetary relations, have the ability to support a nation of 1 billion dollars, have the opportunity to include their projects in a regional development fund that also supports these projects. Therefore, the next election in the united territorial communities will take place on March 27 and April 24. We expect that 13 councils will be further selected, which will begin to form their organs in general. And we are now discussing the issues so that those communities that are to be selected, which are to enter into action as of 1 January 2016, can already address the issue of inter-budget relations in the second half of 2016. So once again, I would like to point out that the support that comes from the state is very important. Why? Because those directions, which are defined by one billion dollars and three billion dollars by the Regional Development Fund, are primarily related to the approximation of power to people, these are the centres of administration, this is the local infrastructure, this is the energy-generating of municipal and social objects, and the main thing is the preparation of those investment projects that can be implemented. By the way, honourable national MPs, the 1.9 billion dollars that have been set up in this budget for socio-economic development, were decided last Wednesday by the government on the criteria on which these funds will be channelled. These criteria relate primarily to investment projects that already have a 90 percent readiness rate, those projects that relate to local infrastructure are questions and lighting, and roads – both local and state, as well as many issues. those problems that are common in many communities. Well, we would also like this very direction of support for the state to be used effectively in full this year. I would like to highlight this question, which is very much asked from the point of view of the people's deputies: what is happening to the budgets of the local communities after the adoption of budgetary decentralization? After the 2015 review, we clearly saw that the local budgets were increased by 29.6 billion dollars. We can talk about increasing in specific numbers, but I'd like to show you two things that specifically respond to the potential of communities and how they are used. Next slide. I'd like you to see that, on January 1, 2015, there were 27.4 billion dollars left in the accounts of local communities, compared to January 1, 2014 -- 10.4. That means there's an extra revenue, there's an extra opportunity, and I'd like the communities to accelerate in decisions that allow for the efficient and maximum use of the funds that are currently in the surplus. And the second, very serious indicator that I'd like you to pay attention to the screen, is that it was asking for loans to the state budget to cover the cash gap that was a 10-fold reduction. If in 2014 such loans to the state were equal to 20,000, last year there were only 2,000 appeals in order to obtain a short - term loan from the state and to go through the cash gaps that arise. So these two slides are very revealing to see how the situation in local communities has changed in general, and, most of all, every community that went to the Treasury in 2015 has been getting their money for a period of time. This was never the case in Ukraine when local communities were able to access their funds for a period of time. In order to have a full understanding of how decentralization reform is now working, how are the forward-looking plans, how are the budgets in the communities that we can actually see how many social objects there are, how many infrastructures there are, and what opportunities there are in the community, we've created an information geoportal of an administrative and territorial system that can inform any person who is actually going on in their territory, in their area with their community. So I would like to propose at all so that any national MP can go to this geoportal. He can find an existing community, he can see the budget of this community, how many people live, how many schools there are, how many hospitals there are, how many hospitals there are, how many FAPs, what the possibility of a promising union, what it is that brings together, and, most importantly, to join the process of a promising union that is now going on in communities. We have practically more than two thirds of our communities today initiated a process of unification. Why is this so important? I would like to point out that it is precisely those motivational instruments that are now being implemented by the government in terms of financial support, from the point of view of the transfer of powers, and, by the way, we have a very serious work to do with the transfer of land by united communities and the adoption of laws that will allow us to freely manage communities that have united. Above all, we have now introduced to the government the possibility of using funds that are channelled from the Regional Development Fund and subsidies to support the unified territorial communities during the next fiscal year. This means that these costs can be used effectively, which means reducing the burden on the state budget at the end of the year, and that means efficient use of the funds. And a few words I'd like to say about working with our international partners, because the support of the European Union is costed. The Memorandum and the Agreement between the European Union and the Government of Ukraine on Support of 97 million euros has now been prepared to primarily train our heads of the united territorial communities and.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-18-m0.u3	How long? Finish what? Mr. Hennadai, speak the truth.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-18-m0.u4	to teach the heads of united territorial communities and workers who will work on executive committees; to rebuild, build, equip and run about 600 administrative services centres; to prepare people who will prepare investment projects and determine, in line with regional development strategies, those projects that will be supported; and to fund the European Union that is willing to provide them if these projects are transparent if decisions on such projects are taken in the community and such decisions are necessarily supported. So once again, it's the activity of the people's deputies, the activity of the local communities, the activity of the local authorities that will allow this stage to pass. To that end, we have proposed and launched this year's monitoring of the socio-economic performance of each area. These ratings determine the indicators for every quarter and year, where every person can see where the indicator, where the area, whether or not the area is the leader, and where you can actually work as an investor to invest, invest your money. So I would like every national MP to be able to go to the Minregion website, see the ratings, and the main thing is to figure out what priorities we need to develop one area or another. Well, I can't help but say that one of Ukraine's major problems at all is energy dependency, and that in 2016 we have to make many decisions together that will allow us to overcome the dependency that has existed for many years. And because of the cheap gas that has always been placed from Russia, Ukraine has paid a very high political price. That's why there's a Housing Services Act in Parliament right now. And in the second reading, we expect this law to be passed. The government has prepared and introduced to Parliament the Energy Efficiency of Buildings Act. We are now preparing a model of an energy efficiency fund that should address the issues that motivate people to invest in energy efficiency, to compensate for the proportion of those loans that people engage in energy efficiency, to calculate those subsidies that can be spent on the rest of the economy by people to be monetized, and to cover energy efficiency costs. And the main thing is to restore the transparent system that should be among the players in the gas market that are counted among themselves. What does that mean? Today you know what happened to those TKE debts that today are a huge burden for gas before Naftogaz, ahead of the state's debt to TKE for subsidy, for the debt of fiscal enterprises that are also a burden on TKE. And the question that's going on in general is the increase in subsidies that are now going through clearing calculations, and without the funds that are alive, our enterprises are not able to fully do the math. That's why we're preparing a bill now, and I'm looking forward to supporting the people's deputies, in terms of first restructuring the debts of municipal enterprises to Naftogaz, so that the state can make those calculations that the state owes to utilities, and the main thing is to change that system that's been working for decades and that doesn't allow today to establish a normal rule of conduct on the market even when the Natural Gas Market Act is adopted. So it's the very potential effect of introducing this energy efficiency model that we think this could practically be a reduction of 2 times the consumption of gas on individual heating and sunbathing. It's an additional investment, it's an additional 100,000 jobs, and the main thing is to reduce monetary pressure on Ukraine's balance of payments. And the last question I'd like to raise is the question asked by the people's deputies, from the point of view of the Bortnicka Station of Aeration. This project, supported by you, which has been ratified, has now begun its work. By this year, the state has already directed 63 million dollars to prepare for work, and we are now awaiting confirmation from the Ministry of Ecology from an environmental fund of 47 million. The Japanese side has already funded the technical design and preparation of 380 million dollars. And the main thing is that we have a clear route map that we see how, in what years this project is going to be implemented. I think it's probably one of the biggest infrastructure projects now, which not only has the capital of Ukraine, but has Ukraine, which can show what they are making common international financial agreements to support our citizens. So, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to appeal to you once again in terms of supporting all the initiatives that have been taken by you and that have been carried out with the government in 2015, and to call for the cooperation that I believe has been effective and that we should continue. And the last. I'd like to address the National MPs right now. I'd like a moment's attention from you. At the end of the year, I was approached by national deputies in terms of the problem that exists at the Centre for Mother and Child Protection in Kiev. If you remember, there were a large number of national deputies who went up to this rostrum and called for an understanding of the situation and for an end to the abuses that existed around this building. At the end of the year, what happened was that, basically, the direction of the project, it took 78 million dollars out of the company's accounts and directed them to pay off the debts of 2012-2013. Criminal conduct was discovered in this case. After that, this leader was released. After that, they had been selected to serve as the new leader, and they had been chosen by a young ambitious man named Dmitr Schutowski. But so far, the question of paying for this person's work has not been solved, because, well, excuse me, for 12,000 dollars to manage projects that cost billions, I don't think any person can take that responsibility. And here I expect a change in approach with Parliament in general to pay those heads of state-owned enterprises that can take responsibility for multibillion-dollar projects in general. And I'd like to ask the National MPs that it's those people who have asked me to support this project that have not stopped and continued their work. Why? Because I see there are two groups in Parliament: a group that wants to finish this project, and a group that wants to control the funds. I warn you again, I have promised to name the name of every national MP who interferes and intervenes in this process. And if this intervention doesn't stop, I'm going to call the names from this rostrum, which is exactly what happens to the national deputies involved in this process. And so, starting with the pressure that's going on for every minister, for every deputy minister from every state-owned enterprise or from the introduction of such infrastructure projects, I warn you, let's be polite. If this doesn't happen, we'll call each time the last name of the person who doesn't allow it to work transparently. Thank you for your attention!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-18-m0.u5	Thank you. I invite Deputy Foreign Minister Vadim Volodymyrovich Pristajk. The questions will come later. Mr. Hennadia, okay, 30 more seconds, finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-18-m0.u6	If you want to hear a last name at the request of the people's deputies, I can call it Maxim Polyakov ("The People's Front"), who specifically lobbies Irina Koval, the former head of this company, who specifically protects the person who has paid off the debts of past periods rather than the funds that should have been earmarked for tax. Building, they were directed and this project moved out of place. Nothing was done in 2015. The state has allocated 500 million dollars and no money has been put into this facility. And every person in this room protects these children, please engage in this work to bring this to an end. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-18-m0.u7	Please, Vladimir Volodymyrovich Pristajko. Please cut the rules, since Mr. Hennaday took more time. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-18-m0.u8	Good morning, distinguished national MPs! You have a few questions for the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. I'm very short. There were questions from the People's Front faction about the distribution of the visa-free regime between Ukraine and Georgia, and why there was a separate deliberation between Ukraine and Georgia. I want to tell you that this issue is essentially not relevant in view of the fact that you have passed the necessary laws to ensure that the issue of Ukraine and the visa-free regime is well advanced. I think there's a good chance that in June both candidates, both countries were considered: both Ukraine and Georgia. At least that's what Donald Tusk and Jean-Claude Juncker said when they met with the President of Ukraine, which might be discussed in June. We hope that all the necessary documents we need, the necessary procedures have been adopted, and no new requirements will be invented for Ukraine, and the decision will be taken this summer. As far as the other question is concerned. Today's mine format and how much mine format results, or there are other formats that should be included to solve issues in eastern Ukraine. I would like to say that, yes, indeed, there are now two formats that are currently most used by Ukraine: the mine format, the so-called tripartite working group, which includes Ukraine, Russia and the OSCE, and the norm format, which meet at several levels, starting with the leaders of countries, foreign ministers and a special mechanism led by the deputy foreign minister, the so-called enforcement control mechanism. In addition to these mechanisms, we use all possible measures of international influence, including consultations under the Budapest Memorandum, NATO, the European Union, in bilateral and multilateral formats. How effective this work is in judging you and judging the citizens of the country. We are confident that to this day we are able to maintain peace and move in many ways. There are some shortcomings that we're working on, and we're particularly worried about the absence of a cease-fire per cent, we're worried about the lack of real progress in exchanging our citizens, but it works and the work of consumption is happening. Two days ago, I was in Mariupola and Shirokino, and it was on this very day that three of our citizens exchanged for three captured, military intelligence groups. It's a work in progress. Of course, involving a wider range of participants, including the European Union as an organization, the United States, Canada and our other partners, would add to this process of relevance. Thank you. What about the next question raised by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs for the release of the national deputy Saucenko? I want to tell you that I have a long list of what's done. At least 160 notes of the protest were sent to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, 69 only after the Savachenko Hope. We use comprehensive measures to free citizens, not just Saucenko, but all of our citizens, who are political prisoners, we number 29. In four of our citizens, we use a different legal defense. Four families of our political prisoners have written statements that Ukraine and Russia are beginning to negotiate the transfer of these people to be punished in Ukraine. We're engaging a wide range of partners, foreign partners, we're having conversations as the President of Ukraine directly with President Putin, we're talking to the Russian Ombudsman, with the investigating committee, our diplomatic representatives are constantly at all meetings. We're helping financially, organizationally, logistically -- everything that's necessary for our group's work, we've made contracts with lawyers and so on, so forth. As for the question of the visit to Iran, you have heard, Vice Prime Minister. As for the President's visit to Turkey. You know that a number of important agreements have been signed, an agreement has been reached on the participation of the Turkish Republic in investment projects, in oil and gas projects. We have also been assured of Turkey's full support for our struggle with the Russian Federation, particularly the Crimea, the involvement of the Turkish Republic in certain issues in the Crimea. In principle, the last question asked by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is the visa-free regime with the Russian Federation. This question is complex and long. We've already reported on the committees, we're ready to do it in a narrower circle, because it's a very sensitive question. At the same time, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, for the time being, there are up to 4 million Ukrainian citizens in the territory of the Russian Federation. For a year, four million Ukrainian citizens cross the border of Ukraine, just over one million Russian citizens. To even logistically provide these people with passports to cross the border, it's a huge job. According to our estimates, only 15-20 percent of Ukrainian citizens have passports abroad to cross the border. Moreover, it is not excluded that similar actions will then be used by the Republic of Belarus -- another million of our citizens. With regard to the technical provision of this visa waiver decision. This is up to us, there is an agreement signed in 1997 in connection with a written notice from one of the parties that this treaty will cease to be valid for six months if a political decision is made. The Cabinet of Ministers decides that it will be passed on to the Russian Federation within six months, and it will enter into force after six months. That's the formal side. The side of this question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-18-m0.u9	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, we have 30 minutes to question the national deputies to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. I have a request to concentrate. It's not the faction, it's the MPs. And that's why I'm not giving a single word to the factions. Please prepare to record and record. Please, colleagues, we're recording. Questions. [[B in m in s a l in]] Half an hour to the government, questions to the government. 30 minutes. They spoke for half an hour, and for 30 minutes we give meaningful, solid questions. Debt Alexander, turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-18-m0.u10	Please pass the word to Dmitri Sphenov.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-18-m0.u11	Question of the leadership of the Ministry of Economic Development and Trade. In the Ukrainian steel industry, the critical situation with the provision of scrap in 2016. The deficit's getting worse, the cooking's down. The main reason for this is the record export volumes. One and a half million tons were exported in 2015. MERT failed to comply with Kabmin's mandate to regulate the market. MERT, despite its promises, did not create a balance. This Decision shall enter Please answer the question: How, when there is a determination of a court that has stopped the balance, did the commission to register contracts for the export of scrap, and do you not wish to stop the registration process until the cards are issued and there is an opportunity to stop the violation of the laws and interests of industrial enterprises and, above all, industrial groups? Thank you for asking.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-18-m0.u12	Thank you for asking. I would like to point out, firstly, that the Ministry of Economic Development and Trade is not aware of any court approval that would apply to the approval of the balance. It wasn't officially sent to us, it wasn't reported, and we weren't informed of any court hearings to address this issue. In this regard, the commission held its meeting in accordance with the law, and there was no reason not to. Therefore, the question is that, according to our obligations under the World Trade and Law Organization, we should register external economic contracts for the export of metal scrap metal. Last year and this year, the Ministry of Economic Development and Trade is in constant dialogue with representatives of the metallurgical sector. I think this question will continue to be addressed in the dialogue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-18-m0.u13	"The People's Front", River Andrews. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-18-m0.u14	Please pass the word to Igor Guzu.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-18-m0.u15	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-18-m0.u16	Glory to Ukraine! Goose, 19th District, Volin. I have a question for the Ministry of Education and Science and Mr. Zubko. Mr. Zubko, please convince the President to decide on the PTU Act – February 4, today March 18th. What is it? What do thousands, tens of thousands of workers in this area -- not signing, not promising? And I'm asking the Ministry of Education to explain it to people. In my constituency: road overlaps, educated people don't know what to do, the district council closed down January-February wages. What should we do next? This is a collapse and today it all stems from the non-signature and failure of the president of the law. Please answer when this question will be resolved? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-18-m0.u17	You know, this is the first time I've seen national MPs go to the government to get the government to contact the President. I think that you are the same legislative authority that can, so to speak, exercise your authority and directly address anyone. Well, secondly, I think that we need to be able not only in terms of the Ministry of Education, but also in terms of our relationship and our understanding of how decentralization reform is going. So I'm going to give the floor now to the deputy minister, but I think it's just necessary here not to blame each other, but to work on the committee to figure out how supporting schools, primary schools, and, most importantly, how professional and technical schools can be funded. [[B in m in s a l in]] Can I not scream? Please don't shout, you've already said it. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-18-m0.u18	Turn on the microphone, please, Deputy Minister.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-18-m0.u19	Good afternoon, distinguished national MPs. I want to report that the government's decision to finance 500 million in the trade sector was made on February 4. After that, it is necessary for the budget committee to agree directly on the cost. Last night, this agreement was received from the Budget Committee at 10:30 p.m. by us, the Ministry of Finance. As of today, funding will be made available. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-18-m0.u20	Thank you. Please, Svetlana Zalitchuk, Peter Dusty Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-18-m0.u21	I welcome a colleague from the government. I have a question for Mr. Wadim's deputy minister of foreign affairs. Parliament certainly supports the efforts of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to free Hope from Savchenko, our colleague, and, in particular, the sanctions list. At the same time, do I have the question of whether actions are being taken regarding, perhaps, an alternative sanctions list for all of our captive political groups? I'm talking about the Ringen and the Sun and the other 120 people. Because we hear our civil society representatives complaining repeatedly that we as politicians, as government officials, are not enough to draw attention to other hundreds of names that don't float so actively in public space and here in Ukraine and at the international level. Do we have the opportunity to talk about a sanctions list that would refer to the entire list of our political prisoners? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-18-m0.u22	Thank you for asking. You know, really, this list, it's called the Savechenko list, but it's going to expand it so that it can be used in relation to all political prisoners. This list is made on a conditional basis with the list of Sergio Magnitsky, a Russian lawyer who was killed in a Russian prison. I hope that it will also be used to continue to press on the Russian Federation for the liberation of not only Savichenko, who is really the icon of this opposition, but there are other people that we don't forget, like the ministry and as a government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-18-m0.u23	Thank you. Please, Alexy Savechenko, Peter Dusty Block. He's handing over Nasalika, I'm sorry. Nasalek, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-18-m0.u24	Praise Jesus Christ! Dear friends, I have a few questions. First of all, to Mrs. Vronsky, I am pleased with her, for I personally submit to the NABU the damage of $20 million directly to our country. And the second question to her is, I'd like to know where the Kyoto funds have gone and whether they're being used for the lighting that's supposed to be. That's a question. In addition, Hennady Grigorovich. Gennady Grigorovich! Questions to you. Two. First question. How many of the created communities are self - sufficient and capable? And the second question. What's happening at NAC Naftogazi right now is called looting, when unpaid state subsidies include fines and pennies to utilities. I'd like an answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-18-m0.u25	Thank you, Your Honor, for asking. In fact, 159 territorial united communities have already started work, but you know that according to the promising plans that were previously agreed upon, they have been united in a different way. We've allowed them to unite, they're not fully economically viable right now, and that's about 30 communities, but we're counting on the fact that each community's own powers are now practically increased by 3 times the possibility of tax coming, we're going to watch how and we're going to monitor what happens in these communities over a six-year period, and then we're going to call on them to decide how to help them. But, on the other hand, from this experience, I can clearly convince that no more communities that do not unite according to this passport and according to this forward-looking plan, which was approved, this is not meant from the point of view of the territories, because these communities may be replenished, they may fall apart, but the question that the economic ability to carry out those delegated powers should be. And so once again, I urge all citizens who will clearly feel what decentralization is giving -- the additional revenue, the additional possibilities, the additional taxes, the additional support from the state, the additional support from the European Union -- that's what started this process. And once again, honourable national MPs should, together, support land laws that will allow further motivation to be given to the unification of the territorial communities. From the point of view of Naftogazu. In my speech, I wasn't just talking about that one of the key problems that is now on the market is the lack of transparency among market participants at all. These are protocols, these are contracts, these are a large number of subscribers under each document, who are to be agreed every month in Naftogaz, the districtgas, the TKE, the transport of these things. And this system doesn't just have to be changed, it just needs to be broken. Why? Because it's a Soviet system that practically doesn't release money from the system and doesn't allow utilities to exist today at all. The second is a very important direction. The State has decided to protect people through subsidies. We understand that subsidies -- these are clearing accounts, the increasing percentage of clearing calculations -- do not allow today to fully raise living costs in the market to pay not just for gas, but to pay wages, to pay social costs, to pay electricity bills, to pay water for these enterprises to exist. So I think that's the working group that was created in two weeks, and it was involved with both national MPs, and IFC, and EBRD, and other market participants. I would also ask you to join us to build a normal system of calculations on these markets. And so that in the future we can monotize the remainder of the subsidies that people will save and that they can target either energy-efficient measures or what they're going to define. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-18-m0.u26	Please, from the Gennady People's Front. Another answer. Yes, please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-18-m0.u27	Good afternoon. Gennady the Clumsy.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-18-m0.u28	The answer from the Minn Nature. Thank you, National Deputy Nasalika, for your questions and messages. With regard to the Kyoto Protocol’s money, the Ministry is currently negotiating with Japanese companies to continue using this money. The projects that were taken and agreed upon remain on the line. Once there's an agreement that Japanese companies will give us a deadline for using money, there will be tenders, purchases for projects that were previously selected and agreed upon by Japanese companies. Regarding the report on the application of the NAB to me personally, as a national MP you have such a right, I am prepared to give all the testimony, to give the text messages that you have sent me and to answer all the questions of the law enforcement agencies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-18-m0.u29	Thank you. Gennady Kryvoshea, the People's Front. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-18-m0.u30	Thank you. Hendy Krivoshea, faction of the People's Front. Given that there is no minister of education today, I had a question to him two days ago about the liquidation of the Boychuk Institute, and I would like to pass on the word of Stashuku to Vitalia Filimonovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-18-m0.u31	Please, Stashuk. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-18-m0.u32	Good afternoon. Vitaly Stasuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-18-m0.u33	Mr. Hennaday, is the minister of education, is present in the government's bed, you can concentrate and ask your question. Please, Stashuk, finish, then – The Curve.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-18-m0.u34	The city of Kiev, Darnica. I have a question for Vice Prime Minister Zubko. Mr. Zubko said in his speech that, in fact, there is one of the largest infrastructure projects in Ukraine that are being implemented, this project is related to the reconstruction of the Bortnicka Station of Aeration. And our commitments are to finance the preparatory work to be completed in November of this year. As far as I know, the funding schedule is specific enough. And unfortunately, most of this is planned for the end of the year.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-18-m0.u35	Please, Squirrel. Please, 20 seconds, question. Let's take it. We're taking down the question. Please answer. 30 seconds, finish the Stasuk question.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-18-m0.u36	So what's the question?
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-18-m0.u37	The next question. It seems to me that I need to change the funding schedule so as not to cancel the Ukrainian party’s commitment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-18-m0.u38	Thank you, distinguished national deputies, for keeping an eye on this process. There. In addition to the fact that budget allocations are higher at the end of the year, there is another problem – 47 million from the fund. an environmental fund to support this project, which was budgeted. The Ministry of Finance, I think, will work with us to get these funds closer. But I would like to say that this applies to practically all projects. Practically all of the projects funded today by the state are in the second half of the year. But we realize that the beginning of the construction season, it starts with March of the month, and it has to go. So we're now working on priorities that can be funded by 30 percent of the advance, by such jobs that they can move around, and most importantly, to get close to that budget statement that could actually be done in time for those jobs by November of the month. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-18-m0.u39	Thank you. Please, Lozov is giving Oleg Lazka. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-18-m0.u40	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. I have a question for the Minister of Energy, as well as representatives of the government. From April 1st, the price of gas for Ukrainian citizens rises again by 53 percent. With that in mind. What 7 with hooks pay today, 53 percent raise is over 10,000 dollars people will pay for a thousand cubes of gas. We know that the cost of production, actually, of Ukrainian gas, of a thousand 580 dollars, of import gas, we buy in the range of $200-230. I have a simple question for first class. Why Ukrainian citizens have to pay almost $500 for a thousand cubic metres of gas. This is a payout for corruption, is it a fee for no reform, or is it a fee for something else? And the question to the government in general. You've initiated the sale of agricultural land for nearly 4 million hectares. I'm asking you why you're going to sell out Ukrainian land when there's a moratorium on selling land.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-18-m0.u41	Dear Mr. Lazko, thank you so much for the gas question. Sadly, you joined a group of populists who spread completely false information. So far, no government decision has been made to change gas prices since April 1st. You're right that in the memorandum with the IMF there was this agreement last year that the price of gas should be raised to 75 percent of the world or import price and today it's 5,000,500 dollars. Not 10,000, not 7,000, as you say, but 5,000 500 about. But once again, there's no such decision at this point to say that from April 1st, as the mass of journalists do, and, including you, today, there's no reason. Now let's go back to the cost of extracting gas. Given the fact that we introduced a 55 percent or 70 percent rent for Crushing, due to the fact that there are other taxes, our income has not increased in 20 years. Instead, we buy at least 15 billion cubic meters in Europe or Russia -- that's three and a half billion dollars that we give to Europeans or Russians. Instead of giving this money to our producers, we're going to have to drill wells, and we have 1 trillion cubic meters, and we're going to get 20 billion. We have gas at least 50 years in advance, we can significantly increase the yield, and this is the main task of my ministry. That's why we're proposing to cut the rent, simplify the permit procedure, because it takes about five years for me to get a permit to get gas today, and that's whether my ministry is in charge. And the populists, in your style, are talking about 10,000 bracelets that someone has to pay for gas. There's no such numbers, we're talking about completely different amounts, 75 percent if the government makes a commitment to the IMF. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-18-m0.u42	Mr. Shinkovic Andry, "Peter Poshenko's Block," and I ask the ministers to speak respectfully to the MPs in response, please give professional answers, not to take personal offenses. Please, Shinkovich Andry.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-18-m0.u43	Please pass the word to Spermakovsky Alexander Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-18-m0.u44	I have a question for the Prime Minister, Gennady Grigorovitch, and for the Deputy Minister of Education and Science. Since September 1st, according to the direct norm of the Higher Education Act, the National Agency's work on the quality of education should have started. So far, the Ministry of Education, as well as the Cabinet of Ministers, have failed to comply with this direct rule of law. So I have a question like this, today, we're going to be looking at the 2080s bill, which deals with the qualifications requirements for members of the National Agency for the quality of education. Please tell me whether you will unlock the work of the National Agency of Quality Education in case of adoption by the Supreme Council of Ukraine of this law, please, yes or no?
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-18-m0.u45	Thank you for asking. Can you hear me? Thank you for asking. Yes, the National Agency for the Quality of Higher Education doesn't work, it was my public position, because the elections took place corrupt to this National Agency. You know my position as a principle. And I also support your bill that you're drafting because you're filing it from my initiative and you know it very well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-18-m0.u46	Thank you. Please, Kaplin, Peter Dust Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-18-m0.u47	I would like, dear colleagues and the Ukrainian people, to address the Minister of Internal Affairs, but I can see that he's missing and the ministry as a whole is not represented today at a meeting with the National Deputies. Perhaps they have already defeated corruption in Ukraine, built a powerful mechanism to fight crime, and are perhaps engaged in the return of money stolen by Yanukovic? And as they do, you can see on the Web site of the Simple People's Party and on my Facebook page, where there are 10 videos, 10 videos taken by a hidden camera, when the first deputy director of the new police that spent tens of millions of dollars, tens of millions of dollars, together with Chebotar, discuss corruption schemes. We're discussing illegal arms sales, we're discussing casino roofing in Kiev and other cities. The harassment where Chobotar teaches the first deputy police chief how to rob Ukrainian.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-18-m0.u48	Thank you. Marcenko, he's giving the word to Andrew Illenck. And, dear colleagues, if we don't have a discussion, I'd like to make an immediate announcement. Is Andrew Illenko there? In the city, yes. Then he can ask the question of Kurilo and, in fact, our time will be exhausted and yes. We predicted and imagined the rules. Please, Andrew Illenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-18-m0.u49	Andrew Illenko, the All-U.S. Freedom Union, the city of Kiev. I would like to address the Prime Minister, unfortunately, there is no Prime Minister, and I would then like to address the economic bloc of the government. Information was received, including Roman Immortal, who is a representative of the so-called negotiating group in Minsk, who said that 34 billion Ukrainian government dollars were spent in 2015 on the actual financing of temporarily occupied areas in the Donetsk region, Lugansk, that is, on so-called so-called so-called so-called salaries, pensions and other expenses. Can we possibly get an explanation of what it is, 34 billion, drowned in occupied areas? This is the money another army can finance, in fact we are funding a Russian-Separatist army that has a strong financial backdrop thanks to payments from the Ukrainian budget and the Pension Fund. Explain, please, what is this, and how will this situation be corrected?
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-18-m0.u50	Dear Mr. Andrey, I must make a point of what Roman Petrovich said, because I understand it, he referred to my words, including that amount, and it was in one of my interviews. 34 billion is the total amount of funds from the Pension Fund and the National Budget of Ukraine, which is allocated to displaced persons who have been forced to retire in the form of forced displaced persons and in the form of social assistance to forced displaced persons. That doesn't mean that this whole thing is going into an area temporarily occupied by so-called "terrorist groups." But there is a problem. A large part of these costs, according to the BSS, can be at 15-20 percent, really because of criminal schemes, not legally, not officially, but because of criminal schemes, it flows to an area that is not controlled by Ukrainian authorities and serves, in fact, as wages or other financing of terrorism. That is why the Ministry of Social Policy, the Ukrainian Security Service, has launched a fierce fight against this phenomenon in the last three weeks. If you're watching. The last three months. If you are watching the media, daily news in the media about the detection of criminal schemes built at the expense of a displaced person. Only literally yesterday before the arrests of high-ranking workers in the Berdian district of Zaporozhye, where social assistance was fictitiously assigned. Moreover, according to the U.S.S.A., about 20 people were financed by people who were involved in criminal terrorist groups. That's why we started this job, we're not fighting against the official movers. No real mover will lose anything, but we'll cover up funding that goes illegally from the state budget and comes through criminal schemes that have been built, including by Ukrainian officials in places that flow into what's called L/PNR. That's why we do it and believe it, you have to feel it, and the tension that we're experiencing today has immediately begun to criticize us for this activity, but our position is harsh: financing terrorism with the cost of the Ukrainian budget is unacceptable, it's our hard position and we do it.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-18-m0.u51	Thank you. Please, Vitaly Kurilo.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-18-m0.u52	I have a question for Mr. Zubko. Hennady Grigorovich, Gennady Grigorovich. Mr. Chairman, Mr. Chairman, please. Gennady Grigorovich, I have a question for you. Dear Gennady Grigorovich, you have made an excellent presentation today with a report on the reform of decentralization, a reform that began in Ukraine on voluntary community reunification. But I do have one point. If a year ago local communities looked at communities with fear, to create new communities, they want to do so today. But at the same time, local authorities at the level of district administrations and district councils, for example, can say this in the Luhansk region, have gone to death against this.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-18-m0.u53	Please, 10 seconds, finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-18-m0.u54	I have a proposition: please take care of these heads of administration that are entering the vertical government and driving them away from this trough that. The one they're holding on to. Take your seats, your ministry, and put the order in this direction.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-18-m0.u55	Thank you for asking. I'd like to see the people's honourable deputies. In general, move on to names when it comes to problems. Because it's very difficult to go out to Lugansk and look for those who don't. So I'm asking for specific names of specific heads of civilian-military administrations, because in the Luhansk region, it's civil-military administrations that are impeding this process. On the other hand, we need to understand that no one wants to lose power at any level: not at the district level, not at the district level. And so I invite the people's deputies to participate actively in this process. Because now -- you've seen, yes, those diagrams that I showed -- the remainder of the accounts of local self-government. This means it's not just a cost, it's an opportunity, it's an investment attraction, it's what we've been trying to do for many years, signing the Charter of Joining European Local Government in 1992. So once again, please give me a specific address. with specific names, and what exactly is the process in which this person is prevented from working. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-18-m0.u56	Thank you. We have one minute. And the last question of Elena Babak, please. And that's where we end up with the government. Please, very briefly, Olena Babak.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-18-m0.u57	Dear members of the government, you are currently preparing, agreeing with the International Monetary Fund on Ukraine's financial and economic policies, in which the question of increasing gas prices to parity with imports is a significant part. "The Self-Help Union does not support or support any decision of the government to increase the mechanical price of gas imports without solving complex issues. The first question is the restructuring and write-off of old debt for gas from heat-, water and electricity companies, and compensation for the difference in tariffs that are not available today, but from which there is a significant debt. So we can't move on without solving the question of restructuring old debts. It's just definitely not allowed. The second question. Without a solution, without stopping Naftogazu's saviour, which will usurp the monopoly today.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-18-m0.u58	Ten seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-18-m0.u59	the supply market, and without giving the government detailed justification for Parliament's plan to increase Ukrainian gas production as a result of changes and reform of gas prices, as well as the tariff structure to which we would like to see the investment component and the investment income.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-18-m0.u60	Please answer and finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-18-m0.u61	There was no question, I understood your position. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-18-m0.u62	Can I have a few comments from Minenergo? We are actually negotiating with the IMF, because we understand very well that social pressures, at the right pace, are extremely large, so we need to look for mechanisms, either at the expense of compensation or subsidies, to reduce the burden, or at the expense of additional investment opportunities and reduce consumption, and thus reduce the burden through a complex list of measures. So the EBRD is being negotiated for investment in thermal utility, which after investment will reduce its losses, reduce its cost, and the Minrgeion is taking steps to issue credits, which also encourage additional investment in this segment, which is extremely interesting for investment, but because there is no cost for consumers, including the population, in households, they do not invest, they spend gas accordingly. Last year, historically, we saw a decrease in gas consumption by about 13 to 14 percent, by 5 billion cubic meters, compared to the control area of 15th and 14th year. In this year, for two months, we see again a decrease of about 9 percent in gas consumption. Unfortunately, this happens primarily at the expense of industry. In the longer term, there will definitely be action to stimulate energy efficiency, which is the key to reducing population pressure. But this, these steps require substantial investment. These are tens, maybe 40 to 50 billion, which over the next 10 to 15 years need to be put into heat, water supply, energy supply and gas supply. These are huge investments. Without the help of the IMF, it is not possible to take such measures. That is why we are both negotiating and making an effort to smooth things up. Not to raise the price, as the IMF insists, until the market last year, and we've extended this process for 3-4 years. So it's a process, a difficult negotiation, but. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-18-m0.u63	Thank you, Minister. We have limited time. Last question, Rosenblatt Borislav Solomonovich. And that's why we're going to finish our "hour of questions to the government." Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-18-m0.u64	Please pass the word to Oleg Musia.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-18-m0.u65	Good afternoon, distinguished national MPs. I have a question for Mr. Zubko's deputy prime minister. And not just a question, but a big request. In fact, there's this Lviv mining and enrichment plant that's in the country of the country, and it's created a three-month ecological disaster. In the village of our own, our Vice-Speaker, in the hometown of our other Vice-Speaker, in the town of town, in the village of Sosnovic. 100,000 people today suffer from an ecological disaster in this enriching factory. The MNF is off to the mining service, the mining service says that it has no money to put this fire out. A half - mile [1.5 km] of floodwaters burns for three months. There's no reaction at all to Minnecology. People good, you want to destroy the entire population of the West.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-18-m0.u66	Please answer, Mr. Hennaday.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-18-m0.u67	I think so. Thank you for asking. I'm going to give the floor to the Minister of Energy right now, yes. But I think that's where you have to find the balance when you have to clearly define jobs plus environmental security. They're not different things that have to go by. Please give specific information, yes, exactly, from what period. I'll talk to Oleg Mikhailovich. And we're essentially going to send a commission from the Ministry of Ecology to this mining unit to do expertise and conclusions. Please give Mr. Demchikin a word.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-18-m0.u68	Mr. Musai, a very pressing issue, is indeed a problem. We know her at the Ministry because this company is one of the key in the segment of the Lviv-Volin coal pool. Unfortunately, no one is reprocessing or enriching coal in this region. From the dumps that you're talking about, which are burning right now, more than 10 million tons have been accumulated over the last 20 years. This is a real problem. The enterprise, more than that, is private, 63 percent of this enterprise is owned by a private owner who has not used it, to the extreme extent of the last period, a year and a half, during which I have been in the Ministry, I have not taken any action to pay the debt on wages to maintain adequate equipment and also to deal with technological problems, including the nature of the environment you are talking about. The owners didn't do anything, the company was bankrupt. The Ministry is doing its best to resolve this problem, but. Like many others in the coal industry. But I want to assure you that the issue is under control. Convinced that over the next two weeks we will solve this problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-18-m0.u69	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we thank the government for a thorough, meaningful discussion. On that question, the National Deputies to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine were completed. Thank you to the Cabinet of Ministers. Good luck with your hard work. According to the Rules, we are moving on to the reading of parliamentary requests. I invite Mrs. Oksana Siroid to read the enquiries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-18-m0.u70	Good afternoon, distinguished national MPs. Before we read the questions, we should consider the requirements of the national deputies regarding comments on the answers to the questions that have come to them. Pursuant to the Rules, the National MP has the right to speak with a reply and to assess the answer to the request he has received. We have these two requirements. First requirement of the national deputy Volodymyr Litvina. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-18-m0.u71	Ladies and gentlemen, on January 29th, I asked the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and NAK Naftogazu for completion of the construction work of the gas pipeline to the villages of Oretjanka-Jasna Polyan of the Red Army District of Žitomir Region by the National Shareholder Company Naftogaz Ukraine. Time passed, and I got two answers, one from Naftogazu Ukraine, and the other from the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. I have to say in general that we usually get discounts and that don't answer the content of the question at all to the content of the problem. What did Naftogaz Ukraine say? They told us what a difficult situation there is in the Naftogaz of Ukraine. As a result, the financial plan of Naftogazu Ukraine for 2016 was not approved. It's been March, there's no financial plan. How does this largest company work? And so they say, when there's no plan, no funding is allowed. The other one. They claim that the funds were previously disbursed. I don't think that's a problem for people. Who live there and that's not the problem with the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And the third. They talk about the need for regional authorities to list gas supplies to the community, which included the financial participation of a company that did not. to provide appropriate funding. You go to the local authorities and the local authorities send you, at best, to Naftogaz Ukraine. And then they find out what a huge amount of money is buried, which is 1.6 billion dollars, but the result is none. At the same time, these objects I was referring to cost nearly 1 million 600,000 dollars. In addition, people have invested their money and no one is returning it to them. According to the Cabinet of Ministers, I got the answer that this problem could be used, done by regional development programs. And in regional development programs these objects do not want to be included, and it turns out that we have a closed circle. Therefore, in expressing my dissatisfaction and not taking this answer to the MP's request, I ask the Presidency of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, to resubmit a request to give a concrete answer when it comes not only to this problem that applies to the villages of the Red Army region of the Žitomir region, but to the country in general. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-18-m0.u72	Thank you. Also, a reply to the question was asked by the national MP, Cooperia. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-18-m0.u73	Dear colleagues! On February 5, from the Presidency of the Supreme Council, a request was made concerning and addressed to the Attorney General’s Office. And with regard to the Minister's statements, I no longer know, the former or acting Minister of Mineconomy, Abromavichus, against the unlawful influence of the Connonka People's Deputy on certain positions, certain assignments that they were trying to do in an illegal way. Today I received an answer from the Deputy Attorney General of Ukraine, Head of the Specialised Anti-Corruption Prosecutor's Office of the colddensky. According to the answer, it is found that criminal conduct is really open, and its number is given. It is also stated that the state of judicial investigation is under review in the Attorney General’s Office and has been requested to inform the national deputies. However, I would like to point out that the level of corruption, the level of abuse in the Supreme Council, it does not only apply to individual deputies, let's say no posts. I, along with the Committee on the Regulations of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, conducted a service investigation and established, or together we established that the deputies of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, their assistants, unlawfully, receive wages and compensation for their authorization. According to the Ukrainian Law on the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine, only the Supreme Council, by its act, approves the official salary of the national deputy and all the proceeds thereof. Under the Ukrainian Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, a procedure for the approval of the funds of the Supreme Council of Ukraine should be followed during the adoption of the budget. So, in 2015 or 2016, the funds of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and all wages were not approved, and all the funding was carried out in accordance with the unlawful orders of the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Vladimir Groysman. 178 million dollars was illegally received with us, I don't want to say that we don't need the money, but we have to do it right, on the ground, and we have to prove that we're really the rule of law. Therefore, please consider this statement by my deputy's request to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, to bring all matters relating to the financing of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, including the cost of the asset, into line with the current legislation. And also to give us, as deputies, an explanation of why this was not done and let Vladimir Groissman tell us the reasons for his unlawful conduct. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-18-m0.u74	Dear National Deputies! So there were questions from such deputies. Victor Razwadowski to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the allocation of funds for the replacement of old water networks and the establishment of a water dehydration station in the city of Wonderland. Victor Razwadowski to the head of the Žitomir District Council, the head of the Žitomir District State Administration for the funding of the completion of the school in the village of Kodnja Žitomir district, the Žitomir Region, and the simultaneous financing of the cost of protecting this facility. Bogdan Onfrik to the Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine, head of the Montenegrin District State Administration on the question of the restructuring of the Bukovin State Financial and Economic University in the Chernivets region. Bogdan Onfrik to the Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine, Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine, Head of the Montenegrin District Administration for the allocation of funds to complete the reconstruction of the 2nd floor of the Zvenjačina Rural Council for the placement of the children's institution. Jury Pavlenko to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the criminal inaction of the Government in the provision of medicines for oncological children in the Gitomir region. Jurya Pavlenko to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for failure to comply with the Cabinet of Ministers decree of 9 December 2015 No1013 on the organization of the salaries of budget workers. Andrea Artemenka to the Secretary-General of the Security and Defence Council of Ukraine, Director of the National Anti-Corruption Bureau of Ukraine, Attorney-General of Ukraine, on the failure of law enforcement agencies and the administration of the Government to deal with officials who are suspected of committing corruption and are being investigated. Mustafa-Massi Najima to Prime Minister of Ukraine, Head of Administration of the President of Ukraine for meetings with Igor Kolomojski on 20.02.2016 - 21.02.2016. Anna Romanova to Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Finance of Ukraine, for the immediate resolution of the situation with the reduction of salaries for budget workers. Tetjani Donec to the Minister of Health of Ukraine on the implementation of the program "Leading Ukrainian Citizens Abroad". Andrija Kiselov to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the allocation of funding for the development and modernization of the material and technical base of the Dimitrov Central Hospital. Andrija Kiselov to the Prime Minister of Ukraine about the allocation of funds for the financing of the work of the capital road repair and the disposal of the surface waters of the central streets of Dimitrov. Mr. Vasil Janicki to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Vice Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Regional Development, Construction and Housing of Ukraine, Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine, Head of the Ravenna District State Administration for the Construction of School in the village of Stepango in the Volodimirecki region of the Plain region. Groups of National Deputies (Melnika, Gerega and others, only 5 deputies) to the head of the regional branch of the South West Railway for the restoration of the timetable of the diesel train DN-3 on the Hmelnicki-Shepetovka route. Andrija Derkača to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the return of a special tax regime to the added value of farmers. Andrija Derkača to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the non-restriction of authority of local self-government in the field of drug use. Alexander Abdullin to the Minister of Health of Ukraine, head of the Ravenna District State Administration for the provision of immediate medical care to the resident of the village of Lisov Dubrovicki district of the Plain region of Valerius Musiovich Gritsuk. Maxim Burbak to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the rapid and objective investigation of criminal conduct in connection with the bribery of voters by the deputy of the Montenegrin City Council, Rostislav Bilik. Maxim Burbak, head of the State Environmental Inspectorate for rapid, objective and impartial verification of information regarding the destruction of the landscaper of the local value of Boukovin Falls in the region of Putil. Mikhail Bondar to the Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Culture of Ukraine, on the withdrawal from the disaster state of the national architecture – the wooden church of Christmas in the village of Styborovka in the region of Lviv. Michael Bondar to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine on speeding up consideration of the transfer of property complexes of military towns Nos. Nos. 11 and 12 located in Bousk Lvivsk district to the property of the territorial community of Busk. Sergey Labazuk to the Ukrainian Minister of Health for the State Support of Hemodialysis Patients Sergia Labazuk to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, Ministry of Social Policy of Ukraine, on clarifying the situation regarding the recalculation of pensions for military personnel of the Ukrainian Armed Forces. Igor Shurma to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for failure to comply with the requirements of labour law by the Head of the Lviv Customs of the State Fiscal Service. Igora Shurma to the Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine, head of the Lviv District State Administration for inadequate electricity supply and the need to repair roads in the village of Pregnovo Zoločov district of Lviv. Anna Romanova to the Minister for Economic Development and Trade of Ukraine on the provision of comprehensive information on the list of measures and their schedule, for which there are 39,000 606. 39 million 606,000 dollars by budget program 1201030. Vasil Petovka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on removing obstacles to the implementation of the International Technical Assistance Projects under the Border Cooperation Programme "European Neighbourhood and Partnership Tool: Ukraine-Slovak-Hungary-Romania". Vladislav Buhareva to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the further functioning of education institutions for the training of middle-level practitioners in the Sumskia region and other regions of Ukraine. Vladislav Buhareva to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the improvement of the material and technical provision of the municipal institution of the Suma District Council, Area Specialised Psychiatric Hospital No. 2. Stepan Ivahiwa to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the restoration of road traffic through a border crossing in the village of Turatni district of Volin region. Vladislav Sevrukov to the minister of youth and sports of Ukraine on the violation of sports principles and the opacity of the formation of a junior assembly team from archery. Sergey Kunicina to the head of the Ukrainian Pension Fund for the massive violation of the legitimate rights of military pensioners in the calculation of pensions. Groups of National Deputies (Vilkula, Rabinovich and others) A total of 25 deputies) to the Prime Minister of Ukraine to prevent the destruction of the missile-space sector of Ukraine and to resolve the situation surrounding the State Enterprise "Southern" of the name of Yangel: changes to the Statute of this state-owned enterprise and the compulsory and unjustified release of Degtirov from the post of Designer-General, Director-General. Ostapa Ednak to the Boguslav Housing and Exploitation Office, Boguslav City Head, for ensuring the right of citizens to access public information. Groups of National Deputies (Ednaka, Gopko, Katzer-Buchovsky) to the Ternopil City Head, head of the Ternopil Regional State Administration on the waste management situation and ensuring the implementation of public policy in the field of waste management. Alexander Kodola to the Minister of Health of Ukraine, the Minister of Defence of Ukraine, the Head of the Ukrainian Security Service for the Restoration of Deprived Doctors who provided medical care in the context of the activities of the First Voluntary Mobile Hospital of the name Pyrogova in the ATO holding zone. Andrija Lopushanski to Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Finance of Ukraine, on the need to allocate funds (subsidies) from the State Budget to pay off the debt for the work carried out in 2008 on the disaster recovery (capital repair) of the municipal bridge in the village of the Old Sambrian Region of Lviv. Andrija Lopushanski to the executive responsibility of the Minister of Environment and Natural Resources of Ukraine as to the need to warn about the emergency with regard to the dumping of solid and liquid wastes of mountain areas of the Ukrainian border and environmental protection in the Lviv region. Anatoly Kuzmenka to the Minister of Energy and Coal Industry of Ukraine on the settlement of problematic issues regarding the restoration of lost social guarantees to former employees of the structural units of the State Holding Company "Alexandriaugil" Kirovograd region. Mr. Dmitra Kolesnikov to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for amendments to Cabinet Order No. 938 of 23 August 2012. Sergio Larina to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for a review of the appeal of the Kirovograd Regional Educational and Scientific Association of Ukrainian Education and Training Workers. Sergey Larina to the Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Regional Development, Construction and Housing of Ukraine, on the provision of systematic clarification, information and assistance to the inhabitants of the region of Kyrovograd as regards the implementation of transparent administrative and territorial reform, according to the Ukrainian Law on Voluntary Union of Communities. Jurija-Bogdan Suhević to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the establishment of a minimum pension is not below the subsistence minimum for women who work more. They have more than 20 years of experience and men who are over 25 years of age. Groups of National Deputies (Kurila, Laszka, and others) A total of 15 deputies) to the Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine for the restoration of passenger rail connections in the circuits of the Triotic, Bilokurakin, Starobel, Novoydar and Lugano Districts of Lugansk. Anatoly Evlakhov to the head of the Antimonopoly Committee of Ukraine, head of the National Commission, which regulates national energy and municipal services for the abuse of monopoly and for the violation of licensing conditions for the conduct of economic activity from the distribution of natural gas to the company PAT "Chernigugaz". Anatoly Kuzmenka to the head of the Ukrainian Pension Fund for the provision of information regarding the debt owed to the Ukrainian Pension Fund for the contributions of former employees of the structural units of the State Holding Company "Alexandriavugil" Kirovograd Region. Olga Bogolitz to the Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Culture of Ukraine, on the need for support at the state level of holding the 11th International Competition of Young Pianists of the memory of Vladimir Gorovitz. Andrea Shipka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for temporary housing in the city of Nnipropetrovsk. Andrija Shipka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the use of measures to strengthen the Kahov waterfront in the city of Nicopol Dnipropetrovsk. Alexia Lensky to the acting minister of ecology and natural resources of Ukraine regarding the use of urgent response measures in connection with gross violations of legislation, threats and unacceptable behaviour, unlawful layoffs by workers of the Užany National Park team from the newly appointed park manager Birkovic Viktor Ivanovic and the adoption of measures to ensure the preservation of qualified personnel working in the Užany National Park for a long period of time. Alexia Lensky, head of the State Road Agency of Ukraine, head of the Lviv District State Administration, on the urgent resolution of the issue of financing the capital repair of the road of national importance that passes through the city of Lviv Region and is in an emergency and paralyses passenger and freight traffic that violates the rights of Ukrainians and causes numerous inconveniences and immediate response measures to eliminate the garbage dump in the Zoločov region, the Lviv region, which is along the road to the picturesque part of Ukraine, the city of Jaremce. July Lvivczany to the Ministry of Social Policy of Ukraine to bring about the size of monthly assistance when giving birth to a child with the size of living minimum. Vadim Krivohatka to the head of the Ukrainian Security Service on the possible involvement in the corruption of the chief physician of the Zaporozhye District Hospital of Shiška and the head of the Samardak District Council and others Vladimir Litvina to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the immediate restoration of children to school. Artema Ilyuk to the Director of the National Anti-Corruption Bureau of Ukraine, Deputy Attorney-General of Ukraine, Head of the Specialised Anti-Corruption Prosecutor's Office, on actions that contain signs of corruption and measures to prevent corruption at the Ucrobanprom State Concert and at the concert. Alexander Suprunka to the Head of the National Commission, which regulates national energy and utilities regulations for the audit of the fares of Pat Kievenergo and TOV Euro Reconstruction. Alexander Suprunenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on issues that arise in the activities of the OSB and the ZBK with the payment of land taxes. Gregory Times to the head of the Montenegrin District Council, the head of the Montenegrin District Administration for the repair of the road of the state importance of Chernivci-Globok and the road of Chernivci-Kriva-Snowing-Snowman at the expense of the Special Fund of the District Budget of the Cherniewec Region. Vitalia Kurila to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the issue of debt accumulation and fine sanctions in connection with the blocking of accounts of local government and government authorities on the payment of electricity for the Lugansk Energy Union and the mass and permanent power cuts in the Lugansk region. Irina Heraszczenka and Maria Ionova to the Minister of Interior of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine, for information on the state of criminal conduct regarding Zolotrenk. Anton Heraszczenko to the head of the Court of Auditors for the conduct of non-planned action. Anton Heraszczenko to the State Enterprise Skrtransnaftrodokut for information and documentation. Sergia Kiwalova to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the restoration of the state education subsidy for 1-4 classes. Sergey Kiwalova to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need to define legal, organizational, financial principles for the functioning of colleges and technicians in the higher education system. Jury Bublika to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Prime Minister of Ukraine, Prosecutor-General of Ukraine for the illegal activities of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the National Commission for State regulation in the fields of energy and utilities related to the decision to establish public-inhabitation nodes for gas treatment, violation of the rights of consumers of gas and the conduct of mass protests in the Poltav region. Sergia Melnáka to the head of the National Police of Ukraine, Head of the National Environmental Inspectorate of Ukraine, acting as Minister of Environment and Natural Resources of Ukraine, Attorney General of Ukraine for the verification of compliance with the requirements of legislation in the territory of the State resort "Satans" of the Hmeljna Region. Groups of National Deputies (Dubnevich, Kota and others) A total of 17 deputies) to the Human Rights Council, the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine, the Authorized President of Ukraine for the Rights of the Child, the head of the Donetsk District State Administration for the removal of children from the war zone to safe areas. Jaroslava Dubnevic to Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Defence of Ukraine for the transfer of the land of Military City No.160 to the property of the territorial community of the Ralova Rural Council of the Sambir district of Lviv. Vasila Petovka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine about the allocation of funds to the Zacarpathian region for repairing highways. Sergey Kudlayenka to the Ukrainian Defence Minister for the use of urgent measures aimed at halting the illegal actions of military command of the 3008, regarding the failure to provide the necessary package of documents for the preparation and payment of one-time cash assistance in case of disability to the demobilized participant in the hostilities of Victor Tihon. Jacob Besbach to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the Ministry of Economic Development and Trade of Ukraine, the State Fiscal Service of Ukraine, the Ministry of Energy and the coal industry on the need to ensure the proper economic activity of metallurgical enterprises. Jacob Besbah to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the Ministry of Regional Development, Construction and Housing of Ukraine, the State Agency of Roads of Ukraine, the State Architecture and Construction Inspectorate of Ukraine, the Kyiv City Public Administration, the Mikolai City Council on the need for a comprehensive examination of citizens' requests for adequate housing and utility services. Valeria Davidenka to Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine, on the need to clarify the calculation, calculation, and transportation of passenger categories. Valeria Davidenka to Prime Minister of Ukraine, Head of the State Agency for Road Traffic in Ukraine, on the urgent need for repairing the Olshan-Kachanovka road in the Chernigiv region. Ivanni Klimpush-Cincadz to the first deputy head of the National Agricultural Inspectorate of Ukraine, the head of the Zacarpathian District Administration on the need to check the land allocation and the blockade of the Drobrat captivity. Irina Friz and Irina Heraszczenko to the head of the Kyiv State Administration for the housing of a disabled person involved in the fighting in connection with Alexander Sobol’s Anti - Terrorism Operation. Anatolia Denisenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the conduct of a census of former military personnel' pensions under the Ukrainian Act on Pension Insurance for Persons Released from Military Service and Some Other Persons. Anatoly of Denisenko to the acting minister of ecology and natural resources of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine for the cessation of the self-legal flooding of the VAT "Soyuz-Delta" in the waterfront in the territory of the city of Harkova. Taras Batenka to the Head of the National Penitentiary Service of Ukraine for the restoration of the functioning of the state correctional colony No.110 of the Mikolai district of Lviv. Taras Batenka to the first Deputy Attorney General of Ukraine for the cessation of the illegal and barbaric destruction of forests, which causes significant environmental damage to the region of the Division and the White Stone in the Lviv region. John Melniczuk to the head of the National Police of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine, for the detection of possible corruption in the illegal activities of law enforcement officials. John Melniczuk to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine, on the restoration of the violated right and on the use of measures to pay financial aid to single mothers, which was not paid illegally during January-February 2016. Gregory Times to the Ukrainian Minister of Health regarding the emergency care of the Chernobyl Children’s Hospital with medicines for the treatment of severely ill children. Groups of National Deputies (Welcome, Musia, and others) Only four deputies) to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on specific directions for the use of government funds of 500 million dollars for the financing of vocational and technical education facilities. Groups of National Deputies (Welcome, Musia, and others) Only four deputies) to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on specific directions for the use of government funds of 500 million dollars for the financing of vocational and technical education facilities. Dmitra Dobrodomova to the Minister of Health of Ukraine, the Minister of Finance of Ukraine, on the need to allocate funds in the first half of 2016 to complete the reconstruction of the Lviv district clinic. Groups of National Deputies (Solvara, Besbach, Matviyczuk) to the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Environmental Policy, Environmental Management and Elimination of the Effects of the Chernobyl Disaster, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the Ministry of Health of Ukraine, the Ministry of Environment and Natural Resources of Ukraine on the provision of information on the re-initiation of the project on the creation of the Chernobyl Radiological Biosphere Reserve in the territory of the alienation zone. Romana Macola, head of the National Stock Exchange Company Naftogaz Ukraine, on the application of measures to ensure the conclusion of a natural gas supply agreement between PAT "Naftogaz Ukraine" and the Shepetov utility company of the water supply and sanitation industry. Maxime Chicken to the Head of the Ukrainian Security Service, the Attorney General of Ukraine, for the prevention of secession technologies after the establishment of economic autonomy in the regions. Andrea Teteruka to the Head of the National Bank of Ukraine, Head of Public Administration. Andrija Teteruka to the Head of the National Bank of Ukraine, Head of the Government of the Public Shareholders Association of the "New", the Attorney General of Ukraine, on the provision of information on the State Enterprise development agency "Southern" of the name M.K. Engel, information on the final key players in the ownership structure of the Public Shareholder Company of the "New Shares Commercial Bank" and the provision of criminal and legal valuation (qualification) to the activities of the former Director-General of the State Enterprise, the construction office "Southern" of the name of Jangel Degtirev Aleksandra Viktorovich on the existence of the crime envisaged by the Criminal Code of Ukraine. Vitalia Gudzenka to the Head of the Kyiv District State Administration for the provision of funds for the completion of the construction and for the operation of the site from the disposal of solid household waste near the village of Rozkošna Stavishteny district of Kyiv region. Mr. Vasil Janicki to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine, Head of the State Border Service of Ukraine, Head of the Ravenna District State Administration for the establishment of a simplified point of entry in the direction of the Butova District of the Yearly Region of the Plain Region - Town of the Stolin district of the Brest Region of the Republic of Belarus. Dmitry Timchuk to the Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine, Head of the State Migration Service of Ukraine, Head of the State Service of Ukraine, in exceptional situations regarding the non-abuse of payments to internally displaced persons and manipulations by the number of internally displaced persons. Mr Jaroslava Markevich to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the submission of documentation. Jaroslava Markevich, head of the National Commission for State Regulations in the Field of Energy and Municipal Services, head of the Antimonopoly Committee, acting temporarily as Head of the National Police Directorate in the Dnipropetrov region for the implementation of measures to eliminate violations of the requirements of legislation in the work of the Nicopolian Department of Gas of the PAT "Dnipropetrovskgaz zbog". Oleg Osuhovski to Minister of Interior of Ukraine, Head of the National Police of Ukraine, Prosecutor General of Ukraine, on the use of law enforcement measures in the region of Vladimir. Oleg Osuhovski to the Minister of Interior of Ukraine, Head of the National Architecture and Construction Inspectorate of Ukraine, Attorney General of Ukraine for the cessation of illegal construction alongside the monument to the national architecture of the Regional Regional Museum. Andrija Illenka, acting as head of the government of the Public Shareholders Association Ukrzaliznica, Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine, for the repair of the mobile warehouse of suburban trains on the Vynograd-Hmilnik-Irsava narrow-track. Andrea Illenka to the Chief of General Staff, Commander-in-Chief of the Armed Forces of Ukraine, Minister of Defense of Ukraine, on the use of response measures to preserve the Krut Memorial Collection. Yuri Lewchenka to the Ukrainian Social Insurance Fund, the Ukrainian Ministry of Social Policy, for the failure to pay for temporary disability and pregnancy and maternity benefits to insured persons who are registered in unoccupied territory of Ukraine and who are in employment relations with businesses registered in the temporarily occupied territory of Ukraine. Yurya Levchenka to the Head of the Antimonopoly Committee of Ukraine, Head of the National Commission for Energy and Utilities, Head of the State Service for Food Safety and Consumer Protection, Prosecutor General of Ukraine for Systemic Violations of the Kyivénergo PAT, Consumers' Rights to ensure the heat supply by ignoring the indicators entered into the operation of the buildings for the treatment of consumed thermal energy and the payment of charges for services used in accordance with the general tariff. Alexia Kirichenko to the Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine on the use of response measures aimed at improving the basic principles of the functioning of the Ukrainian vocational and technical education system and overcoming crises, taking into account the proposals made by the Directors of Vocational and Technical Institutions as a result of a meeting at the head of the Suma District Council in the process of reforming the sector. Vadim Krivenk and Paul Dziblik to the minister of internal affairs of Ukraine regarding the deterioration of the crime - related situation in the Zitomir region in connection with illegal amber mining. John Baloga to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Prime Minister of Ukraine, for financing the construction of a road around the city of Berogowa to the international point of entry of Lužanka-Breghsuran. John Baloga to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Prime Minister of Ukraine, for the transfer of the Beregian Service List complex to the municipal property of the territorial community of the town of Beregov. Groups of National Deputies (Katzer-Buchkowski, Yelensky and others). A total of 18 deputies) headed by the Kiev City State Administration for the creation of the Museum of Marriage of Slava Stecko and Jaroslava Stecka in the building at the address of the city of Kiev, Antonovica Street, 3-B. Sergey Kaplina to the Head of the National Environmental Inspectorate of Ukraine on the use of measures to eliminate unauthorized garbage dumps near the village of Makuhovka Poltava. Natalia Katser-Buchovsky to the Minister for Economic Development and Trade of Ukraine for the construction of gas stations on the borders with the EU and the Russian Federation. Oleg Kulinić to the Head of the State Service of Ukraine for geodesy, cartography, and cadastre to remove obstacles to the acquisition of land by ATO participants. Oleg Kulinić to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the settlement of the issue of pension for persons who have retired for a period of time. National MPs (Dechtirczuka, Musia, Tretlyakova) to the Ministry of Health of Ukraine on the urgent provision of essential medical supplies for the resident of Dubno, who transferred the transplant operation to the donor kidney. Vladimir Aresonkov to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for not allowing the liquidation of state forestry enterprises. Vladimir Aresonkova to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the State financing of the construction of the oncodipenser in Žitomirščina. Paul Rizanenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the elimination of violations of the rule of law in the part of the appointment and consent of the first deputies and deputy heads of the district government. Andrija Šinkovič to the head of the Hmelnick District Council, Head of the Hmelnicki District Regional Council, Head of the Netishin City Council, Head of the Isiaslav District Council of the Hmelnicki District, Head of the Krasiliv District Council of the Hmelnicki District, Head of the Theophilus District Council of the Hmelnicki District on the need to provide food for children in schools in the Hmelnicki district. Andrija Šinkovič to the head of the Hmelnick district council, Head of the Krasilov district council of the Hmelnicka district, Head of the Isiaslav district council of the Hmelnicka district, Head of the Theophilus district council of the Hmelnicka district to increase the provision of medicines for the provision of emergency medical care in the amount of 10 dollars per year per village resident. Alexander Revega to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Health of Ukraine, head of the Žitomir District Council on the need to preserve the Regional Health Centre of Vertebrology and Rehabilitation of the Žitomir District Council. Dmitry Linka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the allocation of funds for investment projects in the region of Kirovograd. Dmitry Linka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the allocation of roads, bridges in the Petrovsk region of Kirovograd, the reduction of electricity tariffs for the population, the increase in the number of restrictions on the first tariff block for the population. Valentina Nichiporenka to the Attorney General of Ukraine for the protection of the interests of the Connelly-Popolian community of the Jaskovsky region, Cherkas region. Valentina Nichiporenka to the Attorney General of Ukraine on criminal matters. Sergia Rudika to Prime Minister of Ukraine to increase funding for the repair of Cherkaščina’s automobiles in 2016. Sergia Rudika to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the degradation of the land areas of former state enterprises in the structure of the National Academy of Agricultural Sciences among the inhabitants of the villages of Mala Smiljanka, the Netherlands and Mikolayevka of the region of the Cherkas region. Alexander Dombrovski to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Justice of Ukraine, Minister of Interior of Ukraine, Prosecutor-General of Ukraine, First Deputy Chief of the National Police in the Vinicki Region, Head of the Main Territorial Administration of Justice in Kiev, Prosecutor of the Vinnicki Region for illegal recourse to a single residence and forced eviction of a citizen of Oksana Jury, who is in a mortgage to secure a loan in a foreign currency. Alexander Dombrovski to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine, head of the Vinnick district administration, head of the Vinnick district council for the fourth stage of the student Olympics from the science and science cycle not only among the students of the graduation classes. Paul Dzüblik to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the unlawful actions of the owner of TDV "ZL" in the city of Žitomir on the fact that workers are illegally retaining workbooks that are intended to be released do not pay the employee's salary for the period worked for the company. Paul Djublik and Vadim Krivenk to the Head of State Service of Ukraine on matters of geodesy, cartography, and cadastre regarding the illegal removal of land by the head of the State Department of the Ministry of State in the Zitomirsk region. Mikhail Golka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Vice Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Regional Development, Construction and Housing of Ukraine, Head of the Ternopil Regional Government Administration, on the allocation of funds for the construction of clean-up buildings in the town of Skalat Podvolocchi district of Ternopil district from the State Regional Development Fund. Michaela Gołka and Alexander Marchenka to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Head of the Ukrainian Security Service, Deputy Attorney General of Ukraine, Head of the Specialised Anti-Corruption Prosecutor's Office for the Anti-Governmental Activities of NAC Naftogaz Ukraine and Pat "Swimming". Vladimir Parasuka to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, Head of the State Property Fund of Ukraine, Head of the State Financial Inspectorate in the Lviv region for information on the activities of the State Recreational Base "The Magic Lakes" and verification of the circumstances of the possible illegal privatisation of the base at a low cost. Vladimir Parasuka to the Head of the State Audit Service of Ukraine, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, on the verification of the purposeful use of funds by the Director of the State Historical and Architectural Reserve of Zovva Volodymyr Geric during the renovation and restoration work of the Castle of Žovkov. Jury Bublika to Minister of Interior of Ukraine, Director of the National Anti-Corruption Bureau of Ukraine, Prosecutor General of Ukraine on the illegal actions of the head of the Poltava District Council of Bielenko O.J. on the forced change of head of the Poltavafar district utility company and the appointment of a person who is tried for bribes. Ruslana Demczak to the Head of the National Fiscal Service of Ukraine on the transfer to the territorial community of a town-type village called Turbów of a non-residential building for the Administrative Services Centre. Group of National Demchak, Sporish and others, only 7 deputies) to the Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Regional Development, Construction and Housing of Ukraine, on the list of road repairs to the Winnitsk Region in 2016. Alexander Marchenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the allocation of land and financing of the R-17 road, social facilities in the city of Bila Church of Kiev. Alexander Marchenka to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the inaction of the law enforcement authorities of the Kyiv region. Roman Semenha to the Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine on the harmonization of the order of the issuing of family history. Roman Semenha to the Minister of Justice of Ukraine on the non-conformity of paragraph 43 of Decree No.1037 and paragraph 3 of letter No. 7/10-1070 of the Ministry of Regional Development, Construction and Housing. Maxime Chicken to Secretary of the National Security and Defence Council of Ukraine on the situation in the Ukrainian space sector. Jurya Bereza to the Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine on the need to repair the road between the Apostolic and Nicopolian regions of the Dnipropetrov region. Yurya Bereza is under the responsibility of the Minister of Environment and Natural Resources of Ukraine for the need to repair the hydrotechnical protection facility No. 8 of the Kakhov water shelter. Vitalia Stasuka to the head of the Ukrainian Security Service on the review of a citizen's appeal to the Decree of Anna Jurijovna on the possibility of exceeding the official authority of her former husband, a co-worker of the U.S.S.A. in the Chernigiv region. John Rybak to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, acting as Minister of Environment and Natural Resources of Ukraine, Head of the State Environmental Inspectorate of Ukraine, temporarily acting as Head of the State Water Agency of Ukraine, Head of the Johno-Frankov Regional Administration, on the need for urgent verification of violations of environmental legislation and on the involvement of those responsible. John Rybak to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Health of Ukraine, Minister of Defence of Ukraine, on the need to resolve the issue of the expansion of the potential of the State institution "Science and Practice Centre of Child Cardiology and Cardiosurgery" of the Ministry of Health of Ukraine. Groups of National Deputies (Sidorovich, Opanasenka and others, only 7 deputies) to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, the Director of the National Anti-Corruption Bureau of Ukraine, the Attorney-General of Ukraine for the legal evaluation of the activities of owners and officials of the PAT Delta Bank, the officials of the Fund for the Guarantee of Investments of Individuals, the National Bank of Ukraine, which is linked to the bankruptcy and liquidation of the bank. Sergey Kudlayenka to the Minister of Defence of Ukraine on the use of urgent measures to establish the actual circumstances of the wounded soldier at the invitation of Legushi Vitali Sergiyovich during his military service. Edward Matthewchuk to the Ministry of Social Policy of Ukraine, the Ministry of Health of Ukraine, the Odessa District State Administration, the Odessa City Council on the need to provide social and other comprehensive assistance in ensuring adequate treatment for the oncological diseases of the second group, residents of the Kyiv district of Odessa, Friends of Petrovna’s Hope, and, again, Natalia Petrovna Oksanenko. Edward Matviychuk to the Ministry of Social Policy of Ukraine, Odessa City Council, Odessa District State Administration, regarding the need for an objective review of the re-examination of the internally displaced person Greenishak Lydia Josephovni, who temporarily resides in the Kyiv district of Odessa. Groups of national deputies (Moses, Dobrodomov and others, only seven deputies) to the Minister of Interior of Ukraine for clarification. Jury of Devyanka to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the need for the speedy restoration of work from the development of Batków-Babczyn Oil and Condensation plant and the non-admission of the reduction of the employees of the NGO "Outdoornaftegaz" Pat "Ukranafta". Yurya Derevyanka to the Minister of Finance of Ukraine regarding the allocation to the local budgets of the Ivano-Frankiv Region of the subsidy from the Ukrainian State Budget for 2016 for the socio-economic development of individual areas for the construction of social infrastructure objects. Groups of National Deputies (Rybčina, Shkrum and others, only 11 deputies) to the Kyiv City Head on the inadmissibility of the construction of the "Skull of Heaven" in Kiev and violations of the requirements of the current legislation of Ukraine in granting permits for the construction of the respective land. Jury Chizmar to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the taking of a criminal case under personal control with the aim of upholding the laws of the authorities that carry out the search and search. Olga Cervakovi to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the illegal removal of land from the State Forest Fund, on the exceedance of authority by officials of local self-government and on the inaction of law enforcement agencies. We have completed our consideration of the parliamentary questions. In accordance with the Rules, I announce a recess of up to 12 hours for 30 minutes. Ladies and gentlemen, we will continue our work at 12 hours 30 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-18-m0.u75	We continue our work, distinguished national MPs. I propose that we now consider, according to our schedule, the report of the Interim Investigation Commission on the technical expertise of construction work and on the efficiency of budget use in building bridge crossings across the Dnipro River in Zaporozhye. This question does not require a vote, we can hear a report from the head of the interim commission of inquiry. I suggest that we now listen to the committee head's report for 10 minutes, then we have 10 minutes to answer the questions. Please welcome to the floor Mr. National Deputy Sabashuk, head of the interim commission of inquiry for the report.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-18-m0.u76	Dear Sir, distinguished national MPs! Today, this is the previous report of the work of the commission that worked for six months, which is an interim report. What I'm saying. You all have a report on your hands, I can read it, I can't read it. If you don't mind, I suggest. Because I can, I can answer the questions, but a few nuances. Nuance first. A lot of money was stolen. What we found was at least 300 million dollars in the 12th year, which were counted as an advance, counted as an intermediate firm and disappeared without a trace. One. The second question that's serious enough is the crane that was behind. which was built in Sevastopol, which was still confiscated by the Russian Federation. Today there is a question of returning it or compensating it because, unfortunately, our prison crane today builds the Kerchnian transport and has not even been adorned. The only thing that makes him happy is that he builds it and is painted in yellow and blue. The technical state of this structure also asks for, challenges the best. And a serious technical audit is needed. That's why we had it. The meeting of the working group, together with the Zaporozhye administration, together with the Zaporozhye administration, where the decision was taken: first, to hold a meeting in the Cabinet of Ministers with the invitation of members of the national deputies, members of the commission and the interim commission of inquiry, once; the administration of the Zaporozhye Mountains. The city of Zaporozhye, Zaporozhye region – two. And listen to the initiative of the Landscaping, the Land of Zaporozhi, to transfer this object to return it from the agency to the city to finish the work. Well, there's still a question for today's funding day, because cities are actually funded by 48 percent in six years, but on their own. It's a matter of We don't know how much money he's got, and we don't know how much money it takes. So we went to the government with the problem of conducting this meeting, doing completely technical audit, doing economic auditing, and doing a funding scheme for bridges. Well, for a short while. I'm ready to answer the questions. Deputies? The MPs, the invitation to the Attorney General's Office, the B.S.A., the travel agency, the Cabinet of Ministers. They already are.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-18-m0.u77	Are you done?
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-18-m0.u78	Yes, ready to answer the questions are more specific.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-18-m0.u79	Please sign up for questions. Please, National Deputy Sergei Ruddick.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-18-m0.u80	Dear reporter, I wanted to find out what amount they stole. Or exactly my colleague, who next to you, Jacob Jakovitch Bezbach, has the same interest in this question. Is this building built? How much more money does the government budget have to be allocated? If not, as a member of the Committee on Budgets, I am very interested in this issue. Of course, all of us are concerned about the legal consequences of the infringement, except for questioning. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-18-m0.u81	Answer. Construction time has increased from 6 years to 9 years. Costs increased by 2.9 times and accounted for, to date, 2 billion 727 million dollars spent on construction. The latest data we've found so far we've found 300 million dollars of that money that was listed by tender in 2012. By the way, I want to point out that when the tender was conducted, the terms were developed by the Cabinet of Ministers. Ummanautodor as a developer, which. The builder was paid 100 percent of the prepaid, which in itself is interesting. After that, this company, Ummanautodor, listed this money to its contractor, the Planet-Mist BMW, who just disappeared without paying back a penny in advance. Everything? [[B in m in s a l in]] 300 million dollars in 2012. We couldn't dig. A lot more, that's what.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-18-m0.u82	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-18-m0.u83	What is more, the prosecutor's office has opened a criminal investigation today, but unfortunately, neither the head of this company nor even the location of this company have been found. It was such a power, beautiful, that it was just an impossibility. To date, we have asked the Special Commission of the Security Service of Ukraine to report to the Attorney-General at the next session on the status of conduct on this issue.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-18-m0.u84	Thank you. National Deputy Igor Shurma.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-18-m0.u85	Igor Shurma, Opposition Block. Mr. Sabashuk, I know you've visited and visited Zaporozhye very often and you're worried about solving your problems. Surprisingly, when it comes to loud statements about the city’s connection, one city does not unload two parts of the city, permanent traffic jams, and permanent accidents. A commission is being created. Please tell me, do you think it's normal that Kabmin can't hold a meeting and decide on a further fate? The commission is working for six months. Well, to tell you the truth, 300 million people have stolen, well, there are certain names behind the companies, well, nobody's been dissolved anywhere, so you can probably call it responsibility. But I think we need to look for some compromise in which, the Kabdin must say, it will continue or not, or those bridges will stand unbuilt. And questions. When do you see the end of those bridges?
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-18-m0.u86	Well, I'm, I'm like a prison MP and only as the chairman of the commission can I say, first of all, yes, there were a few problems in the commission's work. Problem one. Unfortunately, in Zaporozhye, we had no one to work with, because the election team, unfortunately, did not work at all in the city as such. This time. Secondly, we've asked the Cabinet of Ministers, our beloved Prime Minister, to ask us, after all, to appoint a representative for the work and cooperation with the commission. Well, Mr. Vashsky was appointed, if memory allows me, and then three or four weeks later I left, you know, said I wouldn't work there. From. We wrote a letter. Well, that's it. By the way, we wrote a letter. Why? Because we had an understanding with the local council, that is, with the land as a methodological way of doing what we need to do today. So we're talking about the fact that the landlady is ready to take over and take this object of unfinished construction to Zaporozhye. This time. But the Cabinet of Ministers has to reconcile and conduct the entire technical audit of the transfer, the economic audit and the calculation at the end, because no one knows.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-18-m0.u87	Let me finish. But please finish 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-18-m0.u88	Just, just how much money it takes to build it. This information simply does not exist. What's more, unfortunately, is that today, from 2012 to 2016, construction was done without agreed project documentation, and it just doesn't exist. Because at first the bathtub bridge had to be built, and after that, when it failed to take the tap, they said we were going to build an intermediate bridge. They started pouring bulls without project technical documentation, unfortunately. And today we're trying to figure this out. It's a very difficult question. Because you understand which one.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-18-m0.u89	How much do you need to finish? Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-18-m0.u90	Now there's an understanding of three sides: this is the people's deputies, this is the city council, the district council, and the administration, the district administration, where we're going and how.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-18-m0.u91	Thank you. People's MP, Mikola Froll.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-18-m0.u92	Dear Peter Pavlovich! Dear colleagues! National Deputy of Ukraine Frolov Mikola Alexandrovich, Peter Prashenko's Block. Two questions. First question. Dear Peter Pavlovich, we were with you a month ago at a large meeting at the Zaporozhye District Council, where Mr. Burjak, the city’s chief of staff, announced this very thesis that the city authorities were ready to build a city. Even though this is going to be done, given the fact that 4 billion is still needed, I don't really understand. Tell me, since then, to the Ministry of Infrastructure, the city authorities have sent official requests for the transfer of responsibility for this facility to the level of city authority. And the second question. Do you think that's right, given the strategic significance of Zaporozhye and Zaporozhye today as a frontal area. And unfortunately, we think it'll be a question.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-18-m0.u93	Can I answer that?
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-18-m0.u94	Yes, yes, please give an answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-18-m0.u95	First of all, I want to say that, following that meeting, a letter came to me as the head of the commission from Mr. Burjak asking him to hold a meeting with the Cabinet of Ministers on the issue of passing bridges to balance as an object of unfinished construction in Zaporozhye. As head of the commission, I was sent to the Cabinet of Ministers, to Mr. Prime Minister, asking him to hold this meeting. Unfortunately, no answers have been received so far. [[B in m in s a l in]] No, the city authorities have turned to us as to the commission that they agree with, asking for a meeting to be held to reconcile their position. Such a letter came to the commission, sorry, I'll just show it and agree with Mr. Burjak. First question. And secondly, when we did, we understand that today the only way to do this is to build this city, it's only to talk about international credit, and we're going to have to ask the budget committee to compensate the body of credit and interest rate in.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-18-m0.u96	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-18-m0.u97	Because in the budget, we understand, 4 billion we can't find yet. But this needs to be understood, this has to be Kabmin's decision and the way the city council should go.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-18-m0.u98	Thank you. And the last question is Victor Krivenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-18-m0.u99	Dear Mr. Peter, please tell me, as head of the commission, I'm on this committee because Zaporozhye is close and that's really a problem. But I'm still asking you to hold at least the first session of our committee, so that we can invite people to the meeting, so that we can invite people and the locals, the prosecutor's office, the financials, whoever comes, who doesn't come, because that's how we're going to wait for the government for a very long time. It's not a question, it's a wish. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-18-m0.u100	Mr. Krivenko, I want to say that all the members of the commission were invited, there was an outgoing meeting of this committee, which took place on February 17, 2016. I'm sorry, so I'll take care of my assistants, why it didn't work out. Because in addition to the foreign MPs who were members of the commission, there was Mr. Galchenko of the Horn of Curve, who is also a member of the commission, we conducted him, she was authorized and she was, this commission, she passed. And the district attorney and the city mayor and the governor were also invited to hold this meeting together, and all the national deputies. And after that, the outcome of this outgoing session was that I was asked by the MPs to do the assignments that were discussed on this committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-18-m0.u101	Thank you. There's still time. One more question. National MP Arthur Martovicki.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-18-m0.u102	Thank you. Please pass the word to Deputy Shurma.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-18-m0.u103	Please, National Deputy Igor Shurma.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-18-m0.u104	Dear Mr. Peter! Igor Shurma, Opposition Block. I'm still going back to another question. Today, Zaporozhye residents who suffer from the absence of a bridge have no interest in who will build them. People wonder when the city will be built. Everyone who comes to Zaporozhye and moves through Dnipro sees that parts of the highway, parts of the bridge on both sides are built, and needs to be built. I propose today not to throw arrows at the city's head, whether he has given any letters or not, to throw arrows at the Cabinet of Ministers. Today, there are people in the room who have chosen this Cabinet of Ministers and Prime Minister, let's let those who have political responsibility for the government's activities contact him for a meeting, let him clarify when the funds will be allocated, and when will these bridges be added? Today, it is everyone’s responsibility — both Kabmin and the one who appointed him — and people need a bridge.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-18-m0.u105	Thank you. Please respond.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-18-m0.u106	Thank you, Mr. Shurma. I'm going to answer you, first of all, we need to talk about the responsibility of that Cabinet of Ministers that was when the Party of Regions was working. We need to talk about the decision of that Cabinet of Ministers, which, by its determination, said that 300 million should be awarded and more than that, this 300 million should be made as a prepaid 100 percent contract. Although this is possible under our Budget Code, a maximum of 30 percent. So Mr. Azarov and his team worked very well to build these bridges. And for today, this needs to be corrected – that's how it is. And a letter sent today to Mr. Prime Minister and I think that ours here is unclear yet in this room and is the basis for what is not yet being done. But I hope that we'll be dealing with this issue in a week or two and still have the Cabinet of Ministers hold this meeting. I hope so, too, but I'm sorry, in five years, when the contractor became the Umanautodor company, which never built bridges, and then suddenly it started to build and then it ran away, and then it turned over the money, that's what the gentleman says.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-18-m0.u107	Thank you, Mr. Sabashuk. We've concluded this question, it doesn't need a decision. That's why we're moving to work now in our section "Crazy." Please prepare for the entry for discussion at the Miscellaneous. Please hold the recording. [[B in m in s a l in]] Please, National Deputy Ariev of the procedure. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-18-m0.u108	Thank you very much, Madam Chairman! I'd like to ask, why can't we now discuss the bill in the order of the day 2280? I understand that we do not now have the opportunity to adopt a decision, but to discuss the bill, and then to vote, accordingly, from the bill under discussion on another sessional day, it is possible. So I'm asking, let's take a look at this bill before we do the Difference. And this bill, it's a gem that blocks Ukraine's introduction to the European Association of Higher Education. And it's a bill, it's an order in terms of diplomas, in terms of scientific degrees, and in other areas related to the achievement of scientific titles. So I'm asking you very much, let's first discuss this bill in accordance with the agenda, and then we'll move on to the Miscellaneous. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-18-m0.u109	Thank you. [[B in m in s a l in]] Ladies and gentlemen, the matter is what it was. There's been such a slight misunderstanding. It was really an orderly bill that was very important, which I think we should discuss. And we're saving this record for performances in "The Miscellaneous." But I'm now proposing a bill, and this is a bill amending the Ukrainian Higher Education Act on the National Agency for Quality Education, and it's important, and it needs it. We do. The rapporteur and the committee head said they would report effectively in order to get us through it as soon as possible. So I would like to invite you to the address of the national deputy of Ukraine, Alexander Spiowakovsky. Please report, yes. Thank you. Bill 2280a and 2280a-1, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-18-m0.u110	The honourable chairman, the distinguished national deputies, has actually been waiting for all of us since July 2015. Dear colleagues, what are we talking about? I'll be right here. deal with alternative project 2281. Listen very carefully. Now September 1st should have started, as of September 1, 2015, the National Agency should have started its work with the quality of education. In fact, the Minister of Education, today I asked him questions, blocked the work of the National Agency, and in fact the Ministry of Education and Science took over the functions of the National Agency, which have expertise, have questions of accreditation, licensing, the discovery of specialized scientific advice to protect candidates, doctoral dissertations, the issuing of diplomas and so forth. Dear colleagues, this is legal corruption, in our view, when direct laws are not being enforced. The Minister of Education says that if you adopt a law that sets out the issue of qualifications for members of the National Agency for the quality of education, in this case the law on higher education on the work of the National Agency for the quality of education will be unlocked. Dear colleagues, what are we talking about? It's about two basic things. First: Qualifying requirements are established, and it is also established that the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine will be entitled by approval of this national. The National Agency is also affected by dismissals when, for example, one of the members of the National Agency fails to comply with certain qualifications. And the second question, very controversial which we are with an alternative bill, is whether these rules will be applied to those members of the National Agency who have already been elected in a legal way. That's why our compromise -- we've now had negotiations and discussions with the head of the committee, Lilia Mikhailna, with the author of the alternative project, by National Deputy Sergey Sobolev -- and we've come to a compromise so that we can put this to a vote on Tuesday: remove the issue of applying this rule to the current members of the National Agency, but all the things involved with the influence of the Cabinet of Ministers, because the National Agency -- it exists and works at the expense of the state, it should affect these things. So I think it's a smart compromise that should unlock the work of the National Agency, and then we work. It's very short. I think under the stenographer we can say that we're leaving 10, 11 points 1 and we're shooting in End Positions item 2. And this -- I'm addressing Sergei Sobolev in this case -- is going to solve the problem of compromise with your alternative project. Dear colleagues, thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-18-m0.u111	Thank you. I invite you to comment on an alternative bill number 2280a-1 of the People's Deputy Sergio Sobolev.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-18-m0.u112	I am very grateful to the author of the previous bill, and we have talked about this with the head of the profiling committee. I think it's this compromise that's going to unlock the work of an organ that's the most important. There's one question. In fact, for the sixth month in the country, there should be an authority that, under the Education Act, should clearly set those criteria and regulate all relations related to these rights in the education system. Unfortunately, he never worked. Our two bills are nothing different in terms of criteria and everything else, the only difference that exists is the Cabinet of Ministers approves the composition of this independent body, and the second difference that exists, from which period it begins to work. We found a compromise, we understand that any independent body financed by the State Budget must have any criterion of influence of the Cabinet of Ministers on this, at least to check whether it is appropriate or not. In this part we agreed that the Cabinet of Ministers approves this, and in the second part, to immediately start its work, all of these criteria start to work as defined by law. This is a compromise and we would like to support the only agreed option that is between the two drafters of the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-18-m0.u113	Thank you. Welcome to the floor of the co-rapporteur, head of the Committee on Science and Education, Greenevich, Mrs. Lilia Greenevich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-18-m0.u114	Dear fellow national deputies, this is the National Agency for the Quality of Higher Education for us is a very important body in the entire system of modern European higher education, because the quality of education must be assessed independently. And in our concept of the Higher Education Act, it's so, you know, the conscience of higher education, so it's very important that people with an impeccable reputation go there. This is what Bill 2280a aims at, which we propose to take as a basis. But we've had consultations, we've heard the authors of an alternative bill, and we've come to such a compromise. First, we would like to apply to Bill 2280a one of the norms of Bill 2281a, which I think is very useful. That is, to add to the credentials, to the reasons for the termination of the powers of the members of the NAC to appeal by the entity that chose him. If such a person does not justify the trust of those who have chosen him, he may be called off. So we're taking this extra position from the alternative bill. And in accordance with the consultations that have been held, we propose to remove paragraph 3 from the final provisions of Bill 2280a, yes, on application. Yeah, paragraph three, which, uh... at the point. So once again for the transcript: we remove 2280a from the Final Positions from paragraph 2 of Part Three. I ask the House to support this bill so that the Higher Education Act can finally work. And in order to join the National Agency, really honest people will guarantee an independent assessment of the quality of higher education.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-18-m0.u115	Ladies and gentlemen, I'm sorry. We had no questions. Is there a question for a reporter or a co-rapporteur?
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-18-m0.u116	Can I have a word within the limit?
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-18-m0.u117	Please, yes. Please, Mrs. Lilia.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-18-m0.u118	Because I have a rule, I just want to say one sentence. Ladies and gentlemen of the National People's House, now in the Yellow Palace, employees of vocational and technical education have come from all over Ukraine. That's where I came, the national deputies no longer came. And now this mood is being exploited by one person. There is a person who is a simple Ukrainian oligarch. You know who this is. Mr. Kaplin, who instead of talking constructively about how to solve the problem of vocational and technical education, he's got people there. This will continue until 1:30 p.m. And people think the Supreme Council ignored them because no one else came. So I'm asking you to pay attention to that. And he needs to be put in place for his inadequate conduct. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-18-m0.u119	Thank you. Thank you, Mrs. Lila. Please tell me, is there a need for discussion? Okay. Then write down the factions for discussion by the factions. Please, National Deputy Vladislav Sevrukov, Block of Petra Poshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-18-m0.u120	Please, I'd like to give the floor to the national MP, Honcharenko Alexia.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-18-m0.u121	Please, National Deputy Alexei Honcharenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-18-m0.u122	Thank you. Dear colleagues, understanding the need for the law and, of course, supporting it, I want to draw the attention of the viewers watching the broadcast, to the fact that there are no more than 50 national deputies in the Supreme Council Hall. And I'm still asking you to sit down, and I think in such cases, we need to have any vote to get everyone to see in the country who's going to work. And the results of the vote will be on the Supreme Council website. And every Ukrainian citizen can go in and see who's in the workplace and who's in the bozna where. And we have to do it, or we will never work on Fridays. And the second. We have adopted the Supreme Council's decree to change the reform of our work. It needs to be reformed so that there is no disgrace as we see each sessional Friday in this room. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-18-m0.u123	Thank you. Please, National Deputy Igor Shurma, Opposition Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-18-m0.u124	Igor Shurma, Opposition Block. Dear colleagues, those in the hall, and I'm talking to people who are watching what's going on under the dome. You know, we have to thank Lily Greenevich today, and I call her first name with the hope that she might be able to take another line, because she's been working throughout the entire office of this Supreme Council professionally trying to propose legislative initiatives and bring some kind of benefit to this sector, in reforming it. But what we're seeing, you see. First, there's a coalition -- 302 people, you can form any order of the day. If the issue of education is important to the coalition in Ukraine, educational problems should not be dealt with on Fridays or at the end of the day when no one is left. You're not only discrediting the coalition, you're discrediting the entire parliament. And I'm talking about the whole Parliament, including the Opposition Block, because yesterday, when voting for an important educational law, if it wasn't for the votes of the Opposition Block, this law would not have been passed. And that's why everyone keeps quiet. And I have to tell you one thing, education should unite everyone. And today you could listen to the previous speaker, put to the vote today’s educational law to see who is in the hall. But, excuse me, coalition colleagues, this is total nihilism and complete irresponsibility to education. In order to show that you are in one of these Fridays, you are putting the situation in the hall when you break the law, for it is not because it is bad, not because you do not support it, but because there are no people. And that is why it is complete irresponsibility and again the same pear. Now for the bill itself. It must be discussed in the same format as it is. Today's regulation is that thing that everyone who is not lazy in that Supreme Council has been trampled on, and then put to the vote. You can't vote today. That's why I'm talking to the chairman. Please hold a discussion of this law within the limits of the possibilities that we have today, and it is not possible to vote at all for today. And the question of presence is the discipline of all, including coalitions, and in the tiredness of the people who are now in opposition because they are the face of the entire parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-18-m0.u125	Thank you, Mr. Igor. And we're going to continue this discussion by the people's deputies, and we're now discussing the bill in full procedure. And the vote, plus the completion of the discussion, will take place next plenary week. Please sign up for a discussion. Please, National Deputy Vladimir Ariev, Peter Prashenko Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-18-m0.u126	Dear colleagues! Here, morals have been read to us from "The Environment" about how few of us walk here, and of all the factions, two of them sit there. So let's tell you what, we're not going to be like Cosma Prutkov said, "See the wreck in the neighbor's eye, don't stare at your bra." So let's talk now essentially. Dear colleagues! "Finally" and "Transitional Positions" and the Ukrainian Higher Education Act provide for the formation of the first National Agency to ensure the quality of higher education for 10 months from the date of entry into force of this law. I mean, it had to be done before June 6, 2015, but it wasn't done. The creation and start of such a Nationality in Ukraine should be one of the real and important examples of reforms in the state. In particular, the introduction of real deregulation and decentralization in higher education, and real autonomy in higher education. According to the law, a national agency should be an independent and collegiate body, with its members elected by the highest educational institutions in the state and non-state, the National and Sectoral Academy of Sciences, employers, and student self - government. At the same time, the agency is given a number of credentials, which in Europe, in the United States and in general in the entire civilized world, belong to the powers of non-ministerial officials, as we now have, but to similar independent agencies, such as licensing expertise, accreditation of the issue of the award of scientific degrees, the formation of a rating of higher education institutions, the formation of a list of specialities, the acceptance of educational standards, etc. Moreover, in 2000, the European Association for the Quality of Higher Education, which brings together similar national agencies, was established by the members of the Council of Europe, which are members of the Bologna Treaty. Ukraine joined this agreement in 2005 and undertook to enter, form its own national agency, and join the European Association for the Quality of Higher Education. And so far, only three countries are missing in this European Association — Moldova, Belarus, and Ukraine. Dear friends! Let's do Euro-integration not in words, but in fact. And let us finally adopt this bill, which will introduce Ukraine to become a full member of the European Association for the Quality of Higher Education. I urge you to do this as head of the Parliamentary Assembly Committee of the Council of Europe on Culture, Education, Science and Media, and to slow us down, and by the end of this year, Ukraine has finally gotten rid of the anachronism of Soviet times when officials decide the fate of diplomas, the fate of higher education. And come on, we're all set to.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-18-m0.u127	Ten seconds, please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-18-m0.u128	We're here to integrate Ukraine, aren't we? I hope so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-18-m0.u129	Thank you. Welcome to the presentation of the People's Deputy Volodymyr Aresonkov, "Block of Peter Poroshenko".
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-18-m0.u130	Dear colleagues, respectable educators, representatives of higher education, because it seems that this law applies mainly to them, but I want to say that this bill is a state document that is an essential component of ensuring a higher quality level throughout the education and science system of Ukraine. I will also confirm that it is not appropriate that on Friday, when we have such a small, unfortunately, presence of fellow members of the national parliaments, we discuss such an important subject. I would also like to emphasize today the high professional level of our committee, and unfortunately, I want to say that the issue to the Ministry of Education and Science is not getting any smaller. We're spending a lot of time discussing very little and very small things, I would say, yes, particular points that relate to the organization of this agency's activities. But we're moving away from adopting, once again, strategic documents, you know that the first reading went through the Ukrainian Education Act. Now we're talking about what we need to talk about in all the regions again with public participation. Now let's take this time that we're going to have, because the way we're going to accept a quality document, in general, as strategic as the one that defines the principles of organization of the process, depends on the further activity of the individual components of our system. So I'm just calling, first of all, to increase, to improve attention to education and science. Discuss it as widely as possible, with the participation of both community representatives and public organizations. And finally, to bring them to the discussion room when there are enough deputies, we're going to emphasize the appropriate level of these issues. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-18-m0.u131	Come on, let's go. National MP Oleg Musei, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-18-m0.u132	Glory to Ukraine! Good afternoon, distinguished national MPs, again. I want to draw your attention to the fact that education and science are to become a cornerstone in Ukraine's development. And that depends primarily on you and me supporting this process, including Bill 2281a-1. The People's Control Group will definitely support it, and science and education are at the top of our agenda, but this is a disgrace that is now being signed or not signed, with culinary games under the Vocational and Technical Education Act is absolutely unacceptable. We're going to Europe, we're building the rule of law, and the highest official of the state, the President of Ukraine, instead of expressing his point of view or vetoing, unfortunately, according to the recommendation of the current finance minister, who is still, you see, claiming even to be Prime Minister, and saying that there is no money for vocational and technical education. What's that? The government of those who destroy Ukraine as a whole? This anti-State position of finance minister and the misunderstanding of the position of the President of Ukraine regarding non-signatures or possible promises is indignant in society. So I ask the President of Ukraine to express his position immediately, either by signing or by vetoing this Act on Vocational and Technical Education. I also wanted to refer to the leadership present here and to the absence of the leadership of the Supreme Council of Ukraine: how many times are we going to violate the Rules, moving to the next session of voting sessions on a bill or other? Now we're looking at a specific bill, we're discussing it from the Supreme Council's rostrum, and we're not putting it to a vote, according to the tradition established by the Chief of the Supreme Council. I ask and require the leadership of the Supreme Council, you, Mrs. Oksano, to show to all the Ukrainian people how many national deputies are actually working in the hall. To make it. You put it to a signal vote, and you'll see clearly how many people are working in the room. In fact, look at the registration board: 331 national deputies. Why do we covet the Ukrainian people as much as we can fool people? Are they blind or blind? Please, I ask you very much to put this bill into a signal vote, and we will support it with national control. Thank you for your attention! Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-18-m0.u133	Thank you. Welcome to the speech of the People's Deputy, Mikola Tomenka, the non-factional.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-18-m0.u134	Dear colleagues, I also support my colleagues, previous speakers, that we can work absolutely confidently, we have three hundred one person present in the room, according to electronic registration. [[Applause]] And yesterday, I heard this so puffish speech about this doctrine of optimizing Parliament from Cox. And I think it's been terribly helpful, especially yesterday that everyone was infected with the need to work in the reform regime and today even less, as they traditionally do on Friday. So, I think that really reforming Parliament is about who works in Parliament and who directs those who work in Parliament. [[Applause]] This is the best reform – no one else has ever come up with. Clearly, then, we need to think about how, on the one hand, to build an electoral system so that there are people in Parliament who come here for the summons and are professionally prepared, not those who, by family connections, financial or party leaders, bring papers to keep from betraying the party’s general line. And we need to think about the corresponding status of how Parliament works. Because we understand very well that we are students, I am speaking in lectures that we are a parliamentary-presidential republic, and we are happy with this story. I think we're not even the President-Parliamentary Republic anymore. We've moved towards such a classical clocracy and we'd still be "nocturnal chlocracy" because we're getting married at night. Well, we're not counseling, but party leaders are advising us on what to do on a particular day. Well, what's the reform? So how do you know the order of the day? I have a question, well, the agenda on the Supreme Council site appears between the 21st and 23rd hours. Well, friends, well, what are we talking about, what might be the systemic training? And then in the hall, in the head of the Supreme Council, in the cabinet, we determine what law to set that is not to be laid. Because one oligarch doesn't want to make a law, for example, about sorting amber, he doesn't want it because he wants his firm to have the monopoly right to export abroad and sell illegally. The second says, "I don't want to put this bill on." So he doesn't want to put our bill to stop this mess and put a moratorium on industrial fishing in our natural waters, he doesn't want to bet. Well, isn't this Parliament? As far as education is concerned, I wouldn't support our colleague, Lilia Greenevich, who is no longer here, in the sense that we have some kind of fool. Is it? Oh, there is. And it's not just Mrs. Lilia, who's in this room having a discussion and actively convincing her to vote for the bill. We have the habit of making commitments that we should not make. Well, why should we justify ourselves in front of teachers about CTU? Well, the government imposed this antinational budget on us, and there are people who voted, and I didn't vote. We passed a new law, the government doesn't sign. So why should we ask for a government that doesn't sign the Law on Vocational Training? Same story with that.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-18-m0.u135	Please, 30 seconds. Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-18-m0.u136	The same story with this bill. The minister comes in and says, "We don't do the law." Imagine a situation in a normal parliament: a minister would come and say, "We don't do the law in principle." He would have been taken out of this room by now! And now we say, "Well, I'm sorry, we didn't make it through the bill." Well, we're not cleaners here. So I think we need to change the rhetoric. We must force the government and ministers to work and take responsibility.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-18-m0.u137	Thank you. Please, final question, final statement, more loyally, National Deputy Taras Kremen, People's Front.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-18-m0.u138	Taras Kremen, People's Front. I represent not only the national MPs from Mikolayevskya, but probably all those who care and care for education and science. I represent the same thing as this profile committee. And I don't understand when the political plane comes up with essentially professional questions about education, teaching, and directly the activities of the relevant structural units. I fully support Bill 2280a, and not just because I'm one of his co-authors, but because we have to force the structural units to work at the right level today. So the National Higher Education Quality Agency is one of the mechanisms that will allow us to relaunch the higher education system and, accordingly, extend this experience to other Ukrainian education links in general. That's why I totally support the performance and Lily Mikhailna Grinevich. I completely share the fears expressed by the professional environment. But as a result, I would ask that this bill be adopted not only on a basis but also on the basis of all the comments made and it was accepted as a whole. And I'd like to add to the end. Today, so many individual politicians, either from or outside the political forces, are trying to speculate on the issues of education, and the rhetoric that sometimes flows from the central, including in places, believe it, has nothing to do with the transformations proposed by the government today. So I'd like us to mix things up, and yet, in an effective way, we go to a meeting with the education community, to meet their main problems and really, not populist ones, to go into real Ukrainian reform. Glory to Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-18-m0.u139	Thank you. The concluding words of the rapporteurs and the co-reporters. Mrs. Lila, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-18-m0.u140	Dear colleagues, I thank you very much for this fruitful discussion to all those who work and are now in the hall. But I ask the presiding officer that we postpone the vote when there is an appropriate quorum and voices in the room. But we had a full discussion of the bill today. So once again, we're going to talk about the decision that we've discussed, which is the basis, and in general, the amendments that were made here from the rostrum. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-18-m0.u141	Thank you, Mrs. Lila. Then we finished the discussion. Thank you also to all the national deputies who participated in the discussion. We will conduct, in accordance with the Rules, a normal normal vote next plenary week. Thank you, everybody. Let's move on to the various shows. I've got the entry, we've played it on the board now, too. Here's to the words of the People's Deputy Victor Stashuk, the People's Front.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-18-m0.u142	Good afternoon, dear colleagues. Vitaly Stasuk, Darnica, city of Kiev I'd like to say things are unique enough for us. Here we had a situation where the entire hall was united, regardless of factions and views and disputes. These were the situations where we voted in favour of the really largest infrastructure project in Ukraine -- the Bortnicka Station reconstruction project. Today, we have heard from government officials how things are going well. In fact, we know that there are problems. I'd like to say two words about that. In fact, we have our commitments by November to complete all the preparatory work. For this purpose, 61 million dollars was allocated to the country’s budget. Today, the situation seems to be that the money before November may not be used. This will endanger the execution of Ukrainian obligations in the implementation of this project. I'd like to assure not only the donors today, but all the people who are following this project and know that it is extremely important that we don't let anyone fail the work on this project. And I want to look to my colleagues to make sure that parliamentary control of this project is just as unique as it was when we made the necessary legislative decisions. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-18-m0.u143	Thank you. I'd like to invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy Sergio Leschchenka, "Peter Prashenko's Block."
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-18-m0.u144	Good afternoon, distinguished colleagues in the hall, and Ukrainian citizens. What happened this week in Parliament is just another example of disgrace and conspiracies happening across the country. A month ago, even more Henprocuror Shokin filed a resignation application. This statement is not put to the vote; this statement is hidden; this statement has disappeared from our order of the day. What's going on? What's going on is that the Henprocuror's vacancy was decided to put in a package of political "contractuals" that are now being played around the prime minister's office and members of the government. But this is simply unacceptable in a normal European state when the office of Attorney General becomes a different coin in political trade. Of course, there is a major political crisis in Ukraine. Remember what we were told, don't touch Jacinyuk, there'll be destabilisation. For a month now, when Yatzenuk was left unattended, the month when his sense of mistrust broke down, you see how "stable" we have a political situation that parliament is not working, the government has turned into some "storage of broken pilots," the Henprocurator does not vote resignation, and we are looking for a formula that can start this process again. And I'll tell you what the formula is. Now there's a stage scenario, everyone's talking about Jaresco being the Prime Minister, a technical government, having to gather voices. It's a big deal. And across the board, there's a scenario that the Prime Minister wants to conduct the Speaker of Parliament, Vladimir Groysman, and the First Vice-Prime Minister, President Boris Lozkin's Administration. And Groissman will be a representative of the BP in the government, and Lozkin will be a representative of the oligarchs, who have a wonderful relationship in the past, a business partnership both with Ahmatov, there and with Kolomojski, who was selling Kurchenka his media-holding at a price higher than Washington Post. This was probably the most cynical affair in the time of Janukovic’s presidency. And they decided to include the Attorney General in this package. In the meantime, right, what's the rush? We've got Shockin working. Recently, the Attorney General’s Office closed a case against the Katsub brothers. There's a Katsuba MP, and his two sons headed Naftogaz at a time when there were high-ranking Boyka affaires with Kurchenk, and there was a criminal case against Kurchenk and the Katsub brothers. They flew from Ukraine to Nice the same day they were suspected. For a year and a half, the prosecution investigated them, brought them up to speed, and three months after the suspicion was closed, and the Katsubas were already in Kiev. The case was closed by Sevruk, the attorney general’s first deputy. So I'm thinking of hurrying with Shokin's resignation, I really don't need to, there's still a lot of criminal cases that need to be closed immediately, against the environment of both Yanukovich and today's corrupters. In the meantime, there's a process, you know, to find the most loyal Attorney General. They're looking for who can be accepted and executed in the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-18-m0.u145	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-18-m0.u146	There is a search that the Attorney General can be most loyal to go through the session room. Meanwhile, a group of deputies, including the Eurooptimists and non-fractional and other factions, are collecting signatures for a man who, I'm sure, can be properly headed by the Attorney General's Office. This is Sergey Gorbatyuk, the head of the Special Investigations Department. But I am convinced that I will not have the President's political will to put him in office, because he will be independent, he will.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-18-m0.u147	Thank you. Welcome to the speech of the People's Deputy Vasil Brenzowicz, the Party of Peter Prashenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-18-m0.u148	Honourable National Deputies, Honorary Citizens of Ukraine, March 13th in Uzhgorod, there was a mass campaign "Marsh of the Heroes of Carpathian Ukraine", which was attended by representatives of the Go "Karpatska Sich" and the military unit "Azov" Civil Corps, the Association of Fighters in ATO, "Brothers of Ukraine", "Right Sector", "Uzhgorod", "Uzhgorod" ultras FK "Metalist" and others. During the marching of this group of people in Shandor's Square, they chanted and cried out, "Maddars on a knife!".. These shouts were heard many times over a long period of time and were heard by all the surrounding people in this human place. These actions were also recorded by audio and video fixations, and they were distributed on a wide range of media sites. I believe that the above actions are socially dangerous and places, the pattern of crime envisaged by the 161 article of the Criminal Code of Ukraine, they are aimed at fuelling national hostility and hatred for the humiliation of national honour and dignity, the intimidation of the feelings of people of Hungarian nationality, because in open form there have been calls for physical dissuasion over them, as has been the violation of a number of constitutional rights of citizens, Hungarians as an ethnocultural collective in general. I note that these actions have been carried out by an organized group of people, causing serious consequences in the form of deterioration of inter-national, inter-State relations, which is unacceptable in a democratic society. I believe that these actions could. were provocative and aimed at destabilizing the social and political situation in Zakarpatta, making Ukraine's image worse in the international arena. Avoiding the punishment of those involved in this activity by natural and legal persons will testify to the inability of the Ukrainian legal institutions to protect the legitimate rights and interests of their citizens. I request the Attorney General's Office, the Security Service and the Ministry of Internal Affairs to take all necessary measures to bring to justice those responsible for the above-mentioned crimes. Hungarians Zakarpatja are loyal citizens of Ukraine and they support our country's course towards European integration, the building of a European democratic and legal state. Many Hungarians died in battle, fighting in the ATO zone. They have given up their lives for no State where they can be called upon to destroy an entire nation, including their parents and children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-18-m0.u149	Thank you. Welcome to the speech of the People's Deputy Igor Shurma, "The Opposition Block."
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-18-m0.u150	Igor Shurma, Opposition Block. You know, the subject that I want to raise is certainly no secret to anyone. The topic number one, problem number one in Ukraine is its territorial integrity and the existence of Ukraine as such. What risks today are there to make this problem irreversible? It's not just a collapse in parliament, it's not just the resignation of the government, it's certainly a situation where there's a political crisis behind the government crisis. And that political crisis can lead to emotional voting and the situation of the Supreme Council. I can speak only for myself and for my position. I will never contribute to a paralyzed parliament in my life. Because Parliament is paralyzed, it means re-election. You can imagine the election today: in that amount of weapons, in that xenophobia, in that mutual hatred that's being set on fire by hawks both on the one hand and on the other. Today in this Parliament, everyone who is responsible for Ukraine's future fate must take as much of the negative as possible. Today, we must be loyal and tolerant of our political opponents. Today, we must do everything we can to restrain ourselves, to show our fingers to those who do not do so, and there must be criticism. But to this day the formation of an enemy, one or the other, poses a risk of great danger. You can imagine that today a huge number of exhaled, impoverished people are listening to television, watching it all, and being told that it is an enemy. We give ourselves a sense that in the Supreme Council, let's say, let's let the coalition say that there's an opposition block. It's not the Opposition Block, but it's the representatives of almost 2 million people who have delegated the Opposition Block to Parliament, just like the 302-vote coalition has been delegated by the people. And if we do not respect each other, respect each other's rights, we will not lead to anything good in Ukraine. I'd like to talk about how someone votes. Yesterday, there was a decision on recommendations for implementation, recommendations for internal reform, and an increase in the institutional capacity of the Supreme Council. We're all going to Europe. Which way did it go? European. And you yesterday, take out the 240 votes of the Opposition Block and make sure you get the result yesterday? A combination of three fingers. So let's respect each other. And I'll say one more thing.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-18-m0.u151	30 seconds, please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-18-m0.u152	What is the problem of Ukrainian politics? In deideology, today there is no ideology. But this too could be tolerated at this stage of Ukraine’s development. The rights of coalition and opposition are not defined today. What kind of Europe do you go to if the opposition today is not guaranteed the status of the law? Today you're going to fight in the coalition, tomorrow you're going to go to the opposition, and you're going to want some rights. So what Eurocomisisia said: question number one is the Opposition Act. Come on, when this is all legalized, we will ask the question of who is voting, and for what is political responsibility? I call on everyone in that room.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-18-m0.u153	Please finish, you're out of time. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-18-m0.u154	I'm done. I'm done.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-18-m0.u155	Ten seconds, please, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-18-m0.u156	I urge everyone to treat each other with tolerance and not to disturb the population. And if anyone can count to 10, that's because they've finished no more, probably ten classes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-18-m0.u157	People's deputy Oleg Lazko, the Radical Party of Oleg Lazko.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-18-m0.u158	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. I want to draw the attention of society to the next decision of the Constitutional Court, which has been decided today. I would like to remind you that in February, there were illegal amendments to the Rules of Procedure Act in this Parliament Hall, which actually changed the procedure for amending the Constitution of Ukraine. These illegal changes to the Rules that were voted for, the Peter Prashenko Block, the People's Front, the Fatherland, the Thieves Block, and the oligarchic groups. These illegal changes have pursued one goal in order to be given the opportunity in the next session, namely, to the one that is currently in the process of amending the Constitution and allowing for the adoption of a special status for Donbas. The Radical Party faction voted against these changes because the order of amendments to the Constitution is provided by the Constitution itself and no other law can change the Constitution. Unfortunately, today the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, in response to more than 50 MPs, decided that these changes to the Rules correspond to the Constitution. Did we expect a decision from the Constitutional Court? Honestly, no. Because these sales reptiles have served since the time of Janukovic’s appointment and have carried out the most cynical, most dirty tasks of authority. In particular, the judges who are currently sitting in the Janukovic agreement in 2010 abolished the Constitution and allowed Yanukovic to usurp power. In summary, this led to the Maydan, the bloodshed, the shocks that Ukraine is experiencing today. So these judges of the Constitutional Court are in fact conspirators, associates, accomplices, associates, organized criminal groups under Yanukovic’s leadership because they helped him seize power. Sadly, the new authority, which came two years after Midan, did not strike a finger to hold them accountable. Worse yet, they are now using them in the same way as Janukovic used them. Similarly, the Central Electoral Commission has been using the services of the Central Electoral Commission, which has been working for almost 9 years against the requirements of the law, which provides for a seven - year term for the commission, and the CEC continues to work today to serve the interests of the authorities. It also serves the interests of the President and of the General Prosecutor Shokin, whom we voted against by appointment, because it was clear that there could be no reform of the Attorney General's Office at Shockin. The simulation of reforms was exhausting: the Ukrainian society was tired, our international partners were tired, and Ukraine was tired. The Radical Party requires the authorities to stop imitating reforms and to act decisively and radically in the interests of the country, in the interests of fellow citizens.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-18-m0.u159	Thank you. I'd like to invite you to the words of the People's Deputy Anna Romanov, "The Self-Help Union."
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-18-m0.u160	Dear colleagues, dear people of Ukraine! I also want to draw attention to the functioning of our law enforcement system for which it works. Tonight, they were detained on the border with Belarus in an attempt to flee to Moscow, the Russian Federation of the Chief of the Viennese District Police, such as Separatist Anton Shevtsov. Anton Shevtsov knows a lot about this, and many people have raised questions about how the pro-Russian staff can work in management positions. It was already under active authority after the Dignity Revolution that it was appointed first in July of this year in the border region of Chernigow by the chief police officer, namely, to control the famous 205 district elections for the benefit of the overlord candidate, Sergey Berezenk. Then he brilliantly runs this so - called scandalous campaign. A successful candidate wins, then he is responsible for the local elections, and everything goes well. And it's already being promoted to the Winnitz region, which is also borderline. As far as MPs, the public, journalists, Automaidan to the BSC, the GPU, the Ministry of Internal Affairs have not been asked to withdraw from the post of the pro-Russian element of Shevtsov, which covers crimes that are clearly part of the Russian government, is the zero response. I'll tell you more, already in March of this year, the answer is to the request of public activists from Winnitzka's chief. A substitute for the head of the S.U.S.A. with the fact that Shevtsov was allegedly tested for his separatism and found nothing, and even there, it is noted, in reply that Shevtsov seemed to have been tested even by a lie detector, but he was crystal clear. And what do we see? That this Shevtsov, on record, had secret objects with him when he was on the run. And what's interesting is, he worked in management positions in the border areas, along the border with the Russian Federation, in Montenegro for six months, how much valuable classified information did he manage to pass on to the U.S. Customs agents over the six months? Therefore, the Self-Help Unit requires a report in the Supreme Council Hall of the Head of the SBU, as well as Shokin, of course, that we require his resignation and Arsen Awakov at all, to explain how all the organs could block and close their eyes on such an anti-Ukrainian, pro-Russian element. And how can you be assigned to management now?
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-18-m0.u161	Please. Thank you. I invite you to the words of National Deputy Jehora Soboljeva, "The Self-Help Union."
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-18-m0.u162	Many people already know about the last decision of the Constitutional Court, which ruled that the words "the Constitution at the next session" mean whenever. In fact, we already had a President and there was a Constitutional Court that always responded to all his requests by saying, "What can I do?" The continuation of this story now threatens the irreparable consequences for both the President and the Constitutional Court and the whole state. I want to inform Parliament and all citizens that on March 22nd, next Tuesday, the same Constitutional Court is meeting for the third time to repeal the Law on the Cleaning of Power. All reasonable terms have passed, including those laid down in the Constitutional Court Act, the time limit for him to make a decision. Double society, along with national MPs, with concerned government officials, met and reflected attacks on the law. But obviously, now that the President of Ukraine is trading for a new government, those members of the Yanukovic team, who are forbidden by law to become ministers, to become officials, to be appointed to any position, even a police officer. It's about Ljovcken, about Boyk, about many of the high-ranking crew members of Yanukovic, who are in Ukraine, but who can't become Ukrainian officials, because the Law on Illustration is at stake. This law, of course, wants to be annulled by the judges themselves of the Constitutional Court, because the legacy of the politics of the Constitutional Court of Dustenka with the politics of the Constitutional Court of Yanukovitch is very simple: there are a third of the same people. Moreover, for over a year these people have been suspected by the Attorney General’s Office and the Security Service of contributing to the usurpation of power. Today’s head of the Constitutional Court, Baulin, is in charge of these criminal cases, where the Attorney General himself determines that there has been a notoriously unjust decision that has caused serious consequences: the usurpation of power by Viktor Yanukovich. Clearly, these judges have no right to consider the Law on Illustration. It is clear that they have no right to be judges of the Constitutional Court, but they remain, including with the assistance of the President of Ukraine, and with the support of the acting Henprocuror. I have a request to all parliamentarians and to all citizens. Let's meet again at the Constitutional Court next Tuesday morning and protect the legal cleansing tool from those who pollute it.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-18-m0.u163	Thank you. Welcome to the speech of the People's Deputy, Gennady Krivoshia, the political party of the People's Front.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-18-m0.u164	Good afternoon, honourable deputies, distinguished colleagues, distinguished presiding officer. Good afternoon, reverend Ukraine. Gennady Kryvoshea, faction of the People's Front. Today, I'm going to be the head of the subcommittee on business and technical regulation. I would like to point out that the very issue will be technical regulation, standardization, the introduction of all standards to the European Union's norms in Ukraine. Quite an important question, I would like those who actually have something to do with it, to this effect, to this end, to have a lot of our businesses in Ukraine that are working, producing, paying attention to this. Why? Today, according to the Cabinet of Ministers' orders from 26.11.2014, the respective functions have been assigned to the so-called Ukrainian Research and Training Centre for Standardization, Certification and Quality. However, over the past two years, I would like to draw attention to this and everyone to the fact that the relevant centre or appropriate institution, the National Certification Authority, along with the Department of Technical Regulation, at the Ministry of Economics, are quite actively inhibiting the process of technical regulation and standardization in Ukraine. We do not have nearly 2,000 appropriate standards to harmonize with other standards, such as the European Union. We don't even have the ability of ordinary companies to get official translations of European Union standards, we don't have the right programs to meet the right standards, and we're going to cut them down. To date, the destructive work of the Department of Technical Control in the Ministry of Economics alone has led to the fact that even proper leadership in certification bodies over the past three years cannot be assigned because they cannot select qualified specialists. I would like to pay attention to this very point of view to the Prime Minister, because only, I believe, by his direct intervention alone is the appropriate ministry, will the relevant departments of the Ministry of Economics be able to work in some way. Along with the result, I would like to draw attention to the fact that because of the state-owned enterprise's inaction, we have abolished the ISO 9001:2009 standard of ISO 901:2009 DSTU. Think about it! Even today, all businesses, these are thousands of companies that work by this standard, can no longer work because it's cancelled. At the same time, another ISO 2001:2015 standard reportedly came into force in 2015. Yet, what it looks like is how it exists, where it can be seen.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-18-m0.u165	Please, 30 seconds, finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-18-m0.u166	Thank you. What it's like is how it's supposed to work, so far no one knows. I repeat, I ask the Minister of Economics, who, I understand, is not going to work, Deputy Minister of Profile Mr. Nephrodov, I ask the Department to immediately come to terms and to bring to the attention of all businesses those standards that will meet the standards of the European Union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-18-m0.u167	Thank you. National Deputy Oleg Berezuk, Self Help Union.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-18-m0.u168	Ladies and gentlemen, indeed, the country has been on the line for many years. At the limit of fighting two systems: despotic and democratic. And today we are just living witnesses to what is happening. The government and its supporters have sat down on all of Yanukovitch’s elaborate corruption schemes and have successfully used them to enrich their own commercially based on public money, human money. Today we see that the authorities are not even going to change that. She wants to leave Yanukovich in the Elections Act, where a criminal Majority will bring their supporters to this situation. What's more, today we see an attack on the constitutional order of the country when the Constitution of the country is rewritten by a single reference and it becomes a document that guarantees fundamental rights and freedoms in that state. And this is a catastrophic situation. But what I want to say is that today, in danger, those people who stand for these absolutely democratic values of the European state are in danger. Today, there is a strong administrative and criminal pressure against Ukrainian national MPs, members of the Self-Help faction, exposed to about 10 criminal cases against national MPs for over-exposed, totally finger-stretched reasons. And it became an attempt on the life of the national MP of Vojcitsky this week. It is, fellow believers, the fire, the fire of the road to hell, who want these oligartic amazements to leave Ukraine. But what we're trying to tell you is, this is the fire of your hell, your esteemed colleagues. Because the people of this country have come out twice in 10 years, twice in 10 years, without governments, without prosecutors, to defend their rights, against the despot. They didn't come out to fight the personalities that represented these despots, because this line, the despotic line that separates us from democracy, is going to be overcome by these people. Please remember this hellfire. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-18-m0.u169	Thank you. Welcome to the speech of the People's Deputy Yuria-Bogdan Shuhević, the Radical Party of Oleg Lášk.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-18-m0.u170	The Ukrainian people, more than a year ago, passed a law in this Supreme Council Hall that gave women the right to retire 55 years before the Tihypak reform and have 30 years of service without a job. And this bill was dedicated to the President. He has not yet been introduced into the Supreme Council Hall to defeat the veto. But there was also a second point in the law, to which the President had no warning, according to which those who worked had the right to pay a five - year salary before 2000 and on the basis of which they were retired. Since 2000, according to Tihypek’s reform, they have done so. But they've lost since 2011 but since 2016. As of January 1, 2016, this right was lost. And they could only pay the wage that has been paid since the year 2000 from the year 2000 to today. You realize that the person who worked and had the right to pay that wage by the year 2000 is. And which is still working today and has no right to file by the year 2000, the pension difference is two times. And this difference, the more it's working, the more it's growing and increasing, and it's going to increase. It's not enough that a person who worked until the year 2000 but didn't work at all after the year 2000, the pension difference can be three or more times. Do you have any idea what injustice that is? And our bill, since the bill of 14 January 2015 did not return to the hall, we passed a new bill of 3203. It was supposed to be voted, it was put into the agenda for this session week, but you know what happened in Parliament and we just didn't get to it. And this injustice continues, and as of January 1, more and more people are retiring, and they are deprived of their rights. And today, it comes to absurdity: they're giving up their internships, the contributions they're making.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-18-m0.u171	30 seconds, please let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-18-m0.u172	Since 2000, just to give them the right to pay those wages, the income that was before the year 2000 is absurd. Now I call on everyone, so there's already 100,000 people, 30,000 a month retires, about. I call upon all citizens, pensioners, to appeal to deputies now, demanding that they insist that this law be enacted next week.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-18-m0.u173	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-18-m0.u174	I've done everything I can to get the MPs to call for this order, because otherwise, listen, it's a disaster. Just like a disaster for women who have retired and who have, as the law once required, 20 years and men 25 years, they now have less living income. Understand! And those who went less. From the age of 55, even before more was required, you can see that they were also deprived of it. After working, some are 30 or more years old, and they are deprived of their pension rights, which at least would provide them with a minimum of living. Isn't that the genocide of the Ukrainian people, the genocide of pensioners? Yes, Your Honor, who else is here, I'm addressing you because you'll be next sessional week.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-18-m0.u175	Mr. Yuri, 10 more seconds, let's finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-18-m0.u176	Only a struggle, an active fight against that injustice, can fix the situation, and hope only for yourself.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-18-m0.u177	Thank you. National MP Yuri Derevyanko, nonfractional. I continue, I'm sorry, I'm continuing, in accordance with the Rules, for 15 minutes of meetings so that a few more people can appear in the Miscellaneous. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-18-m0.u178	Dear Ukrainians, honourable national MPs, today I want to draw your attention to two important topics, first, the Attorney-General and, secondly, the Ukrainian land, where they continue to flourish, both the derbyan and corruption. So it's about the Attorney General. Dear colleagues, which one of you knows at least one democratic country, when in two years, the Attorney-General changes his third time in a single President? What does that mean? This means that either the President can't or can't choose the right people, or it means that the people whom the President has elected are completely disobeyed and do not comply with the President's commitments he made when he went to the elections and when the Ukrainians supported the President in the presidential elections. So the "Will" political party is asking the President what to do to help him, what can I do for you, Mr. President? To our profound belief that if the President fails to elect a good Attorney General, this must be done by an independent commission, and the President, in accordance with the Constitution, must submit this candidature to the Supreme Council for approval and then approve it. It is the President who is responsible for the activity and, rather, for the complete inactivity of the Attorney General's Office, which we have today and full sabotage. But it's not really surprising, because it basically shows the situation in our power today, the state that it's not capable of making effective decisions that benefit the Ukrainian people. It is not capable of effectively combating corruption, nor is it capable of reforming, including reform of the Attorney General’s Office. It is not able to protect the medium and small business, but it deals only with the retailer of positions and the desire to sit on one or the other cash flows. So if we're talking about land relations, if we're talking about land, that scheme, it's still going on, and it's still going on. Under a 300 - acre bribe, the land is further decommissioned outside the population and contrary to the government’s decision, contrary to the government’s commitment to decentralization and transfer of land outside the population, united by the territorial community, no one is going to do so. Therefore, the political party "Will" requires: first, to adopt appropriate legislation, according to which the Attorney General can be chosen by an independent commission and the Attorney General becomes independent and autonomous. Finally, to submit and conclude with joint law 3510 and 3510-1, to stop sabotage and to enact legislation so that land outside the population can be passed on to the united territorial communities and that the ladder can be stopped. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-18-m0.u179	Thank you. I'd like to invite you to the floor of People's Deputies Maxime Chicken, "Peter Prashenko's Block."
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-18-m0.u180	Dear colleagues! At the request of the inhabitants of Dnipropetrovska, I am again forced to draw your attention, to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, to the situation that has arisen in the missile-space field of Ukraine. A company with the world's name "Southernmash" is on the verge of a social explosion. People are already openly saying that the current condition of Kabmin is artificially leading to bankruptcy. Last year we were able to pay off our payroll. I've introduced bills that will allow you to lower tax burden on rocket-space enterprises and increase government procurement. We talked a lot about reforming the sector. There are promising works to do. We had high expectations of introducing these transformations. Where is the reform? A year later, we see the same thing again. In the South Seas, once again, a chronic debt on wages and utility bills. There are no stable government orders, the main defense company is de facto shut down. These are direct budget losses from lost opportunities, backlogs in the international cooperation of space nations. We have a great risk of becoming a banana republic with an uncertain future. But there seems to be no adequate response to the leadership of the Ukrainian State Space Agency. Instead of reforming the field, what do we see today? Incomprehensible personnel decisions, unwavering discharge from the position of general designer Dechtyarov, recognized as an expert worldwide. It was under Dechtyar's leadership that the South became the engine of the entire sector, and today such a leader is hereby released from office! Is this your reform or is this sabotage? I called today on the National Security and Defence Council of Ukraine regarding the situation that had arisen. I believe that if the sector’s profile management does not continue to respond, the Office of the Attorney General of Ukraine must speak. I'm making an offer to hold an exit meeting of the Cabinet of Ministers. Not this composition, the future composition of the government in Dnipropetrovsk, with the participation of experts, coworkers of the National Security and Defence Council of Ukraine, the national deputies of Ukraine. The noise must be saved, it must become one of the most effective in Ukraine’s economy! Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-18-m0.u181	Thank you. I'd like to invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy, Mr. Andre Antonishtak, "Peter Prashenko's Block."
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-18-m0.u182	Good afternoon, distinguished Ukrainian people, good afternoon, honourable parliamentarians! I want to draw your attention to the critical situation that has arisen in the Ukrispirt Department and in the Ministry of Agrarian Politics, where thieves, supporters and supporters have been buried, and the followers of Yanukovic. Last night, more than 500 people from Lviv, from the Ukrispirt companies, came here to Kiev to ask for help in an interfractional association called "Lvivščina". Several members of the Supreme Council of the People's Republic were looking for Mr. Pavlenko, and we were looking for this villain minister for three days, and only through the Prime Minister did he come out on us, priorly agreeing, three days later, at 18.15 yesterday. The meeting took place with the participation of six national deputies and 10 representatives of the agro-industrial ministry. And on our question, they were just lowering and spreading their hands: we don't decide here, we don't know here, we can't do anything here. During that time, last night, a raid took place, a gang of gunmen, and more than 150 took over a state enterprise in the district of Strysk. Thanks to the professional activities of the Special Branch and the National Guard, they were able to be kicked out of there, but imagine who brought them in. They were brought by a so - called new director, appointed by such a villain as Chernov, who worked in Yanukovic’s schemes and who is now serving as the director of the liquidation commission, of which Mr. Pavlenko does not even know, 3.8 billion to this day does not pay the branch, factories virtually all bankrupt and closed. Today, only two factories are officially operating in the alcohol industry, and two factories are operating. Yesterday, Mr. Pavlenko told us how he was going to sell the Easter factories. Honorable national MPs, what the hell did we choose, sell state property or manage government property effectively? I and the political power of National Control demand: first, write him a resignation application immediately and not call back on the second day; then, stop trying to privatize, steal, more specifically, Ukrispirt, and hold a transparent competition for the leader of the Ukrispirt DP; and stop the work of the decommissioning commission of the Ukspirt concert.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-18-m0.u183	Ten seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-18-m0.u184	Today. We're seeing 1409 today. By 12 o'clock, Mr. Pavlovenko was obliged to warn all the national deputies that Chernov had been released from the occupation.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-18-m0.u185	Thank you. Welcome to the speech of the National Deputy Leonid Hamtz, People's Front.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-18-m0.u186	Thank you. Leonid Jemetz, 221 constituency, Pechersky, Solomonsky, and part of Shevchenkov district of Kiev Dear colleagues, of course, are only those in the hall today and are ashamed of those who are absent from this workday. The question of Tuesday's meeting of the Constitutional Court, which is scheduled to take a decision on the Law on the Cleanse of Power, so-called the Law on Illustration, has been raised on a number of occasions today. I would like to remind you that six of these judges are the judges whose decisions have led to Yanukovich's being re-elected, which no one has chosen. These people, along with Yanukovitch, entered into a criminal conspiracy that resulted in the death of people in Maidan, resulting in the war in Donetsk today. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to make it clear that I, as a representative of Parliament in this session, have expressed concern that these judges have a conflict of interest, because they themselves fall within the purgatory of the Law. Clearly, people whose interests are directly related to the law that they consider have no right to make decisions. A corresponding concern has been expressed, and for several months now the Constitutional Court has been considering it. I very much hope that the Constitutional Court's decision in this section will meet the requirements of the law and these judges will be removed from the decision-making process, because the conflict of interest reflected in our concern is clearly representative. I would like to remind you that according to these judges there is indeed a case today in the prosecution that their actions are part of the criminal conspiracy with the Yanukovich regime. All of this shows that public attention must be extremely serious before this meeting, because there is evidence that the Constitutional Court's decision will be directed precisely at repealing the Illustration Act in order to ensure that persons who fall within the scope of this law are subject to it. The requirements of the Cleansing of Power Act. I would like to point out, lastly, that as part of our work with the Venice Commission and its requirements, we have prepared legal remedies for the Illustration Act, part of which is to extend the act of law to the judges of the Constitutional Court. The Venice Commission rightly stated that the judges should all be subject to the Law on the Cleanse of Power, including the Constitutional Court. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-18-m0.u187	Thank you. National Deputy Aresonkov, Peter Prashenko Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-18-m0.u188	Volodymyr Aresonkov, 64th constituency, Žitomirščina. Madam Chairman, distinguished viewers, listeners and honourable deputies, those who are now in the hall. I'd like to start by saying thank you to your address, it's very rare now that we're usually mentioned only on the negative side, and today, my dear colleagues, I want to thank you from many thousands of black people, and I represent today the city that suffered the most from the accident at CHAES, this is the city of Corstoń, where 70,000 people and all have the status of victims. So that bill that we voted with you yesterday is a really big deal as respect and respect for those people who have given their lives, who have done everything they can to minimize the consequences of this terrible environmental catastrophe. But during the parliamentary hearings on Wednesday, there were big words of concern. The law does not finally solve the whole set of problems that we have accumulated. We have not heard from the government the question of what will be the next state policy and strategy to address all these serious issues. These are the multimillion-dollar debts they have in front of the people, which will be the further fate of the station and the whole set of jobs, the territories that are amazed at what will be with them. Today, there is no single focal point to address this issue. And by the way, we're also looking forward to creating a center like this today. So once again, I urge the government to focus on this issue, old or new. And we have to solve this question to the end. And, yes, my dear fellows. You and I have seen, and every day, virtually on television, we see what is done in areas where amber is extracted. Listen, today a report on the site of the Zitomir District Council has appeared that a municipal enterprise is already being created. Without waiting for the adoption of our bill, the creation of half - legal ones begins, and so on, formations, structures. Where the state is unable to bring order, self - control and public institutions are involved. I urge you: let's ask the question next week, in the next plenary week, to vote on a bill that we've already discussed at all levels, taken into account all the proposals from both environmentalists and anyone. Let's vote and try to bring the system to a very serious state issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-18-m0.u189	We have the last two speeches. One and a half minutes, please. National MP Dmitrenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-18-m0.u190	The noble Ukrainian people, honourable deputies! I want to raise a topic that applies, at least, to 200,000 people in Ukraine who are driven to the ghetto, who are divided by land, who have no job, who have no right to exist, are so-called villages that enter the Academy of Agricultural Sciences. Today, in the framework of the 271 Academy of Agricultural Sciences, they process about half a million acres [half a million ha] of land. I'm going to point out that at the beginning of the 1990s it was one million, half a million so far they can't find it. What's going on in these villages? Humans are lawless, have no jobs, have no work books, if anyone there is not able to retire — virtually total injustice. Today I want to point out that the Academy of Sciences has already become an organization that just makes money. It's those 500,000 acres of land, they're using them for free, and they're actually selling them because we all know that using one hectare of land in the country costs 2,000 dollars. Imagine, 500,000 times 2,000 -- that's, at least, 1 billion, and what pockets they get into. Today I want to raise a question and ask the Head of the Supreme Council to create a temporary commission of inquiry in the Supreme Council and to stop these facts of insolent abuse of our Ukrainian.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-18-m0.u191	Ten seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-18-m0.u192	gave them constitutional rights, gave them 2 hectares to use their land to prevent them from walking or asking for land to extend their cemetery. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-18-m0.u193	Thank you. I invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy of Žolobeck.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-18-m0.u194	Dear colleagues, Deputy Zholobecki, District No. 129. Today, there is a particular problem in the Nikolaev region with the repair of the roads that are today, believe me, in the most critical situation. Virtually all 4,800 kilometres of roads are untraveled today. For the fourth week, people have been blocking route N-11, namely Dnepropetrovsk-Nikolayev. Believe me, people are desperate. I went out with the people's deputies on several occasions and talked to these people, and today people are waiting for repairs to begin. I'm going to the Kravtodor today. Please come out and talk to the people in accordance with our arrangements. Last September, the Supreme Council passed a law on which four areas have been financed since 2015, namely: Odessa, Lvivska, Volinska, Chernovicka, through an experiment of 50 per cent overrun of the total monthly customs payments recovered in the course of the goods in that territory. As a result, these regions have successfully implemented programmes for the reconstruction of local road infrastructure. In view of the extremely limited financing of the road sector in Nikolayev region, we, together with the people's deputies, namely from the Nikolayevšina Group, registered on 16 March Bill No. 4214/1 on the accession of the Nikolayev region to this experiment. That'll make things better. This may remove social tensions in our region today. Dear colleagues, I am addressing you today on behalf of all the people of Mikolayev and Mikolayevsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-18-m0.u195	Ten seconds. Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-18-m0.u196	will be considered in this room. Support, support, and support the national MPs of Mikolayevstina and all the inhabitants of Mikolayev and Mikolayev. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-03-18-m0.u197	Thank you. That was the last performance today at the Vulnerable. The morning session is closed. The next meeting, the plenary, the Supreme Council will be held on March 29th at 10 a.m.
