ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-01-m0.u1	Dear colleagues, good morning. Good morning! Please come into the hall and prepare for registration. Are you ready for your registration? Dear colleagues, please register. [[10:03:35]] A total of 324 national deputies were registered. The morning plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues! Traditionally, the first day of summer in Ukraine celebrates the Day of Child Protection. This date was based on the 1949 International Women’s Congress in Paris. This was the fourth year after the worst war in human history — World War II. The Paris Women’s Congress decided to fight for world peace as the only guarantee of child protection. Now, and in these days, including on the line where Ukrainian children die, this question is especially relevant to us. According to my report, 68 children were killed during military aggression in Donetsk and Lugansk, and 186 children were injured. According to our information, especially in recent times, Russian drones have turned explosive devices into Ukrainian territory that kill civilians and kill children. Therefore, it is vital for us today to stress the importance of child protection, since children are victims of military artillery attacks, Russian artillery, every day. For the sake of preserving the lives of Ukrainian children and Ukraine’s future, we cannot give in to the enemy, and we must liberate all the Ukrainian territories more quickly. Today, we have asked questions that concern the protection of children. And on those issues, I'm sure there'll be no discussion in the room, and we'll all be able to support the parliamentary initiatives in order to celebrate the day of child protection by our decisions and actions. Dear national deputies, in accordance with article 25 of the Rules on Wednesday, we have 30 minutes to make speeches by national deputies with proposals, statements, messages. Dear colleagues, I ask you to prepare for the recording. And I'd like you to record the performances of the People's Deputies. Please record. Victor Ostapchuk. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-01-m0.u2	Please hand it over to my colleague Kulinich Oleg Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-01-m0.u3	Thank you. Dear Mr. Head, distinguished colleagues, distinguished voters! Last week he worked in Poltavska in 147 constituencies, held many meetings with rural heads, heads of district government, and just communicated with people. And that's why there's a lot of questions now in the city heads, in the heads of administration with the problems of local budgets. So far, we have not solved the issue of financing a vocational school, and the question of paying off is not solved. Take, for example, a specific city, Mirrod. By the end of the year, 3.2 million dollars had already been allocated to the city. By the end of the year, another 3 million dollars had to be allocated. 1.2 million dollars has been allocated for extended transportation. In total, it's about 8 million dollars, 10 percent of the city's budget like Mirrod. District - level budgets are also not in good shape. When I was in contact with the head of the Reschetilian District State Administration, he gave me this problem: there is now a problem in the budgets of the districts, such as the financing of severely ill children. The specific funding for the Reschetylovka two of these children is one and a half million dollars, and for the budget of the district center of Reschetylovka, these are significant figures. In addition, the local authorities will not be relieved by the initiative of a group of parliamentary deputies, where a bill has been registered, which is proposed for 30 percent of the excise congregation to concentrate on the district budget. The explanatory note says that these costs will go to repair the roadways of the areas. But the question arises in the heads of the country, and in the heads of the city, is it really the cost if such a bill is properly voted? And can an official at the district center properly distribute these funds? Because excise is an essential resource for local budgets. Consider the example of the city of Zyńk. Excise collected 3 million dollars in 2015 at the expense of the excise congregation. That's 37 percent of the city's budget. During the 4 months of the current year, this sum is 1.2 million dollars. Therefore, it is not appropriate to exclude these funds from local budgets. For Mirrod with a budget of 80 million dollars, the amount of excise duty is 8 million, which is 10 percent. So, honourable colleagues, since we've already taken a decentralization course, so I want to go to my fellow national MPs, and to the government, let's conduct this line, not charge different local budgets and not delete these funds, because then decentralization will only be on paper, and people won't really feel it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-01-m0.u4	Thank you. Güller gives the word of Gulyav. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-01-m0.u5	Good day to you all! Vasily Gulyaev, 140th constituency, Odessa District, Rebirth Party. For over a year, we've been here in the Supreme Council talking about the transfer of authority to the field, the decentralization of power. What exactly is going on? It's all about words. I want to give a concrete example in my majority district, in the Ovidopal region. What's going on today? As early as January, the members of the District Council expressed their distrust of the head of the Reichs. And you think something's changed? People were all taking the floor, writing to the President, the Prime Minister, but everything remained on the ground. If we think there's been any improvement during this time, no, of course not. To date, school buses do not drive. Why don't they drive? Because there's no solar system. And the solar system isn't because there's no money, it's because the tender's not right. Similarly, subsidies are not paid to people or utilities. It's come to the point that utilities are already willing to rock and overlay this week, and you know it's probably going to be. Since January, the utility hasn't returned money, you know, it's kind of a paradox. Aren't they coming back for this money? This money doesn't come back because it just doesn't apply properly to the area, and this money just can't be transferred. The Head of Administration states that there is no staff. But, you know, since January of the month, the first chapter of the administration has been detained for bribery. Subsidies were not paid and the head of the department was also bribed. And the head of administration does not want to understand or understand that they are people, they are his direct subordinates for whom he, as a direct supervisor, must be responsible for their actions. This is what is happening today. And many appeals have been sent to all authorities, and I would certainly ask the President, the Prime Minister, to draw attention to this situation and to meet the people of the Ovidiopol region. This area, with a population of 70 thousand, was simply abandoned. This was the best area in the Odessa region, and what's going on today? Today there is total chaos in the area. I would like my statement to be considered an official request. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-01-m0.u6	Thank you. Please, Nestor Schufrich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-01-m0.u7	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. I am especially happy to pass on the day of the protection of the children the word to my colleague and to the other Pauline Jury. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-01-m0.u8	Dear colleagues! The number of children killed by bullets and fragments by the Supreme Council is unfortunately incomplete. According to our information, the analysis of all official and open sources is even more tragic. In two years of military action, 199 Ukrainian children were killed by bullets and fragments, about 500 injured. Today, more than 10,000 children live in a Syrian zone, that is, every day in danger, hundreds of Ukrainian children have lost their home. More than five months ago, the Supreme Council, by a consolidated decision, introduced and defined a new concept of "a child who was affected by war and armed conflict." This law and this concept clearly determines that children who have suffered as a result of armed conflict have been injured, injured, disabled, physically, sexually, psychologically, abducted or illegally removed, engaged in molding or unlawfully held captive, including in captivity. The law determines that this status should give care and care to the place where the child is registered as an internally displaced person. But it has been more than five months and the procedure for granting this status has not been developed, nor has it been approved by the Cabinet of Ministers. Moreover, there is no broad information and awareness-raising work to protect children from involvement in armed conflicts and hostilities, as provided by law. Moreover, over the period of time new categories of children have been born by the ATO, in respect of which no instruction has been given, no order as to how to act by the local authorities to protect these children, to provide assistance, social and other, as provided by law, has been developed. The government’s inaction and the loss of leadership by the Cabinet of Ministers of Child Rights Policy have given rise to new tragedies. Ukraine is bordered by the restoration of large - scale, mass childlessness. I don't like the expression, but I want to mention it right now, all the adults were kids, but not all children can become adults. It is our responsibility to provide for each child.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-01-m0.u9	Thank you. Welcome to the statement of the People's Deputy Dmitry Sphenov, "The Opposition Block."
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-01-m0.u10	May I have the right to address the MP of the Danube, thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-01-m0.u11	Please, National Deputy Dunaev.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-01-m0.u12	Dear people of Ukraine! Dear colleagues! After two years of destructive war at Donbass, after international partners and humanitarian organizations, the power and individual representatives of the coalition are beginning to realize that war is a dead end to the conflict. The economic, energy embargo is a total loss to the country and the region, as well as the prosperity of corruption and smuggling. In recent years, individual politicians have put together a label of separatists for the people of Donbass. “Separators of Separatism” – some sites have been able to record even journalists who were called advocates of democratic values yesterday, thereby endangering the lives of media representatives. Even the Ambassador of the United States noted that. Despite the destruction, war and destroyed infrastructure, Donbass continues to be part of Ukraine's economy. And to restore millions of people step by step. What's going on in Donbass' industrial capacity now? In the first quarter of 2016, the external economic turnover in the Lugansk region was 3.7 billion grevens, and incomes at all levels reached nearly 2 billion, a 12 per cent increase over last year. The Donetsk Region, 3.5 billion grevens, is demonstrating significant increases in government budget income. During the first quarter of the year, contributions increased by 38 per cent, not IMF loans, for which we have to calculate our GDP. As a result, the scientific, economic and industrial potential of our State is being destroyed. This is the real work of the people of Ukraine -- it's no one's conjecture, it's data from the government's fiscal service. What's he talking about? Is there a fifth column or about the patriotism and work of our citizens living in the territory of Donbass? Our people live there, our businesses work, both public, communal and private. Statistics say that in terms of industrial output growth, this is the result that more and more Donbass enterprises are paying taxes directly to Ukraine's public budget, even those beyond the time line of distinction. Ukraine needs a strong Donbass, like Donbass needs a strong Ukraine. Therefore, the question of restoring economic and humanitarian ties is on the agenda today more than ever. What does the people of Ukraine have today? Continuation of the freezing of social benefits and military conflict. By its actions, the authorities leave the inhabitants of the country in uncertainty about the implementation of the Minsk Agreements agreed with the Normandy Quadratic, we must end the endless clarification of relations, the suppression of negatives, the fear of society. We need to find points of interaction, respect for each other, take into account each other's interests, build the future, moving away from what unites, not from what separates. And the great Socrates said, "Do not be hasty to condemn, but be hasty to understand."
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-01-m0.u13	Thank you. I'd like to invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy John Spores, "Peter Prashenko's Block."
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-01-m0.u14	Ivan Sporish, 15th District, Winnitzkin. Please pass the word to Oleg Barney.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-01-m0.u15	Please, People's Deputy Oleg Barna.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-01-m0.u16	Deputies, Ukrainian people! Barna Oleg, Ternopilska. The positive side of today’s government is that, unlike the predecessors, it refers to MPs, to local authorities, particularly with advice on privatization issues. In particular, when it comes to a list of privatized enterprises, it is a matter of first having to privatize insolvent ones. And including when it comes to the problem of Easter as a corrupt structure, we need to get this one out first. This organization of centralized influences of Kiev, to grant legal status to every enterprise, to give them the opportunity to manage their own funds and to carry out business activities. And that's when you can see what's going to happen, what's going to happen, what's going to happen, what's worth, what's needed to privatize, and what's going to make a lot of money to the state. And it's time to end this circus that's been unfolding for a long time around the appointment of the director of Easter and the holding of this competition. I think it's the local authorities. More methods and means of influencing local state-owned enterprises should be provided. This is true of the transport sector, particularly the privatization of ports. In fact, there are ports and insolvents that need to be sold, but let's try to sell 4-5, see what's going to come out of this, how it's going to be done conscientiously. purchasers of their liabilities. Because that way we can lose access to the sea and lose Ukraine as a maritime state. Because an example of this is the situation with the Lviv Bus Plant, when the flagman, the Soviet Union, was sold, destroyed by a Russian company and turned into ruins. I also want to address our fellow MPs with a proposal for changes in how. The prosecutor's office, which the colleagues voted against: "The Cloud", "The Self-Help", "The Fatherland" and "The Radical Party." As we can see, the first results are. And in fact, hundreds of corrupt, corrupt, corrupt judges got them. Law enforcement officials received messages. I think that's what we all wanted. But I also urge my colleague not to spread false information, not to destabilize the situation in the country, not to talk about facts that are unconfirmed, particularly with regard to the deployment of high-level workers and so on. Only after proper investigation, for it is lying and cynicism that is more harmful to the country than corruption itself, for it is because of the lies that corrupters come to power. And to the colleagues of the Radical Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-01-m0.u17	Ten seconds. Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-01-m0.u18	Dear colleagues, have a conscience over the country. Please don't be clowns and don't turn the Supreme Council into a circus. The glory of Ukraine and the glory of the nation!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-01-m0.u19	Thank you. Welcome to the speech of the People's Deputy Kisse, the Rebirth Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-01-m0.u20	Dear colleagues, dear friends, residents of the Odessa region, southern Odessa region, Ukrainian Bessarabia. My brief address is, above all, addressed to the Cabinet of Ministers. Thanks to the efforts of the inhabitants of the southern Odessa region, the efforts of the regional administration, the Cabinet of Ministers, the Ministry of Transport, Ukraine, have finally begun repairs and major repairs of the Odessa-Reni fate road. Indeed, major repairs are being carried out at many sites. And I hope that the beginning will have an effective conclusion and the road will be repaired by the end of the year. However, my statement to the public authorities is about the need to establish control, i.e. the weight of vehicles. If we don't do this now, it could literally be six months of this road, which is built by incredible efforts, that's hard for us to even talk about. And I believe that the bills that have already been passed here on several occasions in the Supreme Council concerning the control of the movement of multiple cargo vehicles in order to establish strict control and appropriate penalties and penalties for driving multiple cargo vehicles must be considered and adopted at the next plenary meeting. That's the first question. And the second question. I address, above all, the communities of the Odessa region. Today, such a work is being done, if we can say so, through the development of a community integration plan. I would like to remind everyone that the law clearly states that there is a voluntary association of communities. That is, rural heads should do this work only when they meet with people and make decisions at general meetings of the communities and decide whether they agree to unite or not. If someone tells you to give money, let them give money and make a road between the villages, and then you think about whether it's worth uniting or not. If they are united, it is only those villages that, unfortunately, today number about 300-400 people in the village. And today our villages in the southern Odessa region are large, today the population is growing, today the birth rate is rising, and attention is being paid to large villages. Any step taken by the village heads must agree with their inhabitants, for the inhabitants chose them and gave them a mandate of trust. Only a decision of the communities can be taken to implement it. I think everyone hears me and understands me. And please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-01-m0.u21	Thank you. Welcome to the statement of National Deputy Irina Sisoyenko, "The Self-Help Union."
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-01-m0.u22	Good morning, colleagues. It's Children's Day. I want to draw your attention to the fact that unfortunately, we pay very little attention and take legislative initiatives that directly apply to children. I find it very difficult to even talk about the fact that, unfortunately, in Ukraine infant and child mortality is almost twice as high as in European countries. That is why we should put in place programs not only for the treatment of sick children but also for the cost of maintaining health for healthy children. You know that a large number of children who graduate from school today have almost 80 percent of them have different diseases: cardiovascular diseases, respiratory diseases, and digestion. And that is what says that it is very important to pay attention to school medicine, to establish preventive health facilities in both schools and kindergartens. Also important in the development of family medicine is the preservation of pediatrics in Ukraine. It is the pediatrician who can at the right time reveal the development of these diseases in newborns, young children. And that's why Pediatrics is extremely important today, but unfortunately in Ukraine it's being destroyed and it's unacceptable. I also point out that there are 160,000 children with disabilities in Ukraine. And it is the issue of rehabilitation of children with disabilities that is very relevant to our country. The bill, submitted to the Supreme Council, 4458, specifically envisages rehabilitation for both disabled and disabled children in the ATO area. And that's what's important. The conditions in which a child is born then affect his or her health throughout his or her life. 6 areas of Ukraine have unbuilt perinatal centres, such as the Ivano-Frankiv region, Volinska, Ternopilska, Cerkaska, Cherniewetska, women of those areas are not able to give birth in highly specialized medical institutions. And that's what's causing the terrible consequences when there's a lot of pathological pregnancy, when premature children need medical attention and there's no way to get it. So I'm going to the government that has to allocate 589 million dollars to build the perinatal centers in those 6 areas. Because respectable men, women from all over Ukraine, deserve to give birth to healthy children in just the right, modern conditions. That's why I'm counting on your support.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-01-m0.u23	Thank you. Welcome to Svetlana Zalitschuk's statement, "Peter Prashenko's Block."
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-01-m0.u24	Please pass the word to Sergio Leschchenkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-01-m0.u25	Please, National Deputy Sergei Leschenko, Peter Dustenka Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-01-m0.u26	Good afternoon, my friends! I wanted to dedicate my speech to the event that happened yesterday, which is the publication of the shadow accounting of the Party of Regions, the shadow accounting that shows how corrupt Ukrainian politics is. And here is the problem, not in the Party of Regions, but in that all parties have this kind of accounting. But only the Party of Regions was able to record and report to future generations, show how they used state power to rob and then spend money on politics. These are the files that were published yesterday at a press conference that the former deputy head of the BSB Mr. Trepak transferred to the National Anti-Corruption Bureau. Our documents show that in just six months — less than six months — 2012 — more than 60 million dollars were spent on politics, with money spent impressive, both in scale and cynicism. There was money just to bribe MPs, for a single vote of $50,000. There were millions of dollars, $3 million allocated to the Central Electoral Commission, all at the time of the electoral campaign. So there was actually a bribe, a bribe from the Central Election Commission. In addition, there were huge sums, millions of dollars, for political pyars, for orders on central television channels, on the Inter Channel, on the ISTV channel. The signatures of the people who came and took the money were clearly inserted, and then the purchase materials came out on these channels. All of this happened in secret. And only after the change of power did we get these documents. These documents are now at the disposal of the National Anticorruption Bureau. And we call for investigating the most violent crimes, in particular the crimes of the Central Electoral Commission, whose members continue to carry out their duties illegally. At the same time, we call for the whole database to be published, because society needs to know where the money was spent on political corruption, who took that money, where it came from. And for this practice to be stopped, in the new one, we need to change legislation, ban television advertising, change the Election Act. And the main thing. I want to say again, now this shadow accounting is going to be investigated, but it's no less important to investigate how this money got there. And this was done in the time of Klimenko, in the time of the man who headed the Ministry of Income and Congregations, in the time of Yanukovich. Klimenko's case is now being tried by the new Attorney General Lucenko to take the Special Investigations Department to the Military Prosecutor's Office, particularly Mr. Gerbick. I'm saying that Mr. Gerbitsky is in a personal friendly relationship with Mr. Klimenko, and he can't be an impartial investigator in the government budget robbery case, he can't investigate impartially. On the Internet you can find a lot of quotes, as Mr. Klimenko calls the gentleman friendly.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-01-m0.u27	Please, 30 seconds. Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-01-m0.u28	On the Internet, you'll find a lot of cases where Mr. Klimenko is friendly and friendly about Mr. Žebrovsky, I'm sorry, Gerbitsky. Gerbicko is the deputy military prosecutor who is going to investigate the case. This is an unacceptable conflict of interest. And we demand that Klimenko's investigation continue to take place in the bodies that conducted it in the last months when they went out to the people who were members of Mr. Klimenko's.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-01-m0.u29	Thank you. I'd like to invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy Taras Jurik, "Peter Prashenko's Block."
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-01-m0.u30	Please pass the word to Solovius Yuri.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-01-m0.u31	Please, National Deputy Yuri Solovay, Peter Prashenko's Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-01-m0.u32	Yuri Solovay, 89th constituency, Gutzulščina and Poksi. Dear colleagues, first of all, I would like to express my sincere thanks to the millions of Ukrainians who voted yesterday in favour of Bill 3251, which reduces the cost of clearing used cars. This is one example where the law is passed in the interests of not a single bunch of people sitting in the Ukrainian Parliament for years and lobbying for their interests, but when the law is passed in the interests of hundreds, thousands, and probably millions of Ukrainian citizens. What does this law allow? First of all, this law allows used cars to be accessible to Ukrainian families. Think of the numbers that only one third of the Ukrainian family now has in place. Instead, if we take it for example, it's 90 percent higher than the Ukrainian figure. This bill allows used cars to be made available to Ukrainian families in the European Union today. In addition, I think that everyone, especially the inhabitants of Western Ukraine, is experiencing problems at the border crossing. Why is this happening? In fact, there are six miles [10 km] of transit cars and it is virtually impossible to pass in an hour or two. This law allows the problem to be removed, the ten - mile [10 km] queues removed, and the legalization of the transportation that is now going on so - called transit numbers in Ukraine. There is no criticism of the argument that the adoption of this law would seem to reduce revenue to a well - held budget. On the contrary, your colleagues, from Law 3251 to the State Budget, will grow considerably because if we imported 4 and a half thousand used cars last year, this figure is projected to exceed 100,000 this year alone. And it is clear that the excise duty that will be paid will far exceed the revenue that was paid last year. And in closing, I would like to say, my dear colleagues, that this bill is going to have an extremely strong and powerful economic effect. Think about it: over the last 10 years in Ukraine, when old legislation was in place, there was no car production that worked in Europe a long time ago. Why? Because all of this has been done. Since the adoption of this law, if automakers want to sell their car in Ukraine, they will have to make a new car available to Ukrainians. And the only one.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-01-m0.u33	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-01-m0.u34	And the only way to make it cheaper is to put those cars in Ukraine. That's why I'm calling on the President of Ukraine to sign the bill as soon as possible and to open this wonderful opportunity for Ukrainian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-01-m0.u35	Thank you. Now we're going to have our final speech, your honors, and then we're going to the vote. That's why I'm asking all the deputies to come into the hall, and I'm asking the secretariat of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to inform the deputies that we're starting work in three minutes. Hellenic is now speaking to Ukrainian national deputy Igor Guzu. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-01-m0.u36	Glory to Ukraine! Dear friends! I want to inform you that I was not allowed to enter the Republic of Belarus as deputy head of the Committee on Foreign Affairs in one last month, to Transnistria (unrecognized Transnistrian Republic of Moldova) – that was literally a week ago. In Belarus, I went after the commission of our Belarusian volunteers, brothers who fight on the front because their parents are being bullied. And he went to Transnistria to meet the Ukrainian community. In fact, I was not allowed to enter the Russian Federation and Belarus, and the unrecognizable Transnistria has some kind of agreement, official, unofficial with the Russian Federation. But what do I want to say? During this month, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs gave no note of protest, no normal reaction. When the deputy head of the committee is going to deal with issues that matter to the state, they're not letting him into Belarus, they're in fact -- Transnistria and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is silent. Why? Or is it because there has been no ambassador in Belarus for a year and a few months? Peter Porcelain! I am the fifth time I have addressed you from the Supreme Council, from the rostrum, when will the Ambassador of Ukraine in Belarus? What is the reason why you do not appoint? This is a deal with who, Lukashenko, with Putin? One second. Peter Alexiovich! When will the ambassador of our state be in Georgia? Do we not have to cooperate with this country? Kazakhstan means Belarus, Georgia. Next. There's a NATO summit in Warsaw in July, we don't have a representative of our country in NATO. Peter Alexiyovich, Mr. Klimkin, what is the problem, please explain to the Ukrainian people what is not sufficient for you to find worthy diplomats who will defend the interests of the Ukrainian State? I believe that if within a week the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the President's Administration do not take adequate action to appoint ambassadors to a number of countries, and I no longer mention Switzerland, Norway and others, I think there should be a decision to release Mr. Klimkin's foreign minister. If he can't offer the President worthy ambassadors, let him go. Thank you. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-01-m0.u37	Thank you, dear fellows. I want to say that I find it unacceptable that the Ukrainian people's deputies can stop at the border. And I'm asking Igor Guza for a violation of his rights to form a parliamentary inquiry and I'm going to refer him as Head of the Supreme Council to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs on the basis that there was a need for a response by the Ukrainian authorities to similar actions with regard to the Ukrainian National Deputies. Dear colleagues! The time for the speeches is over, and traditionally a letter from two political factions — the Radical Party faction and the Fatherland faction — has come to the Presidency of the Supreme Council, demanding a recess. But the factions agree to replace the problem with a speech from the platform of the head of the Radical Party of Oleg Lášk Lášk. Mr. Oleg, please, three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-01-m0.u38	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. I understand humor or irony, the parliamentary sarcasm that we have traditionally submitted a statement to draw the attention of society to the problems that block the parliamentary rostrum. It is unfortunate that this blockade has taken place for the third week and that Parliament is unable to take responsibility. Parliament, as a higher than the country’s only legislative body, avoids solving the problems that arise before Parliament, before the authorities of Ukrainian citizens. My colleagues who have just spoken about corruption, abuse, and the officials who take bribes. Why, I have a simple question, why are you afraid to investigate these facts? Because you took the money? Because you're corrupt? Because you're addicted? Is it because you're being run by the Bank? I know exactly because I had a conversation yesterday with the President of Ukraine, I asked him publicly to support our Law on Temporary Investigations Commissions of the Supreme Council. The president said, "No." He said it wasn't the Supreme Council. The Constitution must be read, Mr. President. In the Constitution, the commission of inquiry is an instrument of parliamentary control. I asked the President not to block the establishment in Parliament of a commission of inquiry into the offshore investigation, abuse and corruption of the President, the Head of the National Bank, the Minister of Finance, the President's environment. President Peter Alexiovich Prashenko once again says no. They're against the creation of a commission of inquiry, against anti-corruption investigations, against offshore investigation. I have a simple question: Your Honor, I don't know what to call you, what are you afraid of? Why were you chosen here? You're afraid of conducting anti-corruption investigations, so all those who are afraid are members of corruption. You are afraid to answer the question: Where do we live, where do we live, where do we live, where do we live, where people retire, and the billions who earn money in Ukraine are offshore? So it's obvious that your dick is also in those offshore lairs. So, Mr. Head, I ask no sarcasm, but I demand that you put to the vote and set up an investigation commission to investigate corruption, the president's offshores, the head of the National Bank, the minister of finance. We have registered the Order on the resignation of the Minister of Finance, who is also the director of three offshore companies. We demand to investigate these facts of corruption. And our second demand for government, we demand that Ukrainian citizens be reimbursed for the price of the gas they took from them and that people today can't make ends meet. We demand action.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-01-m0.u39	Thank you, Mr. Oleg. I'd like to inform you that we're waiting for a committee decision. As soon as I have the committee’s decision, after the committee’s decision, I will certainly put the matter in order, as provided for by the Ukrainian Rules, into the agenda of the day’s session. Thank you. Dear colleagues, we are moving on to the first issue of the agenda. This is a draft resolution on parliamentary hearings on the situation of young people in Ukraine, "Certain orientations of modern Ukrainian youth" (4677). And I have a request that we be as unanimous as possible on these issues on Children's Day. Now I'm going to make an offer so we can look at the simplified procedure. And I'd like to ask the national deputies to come into the hall and prepare for the vote. Please invite the deputies to the hall. Dear colleagues, this is the draft Parliamentary Hearing Order. And I think there's a lot of reason for us to consider this as a simplified procedure. And I'm going to put this proposal to a vote. So, colleagues, at the suggestion of the committee, I am voting on the proposal to consider the draft Resolution on Parliamentary Hearings on the Status of Young People in Ukraine (No. 4677) for consideration of the shortened procedure. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. Please vote, colleagues. [[10:47:00]] For-153 153 for. Decision taken. Thank you. The report invites the head of the Committee on Family, Youth Policy, and Sports, House Arthur Leonidovich. Please, Mr. Arthur. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-01-m0.u40	The President-in-chief, honourable national deputies, in accordance with the Declaration on the General Principles of State Youth Policy in Ukraine and on the basis of the decision of the Committee on Family, Youth Policy, Sport and Tourism of 11 May this year by me and the National Deputies - members of our committee Velichkovich, Sporish - is submitting to you the draft Decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on parliamentary hearings on the situation of young people in Ukraine on the subject of: "Recent orientations of modern Ukrainian youth." The purpose of these parliamentary hearings is to develop and adopt recommendations by the Supreme Council of Ukraine regarding the definition of the basic values of young people in whom young people are constantly being raised and formed as individuals. The conduct of these parliamentary hearings will help to improve the activities of executive bodies, local self - government bodies, public organizations for the implementation of state youth policies in Ukraine. Hearing will give special attention to the consideration of young people's concerns about changing socio-economic foundations and political conditions as they accept and reject the values of modern Ukraine's youth especially during this difficult time. While protecting Ukraine from Russian aggression, annexation of part of Ukrainian territory. The analysis and consideration of these problems will allow for the identification of effective means and forms of socialization of young citizens in the context of a democratic restoration of society for the approval of young people as a full and full subject of society. In view of the above-mentioned committee, he proposes to hold parliamentary hearings on the situation of young people in Ukraine on the topic "Certainties, orientations of modern Ukrainian youth" in November 2016. Dear National Deputies! I ask you to unify the room on this issue, gather the votes, and vote in favour of Decree No. 4677 on the basis and in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-01-m0.u41	Dear colleagues, I see, are willing to speak. And I'm asking. [[B in m in s a l in]] There are those who want to speak, I can't avoid it. I'm asking you to make a record: two for, two against. Please. Please, Sergey Mikolayovich, the Fatherland faction. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-01-m0.u42	Sergey Eutuszek, "The Fatherland" faction. I'm addressing you now, Your Honor. Well, there are probably no more important laws that we can consider today than those that we see today in the order of the day. It's really important, there's no objection, we. I'm going to say right now, the Fatherland faction is going to support this decision project, and I'm going to say that life has always been built on certain values, and today's young generation has ideals, their preferences. Scientists have determined in the 21st century that there is indeed a crisis among the young generation. I want to pay attention and make an official appeal to Lilia Mikhailovna, too, asking that in our schools the subject not be optional, but that it is always held as the subject of "Basics of Christian Ethics". What do we see now in the east? In the east, we see children and everyone else being alienated from everything in Ukrainian, from all spiritual things. Why? Because let us remember what happens to us during our spiritual festivals. For example, the Trinity or the Christmas of Christ when our children run in embroidery. These are the values that point to our culture, to our identity as Ukrainian. So I would like the Ministry of Science, Lillia Mikhailna, to be able to conduct lessons from the basics of Christian ethics, not optionally, but as a basic subject. Ukraine has all the necessary conditions. For example, the Ostrich Academy releases experts, teachers who can read this subject in schools. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-01-m0.u43	Thank you. Romanov Anna Anatolovna, Self Help, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-01-m0.u44	I very much ask my colleagues to support parliamentary hearings, because it has been so historically that the development of children and young people is very rarely discussed in Parliament on such busy days as Thursday or Tuesday, and they are always put on hold, always on Fridays when there are no votes, or on Wednesdays. So today, on Child Protection Day, I want to raise such important issues that I hope will be discussed at parliamentary hearings as providing our talented young people with jobs. Because, unfortunately, brain drains are very large for young people in Ukraine. In the last year alone, many of Ukraine’s citizens, young citizens, have been given long - term work visas in countries such as Poland, the Czech Republic. This is due to the fact that we have very little consideration of the economic laws that relate to economic recovery, job creation. But what I want to remind you is that it's young people, it's education, it's mentality, it's ability to develop this country. And unfortunately, today in Ukraine, we cannot guarantee that. Self-help advocates that in the Parliamentary and Parliamentary Hall, issues such as creating jobs for young people, providing them with quality education and free access to higher education, vocational and technical education among our young people. Everyone, please support these questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-01-m0.u45	Thank you. Please, Taras Kozak of the Opposition Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-01-m0.u46	I give you my word to Shufresche.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-01-m0.u47	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman! In expressing the utmost respect for the head of the PIC and its initiative, I would like to state that the Opposition Block fully supports the proposed bill and will vote in favour of its adoption. Of course, it is vital that we give guidance to our young people today. And I fully support all my colleagues who have talked today about the need for jobs, the need for education, although justice is needed to say that in Ukraine the number of people with higher education is the largest in the world relative to the number of people. But we also have no right to forget the spirituality, spiritual training of our children, respect for our parents, and responsibility before their children. We need to focus our attention today on family responsibilities, family that is the real foundation and foundation of our society and respect for each other. Respect for parents, love and responsibility for children is what today is meant to ensure the future of our country, the future of our children, or our society will not move forward. And I want to believe that after these hearings, we will not only speak, but also the authorities will be able to do something for our children. Since the baccarat has grown weary, we must do it for the children and for the whole of Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-01-m0.u48	Melniczuk Ivan Ivanovich, "Peter Dust Block". Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-01-m0.u49	Dear people of Ukraine, I would like to address you and tell you about the following. When you're on the radio or on television listening to the talk of the Supreme Council's main TV player, the one who's blocking the rostrum right now, the one who's paralyzing the entire Supreme Council, I'd like you to remember what they're saying about this person in Ukraine: Let's investigate -- I call on you, parliamentarians -- where he has so much real estate, where he has so much transportation that follows him through the columns. He celebrated Mr. Ahmedov in 2013. He hung half of the Supreme Council with his posters to lower tariffs on gas for the Ukrainians. What, though, is no longer important to Ukrainians? But he'll never ask about lowering the tariffs on electricity, because there Mr. Ahmethov, he'll call himself, knock himself in a cab, and cut off the rations for half a month. Here's the thing! That's what we need to talk about! So once again I urge you: clowns in the Supreme Council are no place! And the sooner he releases that rostrum, the more we can find the opportunity to do that, the more we can find the opportunity to vote for the bill without it. But when you watch it on TV, do what we do, and we laugh and wonder how limited it is. As he sits at night and invents his great things in order to speak them and lead you into fornication in the morning on the rostrum. Thank you all. I think you've got me.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-01-m0.u50	The People's Front is Unguran. One second, Your Honor, there'll be a vote in three minutes. One last talk in the discussion. I ask the deputies to enter the hall, prepare for the decision and give the floor to Ungurian. Please turn on the microphone. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-01-m0.u51	Dear colleagues, first of all, I would like to thank the initiators, the initiators who represent a very important committee -- the Committee on Youth Policy, the family policy of our Parliament. I am convinced that we are all aware that everything we do in our country, in our Ukraine, we are making the next generation of Ukrainians successful. But success depends not only on economic achievements, first of all, Ukraine's success in future generations depends on values, platforms, a worldview based on the future of Ukrainian youth -- faith, it's family, it's patriotism, it's love for the Fatherland, it's industriousness. And so it's important that we support this on Child Protection Day. It is important that we support on Sundays, on Saturdays, the big steps that will be taken in Kiev to support the family. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-01-m0.u52	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I am also deeply convinced that this issue is about to be brought together. Parliamentary hearings give us a very deep understanding of the issue and the valuable orientation of young people who are being raised today in times of war, when a whole new generation of Ukrainians, Ukrainian soldiers, modern people, who are deeply oriented in IT technologies, is the task of the State to take care of how this training takes place. I want to say hello to the young girls who are mostly on the balcony. Let us welcome them to the Hall of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. [[Applause]] And let us join together in the vote on this issue. So, colleagues, I'm putting to the vote the bill of parliamentary hearings on the situation of young people in Ukraine: "Tiny orientations of modern Ukrainian youth" (number 4677) proposed by the committee as a basis and as a whole. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. Colleagues, please vote. [[11:00:56]] For 246 The law is passed. I welcome the authors and wish you good parliamentary hearings. By the way, that name was my candidate's dissertation. Thank you. Dear colleagues, the next issue of the agenda is the draft Act amending certain legislative acts on the organization and rest of children, the preservation of a network of children's health facilities (number 2917). And, honourable colleagues, there is also a proposal for us to consider this bill in a simplified manner. Anyone who supports this proposal for a reduced procedure, please vote. Please, colleagues, we're voting. 2917 – summary procedure. Please include the voting system. [[11:01:59]] For-153 Decision taken. And I invite the head of the committee’s Subcommittee on Family, Youth Policy, Sport, and Tourism, Mr. Please, Ivan Dmitrovitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-01-m0.u53	Ivan Sporish, 15th District, Winnitzkin. Dear chairman, distinguished nationals! I welcome all of us to the International Children's Day, and I am pleased that today is the issue of Bill 2917. Where the drafters propose to expand the list of categories of children in need of special attention and support, to clarify the mandate of the public authorities in the area of child health and rest, the order in which children are formed, the restructuring of children's institutions, health and rest, and to establish responsibility for violating the reporting requirements for state registers. The committee at its meeting on June 30, 2015, discussed the bill, and members of the committee supported the proposal to adopt the bill as a basis for discussion. Since the adoption proposal has been approved and has been allowed to strengthen the control of child care and rest facilities and to establish the personal responsibility of the founders for the quality of service. I will say that this bill does not conflict with the Constitution of Ukraine, its implementation does not require additional financial costs. The committee therefore decided, in its first reading, to adopt the bill as a basis. And I would very much like to see this bill adopted unanimously in the Supreme Council on the International Day for the Protection of Children. We need to improve the statistics on children’s recreation in the best way, especially since special attention is given here to participants, to children who participate in combat and to participants in ATO. I want our hall to be united today and to make a positive decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-01-m0.u54	Thank you, dear fellows. Is there a need to discuss? Yes. Yes, please record: two for, two against. Please. Olena Condratuk, Fatherland, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-01-m0.u55	Pass the word to Kugel.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-01-m0.u56	Colleagues, the "Fatherland" faction is ready to support this bill in the first reading, but with the mandatory consideration of the remarks that I want to stress right now. First of all, we don't agree that there's a proposal in the law to reduce the duration of the health change from 21 to 18 days. This is not acceptable and in turn grossly violates, but limits the child’s right to full rest and recovery. And practice can have a negative effect on the process of restoring and treating the child’s body. The project also envisages the creation of a separate national register of property facilities for the recovery and rest of children. It's no longer funny how every body creates registers that then earn money. Enough on the Ministry’s Youth and Sports website today to list those institutions that have been accredited and have opportunities. I think the second reading of the confirmation system every year and the confirmation and keeping of the register is unacceptable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-01-m0.u57	Thank you. Please, Barney Oleg Stepanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-01-m0.u58	Deputies! Indeed, today is the day of the protection of children. Children are the flower of our nation, and it is from how we will pour this flower and the fruits will be our future, for all of us, for the people and for all of Ukraine. And that's why now that we're out of the Supreme Council's rostrum, some of the TV screens are starting to manipulate, cynically and wickedly provide false information, manipulating people's consciousness, think about who we're still raising and who we're cooking when people don't know who to trust. Or there, if a thief starts teaching someone how to be fair and honest when someone who is involved in the theft of state property on a particularly large scale wants to give an assessment to others, or those who are involved in large gas affairs, starts talking about someone who has apparently failed to pay taxes in the German state. So let's think about it, if we don't trust the law enforcement agencies, our Ukrainians, then the German law enforcement agencies would never let anyone pay them a tax. But if we want to be honest with ourselves and in front of the Ukrainian people, I want to talk to the distinguished critics before yelling at anyone, please move yourself on a simple car or car of general use, so that they don't go around the city and go to the Supreme Council with 2-3 circuits and with guards to live in the official apartments that are assigned to you, not the middlemen, and not rest for hundreds of thousands of dollars abroad, and our children are starving. So let us unite together for the sake of Ukraine, the children and the future!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-01-m0.u59	Thank you. Matvienkov Sergey Anatoliyovich, "The Opposition Block."
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-01-m0.u60	Matvienkov, 57th District, Mariupol, Opposition Block. Dear colleagues, of course, the issue is very sensitive and very difficult to date. And given that today is a day of child protection, our economic situation in the country is catastrophic, critical, of course it cannot fail to affect families, it cannot fail to affect the health of children, the health of the growing generation. To date, therefore, more than ever, it is necessary for all States to do so in order to heal children, to enable them to improve their strength in summertime, especially since this time is very limited. To date, we have discussed this bill on a faction, and we will definitely support it, and there is no doubt about it. We need to increase the list of categories that need social protection, especially since we understand one more thing, the vast number of rest zones that have been and have functioned in our State are now out of service, given the situation that is taking place in the south-east. We've lost a huge number of child health centres, which were fully operational, and today they can't have children. And this category of children needs to be cured somewhere. I would not be so critical of the figures that were said to have been reduced by 18 today. From the 21st day of rest or recovery of children to the 18th day, this would also be acceptable, especially provided that the number of children who will be better off during this period may increase. We are therefore prepared to support this bill in our first reading, if necessary, and generally as a law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-01-m0.u61	Thank you. From the Hungarian People's Front, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-01-m0.u62	Dear colleagues, once again I thank the initiators for introducing this bill, symbolically that we are looking at it on Child Protection Day. Definitely based on Andrew Volodymyrovich, he needs to be taken and all, I think they'll support him. The innovation here is that we give children the opportunity to rest with their family members, and thus we are introducing the possibility of such a family vacation, which is essential for strengthening, to entrench the Ukrainian family. Sad to say, today, according to sad statistics, the Ukrainian family is usually a single - parent family, where there is no father or mother. And we need to do everything we can today to raise a young generation so that families are strong, prepared, and then healthy, happy children will be born, and Ukraine will be strong. So once again, I urge everyone to take part in.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-01-m0.u63	Thank you. I'll give it to you. Please, now from. I'll give it all in a row: Radical Party – Igor Mosiyczuk, then Self-Help, then Litwin. Mosiyczuk, turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-01-m0.u64	Igor Mosiyczuk, Oleg Lachka Radical Party Our faction will support this bill, even though we block the rostrum with demands to investigate corruption crimes of the past and present authorities. But it is very strange to hear when crocodile tears over Ukrainian children pour out those who steal, take under their own belongings the pioneer camps of former, childlike resting grounds. Don’t be devious or drooling with crocodile tears. And finally. On Child Protection Day, I would like to welcome all Ukrainian children with this celebration, but first of all, Taras Karpuk, the son of my comrade, who is now in Russian captivity in Groznom, together.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-01-m0.u65	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-01-m0.u66	Together, let us welcome and help all the children of our captives, all the children of our military, who protect the Ukrainian state and nation from the original enemy.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-01-m0.u67	Thank you. Please, Vladimir Litwin. Vladimir Litwin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-01-m0.u68	Dear Head! Dear colleagues! Obviously, this law must be adopted today, or it will no longer be necessary. But note where the children will rest. Usually in schools, they will be cured, on asphalt or in pollen. And at the same time, let's say there's a district sanatorium of radiation protection for children. The second year in a row does not work, although it has unique possibilities. Let me give you just one example. It has a swimming pool that is not practically located in any of the district centers. But because of misunderstandings, this uniquely equipped sanatorium, the possibility of treatment, the healing of children for changing to 200 children, remains empty. I would like to take this into account by asking the Cabinet of Ministers to resume his work immediately. But the law has to be passed now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-01-m0.u69	Thank you. Please, Taras Shepherd of Self-Help.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-01-m0.u70	Taras Shepherd, Self Help Union. The Self-Help faction will definitely support any legislative initiative aimed at improving child health services. Moreover, a legislative initiative that will help children in an antiterrorist operation, families of the dead, and so forth. But we will never support that, for good purposes, the things we are fighting in this Parliament be covered up as a whole. On the one hand, we're talking about supporting institutions. On the other hand, we are obliged to run to a registry in Kiev and make certain forms and reports. And so we create an additional obstacle to their activities. And we also see in this law one way of manipulating tax-related benefits, and we realize that these children's camps can then create cover-up and some optimization of tax legislation. That is why we clearly support the first reading and the second reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-01-m0.u71	Please finish 10 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-01-m0.u72	We obviously support it in the first reading, in the second reading, only in the light of these warnings that we will make through appropriate amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-01-m0.u73	Thank you. Please, Victor Pinzenik.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-01-m0.u74	Dear colleagues, it would seem a law dedicated to the noble goal of preserving our children's resting places. But a tool to do that is to create a state register of relevant institutions. When it comes to public institutions, appropriate authorities have registers, but when it comes to private institutions, for what purpose do we have to create another government register to satisfy the curiosity of Ukrainian officials. Where is there nowhere to spend the budget money? But the creation of a government register might be a minor problem. The law provides that administrative and criminal responsibility is established for failing to register data. Administrative responsibility to 200 untaxed minimums, criminal responsibility to 2,000 untaxed minimums and to 3 years imprisonment. Dear colleagues, with such investment standards, we will go far, and more precisely, we will not go far. You can't vote for that.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-01-m0.u75	Dear colleagues, the discussion is over, and I ask all members of the people to enter the decision-making room. The Secretary of the Supreme Council, I ask that you inform the deputies that a decision will be taken. Dear colleagues, I would like to remind you that this is just about first reading. All the warnings and comments that they made, they make sense, they make sense, they make sense, but this is actually the chance that we can use in preparing for the second reading, all the adjustments we can make. And while the MPs are coming in, I'm asking the deputies to come into the hall, and I'm giving you a minute to explain to the head of the Committee of the Sporish Committee, Ivan Dmitrovich. Turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-01-m0.u76	John Sporish, 15th District, Winnitzkin. I understand that some of the remarks are just and Mr. Pinzenik, and Kugel, I think it's all fair. But really, as it was said, we accept it in the first reading of everything for everything, and I think there will be changes. But I would like to point out once again that we don't have any rest at Artec because there is no temporary occupied Crimea. The Young Guard today cures fewer children than it should cure. I think we should really think today about the Day of Child Protection and take the decision. And all these remarks. I would very much like Fatherland to vote, support, please, Mrs. Kugel. And that's why we're going to prepare and correct all of these comments for the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-01-m0.u77	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please prepare for the vote. And I'm voting on a bill amending some of the legislation on child health and rest. Saving the Children’s Health Network, No. 2917 At the committee's suggestion, on the basis, colleagues. Based on the base. Whoever supports this proposal, 2917 on the basis, please vote. Colleagues, please vote. [[11:19:40]] For 240 Decision taken. Congratulations to the author. Welcome to the committee. I wish you fruitful work on the second reading of this bill. And we move on to the next issue of the agenda, this is the draft Act amending some of the Ukrainian legislative acts on measures to promote the development of the Ukrainian natural-command fund (No.3124). And I, at the suggestion of the head of the subcommittee, propose a reduced procedure. Colleagues who support the consideration of the reduced procedure, please vote. Please, colleagues, we're voting. Short. Vote. [[11:20:38]] For-167 Decision taken. And I invite you to the report of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Kolesnikov Dmitry Valeriyovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-01-m0.u78	Dear Andriy Volodymyrovich, dear colleagues, I'd like to fill you all with the fact that we've already considered this law at a previous session, we've run out of literally 20 votes. What is the problem? According to the Convention on the Protection of Biological Diversity signed by Ukraine, by 2020 our nation has been tasked with creating a system of conservation areas at 17 percent. In fact, however, this area is nearly three times smaller. What is the problem? In the creation or expansion of conservation facilities, the land of state - owned property is transferred to the permanent use of state - owned enterprises. Yet, in order to actually get the land, the reserves are obliged to compensate damages, i.e. to pay disproportionate financial compensation to state enterprises. According to expert estimates, it's about billions of dollars. However, first of all, natural-invention agencies receive land, not by their own will, but on the basis of those responsible for the implementation of the President's decrees. Secondly, the state form of ownership does not change during the granting of land to the natural-inspectorship fund institutions. And thirdly, they just don't have that kind of money. I'm going to point out that the project will avoid the multimillion-dollar cost of the state budget needed by the natural-invention agencies to pay for the new natural-security lands. That's why we're proposing by amending the Ukrainian Law on the Natural and Inventory Fund and the Ukrainian Code of Land to free the most important nature-protection institutions from paying compensation for land removals for natural-security purposes. I'll tell you, my dear colleagues, this law is the work of the entire environmental committee. You can look at the authors of this bill. So I ask you to uphold this law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-01-m0.u79	Thank you. I invite the co-rapporteur, the head of the Committee on Environmental Policy, Environmental Management and the Elimination of the Consequences of the Chernobyl disaster by Ribak Ivan Petrovich. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-01-m0.u80	Dear colleagues, you are asked to consider a draft Act amending some of Ukraine's legislative acts (for measures to promote the development of Ukraine's natural-command fund). The purpose of the bill is to remove conflicts in the area of damage or damage to enterprises, institutions and organizations that are state-owned by the Natural Reserve in the process of acquiring the right to use land. At the address of the Committee of the Supreme Council on Environmental Policy, Environmental Management and the Elimination of the Effects of the Chernobyl Disaster, a letter from the Committee on Budget Issues noted that the introduction of the proposed changes would make it impossible to anticipate the expenditure of the State budget to the institutions of the National Fund of Public Interest to compensate for the above-mentioned damage, as the Ministry of Finance of Ukraine noted in an expert opinion. I would like to read out the changes that are being made by the authors of this bill to two existing laws, namely, the Ukrainian Law on the Ukrainian Nature and Command Fund on Damage Compensation, which. which release natural reserves, biosphere reserves, national natural parks and botanic gardens of state-of-the-art importance, whose lands have been removed from enterprises, institutions and organizations of state-owned property, except for the lands of defence and have been placed under constant use. It should also be noted that the Ministry of Environment and Natural Resources also further suggests that the land of defence should not be excluded from the list. But, in fact, to the first. The first reading already contains such a text. Therefore, it may be possible to work on the second reading or to make changes to this chapter if we vote in general today. Therefore, our committee decided to invite the Supreme Council to vote in the first reading as a basis.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-01-m0.u81	Thank you. I invite the MP factions to sign up for the presentations in the discussion: two for, two against. Please. Welcome to the speech of the People's Deputy Ivchenka, the "Fatherland" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-01-m0.u82	Vadim Yvchenko faction of Fatherland. Dear colleagues! These bills are the result of us being "on our knees" at night, without the papers we're adopting bills for amendments to the Tax Code and the Budget Code. In violation of all the rules for the introduction of such bills to the Supreme Council, you and I have introduced land taxes on children's playgrounds, introduced sports schools, children's and young sports schools, science and education institutions of all forms of property. And we're constantly passing bills to change the situation. Of course, the situation that has arisen with the natural-invention fund also needs attention. And, you know, when the President's decree expands the nature-invention fund, and then (that is, the state gives the land to expand) and then the state foresees paying itself for compensation for agricultural or forestry production. It's nonsense. And I agree with a committee colleague who said that this bill could be voted on immediately in general, but immediately exclude the norms in which the parentheses are prescribed "except for the land of the Ministry of Defence." Today it's a corrupt norm because no one can explain why "except the land of the Mini-Defense." And in general, this bill is faithful and we have with you natural reserves, biosphere reserves, national natural parks to protect, expand and expand our green Ukraine into green Ukraine. I ask for a basis to support both if there is a desire and in general. But with the "except the land of the Mini-Defense" edit, take it away. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-01-m0.u83	Thank you. Welcome to the speech of the People's Deputy, Dmitry Kolesnikov, faction of the Opposition Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-01-m0.u84	Thank you, Chairman. Dear colleagues, really, it's not a tax. What we're talking about here is not a tax, it's compensation to state-owned enterprises for some kind of damage, and whoever did it, it's not clear. And according to the current edition of article 156, 157 of the Ukrainian Code of Land, damage to land users needs to be compensated, even though they have not been directly carried out by the Natural Command Fund. So I agree with my colleagues who have just had the talk, and we must support it in the first reading, and then, if there are any comments or suggestions, we will take them into account. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-01-m0.u85	Thank you. I invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy, Dmitr Biloczerkovec.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-01-m0.u86	Please pass the word to Oksani Prodan.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-01-m0.u87	Please, Oxana People's Deputy Sold.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-01-m0.u88	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, of course, everyone understands and everyone in this room is here to keep and develop our reserve fund. At the same time, I want to draw the attention of all my colleagues to the fact that this bill proposes to separate different types of property. Because the law in force provides for compensation for damage to all existing businesses. The project offers compensation only to private enterprises. So those state-owned enterprises that remain, that continue to work, that we're talking about so often today, that they're not effective, they're going to be even more inefficient. And I absolutely want to deny now to a colleague who was talking about that we actually translate from one government pocket into another. These are legal persons who should either earn their own money or be properly financed from the budget. And now in this bill, to allow the inequality of property rights, which is provided for in the Constitution of Ukraine, I find absolutely wrong. Moreover, this bill does not refer to the support of reserves, but rather to the possibility that damage will not be compensated. Once again, the right to property and the right to equality of various forms of property provided for in the Constitution is violated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-01-m0.u89	Thank you. Welcome to the speech of the People's Deputy Paul Ungurian, the People's Front faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-01-m0.u90	Dear colleagues! All hail again, praise Jesus Christ! I think it's a very important bill, so please pass the word to his co-author, Paul Düblik of Žitomirščina.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-01-m0.u91	Please, People's Deputy Djublik.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-01-m0.u92	Good afternoon, dear fellows! 66 constituency, Zitomirščina. Please support this bill, because we are all talking about what we should do to preserve and protect our nature. And once again, I'd like to go to all my colleagues, it's not about damage done, because the reserves are created to save the natural environment, not to cut it down or something. Let me give you a little example. is the President's decree to create the Supreme National Park, this is the Ivano-Frankiv region. Thus, 12,000 acres [12,000 ha] belonging to the State Department will enter the park. In the local economy, the damage of 2 billion dollars is recorded, please tell me where the state reserve will be from, where will it take these 2 billion dollars, and when will this reserve be created? So I would like to support this bill because it's really important and let's think about what we need to protect the natural resources that we have, not destroy them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-01-m0.u93	Now. Are they willing to speak out of factions? Not from the factions, the distinguished national MPs? From factions. Then from the copyright team? May I have the people's deputy, Rybak?
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-01-m0.u94	Dear colleagues! I want everyone to understand the essence of the bill because we're confusing everything right now, and I'm giving you an elementary example. On April 26, the President of Ukraine signed a decree establishing a radiological, biological, biosphere reserve in the Chernobyl area. In order for this biosphere reserve to work today, in fact, the land of the state-owned Blackwater Desert enterprise needs to be passed on to this biosphere reserve. For such a vast territory, which is about 200,000 hectares, the state has to pay itself some 4 billion dollars. It is precisely this bill that can solve similar problems across Ukraine and enable the development of biosphere reserves and natural-invention funds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-01-m0.u95	Do I understand correctly that the Petra Prashenko faction supports this bill? Please, National Deputy Kolesnikov.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-01-m0.u96	Respectable colleagues, a small trailer and clarification for those who have not fully considered the law. Pays the host, pays the natural-instrument fund, not the transferees, so it's in any case spending on the state budget, your fellow dignitaries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-01-m0.u97	Thank you. National Deputy Yvchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-01-m0.u98	Dear colleagues, I must agree with a colleague from the environmental committee. Today, during the removal of land, any land, agriculture or forest, payments are made under the Tax Code, payment for the farmer. Payment for loss of agricultural and forestry production. I really want you and I to understand one thing. Today, during the expansion of such reserves, you and I did not foresee the possibility of freeing them from such payment in the Tax Code. This law allows them to free themselves from the loss of agricultural and forestry production during the expansion of our green, ecological Ukraine. That's it. This bill amends two laws: the nature-invention fund and the Ukrainian Earth Code. A faithful bill, let's not discuss it, support it, and not be able to make $4 billion in the state budget.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-01-m0.u99	Please finish 30 seconds. Should we finish or not? All right, we're done. Dear colleagues, we have concluded our discussion. And I'm asking the people's deputies to come into the hall, take jobs, prepare for decision-making. And the People's Front hasn't said anything yet? Please, Hungarian, People's Front. Last performance. I'm asking my fellow MPs to come into the hall, prepare for the vote. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-01-m0.u100	Dear colleagues! Indeed, there is rightness in the words of both sides of the room. But I think the compromise will still be to accept it as a basis, this bill, because we still need to move towards creating the largest network of PSF objects, the natural-intelligence fund, as well as expanding the territory of existing ones. Clearly, there is a conflict of damages. Clearly, in fact, from one wallet, or pocket, there must be a flow of money in another pocket. But PPP objects today are very often as poor as church mice. By the way, we have another problem: land payments by PPP objects, and land payments are included in the revenue part of the budget: either government or local budgets. And the removal of land payments refers to the authority of the local authorities. That's another problem. So I think in order to move forward, let's do it in the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-01-m0.u101	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the decision-making process. I'd like everyone to come into the hall again. Yeah, everybody's in position. And I am voting on the draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on measures to promote the development of the Ukrainian natural-command fund (No. 3124). Colleagues, just on the ground. Whoever supports this proposal, the committee's proposal -- to accept as a basis -- please vote, colleagues. Vote. [[11:38:28]] For 224 Dear colleagues, I'll put you back. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, I'll only give you one message. I'm here. [[B in m in s a l in]] Attention! Listen to me, colleagues. If you can't. If you can, listen. I report three times before every vote as a Soviet television talker: in three minutes there will be a vote, in five minutes there will be a vote. I say it clearly and loudly, so I don't raise my authority, but people are surprised. And when I warn you in advance, in five, in three minutes, that's enough time to run. I ask you to be more disciplined, colleagues. And now I'm proposing to go back to voting for Law 3124. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. Back to the 3124 vote, to be considered. Please vote. [[11:39:48]] For 252 We're back. I now propose to vote to vote on the draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on measures to promote the development of Ukraine's natural-command fund (No. 3124). Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. Please, on the ground. [[11:40:22]] For 247 Decision taken. Welcome to the committee. It's, by the way, a claim that we don't put bills in opposition. They set up, conducted, and the hall is united when national interests take place. Dear colleagues, the next draft of the law of the day is the draft Act amending the Civil Code of Ukraine as regards the right to change according to the father (2018). There is also a proposal by Valery Vasilovich of the Päckan People’s Deputy to consider a reduced procedure. Let's support our colleague, Mr. Wallery. Anyone who supports the proposal for a reduced procedure, please vote. Please vote. Short-term procedure. [[11:41:19]] For-151 Decision taken. And I would like to invite you to the report of the Ukrainian national deputy Packaan Valerija Vasilovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-01-m0.u102	Thank you, Your Honor, Mr. Head, the distinguished national MPs. Today is the Day of Child Protection, and we must do our utmost today to ensure that the rights of children in our country are not violated. For your consideration, a legislative act on changes to the Ukrainian Civil Code on the right to change in parental terms is proposed. This legislative act proposes amendments to article 295 of the Ukrainian Civil Code, which allow a natural person to change not only his name or name, as provided in the current edition of this article but also his father’s. Such changes were primarily called for by the European Court of Human Rights rulings of 16 May 2013 in the Harnag v. Ukraine case. The European Court found that the violation of article 8 of the Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and the Founder of Freedoms and that the relevant provisions of Ukraine’s legislation governing changes in the father’s formulation were unclear. The proposed amendments to article 295 of the Ukrainian Civil Code allow for the removal of the relevant shortcomings of existing legislation that have become the basis for the European Court’s ruling. I remind you, fellow Members, that the decision of the European Court of Justice is mandatory for the implementation of article 2 of the Ukrainian Law on the Enforcement of Decisions and the Application of the Practice of the European Court of Human Rights and article 46 of the Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms. The adoption of this law does not provide for amendments and additions to other legislative acts, and implementation does not require interference with Ukraine’s financial budget and expenditure. The committee’s decision is positive. And the decision of science management is also positive. Please support this bill, adopt it in the first reading and allow us, the Ukrainian State, not to violate European laws and be the maximum of those who protect children's rights and freedoms. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-01-m0.u103	Thank you. I invite a member of the Committee on Legal Policy and Justice, Mr. Melnick Vladimir Vladimirimirovich, to report.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-01-m0.u104	The bill provides for changes to part one and part two of article 295 of the Ukrainian Civil Code, which provides for the right of a person to change his or her own judgment according to his or her father’s name. The decision of the European Court of Justice is mandatory for implementation in accordance with article 2 of the Ukrainian Law on the Implementation of Decisions and the Application of the Practice of the European Court of Human Rights, and article 46 of the Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, which has become effective for Ukraine on 11 September 1997. The adoption of this bill, in the opinion of the Committee, will allow the European Court of Justice to carry out its decision in the Harnag v. Ukraine case and to remedy the relevant shortcomings of the current legislation, which are the basis for the European Court of Justice ruling. The main scientific and expert office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine concluded that the bill could be adopted on the basis of subsequent comments and proposals. The implementation of the bill will not result in additional costs from Ukraine’s State Budget. And the Committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the adoption of the 2018 Bill as a basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-01-m0.u105	Thank you. Let's move on to the bill. People's deputies would like to sign up for a faction statement. I'd like to invite you to the floor of National Deputy Ruslan Knazević, "Block of Petra Poroshenko."
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-01-m0.u106	Thank you very much, Madam Chairman. Dear colleagues, I don't think there's any point in predicting the essence of the bill again. But I can only say that it's a good sign that on Child Protection Day we're trying to restore their rights and adapt to the rights that are in the European Union to the children of the European Union. Because this is absolutely unacceptable when a number of so - called application decisions of the European Court of Human Rights are not being implemented in Ukraine. And the decision that became the basis of this bill is, frankly, not so painful, and we can easily, quietly implement it. The essence of the bill is very simple and understandable. If a child reaches 16 years of age, he has the ability to identify and change his name, his name and his father. In case she's only 14 years old, she has the right to do it, but according to her parents or one of the parents, and only if the other one is either dead or missing or there's a whole bunch of other qualifications. Therefore, there is no objection to further conferring the rights of Ukrainian children recognized in Europe. And so the faction of Peter Prashenko will clearly support this bill and ask the session room to support it. And as the head of the profiling committee, I also ask you to agree to fully support this law, if possible, today even in general, because we do not see it as arbitrary to consider for second reading, because there is, in principle, no way to rule for second reading, and there is a possibility now that this law is already adopted. And it's going to be very symbolic that you can do this on Child Rights Day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-01-m0.u107	Thank you. Honorable National MPs, are there still willing to participate in the discussion of this bill? Ladies and gentlemen, then I ask everyone to come into the hall. Please invite the national deputies to the hall so that we can vote in a few minutes. Ladies and gentlemen, please return to the hall in order to take part in the vote. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen of the national council. Ladies and gentlemen, please don't leave the hall. I invite you to take a decision on the draft Act amending the Civil Code of Ukraine (for the right to change according to your father) (registration number 2018). Ladies and gentlemen, please take part in the vote. Please vote. Ladies and gentlemen, please vote. [[11:50:03]] For-198 Well, once again, MPs are just returning to the hall. Then I ask the heads of factions, please invite the deputies to return to the vote. Ladies and gentlemen, the position of the People's Front. Can I hear the position of the People's Front? Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Front, do you support me? Then please take your places to vote. Then I propose to go back to voting for the bill, to consider the 2018 Bill – the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Civil Code (as regards the right to change after the father). Please vote for the return. [[11:51:33]] For-200 Please, National Deputy Knazevitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-01-m0.u108	Dear Lady Chairman and Honorable Colleagues! Maybe everyone didn't understand what this is about, and there are no political elements here, and it's just that our fellow national MP, Packan, has taken a perfectly reasonable initiative and has tried to adapt the relevant Ukrainian legislation to the European Court of Human Rights pilot's decision. What is essentially Ukraine's obligation to make changes to legislation in part of the right of those children who have reached 16 years of age to determine their own by their father, and those who are 14 years old, according to their parents if the father is dead or missing, also change their own after the father. What's so political that we don't vote? And I would ask all factions to rejoin this vote and not to lose this bill. At least I'm asking you to at least go back to re-reading to the committee and we're going to try to remove all of the sort of disagreements on the committee so that we can then move into the session room with a view to its adoption. Please do not lose this initiative because it will be a very bad sign for our European partners. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-01-m0.u109	Ladies and gentlemen, I ask once again for your position on the faction. Please, People's Chamberlain.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-01-m0.u110	Dear colleagues! Children's Day, please rule out all political warnings, this bill allows us to protect the rights of children. Please support all of you to return to the vote for this bill. And think, at times, not about your political dividends, but about how we were chosen by the people to protect the interests of the people and the interests of the children, and on the Day of Child Protection. I'd like everyone to support the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-01-m0.u111	Dear colleagues, if I may, who else would like to speak, if I may, on the position of the People's Front, so that we can understand what the difficulty is in voting? Is there anyone on the People's Front who can sound and mark a position? I'm asking the national deputies to come into the hall and prepare for the decision, my colleague. Please, I'm asking all deputies to come into the hall. In one minute, there will be a vote on the decision and I ask everyone to come into the hall so they don't run and take jobs. Ready, fellows of honor? Please, let's sit down. Dear colleagues! I am voting on the proposal to go back to the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Civil Code on the right to substitute for father number 2018. Whoever supports the proposal, the return to consideration, please vote. Colleagues, please vote, please. [[11:56:11]] For 208 208. I'm going to re-establish the company, I'm going to ask you to come into the hall and take jobs, colleagues, we're missing a few votes, I'm going to ask you to come into the hall, invite MPs into the hall. Dear colleagues! I see all the factions voting. Colleagues, please, colleagues, one minute, Oksani Bilozer, and we will proceed to the vote, please. Oksana Bilozer, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-01-m0.u112	Dear fellow national MPs! If we are talking to you today about expanding the rights of a child on Child Protection Day, we should not only talk but also give them the opportunity to do so. If we're thinking with you, if they're not looking at us, they're not tracking us, we're very wrong, they're our future voters. Therefore, within the framework of European integration, within the framework of our commitments and commitments to our children, we must today extend the rights of our children in the context of the European rights of our children. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-01-m0.u113	Thank you. Colleagues, please organize. A few deputies have just left the hall if they can be returned. So, dear colleagues, once again, I put to the vote a return to the draft Law amending the Civil Code of Ukraine (for the right to change after a father) is to extend the rights of children. Draft Law 2018 and the proposal to return to consideration. Dear colleagues, please vote. Please vote, please. [[11:58:52]] For 228 I want to give what's right, that's actually voices.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-01-m0.u114	[[From the Hall]] The factions.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-01-m0.u115	By factions, please, by factions, please. And now, dear colleagues, I ask you to organize. And I'm betting on the vote. Please come in, everyone, take your jobs. Draft Law on Amendments to the Civil Code of Ukraine (for the right to change by father) (2018 number) proposed by the committee, based on colleagues, on a basis. Everyone, please take part in the vote. On the basis of 2018 we vote, colleagues. Please. [[11:59:46]] For 224 Colleagues, what's going on? The factions.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-01-m0.u116	[[From the Hall]] The factions. Who didn't vote?
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-01-m0.u117	Colleagues, I'm going to address the Radical Party, thanks to your previous vote, give me more votes. Colleagues, the Radical Party gives us votes, that gives us reason for a positive decision. So, my colleagues, I'm going back to 2018. Please vote. Dear colleagues, one second! I would like to return to the vote on the draft Act amending the Civil Code of Ukraine (for the right to change after my father) (No. 2018). Anyone who supports the proposal to go back to the draft bill, please vote. Dear colleagues, we vote. [[12:00:57]] For 236 And I'm voting on the draft Act amending the Civil Code of Ukraine (for the right to change according to my father) (No. 2018) as a basis. Colleagues, let us unite on this issue to protect the rights of children. Based on the base. Let's vote, colleagues. Let's vote, colleagues. [[12:01:29]] For 234 234 for. Decision taken. Thank you for understanding, including the Radical Party, for understanding the importance. Welcome to the drafters, welcome to the committee. And, honourable colleagues, according to the Rules, I announce a break of 30 minutes to 12.35. At 12.35 we're going to the conference room to continue our work. And I'm talking to the regulatory committee: finally, let me conclude on the creation of a temporary commission of inquiry. Please wait for the committee's decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-01-m0.u118	Dear colleagues, I ask you to come into the hall and prepare for the continuation of our work. We had a successful morning period. We have adopted extremely important laws to support children. And it's important, and symbolically, that we've adopted them on Child Protection Day, but now, in fact, in the break, I've finally got the committee's decision on a couple of odd questions. Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? I was given a decision by the committees on the draft Decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of 19 May on the adoption of the whole draft Order on the Rename of the City of Dnipropetrovsk Dnipropetrovsk district. These are the rulings that prepared Deputy Wilkul and Deputy Kaplin, which stated that the vote was in violation of the Rules, and I should immediately put them at the session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine at the time of receipt of these rulings. We also finally got the conclusion of the committee -- the draft decree on the creation of a temporary commission of inquiry for the Supreme Council. And I promised, as soon as I got the papers from the committee, that I would put this to a vote, as I promised the Radical Party, and all the deputies that the moment I get the committee's decision, when the regulation allows me, I'm going to put it in the order of the day session. And so I'm going to ask them one by one these questions, and I'm going to say in advance what questions are going to go through. According to the Rules, I have to put them as urgent; we don't have to put them into the agenda; we can start immediately with them. And I'll bet on it. So I'm looking at the draft Ordinance on the Establishment of a Temporary Investigative Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Investigation of Facts Published in the Media. ( issue 4704) And I'd like to ask. I was asked by the committee to consider the reduced procedure. And I'm going to propose a simplified procedure. Please, colleagues, prepare for the vote, please enter the hall, prepare for the vote. Dear colleagues, who support the consideration of question 4704 under the reduced procedure, please vote. Please vote. Please vote, summary procedure 4704. [[12:41:33]] For-49 There is no political field in the room behind the abbreviated, there is a general position that should be considered in full. And I invite you to the report of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Láško Oleg Valeriyovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-01-m0.u119	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Colleagues of national deputies who are not very much in the room, but those who are, are surprised to see that, at last, during the third week of blocking the parliamentary rostrum, we have the opportunity to consider a draft decree on the formation of the Provisional Investigation Commission of the Supreme Council on the investigation of corruption and offshors of senior officials of the state: the President of Ukraine, Peter Prashenko, the head of the National Bank of Valeria Gontareva, the Minister of Finance of Ukraine, Alexander Daniluk, the First Deputy Secretary of the Security and Defence Council of Svinarczuk (Gladkowski) and a number of others. Before I go to the substance of the decision, I would like to say about the procedure. Even in the days of Yanukovic, the opposition had the right to register rulings in Parliament and to create temporary commissions of inquiry of the Supreme Council. That is why the Constitution provides that only 150 votes are needed to form a commission of inquiry. It's a tool of opposition. Today, we, the opposition parliamentary faction, are forced to block the rostrum until we bring the schedules to stay here for the night. We are deprived of the right to register, review, and vote in favour of the commission of inquiry. That's what I'm saying before that is how far we've gone with you in the development of democracy after Maidan. I watched statistics in the days of dictator Yanukovich's Parliament created eight commissions of inquiry. During the time of the great Democrat Peter Dustenk, the Parliament created as many as three commission investigators. While all eight commissions of inquiry in the days of the Yanukovitch dictatorship were initiated by opposition. I have a very simple question: What is the fear of today’s authorities? Why not allow the right of the opposition to investigate the activities of the authorities? It's a rhetorical question really. Because every Ukrainian citizen knows what the authorities are afraid of. Because if the authorities were transparent, if the authorities were honest, if the Ukrainian authorities were responsible today, they would not do anything to block our initiative to investigate the corruption of senior officials. Now to the essence of the question. The whole world is investigating offshore scandals. In a number of countries, high - ranking workers retire without even waiting for an investigation. The whole world thanks to international investigations, thanks to the investigation of Ukrainian journalists -- and I want to thank these journalists, who, despite the pressure of power, to the threats posed by their investigation -- are informing society. Thus, thanks to this investigation, the whole world knows that the President of Ukraine, Peter Poroshenko, is the owner of an offshore company, many years later. The head of the National Bank of Honduras is co-owner of Russian offshore bankers. Minister of Finance Alexander Daniluk of Ukraine, acting as Minister of Finance, and before that, acting as Deputy Chief of the President's Administration at Poroshenko, Janukovich, to date Director of three offshore companies. I'm our people, the peasants, the workers, the metallurgists, the builders, the miners, the teachers, the doctors, the pensioners who never knew, and maybe a lot of them still don't know what offshore companies are, and I'm very popular to explain. It's when they make money here in Ukraine, they steal, they make money, they do corruption, they put out different schemes in offshore jurisdictions so they don't pay taxes in Ukraine. This actually means that all those who have offshore companies are taking money abroad and not paying taxes. All these characters are stealing from Ukrainian pensioners, Ukrainian doctors and teachers, Ukrainian miners, metallurgists, builders, peasants, and the unemployed. They all, by taking money off the farm and not paying billions of taxes from their billions of dollars, made Ukraine poor, turned the Ukrainians into beggars. They are the ones who, without paying taxes today, are forcing us to go around the world with our bare butts and with their outstretched hands, begging, humiliating in front of the world, begging us to give us a billion there and a billion here that they're going to steal again. And in return, we have to raise our retirement age, sell land, reduce hospitals, kindergartens, schools, unrepaired roads, a liter of milk by 2 bracelets, space prices by medicine, food, utilities. On the gas. It's all corruption fees, corruption for those in power. Why haven't we been able to get this in Parliament for three weeks? Because President Prashenko himself is blocking an anti-corruption investigation. Because President Poroshenko has made a lot of money for failing to pay taxes and withdraw money to the offshore for many years. This is exactly the kind of company he's acquired by coming to power, putting all of his business partners in public office and turning Ukraine and state authority into a food shop today, into his own dining room that enriches them. Today, a corruption system is actually built in Ukraine, at the top of which is President of Ukraine, Peter Dustenka. The entire corruption vertical is the head of the National Bank, the Deposit Guarantee Fund, the Energy Ministry, the National Commission on Public Services Regulation, the majority in Parliament and a number of other institutions, all working for one thing -- corruption interest, self-enrichment, theft of Ukrainian citizens. That's what we came up with after Maidan, when the mafia, the corruption structure, where the Roshen business guys. I respect the tens of thousands of workers who work for Roshen. I want these people to be much more because they are Ukrainians, they get paid, and they have the opportunity to feed their families. But I don't understand when the President of Ukraine doesn't pay taxes. What kind of investor comes here? Who will bring the money here? What foreign investor comes here when they see that the President is afraid to run his own business in Ukraine, which he leads? That the President doesn't pay taxes? That the President is hiding his wealth in offshore launderers to minimize his income and not share with the Ukrainians his money earned in Ukraine. How can the President demand something from a small, medium-sized business, from people who trade in markets, from people who earn hard work when he shows disrespect to Ukrainians all over the world, a desire to rob Ukrainians. The desire to make a living in Ukraine — in peasants, in pensioners, in miners, in children, in disabled people, in bums, who were thrown out of their homes and had nothing to live for. That's where they make their fortunes. All Ukrainians look like coins to support the army so that they don’t close down a school in the village so that they don’t close the hospital to repair the road. And corruption, robbery, billions of dollars, does not pay, does not pay taxes, does not fulfil its constitutional obligations. One of the famous said, "To rob a nation, you don't have to have a great mind, you don't have to have a conscience." Those who run the country today are people who have no conscience. They're people who don't have a heart, they're people who have forgotten about God, because stealing from the poor and the hungry these days is a crime. And I suggest we bring them to account.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-01-m0.u120	Thank you. The report invites the first deputy head of the Committee on Rules and Organization of Work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Pínzenik Pavlovic, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-01-m0.u121	Dear Head, dear fellow national MPs! At its meeting on 1 June, the Committee considered the appropriate design and registration of the requirements of the law and the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopted the legal and regulatory acts adopted: the draft Decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the establishment of the TSC on the investigation of facts published in the media concerning the use of offshore companies by the President of Ukraine and other senior officials authorized to perform the functions of the State by the Ukrainian National Deputies Láško Oleg Valerijovich and others (resistance 4704). The draft decision proposes the establishment of a temporary commission of inquiry to exercise parliamentary control over the unbiased transparent investigation of the presence of offshore companies of President Peter Prashenko of Ukraine, Head of the National Bank of Honduras Valeria of Ukraine and Minister of Finance of Ukraine Alexander Daniluk of Ukraine and other senior officials authorized to perform the functions of the State on the basis of information published by the media. According to the draft decree, it is proposed to determine the size of the commission of 19 national deputies, including nonfractional ones. And on the basis of the principle of proportional representation of MPs and groups, the commission should be elected from the deputy faction of Peter Prashenko, six national deputies, the initiators propose five, from the deputy faction and the political party of the People's Front, four national deputies, the initiators propose three, from the deputy faction of the opposition bloc, two national deputies, the initiators propose two, from the MP and the political party of the self-help union of one national deputy, and the initiators propose three. From the parliamentary factions of the Radical Party of Oleg Láska, the political party of the All-Ukrainian Union of Fathers, from the MPs' groups "The Will of the People", "The Rebirth Party" to a national MP. The Committee notes that the election of Ukraine's non-fractional national deputies to the Temporary Special Investigation Commissions is not legally provided, but considering that Ukraine's National Deputies cannot be restricted in their powers, according to part one, article 26 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of Ukrainian People's Deputies, the Supreme Council of Ukraine may also decide on this issue. To the personal composition of the TSK, it is proposed to select only six national deputies, based on written proposals from the deputy factions of the following: the political party "Unification of Self-Help" – Ostrik's Tetjana, Opanasenka Alexandra, Žuriy Andrija; from the faction of the Radical Party of Oleg Láska – Láška Oleg Valerijovic, the political party "Batakishtina" – Lucenko Igora Viktorovich; from the group "Will of the People" – Fursin Igory Gennadijovich. In addition to the above - mentioned draft, the decrees added letters from the nonfractional national deputies of Ukraine, Drevijanko Juriya, Leuchenka Jurya, to include them in the TSC. And also a letter from the Ukrainian National Deputy to the head of the Interfractional Freedom Union, Illenka Andria, concerning the inclusion of Head Michael, who is not included in the draft decree. From the deputy faction of the Peter Poshenko Block, the political party of the People's Front, the political party of the Opposition Block and the MP group of the Rebirth Party, no written proposals have been made regarding the number and personal composition of the proposed interim commission of inquiry, although separate public statements regarding the inclusion of future deputies from individual political forces have been made. The Committee decided to adopt the agreed conclusion and to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft Supreme Council decision No. 4704 and would be decided by vote on the establishment of the Provisional Investigation Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the investigation of the facts published in the media regarding the use of offshore companies by the President of Ukraine and other senior officials authorized to perform the functions of the State, on the number of personal compositions of the Commission, and on the election to this commission of non-fractional national deputies: Devyanka, Levchenka, Glaucka. Let us identify ourselves in the essence of the matter. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-01-m0.u122	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Please record statements from factions. Anyone who needs to make a statement for the performance, please. Halasuk Victor, Radical Party, will you pass it on to Andrew Lozov, please?
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-01-m0.u123	Andrey Lozovy, Radical Party of Lazka. Let me begin with Father Taras: "And the graves of my dear Moscal's breaking up. Let him dig, let him dig, let him dig, let him dig, He's not looking for his own. And in the meantime, they're upside down. Let 'em grow up. And they're going to help the Moscal. Do you want me But the mother is taken away. Take off your shirt. Help me, you underages. Mother to torture." While millions of Ukrainians in such a rich country live beyond poverty, while the pensioner often has a choice to buy: bread or medicine, while hundreds of thousands of families do not know how to raise their children to school, the billionaires who run the country are creating offshore companies to avoid taxes to earn here on the holy rich Ukrainian land, God knows where. Because they probably don’t have a lot of pain in living. How Ukraine will live on. Because they teach their children abroad because they have real estate in Marbella, Spain, in Sardinia, they do not know where. They've already bought places at the cemetery on Per Lachez, on the Mount of Olives, and they don't connect with Ukraine. What do we have to live here, and what do we see? In these very difficult days, when the situation in the east is very difficult, when the dead are again better than my countryman, Michael Kuleb. I spoke to his mother the other day, she can't speak calmly, her tears are blocking her. And at this time, the House is blocking the investigation of the corruption crimes of the likely President Dustenk and his immediate surroundings. At this time we see that the authorities are afraid to speak the truth. At this time, we can see that there are purposefully no deputies in the hall, so that there are not enough votes for this commission to investigate the offshore corruption of President Prashenko and his immediate environment. So tell me, please, are you ashamed of those who are in the hall right now and are not going to vote, are you ashamed of those who can hear me now and run to the towers, to the henhouse, to your office so that you won't be here and vote? Aren't you ashamed of those on the front? Are you ashamed of those who voted for you? Because offshores are pitiful pensions, offshores are wages that people can't live for, offshores are broken roads, offshores are 13 bucks to feed a patient in a hospital, I was in the Vladimirian hospital yesterday, 13th of December, 13th of December to feed a patient, while billions of money from here are going to Panama, to the Virgin Islands, nowhere else is known. People good, don't you understand how this is going to end? You don't realize you're gonna be taken out just like Yanukovich was taken out to the villas, to the motherfuckin' if you don't stop?Oh, my God! Please have a conscience and vote. We need to be honest with people. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-01-m0.u124	Ivchenko Vadim Evgenovich of the Fatherland faction. Society, I'll give it to you. It's not that hard to announce on the microphone. Please, Ivan Krulko. We'll continue to try to announce to whom you're handing over the microphone, and that's the right thing to do. Please, Ivan Krulko.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-01-m0.u125	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. When do temporary commission investigators form? Article 89 of the Constitution of Ukraine states that the interim commission of inquiry is formed by Parliament to deal with issues and to exercise parliamentary control, which constitute an important social interest. What does it mean for society to learn the truth about matters of real social interest? This means that as quickly as possible Ukrainian citizens will know the truth about how officials live, how they work, whether they carry out actions that have signs of crime or corruption. Please tell me, how many more weeks in this Parliament have we had to wallow in the subject that Parliament has to consider the question of a temporary commission on a topic that has swept the whole world? This is the subject of Panamanian documents. those documents that have led to the resignation of the highest officials in a number of European countries. We're trying to talk about this. Of course, the Fatherland faction will vote in favour of the Order establishing this temporary commission of inquiry, which must shed light on the subject of offshores. But at the same time, the "Fatherland" faction insists that there be a draft law in this room that we registered as one of the first to enter parliament. It's the Law on Temporary Investigations Commissions of the Supreme Council to give these commissions real powers, so that they can not only invite, but seek the participation of any leader, so that their documents are not put under a dress, but rather as a reason for criminal matters and for the law enforcement authorities to report for what they have done. In fact, this law is not passed. Each president tries to either make a dedication because the laws have already been passed and promised, or avoid consideration at all. I believe that the Ukrainian Parliament must go to adopt this law and create as many temporary commissions of inquiry as it needs Ukrainian society to answer questions. Another problem that has now struck Ukraine is the problem of the black register of the Party of Regions, which has been bribed by the leadership of the former state, including President Yushchenka, who has been corrupting "Our Ukraine", who has been corrupting the CIA, which forged the 2010 elections in 2012. Please tell me if this is not a social interest for which the TSC must be created. And that is why I think that we, as a parliament that has to exercise parliamentary control, should not be afraid to create a TSC. There's a problem -- they've created and received an answer, and the materials have been passed on to law enforcement agencies that have to respond. And we need to vote for this commission right now, and I'm asking the Chief of the Supreme Council to make an appropriate announcement, because we have a little bit of rock in the middle of Wednesday. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-01-m0.u126	Thank you. From Peter Prashenko's Block, Musak Alexi Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-01-m0.u127	Dear colleagues, the simple question is, do we need to create a temporary offshore investigation commission directly on the Panamanian registrationist Fonseca Mossack. The answer, I think, is simple and obvious: yes, you do. Should the President’s actions be given political evaluation? Okay, as much as a legal evaluation is already being made by many companies, let's give a political assessment -- there are no questions. Now, let's ask you a question. Is it an ambitious task for Parliament to do just one president? I think not, because political corruption refers to many of the characters that are in this room. Because it can't be that a person declares low incomes over a long period of time while going to Parliament on Mercedes, Range Rovers, Poorer Cayennes, going to Briony, Lou Wittons, and somehow protecting the very disadvantaged people. This time. The other one. Secondly, if we say that the milkmaid, the colporteur, I would like to remind them that they are not resting on the islands of Capri abroad, they are resting in Odessa. And if they are to unite with the people in this way, let those who fight for them rest in Odessa, not in Caprja. Then I want to answer. We have political corruption and we have offshores. Okay, let's work this out. But for a second, offshore is just a cashless form of political corruption, and there's still a favorite cache for many politicians. And just for cash recently, or cash, if you speak correctly, that's why it's recently been given information about the "ambar book" of the Party of Regions and someone's already having a nervous breakdown, and someone's not a single person, and there's a few of them. So if we're doing and we're really setting the ambition to do political hygiene, to clean up politics from those who took money. And you see, corruption money, they can't be just bad from one, they're good from the other, if they're corrupt, they're all bad from the other. So it seems to me that then the interim commission of inquiry should be involved in political corruption in the broad sense of that word and not just the offshores, and not just the offshores of the Panamanian registrar, because there are also beautiful other islands, beautiful other registrations, it has to do it in a broad sense, this time. And it obviously has to do cash too, because there's actually evidence in Ukraine and it's easier to work with. That's why I'm in a personal position. I will support the creation of this TSC. At the same time, I think it's more ambitious, more proper, more effective for our Parliament and for the entire Ukrainian society to create a TSC that deals with all offshores and political corruption, including a "ambar book" called the "ambar book" which has been handed over to law enforcement agencies. Thank you for your attention, I think Parliament will be able to do this ambitious task. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-01-m0.u128	Thank you. Egor Sobolev gives the word to Oleg Brezjuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-01-m0.u129	Your Honour, Mr. Head, the honourable lords of the deputies, the honourable men! Even the discussion of this issue is a manifestation of the incredible cynicism of power in Ukraine, people live separately, and the authorities live separately with their kayen and other cars. As you travel along the road of life, which is connected by people’s grain, metal, and from Kirovograd to Mikolayev and Odessa, you travel 90 miles [90 km] in 3.5-4 hours. Why? Because this road no longer exists for three years. The way of life from the Ukrainian grain is to have cash come to Ukraine. Why? No money? When you drive a beautiful Ukrainian non - Sarabian Riviera, there is also no road. They say it's separatism. Indeed, there's a very multinational society, there's hagauses, there's Albanians, there's Moldovans, there's Bulgarians, there's Ukrainians, there's Russians, there's no Separatism, there's no water. There's no water for 25 years. They grow fantastic vegetables and fruits, but they cannot be processed because there is no water because there is no money for 7 or 50 km of water to the city of Bolgrad. There's a beautiful reserve called the Tusle Lemons, which destroys the previous regime and destroys the present one, building, destroying, without worrying about the future. Why am I telling you this? I'm telling you, we don't have any money. Money as it turns out is. But if there's no separatism, there's a terrible anger, listen to me, there's a terrible anger at ignorance and a double accounting of power, which from the Supreme Council's rostrum and television says that taxes should be paid at home, and it hides billions in offshores itself. And that's not fair. In Odessa. [[Applause]] In Odessa, and the decis have a sense of humor, the BP decryption is called the "Panama Patriot Block." This is the idea of the people of Ukraine. We're behind these TSCs because no one's being punished. But without the Law on Tsk, it is again a sin to not say otherwise. More than that, no one is punished. Every day of adventure, the list of "regionals," is some other credible evidence of corruption by senior officials in Ukraine, but double accounting and slogan cover makes people in Ukraine angry at power. These people want peace, good work, because they're industrious, and they want little bits of love from power. And I want to tell you, yesterday's Excise Act is already being prepared to destroy the President's veto, which.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-01-m0.u130	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-01-m0.u131	which will be written by those who for 10 years destroyed automobiles in this country.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-01-m0.u132	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the factions are over. Now we're moving to the next chapter of the agenda -- these are speeches by the national MPs. And I'm asking you to prepare for the recording. And I'm asking you to record a performance by the National MPs. Please. Kirilenko Ivan, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-01-m0.u133	Ichchen Vadim.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-01-m0.u134	Vadim Yvchenko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues, I address all of you. You have faces hanging in front of you, faces of people who don't have Porsche Cayenne, who don't have expensive cars that don't have big penthouses, they go to war, they go to protect our country. Not all of us have been able to even help those fighters, but not all of us have been put behind us, as Nadia Savchenko did for two years. Half of them were stolen, half of them were held hostage. What's going on? Colleagues, and we have the biggest investor in Cyprus, 27 percent, and the other countries, 34. Colleagues, we have 10 billion dollars worth of overseas spending today, 250 million dollars. And let's think about budget medicine -- 60 million. And let's think about the other budgets -- 60 compared to 250, which are going abroad. It's double, it's colleagues, it's accounting. When, on the one hand, people on the bones of those who are protecting us today come to power and, on the other hand, begin to optimize, using power, making colossal money, starting to output and optimize in offshore areas. Let's be honest and honest with you, the decision is called the following: about the President's offshore and all the officials of all those who use power today, making money on it. You and I need to understand that today every situation in every offshore country needs to be addressed, not just Panama, but all the islands. We must take this social interest and prove that we have either honest authority or authority that steals and steals. I see in the hall today, when you vote for important laws in two hours, someone gives 80 votes. Today, even 20 do not sit there. Others give 137 votes. There's no 60 today. And I understand why this project just came into place because they want to fail. You're not gonna make it! We want the truth, society wants the truth. And those fighters who are looking at you today, look them in the eye, they want to know if the authorities are doing what they're putting their lives for, or if they're stealing, they're stealing at a crazy rate. Fatherland will support this decision. And we ask each of you to look at these faces before you press the button and invite your deputies. I don't see enough in the room for the coalition to at least give a normal vote to make that decision go away. And I'm going to the combatants, and you're going to start your deputies, and you're going to vote by all the factions as you demonstrate discipline in other bills.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-01-m0.u135	Thank you. (Now. Now, I'm watching.) Please, National Deputy Sobolev.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-01-m0.u136	Self-help will vote in favour of creating a temporary special commission. I wanted to share a few challenges as chairman of the Supreme Council's Anti-Corruption Committee: we've already organized the work of a commission on our committee and more than that, we've investigated the charges of using offshore companies and, specifically, of Intrako as one of President Igor Connonenko's associates. And what problems have we faced? We listened to the committee, we invited all the people who testified to the presence of this offshore company and invited Connon. He came, he gave all the answers to the questions and said the company wasn't his but the documents were forged. We went to other states that were mentioned as locations of operations of this offshore company asking us to provide information. The ambassador of one of these states came to me and said, "You know, we can't give you information as a parliament, that information is given either at the request of the law enforcement authorities or at the request of the government." We went to the government and to the law enforcement agencies, and then you know the history. Kiev’s procuratorate became responsible for investigating these charges, and specifically, the perpetrator of the duties of prosecutor Kyiv Wallandyuk, who, contrary to the illustration under which he came, is still in office. He summoned the national deputy Connonnka, Cononenko gave him a witness, and after that, Kyiv’s prosecutor’s office shut down the conduct. The circle is closed: there are no more law enforcement agencies, no answers from other states, and there are just the words of one official against another. In order for us to be able to investigate the activities of the President and the activities of other officials in Parliament, we certainly need to adopt the Law on Temporary Inquiry Commissions. I have a request from my well-known speaker of Parliament, Andrey Parubia. Andrew, let's do this as one of the priorities, because without this Parliament will not become a real tool to control people's activities. In addition, after the closure of the case by Kiev’s Attorney’s Office, the National Anti - Corruption Bureau has discovered such conduct and is conducting such a judicial investigation. I have a huge request to the director of Artem Sitnik's office and to all the detectives at the office. Friends, your time has come, your time to show the whole community that creating an anti-corruption bureau has been an effective decision to punish top-plant corruption.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-01-m0.u137	Thank you. I invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy of Lensky Alexi. I'm sorry, National Deputy Cupray.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-01-m0.u138	Dear colleagues, we've had such an offer from the Peter Prashenko Block to investigate not only an offshoring situation but, in general, cases of political corruption in Ukraine. You know, I totally support this initiative, and I would like to remind you that on February 17, 2014, a day before the Mayan shootings started, the Lenin cousin powder company bought land for 150 million dollars less than the market value. I'd like to remind you that at the time of going to the Ilovia boiler, Dusty was registering his offshores entirely just thinking about how to stuff his own pocket. I've got the right information that when the Russian Federation arrested his Lipec factory Roschen, he didn't do state affairs, he called the managers and calculated the damage it would cause him. By the way, when the President's enterprise pays tens of millions of dollars in the Russian Federation's budget, which Putinim uses to pay the wages of mercenaries, Russian officers, including prosecutors and judges who tried Nadia Savchenko, it's a disgrace that can't be tolerated! We are for investigating the facts of such corruption. In general, all the references that I personally directed to the crimes of Peter Dustenk and his environment at the National Anti-Corruption Bureau have been underestimated. Because, as if under our Ukrainian legislation, the President has immunity, he's untouchable, he can do whatever he wants in Ukraine. So I fully support the initiative to create such a commission of inquiry, and I will be absolutely positive and help to participate in its investigations. But the next thing you have to say is that the simple consequence, the logical consequence of this commission's work, is to ask the question of the President's impeachment, the adoption of the relevant Law on Temporary Inquiry Commissions. And we don't need a president who's still supporting, sustaining, directing, we now have a Friendship and Cooperation Agreement with the Russian Federation. So Putin is our friend at the position of president. That the Black Sea fleet is based on legal grounds right now in Sevastopol, because we have not denounced the agreement, you remember the Harkow Agreements. And no one can force it, nor can it be Groissman, and now it's Andry Parubius, to ask these questions in Parliament and break it down, on the other hand, it's a fucking circle. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-01-m0.u139	Thank you. I'd like to invite you to the floor of the People's Deputies of Najem.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-01-m0.u140	Dear colleagues! What's happening in the hall today is a great lesson for all the authorities and for those in the cabinets. What really happened? Indeed, there have been documents that show that there are offshores in the country, but instead of taking the lead in this investigation, instead of allowing the Attorney General's Office, Mr. President, Prime Minister, the Supreme Council to take the initiative to investigate the case, they have put the case on hold for those people who are currently on the stand to block it, and actually put it in the hands of the populists. Now let's see who called for this commission? First. Young MPs have registered this, and we've been denied it. Mr. Lazko knows this, but somehow Mr. Lazko's application has been registered. And I want the commission to be made now, so that we can be honest about what it's going to do. Mr. Lazko wants to be the head of this committee. I want Mr. Lazko to be the first to give a witness to this commission at what cost he flew the planes of Renata Ahmedov in his factories. This committee is composed of representatives of the faction of Yulia Timoshenko. I want Timoshenko to be the first to testify, which 200 million dollars she counted as Somolly Enterprises on the offshore. I want all those people who are now on the lists of the Party of Regions and their "black accounting" to be the first to be deliberately asked by Mr. Lazko to give a witness. And the main thing is that I want to talk to the people who are watching this right now. Listen, don't be silly, you've been seeing this big-money political party for 20 years, hundreds of millions of dollars pay for TV commercials, they pay you Greek, they pay you street commercials, they pay for their flights, and you continue to vote for them, and then you expect reforms from them. What do you want? In this country, politics is the biggest business. Giving politicians to investigate corruption now is ridiculous. I hope that those people who are now on this temporary commission will not ignore their voice and vote for the establishment of an anti-corruption court in the country that is really meant to do so. Not Mr. Lazko, not the deputy, but the investigating authorities and the court should do so. But that's not what they're saying. I want these same people to demand that, standing in the stands, Mr. Lazko, I'm addressing you because you managed to stand here with us and do DBR and NAZK, who are really going to trace your income, your faction, our faction, all the other factions, it's going to be fair, otherwise it's populism now. And you'll see what happens. Tomorrow, in all the stands, these people will be screaming about one corruption: the President's corruption. It's a fact, it will be, but they'll keep quiet about themselves. We don't mind talking about the President, we're in the presidential faction, we're saying this, and it takes more courage than being in opposition, that's what we're saying, but we're doing it. And you don't say yourself, Mr. Lazko, and "The Fatherland" doesn't say that.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-01-m0.u141	Please, 30 seconds to complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-01-m0.u142	Last thing I want to add. I'm going to the Bureau and the Anti-Corruption Bureau right now, please have all the information you need on the Black Accountancy of the Regional Party. I think that after what happened in our country, hiding that information is a crime. This information should be public. If you are afraid of the secrets of the investigation, you should first investigate and then say that there are documents. If these documents are available, do not invite people to trade in politics. Share the facts, people need to know who cooperated with the criminal regime, otherwise it's trade. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-01-m0.u143	Thank you. Savchenko Nadija Victorourena is invited to attend. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-01-m0.u144	From this rostrum, very good things sound. That's what I heard. And then there's the very wrong thing to do. Every authority that comes in starts yelling about corruption of the past. There was no authority on my memory to speak of her corruption. You're all on Titanic, so you know what I mean. This Parliament, which is this calling, is all of us on Titanic. And that you may know that none of you will come out. You will no longer sail now, if you vote against this law, against the creation of this commission. The people are watching you now. If you don't set up a commission now, the people have already figured out who you are. If you create a commission and it doesn't give you anything, the people will understand who you are. In any case, not even rats will escape from this ship. So I suggest you don't take turns, start with each of you, and start with what, like the '90s thugs: they stole, they admitted it, and then they ate it like this -- and they brought money to the church. Ask for your sins before the people, start with yourself, give back what you have left before, and then your people will take "Titanic" on their hands, and you will save Ukraine. If you don't, the people will drown you, the whole Supreme Council, and they'll launch a shell like this that we'll all be lying here! So I suggest you start by accepting the commission and doing it honestly. This may be the first thing the authorities will do for the people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-01-m0.u145	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we have concluded our discussion. It's already zero, zero, zero. A closing word for the authors. Please, one minute Easy, one minute Pinzenik. All right, close the door. Easy, close the door. The head of the committee, if necessary. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-01-m0.u146	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. I thank all my fellow national deputies from all the factions that are in this room today when we consider this very important issue. I thank even those fellow national MPs who have come out of this room on a special occasion, for they have demonstrated to the whole country how they feel about their duties and how they really do not want to fight corruption. I support the proposals made by honourable fellow MPs from the Peter Prashenko faction that the commission should investigate political corruption in general. We support these proposals, and I'm asking the leader of the Peter Dustenk faction to delegate to this commission, as you promised, to the press, to their candidates. I'm surprised when representatives of the House of Honorable Peter Dustenk come out and tell me how they're fighting corruption. I'd like to repeat the words of my colleague, Oleg Buresuk, who said that even in Odessa.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-01-m0.u147	Please turn on the microphone for 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-01-m0.u148	Even in Odessa, they know it's actually the Panamanian Patriots' Block, not the Peter Dusty Block. And therefore, the honorable fighters with corruption from the Panamanian Patriots Block, you have the opportunity for young MPs to demonstrate their courage. The CFC announced the election in seven districts. Form a mandate, get out of the corruption faction, go to the polls and pick up the districts and come here to parliament, fight corruption. I have not seen any fresh cucumbers that remain fresh in a barrel with fresh canned cucumbers. More than that, we have seen the training of an experienced member of parliament before this. To sum it up. I didn't call any names, so there's no line! To sum it up. I propose to set up a commission to investigate corruption and offshors of the President of Ukraine, Peter Poshenko, head of the National Bank of Ukraine, Valeria Hontareva, Minister of Finance of Ukraine, Alexander Daniluk, First Deputy Head of the Council. Secretary of the National Security and Defence Council of Ukraine, Mr. Gladkowski's business environment, former Minister of Energy Demchisin, Mr. Pasenyuk and everyone else. I propose to create this commission. Don't be afraid, let's investigate. As the future chairman of the commission, I guarantee you an open minded attitude, an objective attitude, I am equally ready to answer all questions when they are with me. I'm counting on the same thing.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-01-m0.u149	Ten seconds, time's up.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-01-m0.u150	I'm counting on all factions to join in creating this commission, in its active work. The people have a right to know.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-01-m0.u151	Mr. Pinzenik, your honor, with regard to raising hands, I want to inform you that we have considered the full procedure, every faction has had the opportunity to appear on record, every MP has had the opportunity to write. I give only to those who have signed up and the time for discussion is exhausted, colleagues. Dear colleagues, we've finished the discussion. The factions have been part of it. Dear colleagues, we've finished the discussion, we have two very important decommunization bills, we can't drag the clock, all the more, we've gone completely through. And, dear colleagues, I'm voting on the draft decree (number 4704) as a whole. Whoever supports this decision, please vote. Please vote. [[13:32:12]] For the 180. I'm sorry, 108. The decision is not made. The decision is rejected. And I, my dear colleagues, move on to the next issue of order of the day, which is very important. It is. [[B in m in s a l in]] All right, let's see the factions. Please show by factions. [[B in m in s a l in]] I showed you the factions. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, I'm asking you, three weeks we've been having a discussion here, stop the constant pressure on the presidency. You asked me to show you, I showed you, and you can see that. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues! I'd like to emphasize. [[B in m in s a l in]] You wanna yell louder than me, buddy? [[B in m in s a l in]] Then scream to yourself, please, standing by the rostrum. Colleagues, we've had our full consideration of this issue under the rules. As soon as all the necessary documents were provided, the decision was registered. As soon as the committee decided, it was put to the vote. We have followed the entire course according to the law and according to the Rules. Now we have two drafts for decommunization. And let's face it, they're very important to me, they're projects that open the way for me to sign decommunization laws. Without considering them, we will not be able to, as Head of the Supreme Council, to sign laws that, in my opinion, are of great importance to Ukraine. And that's why I'm stopping the discussion on this law. And I'm announcing the following laws that open the way for decommunization. This is a draft decision calling off the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. [[B in m in s a l in]] I am considering a draft Decision repealing the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of 19 May 2016 on the adoption of an entire draft Decision on the renaming of the city of Dnipropetrovska Dnipropetrovsk oblast, as well as a draft Decision repealing the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of 19.05 on the adoption as a basis and as a whole of the draft Order on the renaming of individual locations and districts. There is a proposal to consider this issue in a simplified procedure of decommunization. Dear colleagues who support the consideration of the reduced procedure, please vote. Please vote. Short-term procedure. [[13:34:54]] For-103 I can do it again. Are we going to be able to mobilize under a reduced procedure? Can we do that, colleagues? No, right? Okay, let's take a look, but I want to emphasize. Let me put it again, colleagues. I'm asking you to focus. Once again, I am putting to the vote the motion for a reduced procedure. Whoever supports this decision, please vote. Please vote. [[13:35:48]] For-125 No votes. Dear colleagues, I'd like to inform you that the session will continue until the issue is resolved. The only thing we can do is be less involved in the performances. I begin my consideration of the question and I invite you to the report of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Vilekul Aleksandra Juriovich. Please turn on the microphone. Please be as concise as possible.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-01-m0.u152	Dear colleagues and the well-respected people of Ukraine say very much that there has been much debate over the name of the huge million-dollar city of Dnepropetrovsk, but I recall the basic circumstances. 90 per cent of the inhabitants of Dnepropetrovska, according to all sociological studies, including the National Sociological Institute of Ukraine, which cannot be suspected there in sympathy for any result, say that 90 per cent of the population against Dnepropetrovsk being renamed. Long ago the name Dnepropetrovsk among the inhabitants of this city is not associated with the revolutionary Grigory Petrovski. The name "Dnepropetrovsk" is its own name. But we still have the Decommunization Act, which. Well, if that law exists, it's being implemented. I therefore offered a very normal alternative to naming the city of Dnepropetrovsk as the city of Dnepropetrovsk in honour of our great river Dnieper and of St. Peter. That is to say, the same name would actually remain. More than 300,000 were collected signatures of Dnepropetrovska residents for this idea, for the preservation of the city's name. After the Supreme Council voted last week to rename the city, I can tell you that there has been a huge explosion of outrage in the city. So that's practically the topic that people just talked about in the process, there, probably all this week after they renamed each other. There's a lot of social outrage, there's a lot of social tension. I can say that even those parties whose representatives voted in favour of the Supreme Council have opposed it. I can say that this is the position of the people's deputies from WFP, this position of the people's deputies from the People's Front. I would like to recall that this bill was introduced by a representative, the People's MP of the UCROP Party, Andrey Denisenko. Four days later, even the mayors of Filatov, who also from the UCROP Party had changed his mind, had earlier wanted to rename the city, but four days later he was against the name of the city and publicly stated that he had addressed the Speaker of our Parliament. Therefore, when we see people reacting, it is clear that even the provincial parties, whose representatives have actually voted against it here, have opposed it. Thus, respected colleagues voted 247 deputies, 245 of whom were from other respected cities in Kiev, there, from Lviv, from Ivan-Frankovsk, from other respected cities, the last time they renamed the city. But let us ask the members of the people who wish to rename the city from this territory. Apparently not, they say so. And no matter where these people's deputies are in the Opposition Block, in the WFP, in the People's Front, or in some other party, let's ask people. Of course, it would be an ideal option to hold a local referendum. Let the people decide what they want the city to be called: Dnepropetrovsk – Dnepropetrovsk, there, Dnepr – Dnepr, Siceslav – Sicheslav. I passed this bill six months ago, but it's not specifically brought into the hall, unfortunately. And because of this, as a coercive measure, we have proposed a model of the name Dnepropetrovsk in honor of Dnieper and St. Peter. Therefore, dear colleagues, I will not say any more, there have already been all the discussions, there have been a lot of nerves. I ask you one thing: think, please, head and let us return to this room simply reason, do not discredit the central supreme legislature of our State in the hands of a million-dollar city, in the eyes of three and a half million people. And let's vote my order to cancel the name of Dnipropetrovsk. I very much hope for your common sense. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-01-m0.u153	Caplin Sergey Mikolayovich is invited to the report. Mr. Sergei, please. Turn on the microphone. Please turn on Sergei Capplin's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-01-m0.u154	. The area is such a beautiful and beautiful city called, and I'm sure, somehow, it's all going to be called Komsomolsk. The Supreme Council of Ukraine has decided to rename this city as Gorishni Pravni. We surveyed citizens: 98 percent of ordinary, ordinary, average citizens of Komsomolsk for leaving him a name. We can play with different abbreviations here, we can play with some historical sources of new and historical sources about the name of this city. But you will never be able to take away from the heart, from the consciousness, from the subconscious of the citizens the desire to live in the city with which their youth is associated, with which their future and their present life are associated. You didn't even give the city the opportunity to produce a new name, and you just made an illegal proposal, out of a voice, to rename and not listen to these citizens without listening to my countrymen take and rewrote their history. I understand perfectly that everything has been done today by the leadership of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, which the Ukrainian people so hoped for as a symbol of new quality in Ukrainian politics and in Ukrainian parliamentaryism, everything has been done to break down the key legislative initiatives on corruption, de-offshoring and now on decommunization. Of course, you're not going to vote in favour of my draft decision right now, of course you're going to leave that name for a while, leave that name that you invented and disagree with ordinary citizens. But, you know, time travels very quickly and very quickly in this room will be sat entirely by other national MPs, with a different facial expression, with a different willingness to patriotically Ukrainian work for the benefit of our state, will represent completely different factions and other political forces. And you, those who voted and chose history as a mere commotionist, will be forgotten. You'll go into history, maybe someone will mention you in some stories, some protocols of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, but you won't be. Everything in this country will change and come back, the name Komsomolska will come back, the name of many other cities where citizens want to, they don't want to be renamed. I am addressing today the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, who, unfortunately, left the presidency of the Supreme Council. Return and transfer these important ballots to tomorrow, when there will be sufficient numbers of Ukrainian national deputies in the Supreme Council. Because today, unfortunately, there are not enough votes to make these decisions, we cannot have an adequate, meaningful, meaningful discussion. We need to be very careful about this concept and, in general, the subject of decommunization. You can't take it without asking a citizen if they want to rename their village, their city, their region? We cannot help but ask people what good intentions there are today’s authorities, always asking questions, always agreeing. Because we haven't asked people, we haven't had a dialogue, we've lost contact with ordinary citizens all over the country, we've lost entire regions, we've lost part of Ukrainian territory, we've lost confidence in ordinary, ordinary citizens as such. One percent trust in the Supreme Council! Two percent of the confidence in the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, in urban, district, district, government administrations, people do not consider people to be authority today. Under such conditions, it is impossible to build a new state because there is no necessary consolidation, no necessary unity, and this disunity, the destruction of the country begins with such basic things. However you vote, the Ukrainian national deputies from Poland will address the Constitutional Court, the Administrative Court, we will conduct protests, we will cover the roads, we will conduct further polls until you come out and you will see that people do not want the names of the Poor Smooth and we will get the name back, or at least, the name of the common citizens of Komsomolsk and many other cities throughout Ukraine. This is a key challenge for us today — the people must rise up and unite for their history. For your right to feel human, not creature, for your right to write the history of this country. I agree that we should destroy idols: communism, national socialism, I agree that Ukraine should move forward. But I can't accept and agree that this is how you try to destroy European values. Remember, in the European Parliament, the second-largest faction of the Alliance of Socialists and Democrats. Look at the past, the future of today's Euro-Socialist countries like Portugal, France, Germany. Look at the experience of Britain, in 1946 they put the country on the lines of Euro-Socialism, nationalized almost two thirds of the national economy, raised the country from its knees, started moving in the right direction. And it was through these efforts that the great Prime Minister Etley's government put Britain's knees on its feet. Look at the experience of a great Europe, look at the experience of Asia, other countries, this course is moving around the world today, and you're building wild capitalism in this country. [[B in m in s a l in]] I was in Bloody Rose recently, and there's an enterprise that's been handed over to a Hindu billionaire, and today, a simple worker is bending his knee, giving him a minimum wage, these Hindu capitalists are even taking money today, kicking the last penny out of a simple family for teaching their child at some group in the company's culture. They don't listen to the unions. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. But guess who opened the door for Maidan, who opened the door to the House of Trades, who supported the Jewish movement, who supported the progressive revolutionary circles that won the victory over Yanukovic. So once again, our position is firm and clear, regardless of your decision, we will necessarily defend the right of a simple person to live in a city that is in agreement with that person. I'm sure we'll be joined by dozens of other nards. I'm sure we're going to be joined by a lot of naphthas that were chosen in Poltavian. I am convinced that even if we do not stand for Komsomolski's right to be called Komsomolski, we stand for the human right to be heard. And that's going to start with a radical change in this state. Just because you haven't heard from ordinary citizens, we've lost much of our country, we've lost people's trust. We've lost our chance for the future, and today the country's touched the handle, it's ruined, it's destroyed. So I urge all conscious Ukrainian national deputies to remember the history, respect the human being and listen to the people, especially by paying attention to the taxes you're sitting here, working and robbing this country! Listen and do as the common Ukrainian says!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-01-m0.u155	Thank you. The thing is. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear fellow national MPs! [[B in m in s a l in]] In accordance with article 48, paragraph 9, of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, we have the opportunity to deal with this issue without a vote. So in order to complete our consideration of this issue as soon as possible, I propose that we proceed with the reduced procedure. I invite the First Vice-Chairman of the Committee on Rules and Organization of Work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Phinehas Pavel Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-01-m0.u156	The President-in-Office, honourable colleagues, discussed the draft Order repealing the decision of the Supreme Council of 19 May 2016 on the adoption of the whole draft Order on the Rename of the Dnipropetrovsk Dnipropetrovsk Region (Registration 3864) by the Ukrainian People's Deputies, Villukul, Kolesniki, and written observations on the unconstitutionality and violation of the Rules to the content of Bill No. 3864 in the order of article 93 of the Constitution of Ukraine, part of the third article 48 of the Rules. After considering the material presented, the transcript of the plenary meeting of 19 May 2016, the Committee noted that during its consideration of the draft Decree (registration 3864) comments by the National Deputies on non-compliance with the requirements of the Communist, National Socialist, Nazi, Totalitarian regimes in Ukraine and the prohibition of promoting their symbolism, the Law on Geographical Names, the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules to the chairman of the plenary session. At the same time, Ukraine’s national deputy Wilkul addressed the chairman of the plenary session on the content of the draft decree. According to part eight of article 48 of the Rules, the Committee adopted a draft decision repealing the decision of the Supreme Council of 19 May 2016 on the adoption of the whole draft Order on the renaming of Dnipropetrovska (registration 3864) by Ukraine's national deputies, Wilkull and Kolesnikov, in which it proposes that the Supreme Council of Ukraine decide on the adoption or rejection of the draft decision by vote. Also, honourable colleagues, the committee at its meeting on June 1st discussed a draft decree repealing the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine (since 19.05) on the adoption as a basis for the whole of the draft Order on the Renaming of Individual Populations and Areas (registration). Dear colleagues, this is about two draft rulings, maybe I'll finish, then let's move on to.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-01-m0.u157	Yes, please. Please give me time to finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-01-m0.u158	4085 – introduced by the Ukrainian National Deputy Kaplan, registration number of Decree 4085-p (since 20.05.2016) and his application to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of Paris (since 19 May 2016), number 101, submitted in accordance with the requirements of article 48 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. In accordance with the requirements of the 48th Rules, the procedure for revoking the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine provides, inter alia, for the appeal of the Ukrainian People's Deputy to the chairman of the plenary meeting with an application for violations of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules. After considering the material presented by the plenary transcript, the committee noted that during its consideration of the draft decree, the registration decree, 4085, no Ukrainian national deputy and, in particular, the Ukrainian national deputy Kaplin Sergey, did not address the presiding officer in plenary with an application for violation of the Rules when considering and voting the issue of the draft regulation. Moreover, in voting for this draft decision, the Ukrainian National Deputy Kaplin, the subject of the initiative, was absent from the electronic registration and the results of the roll-call vote posted on the official website of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. According to article 48, part eight, of the Rules, the Committee adopted a draft decision, registration number 4085-p, proposing to the Supreme Council of Ukraine to determine whether the draft decision was adopted or rejected by vote. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-01-m0.u159	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we must now have a full performance by the factions, a speech by the deputies. Of course I am. Dear colleagues, according to the Rules, we can proceed with a reduced procedure without voting in the hall, which has just been explained to me by Oxana Petrovna, a great expert in the Rules. [[B in m in s a l in]] Now there'll be two in favor, two in opposite, colleagues. [[B in m in s a l in]] We will not allow the inhabitants of the Mountain Plains to be offended. All of it. progressive society supports the Mountain Blunts, and I think so. And here we have our position to say firmly and convincingly to all the Ukrainian people. Every faction will have a word, colleagues. I'm asking for a two-in-pro, two-again. And I'll give anyone else a word. I'm asking you to make a recording: two for, two for, two for against. Thank you, Your Honor. I want to remind you, Mr. Igor, that we are considering both decisions. The vote will be separate by various decrees, but both rulings are under consideration. And Igor Lucenko, Fatherland, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-01-m0.u160	A venerable Ukrainian community! Igor Lucenko, "The Fatherland" faction. Well, we're looking at such a snivell, but the attempt at a communist reaction that unfortunately sat in this room in the form of a known faction, the author of this decree and those who support it. So far we're fighting a hybrid war with Russia. We are fighting this war in every possible way. On the front, using Ukrainian weapons. In the back, with the help of Ukrainian ideology, erasing the names of those kats, those bastards of the communist regime that were actually destroying our population for millions. And now their grandchildren are sitting in this room, and their grandchildren are making the right decisions to remember their grandfathers, the KNVDistles, the ULAG’s adjutants, and to remain with us forever and to devour our consciousness. This mental acid needs to be digested from our nation so that there is no memory of the spirit being present. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-01-m0.u161	Heroic glory! Sugonyako, Petra Dustenka's Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-01-m0.u162	Please pass the word to Sergey Kaplin.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-01-m0.u163	The best tool to fight the Kremlin and Putin is a good salary and pension, a good road, a nice hospital and a human attitude, not a boisterous one, as you demonstrate every day especially in this room. That's the first one. The other one. It's about just asking people, they're going to propose a different name. They don't want to live in the Mountain Blu! They don't want to see the whole world laughing, even abroad laughing at that name. People don't understand what you're imposing on them. And that's what this is all about. Maybe Caplingrad will call it, maybe they will, yeah. And it's about hearing these people. First. The other one. You're before you decommunize, first feed the people and show us that we've changed after one and the other Maidan, that we've changed our attitude towards the taxpayer, and we're not taking away from the head of the VAT company what he can then, and we're demanding a discount that he can't pay afterwards. That we've built new roads, factories that we're printing money not just to approve people's choices, but to build new factories and factories, to give new jobs. Because you're the only one. As one citizen called me this morning, he said, "Why don't you offer them Chinese pants to take off as decommunization instead of doing what they're doing and bullying people?" I urge you all to hear a simple Ukrainian, to listen, to hold a contest in Komsomolsk, to have people come up with a nice name so they don't laugh at them. Treat people more humanly in the end.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-01-m0.u164	Liniko gives the word Igor Mosiychuk. Please, Igor Mosiyczuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-01-m0.u165	Igor Mosiyczuk, Oleg Lachka Radical Party We've been watching for half an hour here a separatist Sabbath in the walls of the Supreme Council. I propose the faction of the Panamanian Patriots' Block to transfer Ljovckin's co-director to the Kremlin bloc. And most of all. It was, it is, and it will be Ukrainian! She gave birth to Simon Petluru, Michael Mechnowsky, the Shemet brothers. Poltavščina does not sign up for "Lyvočkina's roommate", their place will be shown in Poltavščina. Now the MPs from this microparty are running away from her. But that's not really what this is about. We've been hearing the Separatist Sabbath for half an hour, passing the word to the separatist as the position of the Presidential faction. Is this the position of the Presidential faction? And finally. The renaming of cities, villages, decommunization in general is our duty to those who gave and gave their lives for the integrity, complicity and sovereignty of Ukraine. The glory of the nation and the death of the enemies!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-01-m0.u166	Thank you. The opposition block is Kolesnikov.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-01-m0.u167	Something doesn't include it. Oh, there is. Thank you, Andrey Vladimirovich. Dear colleagues, I propose that we move now from this political perspective. political divide into a functional legal framework. Under the decommunization package, the Supreme Council was able to decide before 21 February to rename human settlements. I emphasize, until 21. Since 22 February, we must move to the scope of the Law on Geographical Names, because we are making an illegal, illegal decision with you, and the Law on Decommunization has not been able to return these dates. Dear colleagues, 90 per cent of Dnipropetrovska v. 300,000 signatures. Finally, let us draw attention to the views of our citizens, the people who live in this city, who are proud of this city. I very much hope for your support.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-01-m0.u168	Dear colleagues, I promised to give my word to everyone. And so you don't have to react so emotionally, everyone gets the word in order of order first of all, and then the ones that don't sign up for you in advance. There wasn't that much excitement I'd give Ribczynski, Bereza, Bereza, Illenko, from Peter Dustenka's Block. Please, Rybczynski, one minute. And I'm right under the Chairman's Rules for 15 minutes to continue with our session. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-01-m0.u169	I'm going to start with the honourable MPs that I'm not from ordinary Ukrainians. And the simple Ukrainians voted for Yanukovich, and the simple Ukrainians, among other things, brought this scoundrel to this hall. This time. And now the very hard Ukrainians have come out to Midan, millions of dollars from all over the world are being handed over to make Majdan win and the hard-working Ukrainians name Dnipropetrovsk as Dnipro because Moscow is on Moscow and Dnipro is on Dnipro! This time. The other one. Dniprovsk, we know very well that the Cossacks created this city, and it was called the New Kodaka or the New Kodak. And when the kings renamed it Catherineslav, no one asked the people! And then Caterinoslav was renamed Dnipropetrovsk, you sons of bitches! No one asked either! Now, do they want us to ask?Oh, my God! We're going to ask them in court because they have to sit down. Here's what we're gonna do.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-01-m0.u170	Thank you. Please, Andrew Illenko. Then there's the Exchange.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-01-m0.u171	Andrew Illenko, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Well, what kind of manipulations of "sauce" don't come up with to preserve this whole "harvest" abomination on our map, which symbolizes terror against the Ukrainians and the destruction of the Ukrainian nation. Which screwdriver they won't come up with: let's rename Dnipropetrovsk to Dnipropetrovsk, let's rename Komsomolsk to Komsomolsk. You know, when there was a Nazi occupation in Ukraine, there were Adolf Hitler streets. And let's probably have someone come out and say, you know, and let's go to Adolf Hitler's street and name him Adolf Hitler -- it was in honor of the dictator, and that would be in honor of the Austrian artist. Because it's just ridiculous and twisted! Are you telling us our story? That's not our story! Our story is the Kiev Russia! Our story is German and Zaporozhye Sich, Ukrainian People's Republic, Ukrainian Uprising Army, that's our story! And your "harvest plague" that you're imposing on us is going to be in the past forever! And you don't have to tell people that they didn't ask. The city councils were given the opportunity to resolve the matter, but they did.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-01-m0.u172	Thank you. Exchange, please. People's Front.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-01-m0.u173	I was born in a village three times the age of Dnipro. But I want to remind you of the 13th year: two actors, two great arithmeticians: Wilkul and the Kolesniks organized anti-mutations in support of President Yanukovic's current time, and they said 90 percent of them support him, they set up all the budget meetings. Do you understand what we're talking about right now? What we're talking about is that the commie is still present in this room! And I want to say one thing: there's no 90 percent support for this scum! Give them a chance, they'll hold a referendum and invite Putin here to this room! Nothing changes, and in fact, as long as we don't put this scum on the line, the question and the threat of the Communist scum.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-01-m0.u174	Please, 30 seconds, finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-01-m0.u175	And that's why it all has to end: no names, there's Dnipro and there's the Mountain Blunt. And shame on Putin's hired men! Shame!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-01-m0.u176	Dear colleagues, the final talk of Kulichenko, the final performance. Yes, well, you'll be a major. No, then wait, first. Okay, please, Kulichenko, and one last performance will be yours. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-01-m0.u177	Dear colleagues, I'm sitting in this room, and besides getting up and leaving, there's no other wish. For 15 years I have been the city head of the city of Dnipropetrovsk, of course Petrovsky should not be in the appointment of the city, of course, and may not be called the city of Dnipropetrovsk, perhaps. The question is, isn't what? And the question is, how? Only here were they impersonated and renamed, in Dnipropetrovsk on the second day did the local schmucks knock the letters out of a city that had its history, throw them away. And what did they celebrate? Another question, Dnipro has always been Dniprom to me. Where have you been? It's in Dniper. Where do you live? It's in Dniper. Where are you going? Dnipro's. My name is John, and my mother called me Vanya. So now that John the Great killed his son John, what became Vanya?
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-01-m0.u178	Thank you. Ten seconds to complete, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-01-m0.u179	We had five palanquins in the Dnipropetrovska, a capricious Cossack -- not counting, not communicating, history is very rich, the same Kodaku, the New Kodak. Give people a chance.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-01-m0.u180	Thank you. Bezbach, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-01-m0.u181	Thank you so much for speaking. Dear People's Deputies, I'd like a little bit to get us up and we'll ease the tension a little bit. Let those living in Dnepropetrovsk and those who collected more than 300,000 signatures be told to leave this city. We're screaming today, with our breaths, with our saliva, we don't know what we're talking about. We're talking to the community today. Here's the mayor of Dnepropetrovska reporting the indignation of Dnepropetrovska's residents about the name, here's an official document. And it says here that he appealed to the Head of the Supreme Council to read, literally: “The contentious and untimely cause dissatisfaction of its inhabitants”, says the newspaper. How can people not be counted? I've already asked the Chief of the Supreme Council to sign the document on the name of the city, what are we doing? Why are we today talking about people and not allowing ourselves today to choose the name where they want to live? Dear Speaker, I ask you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-01-m0.u182	Thank you. And the last line is Wilkul, because it was called the last name. The last line is 30 seconds and we move on to the decision. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-01-m0.u183	Dear colleagues! Here, very aggressive people's deputies have agreed that those who oppose tariff increases are secessionism. Those who say low wages are separatism, those who say unemployment is separatism. Those who oppose the name of the city, as I stress, are also secessionist. It cannot be that everyone who opposes the official opinion of power is separatism. Dear colleagues! Let's stick to common sense, there really are very few deputies in Parliament today, very few. Representatives of the various parties from which there were only two dinasaries: BPP Ivan Ivanović Kulicenko, against the name. Besbach Yakov Yakovljevic is extra-fractional – against the name and many foreign ones that are for the name. I very much ask the speaker, please postpone the vote on this matter to tomorrow when the MPs are in the room. Because that's a very clear position. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-06-01-m0.u184	Dear colleagues! I, with your permission, have been asked to speak with you, I will say my position, my opinion on this matter. I'll tell you that my grandmother from Harkov, from Babayev and she told me about how millions of Ukrainians were lying in eastern Ukraine, from the Kremlin, the same Moscow invaders, destroyed our grandfathers in those areas that were inhabited by settlers from different parts of another country. And today you appeal to us, to the local population? And today you appeal to the minds of the people who live there. Millions of Ukrainians were destroyed during the 1930s by the Holocaust. The descendants of the Cossacks, who fought for their independence in the Republic of the Netherlands and the U.N.R., were unfortunately unable to maintain our independence. Nevertheless, we do not behave as they did. We passed the Decommunization Act on Thursday. We gave each community the opportunity by February 18th, until the anniversary of our fight in Maidan, it was symbolically, on its own, for the local community to make a decision. Most of the communities did, they made their decisions. Where no decision had been taken, that mandate had automatically moved to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Dear colleagues, according to the law, according to all this procedure, we've gone this way and I think this path is historic. I don't think the Ukrainians will remember the political divisions that are taking place in that room, the Ukrainians won't remember the different political innuendo and the struggle, sometimes I'll tell you so, the ascension muscle that's going on in that room. They will keep in mind the fundamental changes that are taking place in our nation. These fundamental changes take place in the security sphere, in the building of a powerful Ukrainian army, in the anticorruption sphere, in many other areas. However, fundamental changes are taking place in the changing psychology of the Ukrainian nation, in the return of historical justice. Decades will pass, we will be forgotten, society, our cities, our villages will have original Ukrainian names. And that's why I'm convinced that the decisions that we make are historical decisions, these are decisions that change the psychology of millions of Ukrainians who will have the right and the honour to live in Ukrainian cities with the Ukrainian spirit and to see the world with Ukrainian eyes, not distorted by imperial propaganda with their eyes. And so, dear colleagues, I was approached and threatened today. As Head of the Supreme Council on this issue of compromise, I'll have no chance of being pushed against. Our whole struggle was to bring back Ukraine's Ukrainian face and we are doing it today. Our grandparents, our duty to all of them to do this in the hall today, have been such a privilege and such a great responsibility. And I think we'll be the only ones in this. That's why I'm voting first on Decree 4085-P as a basis and as a whole. Whoever supports this decision, please vote. Please vote. [[14:15:19]] For 20 20 – for. The decision is not made. The Mountain Blunts are left with the Mountain Blunts. The next one is 3864-P. I'm betting on voting on the basis and in general. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. This is Dnipropetrovsk. 3864-P. Whoever supports this decision, please vote. [[14:15:58]] For the 18th. 18 for. The decision is not made. Order 3864-P is dismissed. Order 4085-P is dismissed. Dear colleagues, both decisions are rejected. I welcome all the national MPs. 14:15, the morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine I declare closed. Tomorrow's the big day. I'd like you to meet me here at 10:00. And, dear colleagues, today I wish to work productively on the committees, to make a decision before tomorrow's important and responsible day. Thank you for your important and active work. I want to report that right now I'm signing the decommunization bill. Our decision has unlocked it. Thank you. I'll sign it in public before the press.
