ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-18-m1.u1	Good evening, fellow citizens of Ukraine! Please, everyone, take your seats. We will begin the evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, at which we will consider, and I strongly believe that we will pass the necessary laws regarding the introduction of a visa-free regime. These are the three laws that we have approved with you in the first reading and today we are considering them for final approval. So please take your seats in the Hall of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Please, dear fellow national MPs, we are taking our seats and we will begin the evening meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Please, we're taking our seats. Please, colleagues, we're taking our seats. Please prepare for the registration of Ukrainian national deputies, please. Please. Please turn on the "Council" system to register Ukrainian national deputies. [[16:08:05]] 339 national deputies are registered in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I declare the evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine open. I'd like to make an announcement, dear colleagues. According to the information provided. Attention, colleagues! According to the information provided, I report on the unanimous decision of the General Assembly of the "Universal Union of Fathers" factions of the European Ukraine Coalition of the Eighth Call of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. According to my address, the Head of the Supreme Council, a letter was received following the signature of Yulia Volodymyrovna Timoshenko, the head of the Fatherskina faction in the Supreme Council, the faction meeting protocol and a corresponding statement signed by all members of the Fatherschina faction on the rejection of signatures and the termination of the coalition in the number of 18 national deputies of Ukraine. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. Signature, 18. 18 signatures. [[B in m in s a l in]] I'm reading your document that you gave me. What I can say is I'm sorry. Dear fellow national MPs, we have a statement, a statement from two factions, a faction of Fatherland and Self-Help on the announcement of recess, but with the requirement of a three-minute statement in accordance with the Rules. Well, please. Julia Volodymyrna Timoshenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-18-m1.u2	Dear colleagues, I would like to say once again from this high parliamentary rostrum that in Ukraine, unfortunately, after the Dignity Revolution and on those days when we are actually celebrating both the great event -- the victory of Maidan and the sad event -- the loss of the lives of the heroes of Maidan, at that time became apparent the oligarchic conspiracy in Parliament, and it became evident that the democratic coalition that has actually declared itself does not exist, and there is a conspiracy of the remnants of the Party of Regions, the People's Front and other MPs that actually unite and corrupt the country. That's why the Parenthood Party came out of a coalition that no longer represents people's interests, and that's what the Self-Help Party just did. I want to say that there is no democratic coalition from this moment on, and in fact today, we need to start new negotiations on creating a coalition, a new coalition, creating a new non-profit, neoligarchic government, breaking this link once and for all. As of today, a countdown of 30 days begins, as stipulated in the Constitution and laws of Ukraine, in order to hold consultations and create a new coalition and a new government. I wish everyone success in this job. This is a chance for Ukraine to break all corruption ties, to renew Ukraine’s life, to build a fundamentally new state development strategy, because by now this strategy has been a real corruption plot, which has already been mentioned at all levels of international and which has become the essence of the country’s life. I think we all have a chance to live up to the hopes that are placed on our Parliament and that are placed on each and every one of us. I believe in Ukraine, and I believe that we are able to restore political life peacefully. Thank you. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-18-m1.u3	Dear fellow national deputies, it was a performance. Only the head or chairman of the meeting may announce the cessation of participation in the coalition. When the appeal comes, I will definitely say it. Dear fellow national MPs, dear friends, right now is a historic moment, truly historic. It's the 19th signature. Colleagues, this isn't the original, but I'll read it. Dear fellow national MPs, this is a historic day. For an extremely long time, Ukrainians had gone to reunite with the only European family. There may be many words, many conversations, but there comes a moment of truth that everyone makes a decision for himself. And I believe that in this Chamber of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, in independence from political affiliation, all of us will uphold three visa-free laws that will allow us to have a decision on establishing a visa-free regime for Ukrainians. Take down that iron curtain that still exists as bureaucratic cars. So I urge everyone to be united, to work well in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. In this regard, the Supreme Council of Ukraine received the address of the President of Ukraine. And I would like to give the floor to the representative of the President of Ukraine, Stepan Kubi, to announce this address. Please. Please, MPs, let's go in and take our seats. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-18-m1.u4	Honorable fellow MPs, distinguished Ukrainian people! Address by the President to the deputies of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The exit from the parliamentary-government crisis requires swift and decisive action. But this crisis should in no way hinder Ukraine's European integration. There is literally only one day left, even the evening to pass the last few laws that open the door to Ukrainian citizens for visa-free travel to the countries of the European Union. In Brussels and other European capitals, I made a quick formalization of the visa-free regime. This formalization of the Eurocomision begins literally tomorrow, if you Ukrainian parliamentarians today pass the necessary laws. All the pro-European factions, from and from outside the coalition, said about their intention to support them. And it can't help but rejoice. But what is alarming and even disturbing is the desire of some deputies, of entire committees to improve these documents. Better is the enemy of the good. Willing to vote in favour is required in the same way as the European Union requires. The rules of joining a prestigious club of countries with no visas are their rules, and no one is forcing us to join them. But there is a clear demand for society to accept these innovations. Most of them refer to issues of the fight against corruption in one way or another. And this is primarily our Ukrainian interest, this is what we need first, not the European Union. Dear National Deputies! The essence of so - called visa-free laws is, not in a beautiful name, but in an effective anticorruption context. If he is cooled during the vote in the session room today, the introduction of the visa-free regime will be postponed. I ask you how long ago Europeans have advised us to play by the rules of the European Union, not to play by the rules. In these days, the country marks the anniversary of the victory of the Dignity Revolution and the anniversary of the murder of the Heroes of the Celestial 100 by bloody means. The investigation gathered evidence, and there are legal grounds for punishing the guilty. So I ask you to adopt two more laws today. One of them is to open up the way for an unprecedented trial against the organizers of terrible, inhuman crimes against members of the Dignity Revolution, the other to return to the budget the looted by the organized crime group Yanukovich and use this resource to strengthen the country's security. I wish you a fruitful plenary evening, which may become historic, or perhaps even an evening of lost opportunities. It's in our hands. I believe in your political responsibility. Thank you in advance for the successful vote. Glory to Ukraine! President of Ukraine Peter Poroshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-18-m1.u5	Dear colleagues of the Ukrainian National Deputies, a project (registration number 4054) has been introduced to your consideration for adoption in the second reading and in general. Draft Act amending the Criminal Procedure Act. and the Criminal Procedure Code. the procedural code of Ukraine. 4054: Draft Act amending the Criminal and Criminal Procedural Codes of Ukraine to implement the recommendations contained in the Sixth Report of the European Commission on the status of Ukraine's implementation of the Action Plan on Liberalisation by the European Union of the Visa Regime for Ukraine. Please consider Andriy Anatoliyovich Kožemiakin. Comparative table to second reading. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-18-m1.u6	Dear colleagues, Mr. Chairman, the Committee on Law Enforcement last night discussed a comparative table in the draft Ukrainian Law (No. 4054) amending Ukraine's Criminal and Criminal Procedural Codes on the implementation of the recommendations contained in the Sixth Report of the European Commission on Ukraine's Implementation of the Plan of Action for Liberalisation by the European Union of the Visa Regime for Ukraine on the improvement of the procedure for the arrest of property and the institution of special confiscation. I recall that this bill was introduced by the President of Ukraine to the Supreme Council on February 12, 2016, which was defined as urgent and duly adopted in the first reading on February 16. In accordance with the mandate of the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, proposals and amendments from the national deputies of Ukraine to the committee could be submitted by 12 o’clock yesterday. At the same time, no amendments were made to the comparative table by the national deputies who arrived after 15 hours, during and after the committee’s meeting. In particular, these are proposals from the national deputies Lewchenk and Petovka. I apologize to you. The Committee’s 47 proposals and amendments by the national deputies were made by the Supreme Council’s head. The committee included amendment number: 1, 8, 13, 19, 20, 21, 22, 45. All others are rejected as being in conflict with the amendments taken into account. When the committee accepted the amendments, it came out first -- it's very important, and attention! – from the European Union Directive of 3 April 2014 on the arrest and confiscation of criminal activities and their proceeds in the European Union. According to the directive, the confiscation of assets is applied to a defined list of crimes clearly defined in article 3 of the directive, such as: corruption, money laundering, terrorism, human trafficking, illicit drug trafficking, exploitation of children, cybercrime. Thus, the special procedure for confiscation in the European Union does not apply to all types of crimes, but only to a defined list of crimes, as listed in article 96-1 of the Criminal Code. Furthermore, in article 170, we clearly note that the arrest of property is imposed only on the authority of the investigating judge and the court. That is, the proposals taken into account by the committee are aimed at improving the bill, taking into account, first of all, the need for sustained respect for human rights, ensuring the performance of criminal conduct and Ukraine’s respective obligations to the international community.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-18-m1.u7	Please, 30 seconds, finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-18-m1.u8	Thus, it was decided by the committee to recommend to the Supreme Council the adoption of Bill No. 4054 in the second reading and generally as a law drafted by the committee. Colleagues and two more words. There's a lot of comments in these two days, because we've only had four days to discuss the analysis, the legal conclusions of this project, and it's very important to us in visa-free terms. But. But we're being accused, personally, of our own, of our political power.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-18-m1.u9	This is not the case, Andriy Anatolyovich. I'll give you 30 seconds. [[B in m in s a l in]] Well, you can leave the rostrum, but I'll stress again, 30 seconds -- finish. There's a rule. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-18-m1.u10	Colleagues, I want to say that there are conclusions. Look, I've given this to activists and people who I think experience and professional training is very serious, this is the conclusion of an independent agency of public anti-corruption expertise. It's clear here that the corruption risk of a five-point project is 5 points. Five points. Once again, this bill, passed by Minust and worked on by the committee, contained many criminogenic risks.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-18-m1.u11	Thank you. Let's do some repairs. Dear colleagues! [[B in m in s a l in]] I didn't get it. You've had three minutes, you say five, Andry Anatolyovich. You won't report the law? [[B in m in s a l in]] I am very sorry that the committee head refuses to report a visa-free law. [[B in m in s a l in]] I'll do it without you. Thank you. Please, colleagues. First amendment, National Deputy Vlasenko, counted by the Committee. The People’s Deputy of Anointed Ones. Anointed! Please, the people's representative of Amazanov. And calm down, fellows.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-18-m1.u12	Andrew Pomazanov, People's Front. Dear colleagues, we now see a very covert precedent where the committee's head is absolutely open, defiantly refusing to report and consider in the second reading of a draft law that draws us closer to Europe. We're now halfway to the European Union, we're halfway to the European dream we had on the Maidan. First order of business. It does not fully meet the requirements imposed on us by the European Commission, which will decide whether to be in the European Union or not, whether to have a visa-free regime or not, whether to liberalise the visa regime with the European Union. This one, this one, this one.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-18-m1.u13	Dear colleagues, I'm going to turn off your microphone. I'm asking you to report on the amendment and take that into account, please. As amended, you place amendment number one on confirmation. [[B in m in s a l in]] Author of the amendment, first amendment counted by the committee. Calm down, please. After the first amendment, Amazanov, a national deputy, reported. Please, again, 10 seconds. Make an offer.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-18-m1.u14	The amendment completely distorted the concept required by the European Union. And I demand that you put it on confirmation. And in no way do I vote for her, I call on everyone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-18-m1.u15	Thank you. Dear fellow national MPs. [[B in m in s a l in]] In the Rules, show me where. I'll be right there. Come on, I'm waiting. I'll wait. I'm waiting. Give me the Rules. Where? What article?
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-18-m1.u16	I'm on my way. I'm on my way. Sergei Vlasenko, a minute, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-18-m1.u17	Dear colleagues, regarding the first amendment, responding to the challenge that took place. So it's, you know, because of the level of corruption in government that we don't have a visa-free regime, not because of anything. [[Applause]] If they stop stealing 50 billion from state enterprises each year, we will have a visa-free regime. Now essentially the amendment. There are 42 directives of the European Union, according to which this amendment is clearly formulated. Foreigners from the Ministry of Justice have formulated this article in such a way that any action, even if there is no court verdict, may be subject to a special confiscation. This has nothing to do with the visa-free regime or with the requirements of the European Union. And once again, stop stealing from state enterprises and there will be a visa-free regime. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-18-m1.u18	Thank you. Dear colleagues, there was a proposal, an amendment that was considered by the committee, to put it on the stand. I would like to point out that the European Union does not support this amendment. [[B in m in s a l in]] From the official statement. Please confirm. It was all about exchange of thoughts. For confirmation. [[16:30:26]] For 128 I didn't get the required number of votes. 2 repairs, Captain. Declined by the committee. He insists. Please, National Deputy Sotnik. Calm down, colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-18-m1.u19	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that in the second reading of the bill, there are no comparative tables in any of the deputies at this time. I don't know how you vote without understanding what you're voting for. The amendment is applicable.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-18-m1.u20	How's that? Pick up who has the chart. You all have e-mail addresses, so what are you talking about?
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-18-m1.u21	We don't have the plates. We didn't get the plates.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-18-m1.u22	Let's move on, let's go. [[B in m in s a l in]] Listen: calm down, please. Please continue.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-18-m1.u23	This amendment refers to the census set out in Directive 42 of the EU, a clear list of crimes, such as terrorism, money laundering and corruption. All the other crimes listed by the Ministry of Justice before and now proposed by the President have nothing to do with the directive. Therefore, I propose that this article be brought into line with the directive and that an amendment be put to the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-18-m1.u24	Thank you. The amendment was rejected by the committee, number 2, you insist on its approval. Please, 2 amendments were rejected by the committee. Identify yourself, colleagues. [[16:32:07]] For a hundred and I didn't get the required number of votes. Let's move on. 3 revisions. Declined. Victoria Birds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-18-m1.u25	Dear colleagues, first of all, I want to say that in order to get a comparative table for this bill, you just have to come by in the morning to register. They were handed out for registration. Second of all, as far as I'm concerned. [[B in m in s a l in]] As far as I'm concerned. Yesterday, I want to emphasize how the committee was looking at it. This amendment was rejected by the committee. But after it's rejected, it's the same.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-18-m1.u26	Places, places! All of it. All of it. Calm down, fellows. That day we began with a moment of silence. Is that what the people who gave their lives wanted us to do? No, it's not. Please take your seats. Please, Victoria.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-18-m1.u27	Thank you. This amendment refers to the fact that a specific list of property subject to special confiscation is provided for in article 96-2 of the Criminal Code. The amendment simply refers to an active article in the Criminal Code and adds the article to the normal legislative technique in order to avoid enumeration. The committee rejected it yesterday. But at the same time, when they were rejected, they looked at the names of the deputies who made the amendment. And when the same amendment was made by two deputies from Fatherland, the committee's head was absolutely in the same line of work and suggested that the amendment be accepted in part. In fact, the committee’s consideration did not take place in substance, but rather in the names and authors of the amendments. So I am very much asking you to support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-18-m1.u28	Please, the committee. [[B in m in s a l in]] Please, 3 revisions rejected. The author insists on confirmation. Declined by the committee. Please be sure.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-18-m1.u29	It was rejected in connection with Amendment No. 1. Period. [[16:35:01]] For-179
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-18-m1.u30	179 did not find the required number of votes. Let's move on. 4 amendment, rejected. Victoria the Bird.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-18-m1.u31	Dear colleagues, you remember that when the bill was under consideration, individual national deputies spoke of the fact that confiscation of property would take place without trial and without investigation. In fact, the 4 amendments are systematizing the procedural grounds for the application of special confiscation in order to avoid, firstly, different interpretations of the provisions of article 96. 1 The Criminal Code and Part 9 of Article 100 of the Criminal Procedure Code. And it clearly foresees on the basis of which procedural documents should be applied for a special confiscation, in particular, the amendment states that a special confiscation is applied on the basis of an arraignment of the court, that a court should be ordered to release a person from criminal liability, and that there should be a list. I'm asking you very much to avoid any abuse just to support the amendment and it will remove the entire discussion in the room. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-18-m1.u32	Please accept 3 revisions. 4 Amendment, Victoria the Bird. Not for confirmation, but for consideration, it was rejected.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-18-m1.u33	Colleagues, this amendment by our distinguished colleague is rejected because a special confiscation according to the bill’s concept and the substance of a special confiscation cannot be applied on the basis proposed in this proposal. And once again, all the amendments that have just been announced have been rejected because the first amendment has been adopted, which clearly determines the nature of the special confiscation as defined in the European Union directive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-18-m1.u34	Thank you. Please, 4 amendments rejected by the committee. Identify yourself. Four-a, overruled. Identify yourself. [[16:37:19]] For the 220. The required number of votes did not come in. Let's move on. [[B in m in s a l in]] Please, we have a representative of Minnesota. Comment on the amendment. It's okay. Let's go back. 4 and 7 amendments. More specifically, the 4th Amendment, Victoria the Birddog, to be taken into account. I got 220 votes. And I see the hands of people who don't support it. 4 amendment for confirmation, for support. Declined by the committee. Vote. Vote. Vote. [[16:38:30.]] For 271 Supported. Hello. 5th Amendment, Anton Yatzenko. One minute, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-18-m1.u35	Dear friends, the fact is that, in fact, Minust is a substitute for the concept, and my appeal is solely to comply with Directive 42 of the European Union. And that's why my colleague Vlasenko said the same things. And they're all, unfortunately, somehow rejected and not supported by the hall. So I would ask everyone very much for us to be able to bring the 42 European Union directives into line, to support this amendment. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-18-m1.u36	Thank you. Let's move on. The 5th amendment, colleagues, was rejected by the committee. You heard the position. Identify yourself. 5-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a. [[16:39:30.]] For-80 I didn't get the required number, 80 votes. 6th, Alona Shkrum. Don't insist. 7th, Victoria the Bird. The 7th Amendment, Bird, insists. One minute, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-18-m1.u37	Honorable colleagues, this amendment removes the fault of the second part of article 96. 2 The Criminal Code on the acquisition of property at market price I mean, if the person who bought the property knew or should have known that, for example, the property that came out of the owner's possession in an illegal way that it actually happened in an illegal way, then. whether it came at a market price or not at a market price, it doesn't matter. I saw a letter from the European Commission, who had just noticed that, and they were saying that, in any case, if the property was going out illegally, he should be returned to his good-natured owner. In cases of good - conscienceed rulership, acquisition in the case of good - conscience rulership, this amendment has no bearing. So I'm asking you to support, and this is actually the position of the European Commission as well.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-18-m1.u38	Thank you. The committee turned her down. There is a proposal for her to support the seventh amendment, Minustu, there is no objection to this. Let's go, fellows, 7th in support of the amendment. 7th Amendment, please support. Ready to vote? Voting, supporting. Vote. Please be supportive. [[16:41:17]] For 249 Supported. Let's move on, dear fellows. 8th, Sergey Vlasenko. Counted. Please, 8th, the Anointed One.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-18-m1.u39	Andrew Pomazanov, People's Front. I ask, Your Honor, to place this amendment for confirmation. Because the author of this amendment was distorted, in fact, by the concepts laid down in this law. And there's a specific fact that should be transferred property taken from a suspect, accused or convicted person, which actually makes it impossible, at the time of transfer and installation, whether a special confiscation can be applied or not. This is an anti-European norm, and this is what the European Commission pointed out. So I ask you to put this amendment to the vote and not support it.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-18-m1.u40	I see. Please, committee, have you counted it? [[B in m in s a l in]] I see. Please, the 8th amendment was counted by the committee. Now she's being asked by the National MP of Amazanov to place it for confirmation. Please identify yourself. [[16:42:57]] For a hundred and Not included, 130 votes. This amendment is not confirmed. The 9th, rejected, does not insist. 10th, overruled. Don't you insist? National Deputy Sotnik, 10th Amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-18-m1.u41	Thank you, colleagues. I will no longer insist on my amendments. The only thing I'm going to say to the committee is that I have been given separate amendments concerning the exercise of procedural rights for third parties, because at this stage, if you adopt this law, third parties will have no rights in the process and will not be able to protect themselves. They will confiscate the property, confiscate it on the basis of convictions, and they will not even be able to provide evidence in the trial. This is a distortion of Directive 42, which clearly states that the law needs to balance and give guarantees to third parties for protection. You don't give them that kind of guarantees. I proposed amendments that would introduce rights and guarantees for third parties, but unfortunately, since they were not in the text, I understand that the committee was unable to consider them. Therefore, the adoption of the law is necessary for a visa-free regime, but you need to understand that it will clearly lead to violations of human rights, especially of third parties. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-18-m1.u42	Dear colleagues, please, the 10th amendment has been rejected by the committee. I'd like to make a statement. 10th is rejected by the committee. [[16:44:43]] For-144 I didn't get the required number of votes. Let's move on. 11th Amendment, no insistence. The 12th, rejected, do not insist. 13th, accounted for. 13 Amendment, please, Anointed People’s Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-18-m1.u43	Andrew Pomazanov, People's Front. The Honourable Chairman, the Honorable Fellow MP, 13th Amendment, is completely technical. In view of our rejection of the first amendment, it loses its relevance as technical. Therefore, I ask you to place it on confirmation and not vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-18-m1.u44	Dear colleagues, 13th Amendment for Confirmation. Please, National Deputy Amazanov, offer. Please. It was counted by the committee. [[16:45:49]] For-89 Please, 14th. This amendment is not confirmed, which means that it has been cancelled. 14th, Yatzenka, don't insist. 15-a, no insistence. 16th, don't insist. 17th, don't insist. 18th, don't insist. Come on, colleagues. The 19th Amendment, no insistence, counted. 19th National Deputy Palamarczuk, accounted for. Let's move on. 20th, Palamarchuk, also listed as an amendment. 21st, accounted for. 22nd, accounted for. Anointed, 22nd – the People's Deputy of Amazanova.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-18-m1.u45	People's Deputy Anointed, People's Front faction. I ask you to place this amendment number 22 on confirmation, because it has also fully exposed the notion of arrest and made it absolutely impossible to apply such a procedure of arrest, because at the time of the decision to arrest, there should already be specific, sufficient, sufficient evidence to suggest that it is evidence of crime. That is to say, there must in fact be a valid judgment of what a person is guilty of. So I'm asking you to put this amendment to confirm and not support it.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-18-m1.u46	Please, 22nd for confirmation, the offer of Amazanova. [[16:47:44]] For 112 She didn't get any support. Let's move on. Not supported. 23rd, don't insist. Do you like it? Let's move on. 24th, Yatzenka. Don't insist. 25th, don't insist. 26th, don't insist. 27th, don't insist. 28th, 29th. 29th? 29th, Igor Popov.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-18-m1.u47	Dear colleagues, I see we will still adopt this law. Let's at least clean it up as much as possible from the potential for corrupt influences. In this case, we need to divide the arrest and confiscation. Therefore, I propose in this article that the arrest of property be allowed for the purpose of preserving the evidence. That's it. Then, when the court decides to confiscate him, you can do anything with him. But when it's only under arrest, all you have to do is keep it, and that's exactly what the asset management agencies will do. Let's take some adjustments and not cover up the possibility of corruption with slogans about European choice and visas. Why was it written in the title of this bill that it contained? in the sixth report of the European Commission? Read the sixth report, there are very short recommendations on this area. If only we'd just done them. I'm not talking about 42 directives anymore, and I'm not talking about pushing anything here and covering myself with slogans. Let us work as professional parliamentarians so that we do not redecorate these mistakes five times.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-18-m1.u48	Please, Your Honor, 29th Amendment, which is rejected. Which was rejected by the committee, 29 amendments. [[16:50:02]] For 284 Dear colleagues, pay attention! The 29th amendment was not counted by the committee. Please comment on the 29th amendment. Minus, comment on 29 amendments, please. Dear colleagues! Dear colleagues, once again. Again, colleagues. The 29 amendments were not counted by the committee. Attention! She was not considered by the committee. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, once again. The 29th amendment wasn't counted. Please comment. 29th! Calm down. Stay calm!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-18-m1.u49	I'm sorry. If you don't mind. The amendment narrows down the content of the arrest in cases where arrest is allowed. According to the text agreed with the European Commission, the arrest of property is permitted in order to preserve the evidence of a special confiscation, confiscation of property as a type of punishment or a criminal offence against a legal person, as well as compensation for damage caused by a criminal offence. The amendment is narrowed down, only allowed for the purpose of preserving the evidence, excluding everything else, which significantly narrows down the contents of the directive. We don't support it. And we ask you to keep the previous line.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-18-m1.u50	All right, guys, let's do it again. 29 revisions. 29 revisions. Colleagues, 29 amendments, 29 amendments cannot be adopted because they are contrary. You heard that. So I'm putting 29 amendments to the confirmation that was rejected by the committee. Name it, vote it. Then you'll be suing the procedure, please. Identify yourself! I'm asking you not to support her, 29th. 29 revisions. [[16:53:15]] For 114 Not counted. Let's move on, 30th. 30th, 30th, please. 30th, please, Igor Popov. Listen, calm down, don't mess things up! Give it a rest.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-18-m1.u51	I want to remind you that. the amendment was voted on. As we want to build a European country, the European Parliament, if we vote the amendment, then someone calls the phone, then our guests from Kabmin are looking for papers for a long time. [[Applause]] Reference is made to non-existent recommendations. And then we don't know why. Is that how we're going to Europe?Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-18-m1.u52	Dear fellow national MPs! Once again, I would like to point out to you that everyone had to understand the content of the proposal that was put to the vote. Once again, I would like to point out that a number of deputies did not understand. So I had to make it clear, one more time, I had to put it to the vote. This is, in full compliance with the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Let's move on. 31st, Palamarchuk. Don't insist. 32nd People's Deputy Voropayev. Don't insist. 33rd, Yatzenka. Don't insist. 34th. Don't insist. 35th. Don't insist. 36th is rejected. Don't insist. 37th. Don't insist. 38th. Don't insist. 39th. Don't insist. 40. Don't insist. 42. Don't insist. 43. Don't insist. 44. Don't insist. 45. Don't insist. [[B in m in s a l in]] 45? 45th? Please, National MP of Amazanov, 45 amendments.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-18-m1.u53	Andrew Pomazanov, People's Front. Amendment No. 45 of the Stotnik People’s Deputy is also to be expelled from this area, since it contains the technical nature of renaming the various items (fourth to fifth), and is not relevant because we did not accept Mr. Vlasenko’s number 2. Therefore, please put to the vote and do not vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-18-m1.u54	Thank you, colleagues. [[B in m in s a l in]] As authors, please. Please have the 45th Amendment, which has been partially taken into account, for confirmation, the People’s Deputy of Amazanov. Identify yourself. Identify yourself. [[16:55:54]] For-123 I didn't get the required number of votes, 123. 46th. Don't insist. 47th. Don't insist. All right, colleagues, we've been through all the repairs. And now there's going to be a proposal to vote on the bill as a whole. Please all take your seats, Your Honor, to realize the historic moment of this vote. Please, Your Honor, we take our seats, we prepare for the vote. The 29 amendments were not counted. Dear colleagues, draft law (registration number 4054) on second reading and in general with technical legal rights as a result of discussion. Please all support this draft decision. Fellows, I emphasize that we can fear anything, but we need not be afraid to make decisions that allow our country to be part of a modern Europe that does not limit our citizens' right to move without borders. People today, I emphasize, two years ago on this very day during the Dignity Revolution, the real heroes who gave their lives in order to get a real European future. So I urge everyone on this holy day to take and vote for this law, and to allow all Ukrainians to realize their own dream. This is our responsibility. Yes, we make good anti-corruption decisions, right, and we make them to make this country change. Without these decisions, nothing will happen. So 4,054 in the second reading and in general, are we all ready to vote? In the second reading and in general, we vote, honourable colleagues. Please support everyone in the name of the European Ukraine. Vote please, Your Honor. Please be supportive. The responsibility of each and every one of us, my friends. Please support me. Vote. Vote, Your Honor. [[16:58:49]] For 252 Hooray! 252. The law's been passed. Glory to Ukraine! Thank you, colleagues, for making this a responsible decision. Peter Poshenko's Block – 114, People's Front – 72, Self-Help – 17, Radical Party – 17, Father's Party – 12, Rebirth – 0, "The Will of the People" – 2.18 non-factional national MPs. Thank you all for your will to win. Thank you. Let's move on. Draft Law (registration number 4056). 4056. Is there no chart yet? Sorry, there's no chart. But. 4055 then. They're preparing a table? 4055, Andrew Cosemyakin Please, Andrew Anatolyovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-18-m1.u55	Dear colleagues, the Supreme Council of Ukraine on February 16, adopted the law on the basis laid down by President No. 4055. This is about amending the Public Prosecutor's Act to ensure transparency in the organization of the activities of the Special Anti-Corruption Prosecutor's Office in order to implement the recommendations of the International Monetary Fund. Given that the bill was designated by the President of Ukraine as urgent. At the direction of the Head of the Supreme Council, the committee promptly prepared him for consideration. The bill set up by the Head of the Supreme Council reached nine proposals, five of which are technical or editorial. The committee counted them. This is the first, fourth, eighth, and ninth. The committee also proposes to take into account amendment No. 6 of Ukraine’s national deputies Lucenka and Paccan. The essence of this amendment is that the Attorney-General is entitled to reject a recommended competitive commission for appointment to a specialized anti-corruption prosecutor's office, provided that such a person does not meet the requirements of Ukraine's laws on cleaning up power, preventing corruption and on State secrecy. The Attorney-General may use this right not more than once for each application submitted by the Commission. The committee proposes to reject Amendment No. 2, because the changes it has proposed do not correspond to the recommendations of the International Monetary Fund that members of the competition commission should be persons with experience in the area of combating corruption. The committee also rejected Amendment 7. Since Amendment No. 6 has been taken into account. So the committee. The committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the adoption of draft No. 4055 on second reading and as a whole as a law prepared by the Committee. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-18-m1.u56	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please we have a second reading, table, 4055. One minute. Let's do some repairs. Please, Your Honor, as amended. 1st Amendment, People's Deputy Missik. None. 2 amendment, rejected. Don't you insist? Anna Gopko, 2nd. Please, Anna Gopko.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-18-m1.u57	Good afternoon, dear fellows! Why is it desirable that this amendment take away such a phrase as the members of a competitive commission should have considerable experience in preventing or resisting corruption? Because this creates advantages for those who have already worked in law enforcement and actually mimicking the fight against corruption. While it is the moral qualities, reputation, and authority of the members of the commission, the competitive commission that are important, not the experience in the field. Therefore, it would offer this same part, as well as considerable experience in preventing or resisting corruption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-18-m1.u58	Please, Your Honor, 2 hannah Hopko's amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-18-m1.u59	The committee rejected the amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-18-m1.u60	Everyone's tense. Everyone's tense. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-18-m1.u61	In view of the fact that there is no justification for the proposed changes. In addition, they disagree with the recommendations of the International Monetary Fund. The competition commission should be headed by a generally recognized and authoritative expert from a commission appointed by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, who has considerable experience in supporting the fight against corruption. I've already said that in the report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-18-m1.u62	Don't you insist on asking the second question? Are you insisting on the 2nd Amendment? Don't you insist? Don't insist. Next up, 3rd, Misic National MP. None. 4th National Deputy Missik. None. 5th. None. 6th, Yuri Lucenko. Please, 6th, Yuri Lucenko. Attention! Listen, listen carefully.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-18-m1.u63	Dear Lord Chairman! According to the last consultation with our European partners, I ask you to withdraw my 6 amendments and to put 7 amendments to Sobolev and other colleagues on confirmation and vote in favour. So the Henprocuror won't get any discretion in any of the choices. Six-y, take off, seven-y, stand by.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-18-m1.u64	Then the procedural position is this: 6's been taken into account. I'm putting it on confirmation right now, we're not voting it, and it's going to be rejected, and the 7th we're voting and we're supporting. Roger that. 6th, to confirm, please don't vote. Six, please don't vote. Please. [[17:05:22]] For-26 Not confirmed. Canceled 6 revisions. And the 7th is for backup. National MP Sobolev, Sotnik, Gopko, Dobrodomov, Antonistak. This is the 7th amendment, colleagues, it needs to be taken into account. Please, we need 226 votes, colleagues. We need 226 votes for this amendment. For the 7th amendment, 226. Everyone, please support the 7th amendment. Vote, please. Vote. Please support the 7th Amendment. [[17:06:12]] For 268. 7 readjustments included. Let's move on. Eight o'clock, don't insist. Everything, and 9-a, doesn't insist. All of it. Dear colleagues, there is an offer. Yuri Lucenko, please. Please, Yuri Lucenko under this law, one minute. Oh, and then Stepan Kube is still, okay. The agreed positions are, we'll talk now.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-18-m1.u65	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs! Yesterday, at the committee’s consideration of the bill, a number of committee deputies expressed support for the proposal to make a change to article 27. It could not be considered on the committee, for the basic law did not apply to this article. Nevertheless, the change is that the special prosecutor’s office does not have to have 5 years of procuratorship but only 5 years of legal and legal experience. This opens the door for more people to compete and meets the requirements of the European Union. So, with your permission, I'm going to add a third part of article 27 of the Ukrainian Procurator's Act to the sentence: "These requirements are not extended to prosecutors of the Specialised Anti-Corruption Prosecutor's Office." And to supplement article 27 of the Ukrainian Procuratorship Act, after part four of the new content, five: "The Prosecutor of the Specialised Anti-Corruption Prosecutor's Office may be appointed a person who has a higher legal education. "
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-18-m1.u66	Please continue.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-18-m1.u67	"..the law profession is not less than 5 years old and speaks the national language." In connection with this part of the fifth, consider part six. It really democratizes and expands the possibility of getting the best representatives of the law into the Attorney General's Office. And another thing for everyone who doubts: in the European Union, prosecutors are part of the bar, they are the attorney of the state. It is absolutely logical that without the experience of the procurator’s office, ordinary experienced and honest lawyers can be recruited. Please vote in favour of this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-18-m1.u68	Thank you, Yuri Vitaliovich. Please. One minute, Andrew Cosemiakin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-18-m1.u69	I really support this offer by Yuri Vitaliovich. But it has to be done legally, and a new bill has to be passed. Why? Because there are, look, 27 articles in this project that we are considering, it's not there. According to 116 articles, this is a violation of the Rules. So please vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-18-m1.u70	Thank you. Please, Stepan Kubi.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-18-m1.u71	Dear fellow MPs! The great term and great time we discussed the issue of combating corruption, consulted the public when we considered the bill. And there's a proposal as President of Ukraine that today spoke in his statement that. and according to public organisations to complete the drafting of the bill by the committee after the words "in the field of anti-corruption prevention", as said by Yegor Sobolev, in the words "can't be members of the competition commission of public officials or persons in political positions, deputies of the Supreme Council and local councils, military officials, law enforcement officials and members of political parties." Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-18-m1.u72	Thank you, Your Honor. And so, your honorary colleagues, the bill (registration number 4055), we completed the amendments. There were two suggestions under the transcript – Yuri Lucenka and Stepan Kubeva. And I will now put to the vote the proposal to adopt this draft law with proposals, in accordance with the second reading procedure, with the proposals of Yuri Lucenka, Stepan Kubeva, who were announced under the transcript. Do you understand the offer? This only improves this law. Please take all your seats and we will vote on the second of the pack of three laws on visa-free terms, your honorary colleagues. Please support this draft law in the second reading and in general, according to the proposal that was being made. Ready? Everybody ready? Please, 4055 in second reading and in general, with technical legal remedies, the proposals of Yuri Lucenka, Stepan Kube under the transcript. Let's vote, please support this bill as a whole. Voting, voting. [[17:11:28]] For 302 Constitutional majority. Thank you all, Your Honor, for supporting this decision. Peter Poshenko's Block – 120, People's Front – 73, Opposition Block – 0, Self-help – 23, Oleg Ljashka's Radical Party – 18, Father-in-law – 12, Rebirth Party – 15, Will of the People – 12 and non-fractional – 29 national MPs. Third draft law, Honorable Colleagues 4056. Report by Yegor Sobolev. In electronics, each of you already have electronics. Look at your email. Comparative table in e-mail, now you're given more copies. Let's hear it for now, and we'll have the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-18-m1.u73	My colleagues, I remind you, there has been a huge, meaningful discussion of this law in this room. I apologize for the absence of comparative plates in paper form. At 9 today, the 9th Committee reviewed the final amendments and approved its recommendations. At 11:30 p.m., I signed all the plates and passed them on to the Supreme Council. To simplify our discussion, I will say that the committee recommends three amendments. The first amendment takes away the Special Fund and prevents the Agency from managing the property that has been arrested from forming it. There have been serious concerns and warnings that the creation of special funds has opened up opportunities for corruption. Let me remind you that the bill sets high wages for the members of this agency, so let's give all of their income and all of their expenses will go transparently through the general budget. Another repair. The agency has the right to process technology. The story of Kurchenka’s oil products frightens many parliamentarians, so the committee discussed the decision. And the last amendment that we recommend approval is about the procedure when it comes to bank accounts that the National Bank considers to be problematic or insolvent. Along with the National Bank, parliamentarians have made a procedure that executes banking legislation but allows the agency to protect the interests of the state. All the other committee amendments have been rejected, and we recommend adopting the law in the form proposed by the European partners and by the President of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-18-m1.u74	Dear colleagues, and so, we have a lot of amendments with you -- 123 amendments. Well, please, dear fellows. 1st Amendment. People's MP Petyovka. Don't you insist? Everyone on e-mail already has a table. It's on the site. It's on the site. Next. 2nd Amendment. People's MP Rybchin. Declined. Is he insisting? Don't insist. 3rd Amendment. Five, national MP. Don't insist. 4th Amendment. Alona Shkrum. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-18-m1.u75	Alona's splinter, Fatherland faction. My colleagues, I'm asking you to wait until we really get the texts of the amendments, because I think I'm the only MP in this room that has those texts, because I just took them into the committee. Let's wait. And Vlasenko. The two of us deputies. I'm asking you to do this. The Yegor Sobolev Committee, this is a committee, I hope, which will not violate the Rules, will not vote. Mr. Yegor, I'm addressing you. Please do not violate the Rules, let us wait until the text is distributed to all. I'm not sure I have the final text. As a lawyer, I have worked with this law in a professional way, and I would like to discuss these amendments. In fact, it is. Give me 10 more minutes, please. Colleagues, it is written in my amendment that if property is in the established cases in the administration of the National Agency of Ukraine on asset detection, search and management, then the agency is designated as the agency. As a lawyer, I don't understand the legal title of the National Authority for transferring property to third parties, and it's here. And it's in his office. Yegor, Yegor, as head of the committee, you have to answer then why you rejected my amendment. I'm in.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-18-m1.u76	Please, one more minute, please, because there was an introduction. You're absolutely right. He finished the committee late. I know all that. It's already on the site. Now we're going to be looking at longer than we need to.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-18-m1.u77	Thank you. Once again, head of the committee, Mr. Sobolev, listen to me, please. Look at the situation. We don't actually have the right to hand something over to third parties because it doesn't have the title of authority over this property. I suggest we work this out. And I propose to amend article 10. This is going to be my 30th amendment later. Because as a lawyer, I'm telling you that you can go to court and sue any decision of the agency regarding the transfer of property to third parties later. You're just an agency, calling it off if you reject this amendment. And you're rejecting the amendment to article 30. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-18-m1.u78	Please, Yegor Sobolev.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-18-m1.u79	This is the principle position of the European Union. They consider the administration of the arrested property to be one of the basic functions of the agency. Therefore, it is suggested that the wording of the first reading should be worded.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-18-m1.u80	You're out. Now there are tables, now they're going to distribute. Excuse me, please. I know what you're talking about, it's true. 4 Amendments, do you have confirmation? She was rejected by the committee. 4 amendment, please identify yourself. She was rejected by the committee. I'd like to make up my mind. Declined by the committee. [[17:18:43]] For-67 Not supported. 5 Amendments, don't insist. 6th. Sergei Vlasenko, please. She's been rejected by the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-18-m1.u81	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we must clearly distribute in this law the legal regime for the management of confiscated property. That is property, property rights that have been transferred to the State, and property that has been arrested, property rights that have not been transferred to the State. And we should clearly ban this agency from alienating, that is, selling property that has been arrested. And we have to make that clear: please recycle, sell, rent, do whatever you want. And if there is property that has not been transferred to the State, the agency’s task is to keep this property, just to ensure that it does not lose its property. And only after the court has determined that the property should be confiscated will the property become confiscated and the agency will be able to confiscate it. This amendment is aimed only at dividing the property status of the arrested and confiscated. Selling custody property.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-18-m1.u82	Please, 20 seconds, Sergey Vlasenko. Five seconds? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-18-m1.u83	And you can sell the property you arrested in one case, if it goes bad quickly, everything else is impossible, because it violates the property rights of the person you arrested. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-18-m1.u84	Please, Yegor Sobolev.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-18-m1.u85	You know that the law provides compensation to owners in the event that the court admits that the property has been unlawfully arrested, so the committee proposes that the amendment be rejected.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-18-m1.u86	Please, 6-y for confirmation. Do you insist, Sergey Volodymyrovich? To confirm, more specifically, 6 amendments rejected by the committee were rejected. [[17:21:05]] For 109 I didn't get the necessary amount. 7th, Vlasenko. It's also rejected.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-18-m1.u87	Colleagues, the 7th amendment refers to a number of cases, let's say that the agency has a large batch of goods or property, the cost of which is consistent with the cost of that property. According to the proposed law, the agency is proposed to sell property in such a case. Well, let's say you've been arrested for some property, a large batch of something or something that's not that expensive, and the agency says we can't keep it because we don't have the funds. I say: so return the owner, you cannot save, return the owner. They say, no, we want to sell it, and then one day we're going to pay the owner back for it, in which amount, we don't know, in what way, we don't know, how many years later. It doesn't make any sense, once. Secondly, this clearly violates the first protocol, paragraph 1 of the Protocol to the European Convention. Thirdly, this violates 43 articles of the Constitution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-18-m1.u88	Please take into account the 6 amendments, the author is Sergey Vlasenko. The 7th amendment, sorry, the author is Sergey Vlasenko. Declined by the committee. Identify yourself. [[17:22:37]] For 135 Not counted. 8 Amendment, Yuri Derevyanko Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-18-m1.u89	Yuri Derevyanko, Political Party of Will. Dear colleagues, I'd like you to pay attention and concentrate for one minute, please. This is about 100 articles, and this is about cases where the property that is arrested can be sold. In addition to cases that are clearly prescribed as regards the cost of storage, which are of a co-value of property. There are also standards here that have absolutely no legal definition, namely: it is written that "preservation of which is impossible, because of the cumbersomeness or for other reasons, without undue difficulty." Please tell me how you can legally determine the seriousness or, for other reasons, it is not possible without undue difficulty. It's a totally corrupt norm that's going to be used today in cases of arrest and then the sale of that property. So there are objects that are very bulky, houses and other things, cars. So I would like to support this amendment in order not to include this corruption element in an important law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-18-m1.u90	Please, the 8th Amendment of Yuri the Woodcock is rejected by the Committee. I know there's a chart. Declined by the committee. I'd like to make up my mind. Colleagues, there's a lot of changes here. The committee considered it very carefully. It's an amendment. This is an amendment that was not considered by the committee. [[17:24:13]] For-93 Colleagues, many amendments, the committee carried out a colossal work that was serious about this issue with the public environment. It's all accounted for. Next. 9th. Don't insist. 10th. 9th. Yuri Derevyanko
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-18-m1.u91	Dear colleagues, this is about an estimate of the value of property that should be made in the event that property is arrested and, more importantly, sold. The bill provides that this assessment is carried out by the participants in the evaluation market. I propose that this evaluation be confirmed by appropriate forensic expertise, and the difference is that if a participant in the evaluation market makes a mistake, the maximum responsibility for it is to lose its evaluator certificate. If an expert makes a mistake, criminal responsibility will arise. So I think it's much more important and fundamentally important that it be. So there'll be forensics. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-18-m1.u92	Thank you, Your Honor. The 9th Amendment rejected by the Committee, Yuri Derevyanko Identify yourself. [[17:25:32]] For 1052 Next. Not counted. 102. 10th. None. 11th. Counted. 12th. 13th. 14th. 15th. Don't insist. 16th. Don't insist. 17th. Don't insist. 18th. Don't insist. 19th. Nope. 19th. Sergey Vlasenko insists. Please be rejected by the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-18-m1.u93	Dear colleagues. We have a totally incomprehensible participant in the process, which is the third person to take property that is subject to arrest, but who is not a party to the process. We have today the Criminal Procedure Code provides for the following parties to the trial: a suspect or accused at a certain stage, a victim, a civil prosecutor, a civil defendant. These are all thirds of the people we keep mentioning in the text, their status is completely undetermined. Do we not understand who this is? We don't understand at what point they should have a protector, can he be a protector? From what point can they receive documents in the matter? When can they charge all of this? And can they even charge any decision they make, especially the property they take from them? What list of rights do they use in this regard? What documents do they have access to? It seems to me that this needs to be handled properly and properly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-18-m1.u94	Please, the 19th amendment was rejected by the committee. Please identify yourself. The 19th amendment was rejected by the committee. Identify yourself. [[17:27:39]] For-88 There were no votes required, 88. Let's move on. 20th, accounted for. 21st, don't insist. 22nd, don't insist. 23rd, rejected. Don't insist. 24th, 25th. 25th, Sergey Vlasenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-18-m1.u95	Dear colleagues, this amendment comes back to the question of the division of the management of two types of property. You can't give the agency the opportunity to sell any property essentially by reason of their reasoning if this property is only arrested. So ownership is left to the owner. In fact, if this property is merely arrested, it logically means that there is no final decision of the court to which it is accused. You can't give this property an opportunity to sell to someone. This is a violation of fundamental, European, Ukrainian, whatever the principles of ownership. If it's your property, it's yours, and the agency only keeps it. If this property is confiscated and it has already become state property, there is no problem. And then the agency can sell this property. These are normal basic principles of law. We can't mix it up, we can't go to Europe, we can't take non-European things, and we can't hide things like that.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-18-m1.u96	Thank you. 25 amendments, not counted by the committee. Please be sure, the 25th Amendment. Not counted by the committee. [[17:29:30.]] For 105 I didn't get the required number of votes. 26th, don't insist. 27th, Yuri Derevyanko. Don't insist. Thank you. 28th National Deputy Davidenko. Don't insist. 29th, don't insist. 30th, Sergey Vlasenko. 30th, don't insist. 31st, Davidenko. 32rd, don't insist. 33rd, Alona Shkrum, Fatherland. 33rd, Alona.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-18-m1.u97	Thank you. Colleagues, I'm asking you to listen because I refuse to believe that this is how we're going to take important things for the state. Well, why am I, my assistants and my lawyers working nights trying to improve this law if Mr. Petrenko is looking at something on the phone, Mrs. Mirror is not listening to me, Mr. Yegor Sobolev can't answer me. Listen to me again, I'm just asking you. Colleagues, you're not making any changes. If you were to look at the findings of the General Scientific and Scientific Administration for the first reading, you would see that scientific expertise, not me, not my lawyers, but scientific expertise says that it's not about 10th, 32nd article of the Civil Code, but about this profile law. That's why I ruled out this change from the 10th, 32nd and brought it here. Do you understand? And then we won't have any problems transferring property to third parties or even title to that agency. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-18-m1.u98	Please comment to the Minister of Justice, but he's looking at your table in an electronic version. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-18-m1.u99	Thank you, Mrs. Scrum, for keeping a close eye on the law. I'm looking at the phone, just a table for the second reading. And I am grateful to the Speaker of the Supreme Council that he has translated these documents into electronic format and very conveniently on paper without using paper to go through all the amendments. As for the substance of this law, it should be adopted as close as possible to the first reading. And we fully support the decisions of the committee and the decisions of our European colleagues so that this law does not weaken. So I ask you to support the committee's decision and, indeed, to vote this law as close as possible to the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-18-m1.u100	Thank you. Please, Yegor Sobolev.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-18-m1.u101	I want to remind you that we had a big discussion about everything we're currently discussing last year. Then the law was passed taking these proposals into account, after which the European Union said, it's not a real law, it doesn't get us close to canceling visas. So right now, on a committee with a discussion with Minust, the Ministry of Justice, the public, and the authors of the amendments, we have a position that is advised by partners from the European Union. That is the logic of today’s work.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-18-m1.u102	Thank you. Please amend Alona Shkrum, who did not get the required number of votes. Please vote. [[17:32:33]] For-78 I didn't get the required number of votes -- 78. 34th Amendment, no objection. 35th, rejected, no objection. 36th. Sergei Vlasenko, 36th.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-18-m1.u103	Dear colleagues, I propose in my 36th amendment it is entirely different to form a public council at a national agency. I propose that we do this on competitive grounds, normally, so that these people are selected in the right way, so that they are not appointed in a culinary manner, that interviews be held with all possible candidates to be selected by the best without any political interest. Yes, indeed, we can discuss how well this amendment has been formulated, but the ideology and the approaches that I just said are perfectly clear in this amendment. As for what the committee was working actively, this is not entirely true: yesterday, without any discussion, all the amendments were rejected by the spear without discussing any of them, no representatives from the national MPs, no amendmenters, no working group and so on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-18-m1.u104	Thank you. 36 Amendment, Sergey Vlasenko, rejected by the committee. Identify yourself. [[17:34:15]] For 105 No decision taken. Then they're all accounted for. 42 amendment, Sergey Vlasenko does not insist. He insists. Please, 42nd, Vlasenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-18-m1.u105	Dear colleagues, we have adopted with you a completely revolutionary Law on State Service, which we have established that the wages of all government officials should be the same. Now we're once again proposing some separate approaches. Think about it, the representatives of this agency run and can sell any of your arrested property that hasn't yet become property to the state. These people can do anything with this property. These people can engage any private, private firms to sell, to manage this property, to pay these private firms any money. And we write them unknown wages, absolutely unknown which ones. We don't pay teachers, we don't pay doctors, we don't raise pensioners. So to the people who are part of the police state, we are now providing normal wages so that they can sell the property they have arrested. What is it?
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-18-m1.u106	Please, 42 amendments rejected by the committee, author Vlasenko. Identify yourself. [[17:35:52]] For-100 I didn't get the required number of votes - 100. Let's move on. 43rd, don't insist. 44th Alona Shkrum, please 44th Amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-18-m1.u107	Alona's splinter, Fatherland faction. Colleagues, really, you and I have adopted a revolutionary, no exaggeration, the State Service Act, and now we're making him an exception, well, I think it's wrong. Either we have the State Service Act, which regulates all civil servants, it regulates all civil servants, or we have 28 exceptions to this law, and in fact the law doesn't make sense. In fact, I am responsible for setting decent wages for all government officials, especially government officials, who have such responsible responsibilities. But we can't give them much more bonuses, we can't define it in the law, we can't give it to them. By-laws generally. We can't ban, there, a bonus of over 100 percent for other civil servants, and here we allow three months' wages in bonuses, you know? Well, you can't do that.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-18-m1.u108	45 Amendment, Alona Shkrum, rejected by the committee. Identify yourself. 44th, sorry, 44th, rejected by the committee. 44th, rejected by the committee, amended. [[17:37:18]] For-90 I didn't get the necessary amount. 45th. Alona Shkrum, 45th Amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-18-m1.u109	My colleagues, I'll try to explain again. See what is now set out in the first reading: the head of the National Guard and his deputies is given a special job allowance, a work force of up to 75 percent of the official salary, taking into account the ranking allowance. This is a specific issue for the public service, it has to be established by the State Service Act. We've put everything in order and said that the allowances and any office there, the severance allowance, should be the same for all the top categories of government officials. Well, why do we think that the head of the NSA and his deputy have a special amount of work, and the secretary of the ministry, the secretary of the Cabinet of Ministers, the deputy ministers, I don't know, the highest government officials, the governors, they don't have a particular amount of work? Well, we have to have one approach, or let's make changes to the State Service Act then, and raise everyone the possibility of setting more percentages and office salary or an extra charge. Well, European laws are the equality of all before the law and the laws are unique to all. You can't make these exceptions.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-18-m1.u110	Thank you. Yegor Sobolev.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-18-m1.u111	The thing is, the State Service Act -- and this is a huge responsibility of the government -- has not set up normal European wages for government officials. We offer to continue to have poor wages and offer to join the queen of corruption. This law, like the law for the Anticorruption Bureau and the Anticorruption Prosecutor’s Office, allows for decent people to be recruited through open competitions that will have normal wages. I agree that they should be in everyone's possession, but the authors of the last amendments offer salaries, normal wages. Don't give them to anyone. The agency will manage huge costs, 30 to 40,000 dollars for a civil servant in this case is a justifiable decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-18-m1.u112	Thank you. Please take into account the 45th amendment, Alona Skrum, not counted by the committee. [[17:39:46]] For-100 I didn't get the required number of votes. 46th Amendment. None. 48th. Please, Sergey Vlasenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-18-m1.u113	Thank you. Dear colleagues, when I return to the question of wages, I can point out the following. We are, unfortunately. Once again, we've passed on the ability of this agency to engage commercial structures essentially to perform the functions of this agency. So we're talking about what we've acquired, according to the committee head, nice, honest, independent officials who have the right not to do their jobs, but to make commercial agreements with legal, natural persons who will perform the property management function, and the management, I want to remind you, not just saving, but also selling, processing is all that matters. So these people are going to get crazy wages, they're going to make deals with commercial structures that are actually going to do these functions. So you either have to pay them, like all government officials, or you have to clean up the possibility of making commercial contracts to perform the functions of this agency. Together, it doesn't make any sense.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-18-m1.u114	48th Amendment, overruled. National MP Vlasenko. Identify yourself. 48th, rejected. [[17:41:19]] For 104 Not supported. 50th, Alona Shkrum, doesn't insist. 51st, Yuri Derevyanko, doesn't insist. 52nd, Alona Shkrum, doesn't insist. 52th, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-18-m1.u115	Colleagues, I'll explain. It's actually a technical very important thing, legal thing. Because such changes are to be made by a separate law (in national law) in the Code of Budgets of Ukraine. If you make such changes, you must do so, including by law. That's important, so I think we need to stick to the norms of the budgetary process. And I really have to just point out that my assistants and my professional lawyers were on the committee yesterday. And they weren't included in the task force after the law was drafted. I understand we don't have much time. But I think that if we do the European right laws, the right things, they can't be done in the wrong way, in the wrong way. I have great respect for you, Mr. Yegor. So I would ask you never to do that again. And actually include representatives of professional lawyers, those who deal with these issues and work, including by other laws, to include in the working group, to be able to defend their amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-18-m1.u116	Thank you. Please insist on 52nd? On the 52nd, do you insist on taking into account? 52th is on the line. Please identify yourself. Declined by the committee. [[17:42:49]] Z-87 I didn't get the necessary amount. Please, 53rd, don't insist. 54th. Vlasenko. Don't insist, thank you. 55th doesn't insist on Petovka, Ukrainian national deputy. 56th, Davidenko, National Deputy. Don't insist. 57th, Igor Popov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-18-m1.u117	Dear colleagues, in our first reading, we adopted three new articles in comparison with the law in force. These articles allow the agency to manage the arrested, not the confiscated property, primarily the money. What's this really going to look like? In a third person, a witness in the discovery of criminal conduct may arrest his funds, bank accounts, cash, bank metals, and the agency may place them on deposits, give them to other third parties, conduct tenders, and so forth. We all know that even a car from the fine house is difficult to take today, not confiscated, but just arrested. We can imagine what would be the breakup with all that money. I'm not saying that this proposal is absolutely not in line with the sixth report of the European Commission referred to by the authors, which does not correspond to our political culture, the Constitution of Ukraine, the Ukrainian legislation. Please put this amendment to the vote and explain that the green button means yes to this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-18-m1.u118	Thank you, distinguished National Deputy Igor Popov. Colleagues, 57 amendments rejected by the committee. Identify yourself. [[17:44:56]] For a hundred and 107, not supported. Let's move on. 58th. Don't insist. Victoria the Birdman, 58th.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-18-m1.u119	Dear colleagues, you know, the bill provides that deposits will be recalculated, should be accounted for by state banks. You know, the practice, if the costs are arrested, is not generally recognized, so my amendment is proposed? Exceptions are proposed to make the rule a national rule. the cost of government banks of deposits. And to say that this is going to be done in just two cases: or when the term of the deposit contract is over, that's obviously why we're counting on the state bank, we're not thereby violating the right of the person who made the contribution. And secondly, the second exception to this rule is to put the bank in which the account is arrested in the number of problems. I think that's exactly what's going to be fair, because if a person makes their contribution, they have a right to receive it.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-18-m1.u120	Thank you. Please, Paul Petrenko. In fact, it's understandable.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-18-m1.u121	Dear National MPs, just when I voted in the first reading, I have heard such a compromise proposal that Mrs. Ptašnik has just made, that the transfer to the state banks could take place in two cases. Right, when there is a threat that these funds are in a bank that has signs of insolvency. And the second option that was added is if the term of the relevant deposit contract ends. Please confirm it, and add an amendment to article 20. Why? Why?
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-18-m1.u122	Please, Yegor Sobolev.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-18-m1.u123	We had a discussion with the National Bank about this. They explained that even a department that considers the bank to be a problem or insolvent is not allowed to tell other departments of the NBA about this, let alone about the agency. If we're going to do that, we're going to find ourselves in a situation where the bank is recognized as a problem, where it may depend on the state funds that are being arrested by the agency in this case, but Nitzbank will be banned through bank secrecy and his work on it. So together with Natzbank and the government, we came up with a proposal that funds should be transferred immediately to state banks, where they would be more reliable.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-18-m1.u124	Thank you. I think it's a technical question, maybe that'll be settled later if you don't insist. Thank you. Are you insisting? Please, 58th, identify yourself. By 58 amendments, not counted by the committee, identify yourself. I think we can work on it separately. We're working on it separately. [[17:48:17]] For-163 I didn't get the required number of votes. Let's move on. 59th. Don't insist. 60 revisions. 60th. Please, Sergey Vlasenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-18-m1.u125	Dear colleagues, once again, I point out that actually managing money and precious metals for the agency should have a completely special procedure. This procedure should be strictly regulated, and it should be regulated by all, I emphasize, of all cases that may be. There can be no leaks here, so they don't charge that, there, someone, something, somehow, took advantage of the gap and took the money that was arrested or the precious metals from the corresponding accounts or from the corresponding deposits. So we have to read this very, very carefully. I don't quite agree with the position of the National Bank, and this is a rare case where my position coincides with the position of the Ministry of Justice that we should clearly write this article as clearly as possible. And that's the mechanism I suggested in the 60th amendment. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-18-m1.u126	Please make a 60 amendment that is not considered by the committee. I'd like to make up my mind. [[17:49:59]] For 104 I didn't get the required number of votes. 104. 61st. Don't insist. 62nd. Alona Shkrum. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-18-m1.u127	Well, colleagues, I need to explain again just what the question is. In fact, the practice of recalculating the funds that have been arrested into government accounts, it's not generally recognized, we've looked at several countries in the European Union. Thus, for example, the recommendations of the Lyon Group (G8) point out that cashless funds do not require management. It's enough to keep them under arrest. I understand the position of the National Bank, which is easier to arrest, of course, to recalculate the funds into a state bank, to deprive you of any possible benefits and possible interest. But we understand how our system works, unfortunately. Not only do we need to protect the interests of the National Bank, not only the interests of the arrested property agency, but we need to protect the interests of the citizens who arrest the cash account, they're going to take it away. They're going to lose, for example, interest rates. They'll lose everything, and then they won't get any compensation from the state. We know very well how the state compensates us for the loss of profits or some of the things it owes us. Well, that's not gonna happen. So we have to make at least some compromises with logic and with the real state of things in the state. I think so.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-18-m1.u128	Thank you. Please, 62a is not supported by the committee. Rejected amendment. 62nd, Alona Shkrum. [[17:51:47]] For 109 I didn't get the required number of votes. 64th National MP, Captain. Don't insist. 65th, don't insist. 66th. Let's go. 67th, don't insist. 68th, don't insist. 69th, don't insist. 70, don't insist. 71, don't insist. Thank you. 72, don't insist. 73rd, don't insist. 74th, they don't insist. Thank you. 75th, Alona Shkrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-18-m1.u129	Thank you. Thank you, Volodymyr Borisovich. I would like to present in such an editorial, colleagues, article 20. This is also in line with the comments that were made by the NEUW until the first reading. So I don't just take it from my point of view, I take it from the thinking of the professional lawyers we trust, including the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration. In the event that a decision of a prosecutor or a judicial decision has been made within the limits of the law, which has obtained legal force that has been revoked from the arrest of funds or bank metals, the corresponding funds and interest or transfer of bank metals shall be returned to their legal owner within three working days from the date of receipt of such a decision by the prosecutor or from the date of taking effect of the judicial decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-18-m1.u130	Thank you. Please, let's move on. Amendment 75 rejected. Identify yourself. Declined by the committee. The amendment was rejected by the committee. [[17:53:29]] For-89 I didn't get the required number of votes. Let's move on. I appreciate it. I condemn homage and value humor. Thank you. Let's move on. 76th, they don't insist. 77a, Sergey Vlasenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-18-m1.u131	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, we have a series of specific property with the specific status that we should. The management activity that we should describe and describe in a specific way. Because one thing is arrested and confiscated property, another is property that is stored as evidence and passed on to this agency. And this too needs to be clearly described that property, which is evidence of things, cannot be sold or processed. In one case, if that's what it is. Not the kind of property that goes bad fast. In doing so, we should also talk about other different procedures, in particular, we should clearly describe how the property is sold, which is rapidly deteriorating. We should point out that if this property is sold, these costs should be transferred to the owner. At the same time, however, they must be arrested so that these funds are not held at all.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-18-m1.u132	Thank you. This is 77th. 77th, rejected by the committee. Be my guest, colleagues. [[17:55:30.]] For-86 I didn't get the required number of votes. Attention! Dear colleagues, we still have about five dozen amendments. I have a proposition, if possible: let's now vote that we're going to work there for 19 hours. Maybe we'll finish it early, but. But during the examination. Please, colleagues, if we have voices, people come out, I see. Is it supported? Yeah, yeah, vote, of course. Colleagues, please continue your support for almost an hour, so I can complete another 40 or 50 amendments. Six hours now. Please be supportive. Ready? Are you guys ready? Come on, come on, up to 19 at the most. Please. Up to 19 years old. Please be supportive. Colleagues, have you all heard the offer? Did everyone hear the offer? Vote. If you'll excuse me, I'll be there by 1 9 o'clock. Please be supportive. Please support me. Well, it's important. Please be supportive. [[17:56:49]] For 231 Thank you. 18th hour now. In 19 hours we continued our work. Thank you, Your Honor. Let's move on. 78th, don't insist. 79th, don't insist. It's the '80s. 81st, Alona Skrum, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-18-m1.u133	My colleagues, thank you for your word. See, according to part two of article 16 of the Ukrainian Law on State Procurement, the purchaser sets one or more of these qualifications: the availability of equipment, the material and technical base, etc. So I would like to add, to the actual editorial, something else that legal persons and natural persons entrepreneurs should be able to meet the qualification requirement such as the availability of appropriate equipment and a material and technical base. And then asset management is done on the basis of a contract made in accordance with chapter 70 of the Ukrainian Civil Code, taking into account the features of this law. This will simply contribute to a better resolution of this situation.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-18-m1.u134	Thank you. 81st rejected by the committee. I'd like to make a statement. Identify yourself, please. [[17:58:13]] For 114 I didn't get the necessary amount. 82nd. 83rd. Please, Victor Mikhailovich Pinzenik.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-18-m1.u135	Dear colleagues, the point to which I propose clarification, allows for an extended interpretation of the list of arrested property that may be sold. In order to introduce any safety nets, it is proposed that this paragraph be supplemented by the following sentences: "A sample list of such assets is approved by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine." I'm not going to say that I like this interpretation very much, but it's some form of defense. We agreed to this position with the authors, and she was in agreement with the authors. I ask the Ministry of Justice to give the floor to confirm that this is an agreed position. And I'd like you to complete this.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-18-m1.u136	So 83 amendments can be taken as far as I can see. Yes. The only thing, I think, is that we have it in the end. At the end, let's look at it before the final vote -- 83rd.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-18-m1.u137	What difference does it make? Dear colleagues, please support Victor Mikhailovich Pinzenik's amendment, it was indeed agreed, and during the vote in the first reading I made it clear that this amendment could be incorporated into the body of the law. Please support her to appear in the body of the law as the final text. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-18-m1.u138	I see, I just see that not everyone is still in the room, maybe before that, we'll count.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-18-m1.u139	Declined.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-18-m1.u140	I'm gonna focus on that one more time. Counted, fine. I'm just trying to accentuate that. Pinzenik Viktor Mikhailovich. Yes, it is. Let's move on. 84th, don't insist. 85th, don't insist. 86, don't insist. 87, Yuri Derevyanko
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-18-m1.u141	Thank you. Dear colleagues, in order to have a clear list of the property that will be sold as a result of the arrest, I propose that the legally undeclared standards that are now present in the law be removed. In fact, the law states that property, including items or large shipments of goods, cannot be stored for bulk or for other reasons without undue difficulty, and so on. This phrase: "preservation of which because of cumbersomeness or for other reasons" I propose to delete, because very, very much in our judicial and law enforcement systems, these unspecified legal norms will be interpreted into their own judgment. This is a corrupt norm, please remove it from here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-18-m1.u142	Thank you. 87 Amendment, Wooden, rejected by the committee. Identify yourself. [[18:01:20]] For 132 132. It's not that amendment, it's not that amendment, but it's going to be later, in support, it's going to be okay. Yeah, 87th. Don't insist. 88th. Colleagues, let's go faster if we can. 88th, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-18-m1.u143	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the point is that an arrested property can also be sold, which quickly loses its value. The law is not clearly written: it quickly loses its value – is it how? Is it during the year, during the month, during the week, or during one day? So I propose once again these, not defined by law, rules to remove from the law, so that there will be no corruption, so that our so-called law enforcement officers will not use it for their own benefit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-18-m1.u144	Thank you. 89 amendments rejected by the committee, please. 88th, rejected by the committee. Identify yourself. [[18:02:26]] Z-87 The decision is not taken. 87. Let's move on. 88th doesn't insist. The ninth. Thank you, by the way. 9-a don't insist. The '90s don't insist. 91st doesn't insist. 92nd doesn't insist. Third, fourth, fifth, 96th, do not insist. 97th, 98th, 99th. He insists on Alona Shkrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-18-m1.u145	Guys, look what we're doing here. I mean, if you've got your property arrested and then this arrest is canceled by a court decision that has gained legal power, then your property is returned to you by the National Agency within three days, and in the event of implementation or processing, the funds or interest received are also returned. But if, for example, your assets were transferred to the administration -- and that's possible, because we gave the agency the right to give it to the administration -- and then some of those assets were also provided to the National Agency, then the costs don't come back to you. So I just want to make it clear that if your arrest is overturned by a court decision that has gained legal power, the benefits of assets transferred to the office belong to you, i.e. the owner. And you get everything back. In fact, abroad, colleagues, even the lost benefit, can then be reaped, and morally and materially compensated for that lost benefit, and for having you arrested, confiscated, returned, but still you suffered some loss. So if we're going to Europe, let's not just protect the police state, but protect the person who might be there illegally.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-18-m1.u146	Thank you. 99th isn't supported by the committee. Please, colleagues, identify yourself. [[6:04:17]] For 101 Decisions not approved. Let's move on. 100th Amendment. Don't insist. 101st. Don't insist. 102nd. Sergei Vlasenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-18-m1.u147	Thank you. Dear colleagues, in fact, the 42nd directive says nothing about the mechanisms for the functioning of this agency. The 42nd directive, the official position of the European Union, says only that such an agency should be created. I want to tell all Ukrainian citizens that a completely corrupt monster is now being created, which will be able to wait for any -- I emphasize this, whatever -- property (arrested or confiscated). They'll tell you it's big or something. And they'll be able to sell it. And even if five years later you're going to prove that you bought this property legally, you're not going to get back the real value of that property and not that property, but you're going to get some money back for it. Some coins. And in this article 22, we're allowing these powers to be exercised by some private administrators, not by an old-fashioned agency. with which this agency will have commercial contracts and will sign them off. That'll be in half.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-18-m1.u148	Thank you. Please, 102 amendments rejected by the committee. Identify yourself. [[18:05:57]] For-92 Please, 103 amendments, don't insist. Victoria Birds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-18-m1.u149	Dear colleagues, the concept of this law actually establishes the property management regime provided for in the Ukrainian Civil Code. You know that according to the Civil Code, a steward is always responsible for the actual consequences of mismanagement. So this is the amendment that I propose to establish the responsibility of the state and the manager of the property that has been arrested to his owner, because for the deterioration of the status of the property under arrest, someone has to be responsible for the destruction of the property. And I would like to draw Mr. Petrenko's attention to the fact that the owner of the arrested property cannot, can't, can't, on the basis of the provisions of the Law on the Procedure for Compensation of Damage Caused by a citizen's illegal actions by the authorities that carry out operational search activities there, the bodies of pretrial investigation of the prosecutor's office and the court. Because of the law’s standards, they regulate the issue of liability for damage caused by illegal actions by public authorities. And us.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-18-m1.u150	Ten seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-18-m1.u151	And what we're talking about is that the deterioration of the condition of the property being arrested or its destruction, which is not by itself illegal. Hence, that law will not be distributed. And we have to predict a separate edition.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-18-m1.u152	Thank you. Colleagues, 102 repairs, 103rd. 103rd, 103rd amendment, not counted by the committee. Identify yourself. Everyone, everyone. [[18:07:59]] For 101 I didn't get the required number of votes. 105 revisions. Please, Alona Shkrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-18-m1.u153	Thank you. Volodymyr Borisovich, Vladimir Borisovich, I would like to make a comment to Mr. Petrenko on this amendment. And if you agree to this amendment, I'm taking out everyone else because it's really important. Please take a look at the 105 revisions. What is our situation? We don't have the actual responsibility of the state to the owner of the assets that were taken to the custody of the N.A. that the N.A. handed over to someone in charge, and then they disappeared. For example, you have unlawfully arrested property by the N.A. handed over to his third person, a third person has lost it, illegally reselled it, destroyed everything, and this third person is only responsible for article 10.43 of the Civil Code before the N.A. And it is not the responsibility of the N.A. to answer to the owner of the property. So it is precisely up to us to establish the responsibility of the state to the owner of the assets that have been accepted for the preservation of the Nazis. Otherwise, the manager will return compensation to the NRA, and the NAC will keep this compensation at its disposal because there will be no mechanism to return the compensation to the owner of the property illegally at the time of the arrest. Please take a closer look. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-18-m1.u154	Please comment, Paul Petrenko, because the MP wanted your comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-18-m1.u155	Dear colleagues, in fact, the issue of loss or damage to property due to the National Agency makes sense, but in principle we provide for a general rule in the event that damage is caused by appropriate government officials or public authorities, the State is directly responsible for their actions in full. So as much as it takes a separate article to make this law, I don't see the point here. But it's like the limit of compromise. The second question is that we will need to harmonize a number of other articles in the Codex with these provisions of the law. So I think that this is a matter of professional law and there is no risk for a person if they have been harmed by the wrong actions of the public officials of the agency. It is fully capable of compensating these losses from the state of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-18-m1.u156	Thank you. Alona Shkrum, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-18-m1.u157	Thank you. Thank you. As a person who worked on the State Service Act, I'll tell you that we have just the problem with government officials being directly responsible for their actions. And it turns out that we actually have this mechanism, but we actually have laws in the Supreme Council to increase the State's liability for property damage, for the public officials for their direct service actions that they've done to damage property. So I think let's actually get to this compromise. And I think that the science and technology that followed the law could happen and there wouldn't be any problem making changes to the other laws that were needed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-18-m1.u158	Thank you. Please identify 105 amendments rejected by the committee. [[18:11:22]] For-99 Not approved. Next, 106 revisions. There's no objection. 107th, 108th. 108th, Sergey Vlasenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-18-m1.u159	Dear colleagues, I would like to agree with the two previous authors of the amendments who said that the state has no responsibility for what it does. Please tell me, Ukrainian citizens, which one of you would have made at least a penny for the wrongful actions of the investigators, for the unlawful acts of tax inspection, for the unlawful actions of any representative of the state? We have to introduce if the state already assumes such a dragon's function that it can arrest anything that it can do anything, that it can do anything that's still under arrest, that's still yours to sell. If it can involve commercial structures, we have to write a multiple responsibility here. So the state, if, God forbid, something happened to your property, the state responds twice, three times, four times the value, not that they're going to pay you back the same amount of money they're going to make. And it's going to be absolutely cashy and it's not going to match the real market value.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-18-m1.u160	Please, 10 seconds, Sergey Vlasenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-18-m1.u161	The state will certainly not be responsible for the cost of the property that you actually had stolen. It wasn't you, it was you who were sold without you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-18-m1.u162	Thank you. 108th doesn't count as a committee. I'd like to make up my mind. 108th. I ask all factions to inform the deputies to come to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and we will conclude our second reading. Vote. It's an amendment, it's not considered by the committee. Yeah. [[6:13:34]] For 118 109th. None. Don't insist. 111th. Don't insist. 112th. Don't insist. 113th. Don't insist. Thank you. 114th. 113th, Alona Shkrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-18-m1.u163	Colleagues, this is my last speech on this law, thank you for giving us your word. You know, I'm very sad, actually, because, well, when I went to this Parliament as a lawyer, I'd like to have a professional, professional discussion. Well, do you know how many deputies have now read at least three or four sections of this law? I think you can count them on the fingers of my two hands. Vladimir Borisovich, unfortunately, I'm sure you haven't read this law. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-18-m1.u164	I'm reading with you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-18-m1.u165	Colleagues, we have this paradoxical situation where we can have any Ukrainian citizen arrest property, then hand it over to the government, the Nazis pass it on to third parties, third people sell it, resell it, steal it, destroy it, well, something happens to us, something like that or something. And then no one is responsible for that. Because third parties are required to return property lost or lost for the property, and the Nazis have no direct obligation to return it to the owner. Well, it's absolute legal nihilism with our judicial system, when you can't actually pull even five bracelets for what's state.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-18-m1.u166	Ten seconds, please. Just don't talk for me like that.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-18-m1.u167	When an ordinary citizen cannot collect five dollars even from a civil servant who has done something wrong or for damaging his property in public authorities, we allow such a police authority. It's very confusing for me.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-18-m1.u168	Thank you. You insist on a hundred. Are you insisting on the amendment? Don't insist. 115, please, Vlasenko Sergei Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-18-m1.u169	Dear colleagues, what do we have to offer? We are offered, except for all the delights that we have discussed during the discussion of this law. We're offered one simple thing. We are encouraged to direct all proceeds from the agency’s activities to a special government budget fund. What does that mean? That means at least in the first line. What does that mean? This means one simple thing, which means that even if you have to pay back those costs, you're only going to get the money that's in the special fund. They're definitely not enough. Trust my experience. In the next six months, all the property of the entire middle class in Ukraine will be arrested. And those who are now so happy at the time of the adoption of this law will look into the eyes of the common people whose possessions will be arrested without trial or investigation. The cost of this property will not be compensated after the property has been stolen. Let's see, Vladimir Borisovich is laughing, and I know he is.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-18-m1.u170	Thank you. Please, Paul Petrenko. I'm not laughing, I'm just reacting emotionally.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-18-m1.u171	Dear colleagues! Dear Ukrainian people! Let's talk a little bit about the real situation and the truth about it. What do we now have under the law? Under the law, any local prosecutor with a local investigator and a judge is already in charge of any property that has been arrested in a criminal case, and is quietly flagged and sold, without any rules. And that's reality. What does this law, which is designed in conjunction with Europeans, propose? There are no such problems in Europe, and the level of corruption is much lower. This law provides for the creation of a transparent register of all property, the accounting of this property, and the establishment of clear rules and an independent body that manages this property. Plus the responsibility of this body to the owner. And everyone here who talks about scarecrows, well, I'm sure you support the operating system. And this is a huge mob, the D.A.'s office, especially in the border areas.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-18-m1.u172	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-18-m1.u173	Therefore, I ask you to calm down and uphold European laws.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-18-m1.u174	The Mafia needs to fight. Colleagues, 115 amendment, Sergey Vlasenko, identify yourself. The committee didn't support it. Please invite deputies to the Hall of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Please. [[18:18:26]] For 101 116. 101, no decision taken. 116th, Olena Sotnik. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-18-m1.u175	Please give the word to Levchenk Yuri.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-18-m1.u176	Yuri Lewchenko, please
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-18-m1.u177	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223 District, Kiev City. Unfortunately, what we did at first, the coalition, what most of us accepted in the Supreme Council on special confiscation, and now what's going on in the National Assembly, it has nothing in common, nothing completely to do with European norms. Because European diplomats didn't even read what you just wrote to them. You made the law in Ukrainian, no one saw the English version. And I saw the laws of Western Europe. I've seen the laws of Britain. There's nothing close to that. Now you're giving an opportunity, as is the first law, and especially this law, you're giving corrupt Ukrainian courts, Ukrainians only by form, and by content, you're giving them the opportunity to press people even more than they're doing right now. Today, KPC writes, for example, that there should be a reasonable reason for placing someone in the WHO. But nobody cares, they plant everyone on the right and left. Similarly, you now have reasonable reason to be able to destroy small and medium - size business. Shame on you all!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-18-m1.u178	116th Amendment. Are you insisting? Don't insist. 117th Amendment, no insistence. 118th. 119th. 119th, Olena Sotnik, please. Hand over your passport, this diplomatic one.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-18-m1.u179	Colleagues, an amendment, refers to the exclusion of the agency’s ability to receive 10 percent of the sale of the arrested property. Let's be realistic. Arrested property, that's what. That's the property, that's concerning which there is no judgment. So it still belongs to the person. And we don't have the right to sell this property, and the agency gets some profit out of it. And what happens if this property is released from custody and then who, the state is going to reimburse this 10 percent of its cost, it's not fair and it's not logical and it's not consistent with European practice. Only confiscated property can be adjusted and sent to the budget, and the property arrested should not receive an agency's bonus for its implementation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-18-m1.u180	Thank you. Please, 119th, the amendment has been rejected. Identify yourself. [[18:21:18]] For 132 I didn't get the required number of votes. 120, don't insist. 121st, no insistence. 122, no insistence. 123rd, no insistence. 124th.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-18-m1.u181	120? 122nd. Please, Captain.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-18-m1.u182	Thank you. Colleagues, here the minister has just declared that the registers of the arrested and confiscated property will be open, so that's not the case. Because article 25 of the Law clears the word "discovered." I suggest you return, at least to control this property. And last of all, I can't insist, of course, that I realize that these are visa-free laws, but I think we're going to be able to get a visa-free regime, and then all normal people will run away with these laws.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-18-m1.u183	You insist, 122? Please, Sergey Sobolev. Yegor Sobolev.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-18-m1.u184	My colleagues, I want to say that the entire committee supports the opening of this register. It was our decision, our proposal even when we passed the law for the first time. Let's vote for this register to always be open. The Ministry of Justice supports this position. I want not only this amendment but also all the rules governing the openness of the register, so that we can now vote and adopt this decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-18-m1.u185	Please, the Ministry of Justice.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-18-m1.u186	The Ministry of Justice supports the position on the opening of the register. It will also be an additional guarantee for the owner to see what is happening to his property and to the public. And this will be an additional control over the activities of this NAC and the transparency of its activities. And as for the fact that someone is fleeing the country, you know, if they escape from the country of corruption, it's not going to be a big deal. But before they escape, they have to confiscate their property, which they have acquired illegally. And that's what these laws are for, and these mechanisms are being put in place. Don't be afraid, honourable national MPs, don't be afraid of anti-corruption laws, I urge you!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-18-m1.u187	Thank you. Please, 122nd Oleg Lazko, 122nd Amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-18-m1.u188	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. I am addressing the minister of justice of Paul Petrenko, my wartime brothers in Midan. I definitely don't agree with you that it's a good thing when corrupts flee the country. It is very bad when corrupters flee from the country, instead of being held accountable for the robbery, for the corruption, for the looting of people. Maybe it's a good thing Yanukovich got away?Oh, my God! Maybe it's a good thing that Arbusov and the Clever Sanctions have been removed?Oh, my God! Maybe it's a good thing they're robbing people now?Oh, my God! That's not good, and that's bad. And when you say, well, when there are corrupts fleeing the country, I'll tell you that I'll change your government just as well. This will be very good, good for the country!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-18-m1.u189	Yeah, I'm asking everyone to stick to the subject. 122 amendments that are not considered by the committee. Identify yourself. 122nd. [[18:24:47]] For the 250. Ah, 122th is the openness of the register. Roger that. We'll take it from here. Let's move on. 123, don't insist. Yegor Sobolev, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-18-m1.u190	For the stenographer. We voted in favour of opening the register of the arrested property in all the rules of this law. We realized that this revealed in all the standards of this law, not just that. Then we'll fix it when we sign.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-18-m1.u191	Thank you. 124th. Don't insist. All of it. We've exhausted all the adjustments, dear colleagues. Let's all take your seats. Please, fellow citizens, this is the final law of the visa-free package. The last one. And I'd like everyone to take their seats. Are we ready to vote, dear colleagues, 4056? [[B in m in s a l in]] I remember 83rd. I remember. 83rd, I remember. Please, Paul Petrenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-18-m1.u192	Dear colleagues, we have, in fact, just voted on a very correct progressive norm on the openness of registers. Mr. Yegor, my friend, the only thing we need during the technical and legal amendments is to make it clear that the information will be revealed that does not bear the secret of the investigation. That's just the one that actually applies to property. A criminal case, a case number, and information on the follow-up may not be public by virtue of KPC. Please take this into account when you're working on a technical legal committee. That's it. And the proposal to uphold the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-18-m1.u193	Thank you. Dear fellow national MPs! We have concluded the discussion with you. The last, third draft of the Law that we have just considered, 4056. We finished our second reading. The corresponding was the 83 - year amendment of Victor Mikhailovich Pinzenic, who needed consideration. And we discussed it, and we agreed that this was a common position. So right now, I'd like to ask you for the result. With Paul Petrenko's comments, with the proposal for approval, 83 amendments included, i.e. taking them into account in the body of the law, with technical and legal rights in second reading, and the adoption of draft Law 4056 as a whole. I'm asking everyone, my dear colleagues, to concentrate and support. Ready? We vote and take a confident step towards a visa-free regime. I would like everyone to support the 4056 in line with the proposals I made with the technical and legal rights, taking into account the 83rd amendment. Vote please! Voting, supporting. Please vote. Vote. [[18:27:45]] For 261 Glory to Ukraine! Thank you all! Colleagues, one minute. There are still a few important questions. Thank you all, fellows of honor. There'll be a resolution. One decision. The two decisions we discussed yesterday are international. Let's vote, please. And there'll be more announcements. Therefore, please remain in your seats. 20 more minutes, please. Please, we'll work 20 more minutes. Everybody stay where you are. Fellows, thank you all for your courage. Please, Andrew Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-18-m1.u194	Dear colleagues, according to the Rules, when there are laws to reject laws, we should consider them at the nearest meeting. We don't include them in the agenda. This is our responsibility under the Rules to be made. We voted in seven hours. There are several decrees that we should vote on. This is a draft decree repealing the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of 16 February on the adoption as a basis and the entire draft Ukrainian Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Elections of People's Deputies. As you can imagine, 3700-P1. We have to look at them without getting into the agenda and we have to look at them in the next session. This is our responsibility. And I ask you to consider these rulings now, and I ask you to vote in favour of 3700-P1 for a reduced procedure. Please be supportive. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to vote. Please proceed to the summary procedure. [[18:29:20]] For 180. Please don't break up. 180 in favour, the decision is made. I invite you to report to the National Deputy of Ukraine, Dobrodomov Dmitry Evgenović. It is our duty to consider this today. Welcome home! Welcome home, please. Dmitry Evgenovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-18-m1.u195	Guys, could I have your attention for a minute? We go back to repealing Law 3700 -- a law that is already called "party dictatorship" in society. When we adopt visa-free laws by adopting European integration laws, we appeal to European experience, and we say what our European partners will say, let's show our European partners the Law 3700 and ask them what they will say to the standards it has. And let the party leaders, the faction leaders, who are afraid of the people they take on the list, whether for money or for other arrangements, be politically responsible, let them finally create parties, not party-marketing in our country. So I urge everyone to cancel a decision that is non-democratic, 3700, and set up a party dictatorship. Please support your colleagues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-18-m1.u196	Thank you. And once again, colleagues, I ask you not to leave. There is a parliamentary obligation to implement decisions. We have two short decisions that we discussed yesterday, but we have not made a decision. I'm asking you to stay in the hall, and I'm asking you to do another half hour, as we've decided. We have two more decisions, and we're preparing. Please report by Pinzenik Pavel Vasilovich. We have two identical decisions, and the head of the committee on both reports, 3700-P and 3700-P1. Please, as far as possible.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-18-m1.u197	Colleagues, the committee reviewed draft decrees repealing the decision of the Supreme Council of 16 February on the adoption as a basis and as a whole of the draft Law amending the Electoral Act (referring to the exclusion of deputies from the electoral list), introduced by the National Deputy of Ukraine, Dubininin Alexander (registration 3700-P). And the same as the content of the decision made by the Ukrainian National Deputies Zalitschuk, Dobrodomov and others (registration number 3700P-1) and the statement made by the national deputy Dubinin to the head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on 16 February 2016. After reviewing the transcripts of the plenary meetings, the committee commented on the procedure for considering the bill, and all the comments reflected in the committee’s conclusions, it was given to you. Following this conclusion, the Committee proposes that the Supreme Council of Ukraine decide by voting on the adoption or rejection of the above-mentioned draft regulations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-18-m1.u198	Thank you. Dear colleagues, is there a need for discussion? Yes. I'm the only one. Yes, I can hear you. Calm down. I'm the only one who has an offer, two decisions that are identical. Let's have a joint discussion and put each individual to the vote. Is it accepted? Then please, two for, two for against, please sign up for the speech. Please two for, two for against. Klan Sergey Volodymyrovich, Block of Petra Dustenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-18-m1.u199	A bird, a word please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-18-m1.u200	Dear colleagues, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the 3700 bill was not really about any honest democratic relationship. This bill did not apply to national MPs who seemed to betray someone. The bill applied exclusively to candidates for national MPs who had not yet been given a mandate and were not actually able to betray any party leadership. Let's face it, let's face it, it's just that party leaders are comfortable to tag lists after the vote. It's a lie to the electorate. The election committee of Ukraine, the public organization "OPRAR" and very many public organizations have already spoken about this bill. And the ambassadors said he was not democratic. Let us cancel the results of this bill, show that we are a democratic parliament, that we are not afraid of the people we have included in our lists. And we're finally going to show that we're really set up for visa liberalisation, we're going to the European Union, and we're ready to work honestly and openly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-18-m1.u201	Thank you. Lonely Andrew, please, from the rostrum. Maxes are as thin as possible.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-18-m1.u202	Andrey Lozovy, Radical Party of Lazka. With all due respect to your colleagues, who do we hear the rumours that this law is undemocratic, wrong, embarrassing to show to our partners? We hear all of this from the thugs who betrayed those parties that went to parliament. And imagine the situation: for example, there's a deputy Ivanenko who's following the party list, sitting here in the hall, let's say he wants to go to executive power, and there's a decision by his faction and parliament, followed by Deputy Petrenko. candidate Petrenko, who changed his mind and fought for the DNR. Is he supposed to be a deputy? And his party has to be responsible? Surrender! If the political power has delegated to the people’s parliament, this political force is accountable to the nation as a whole. And if a person has betrayed this party, he must conscientiously give up his mandate instead of clinging to it as a lice for a fur coat. Please support everyone. This is a big step towards a new level of political responsibility in the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-18-m1.u203	Thank you. Leonid Jemetz. And my big request is as concise as possible, because we're just not going to make it. Leonid Jemetz.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-18-m1.u204	Thank you. Leonid Jemetz, city of Kiev Colleagues, let's stop this circus! We understand that there are no votes in favour of repealing this law in Parliament. Let's put it to a vote, and let this House put a fat cross on Parliamentaryism and sign it, and confirm what people in this country know so well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-18-m1.u205	Thank you. The discussion is over. And I'm betting on the vote. Please be prepared. The draft Decision repealing the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of 16 February 2016 is put to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-18-m1.u206	It's not your bill yet. Calm down. Exhale. About acceptance as a foundation and as a whole. amending the Ukrainian Law on the Election of Ukrainian People's Deputies (3700P-1). Whoever supports this decision, please vote. Please vote on who supports this decision. [[18:37:21]] For-81 The decision is not made. Now 3700-P, the identical determination, we've already discussed it, but I'll give the author a word. Please support the reduced procedure. Colleagues, short-circuited. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-18-m1.u207	Let's go through this correctly.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-18-m1.u208	Okay. Let's have the author, and we're voting. Please, Dubinin Alexander Ivanovich, please come to the microphone. Vote. Dubinin Alexander Ivanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-18-m1.u209	Dear people's deputies, I will not stop at the fact that this law restores political corruption and political dictatorship. Everyone said that it was a lie to the electorate, that the voter voted in favour of the party, and now the party members at the assembly would decide who to change. This suggests that someone standing on the 90th list will take a well-known portfolio and be in the pass, 30th. That's not what I'm saying. I would like to say about the issues that have been being resolved in Parliament so far, and that will not be resolved for many, many years. This is compliance with the Rules. I wrote a decree just to make sure you look at it and remember how the vote went. When necessary, they shall be third, fourth, fifth and sixth times. You will see how the vote on the resignation of the government took place: once put to the vote – and immediately closed the session. I'm not saying that we have a bunch of pianists in the back row there under the gallery who voted in favour of this order. If a handbook were to be issued today, it would not be a handbook, but an information directory that would record all violations of the Rules, it would be a handbook that was 10 times as thick as the Rules itself. That's why I'm changing my request to the deputies. I understand that the President of the Supreme Council does not intend to comply with the law and does not intend to comply with the Rules. I understand he divides MPs into left and right, he divides them into whites and blacks. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that there is a Papiev decree that has also called off the vote on the composition of Filatov's mandate. A month and a half and still no vote. Today we have heard that we are obliged to put to the vote as soon as possible. The bill is not passed for a month and a half. Elections in Dnepropetrovsk have not been scheduled. The Filatovs are basically in suspended condition.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-18-m1.u210	Ten seconds. Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-18-m1.u211	The opposition bloc uses it. That's why I have a request. Let us at least comply with the Rules with you and then request the Bureau to put the law to the vote again.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-18-m1.u212	Thank you, Mr. Reporter. I just want to say that no one's ever done 200 times. Yes, we've asked many questions about the protection of journalists, and Head Groisman has asked this question many times, and the whole room has supported it. Dear colleagues, we've already discussed this bill. We move on to the vote and I ask you to take part in the vote. Draft Decision repealing the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of 16 February 16 (3700-P). Whoever supports this decision, please vote. Please vote, 3700-P. Anyone who supports it, please vote. [[18:41:11]] For-78 The decision is not made. Two more decisions, identical ones. This is 3755-P, Levchenko Yuri is the author. And 3755-P1. I ask you to support the consideration of the reduced procedure. Colleagues, we're voting for a reduced procedure, please. [[18:41:38]] For-144 Colleagues, dear colleagues, we have 20 minutes left. According to the Rules, it is our duty to consider them today. Once again, I ask you to concentrate and support the consideration of the reduced procedure. I'll bet again. Short-term procedure, 3755-P. I'd like your support, colleagues. Please support. [[18:42:06]] For-157. Decision taken, thank you. I invite you first to the report by Yuri Lewchenk. To prepare is Egor Sobolev. Please, Yuri Levchenko, to the report.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-18-m1.u213	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223 District, Kiev City. You know, it's probably not worth repeating about the Rules right now. What's more, we don't have a major rulebreaker who should really follow it, but only violates it is Mr. Vladimir Borisovich Groissman, who is now, unfortunately, gone. And it's hard to talk to him because he's out there somewhere, but he's basically the main source of all the trouble with inadequacy of legislation about someone being accused of adopting wrong laws because they don't follow the Rules. Well, of course, it was chosen by the majority, which, unfortunately, is here. So, of course, the Council needs to be dismissed. But when it comes to 3755, what happened? There was one simple norm that had to be abolished, which, by the way, was totally illegal on the budget committee. As a member of the budget committee who was at that meeting, I didn't even hear that someone, this amendment, voted for it and someone voted for it, did I? This amendment was shoved into the state budget, which is how electronic declarations were suspended illegally, right? And then instead of just taking it away, they decided to read a whole new law out of the voice. There's a voice like that. The law was out of one paragraph -- cancel the bill, and read a whole new law out of the voice. So, you know, you can't just accept things like this. It's not just a gross violation of the Rules, it's not just a corruption thing, it's just something that destroys Ukrainian parliamentaryism, which is still breathing down the incense. And then someone refers to some European standards, so-called European partners who look at it all and think that we're just some savages who don't know where. That is why we must put an end to this. In order to put an end to this, it is necessary for such illegal things to be abolished and voted in favour of such things. Now let's cancel that illegal vote and look at that law and normally return the real normal electronic declarations with the normal absolute ground, with the normal. Give me 10 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-18-m1.u214	Ten seconds. Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-18-m1.u215	With normal ground, with normal anti-corruption rules, not what was taken from the vote by reading the whole law out of the voice. It's unacceptable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-18-m1.u216	Dear colleagues, Yegor Sobolev. We're talking right now, and then Pinzenik is talking about both. Well, society, we have to give the minutes, the authors a word. Yegor, briefly, if possible, concisely. I know. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-18-m1.u217	Colleagues, can we move this matter to the morning? Can we move the matter to the morning?
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-18-m1.u218	At the next meeting, we have to consider it at the nearest meeting. Today is the nearest meeting. Please report.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-18-m1.u219	The thing is, there are very few parliamentarians in the room to adopt this decision. Look, colleagues, you and I have become witnesses, for the first time this Parliament has taken a big step back in anti-corruption legislation. In fact, we've allowed corrupt people not to enter in their declarations any property they don't want to record. This law, which was passed in a very shameful way, without discussion, by our committee, it allows any man to say, "And I won't write my villa down because it doesn't make me any profit. And I didn't buy the Ferrari yesterday because it was before the new declaration system." This law, which was voted in this Parliament, is a disgrace, is a huge step backwards. What's more, I'm sure it won't go away, it just won't go away, the European Union and the IMF think it's a scandal, they're going to demand of us as our partners that we repeal this law. I propose not to wait for this disgrace, to take responsibility and to vote together in favour of repealing this law today.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-18-m1.u220	Please, from the Committee on the Both Bills, Pinzenic Paul. Then we will discuss it if necessary. Please, Pinzenik Paul.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-18-m1.u221	The President-in-Office, honourable colleagues, the Committee reviewed draft regulations repealing the Supreme Council decision of 16.02.2016 on the adoption as a whole of the Bill No. 3755, passed by the National Deputy of Ukraine Levchenk (registration 3755-P) and repealing the Decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of 16 February 2016 on the adoption on the basis and as a whole of the bill of the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Law on Prevention of Corruption (on the work of the electronic system of submission and publication of the declaration of persons authorized to perform the functions of the State or local self-government) (registration No. 3755) by the People's Deputies of Ukraine to Sobolje Jegor and other national deputies (registration No. 3755-P1). As well as a statement by the Ukrainian national deputy, Levchenk Jury, concerning the removal of the requirements of the Rules that were allowed during the decision of the Supreme Council on the bill. After considering the material presented, the transcript of the plenary meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Committee commented on the violation of the Supreme Council's Rules during the consideration of the draft law and adopted the conclusions on draft regulations 3755-P and 3755-P1, and suggests that the Supreme Council of Ukraine be determined by voting on their adoption or rejection. You have the conclusion in the materials handed down to the National Deputies. Thank you. And I'd like to make a statement.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-18-m1.u222	Thank you. Dear fellow MPs, I very much ask you to come into the hall for 15 minutes, the head of the committee of Hanna Hopko is simply begging, and it is only right that we, the two decisions that we discussed yesterday, without discussion, simply voted, are very important. I'm asking you to be in the hall. Is there a need to discuss these decisions? Yes. That's right, isn't it? There's not one minute for a national MP, I'm either including a discussion, or I'm not. Is there a need to discuss? There is no need to discuss. Dear colleagues, I am putting to the vote a draft decree repealing the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of 16.02.2016 on the adoption as a whole of Bill 3755-P. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. Please 3755-P, we vote. [[18:49:12]] For-100 The decision is not taken. And now I'm voting on Order 3755-P1, author Eugor Sobolev. Whoever supports this decision, please vote. Please vote. [[18:49:38]] For 109 The decision is not made. And, colleagues, yesterday we spoke in full reading 0081: draft law on the ratification of the Protocol on Permanent Transport to the Framework Convention on Protection and Permanent Development of the Carpathians. Everyone was in favor, all in favor. It's discussed. [[B in m in s a l in]] I'm asking everyone to come to the hall, colleagues. Please enter the hall and prepare for the vote. Colleagues, alert! I'll set up an alert. Let's try it, fellows! Let's try it. Please. Signal, colleagues! Please give me the signal vote, 0081. I'm asking you to support everyone. Please, colleagues, 0081. Signal vote. [[18:50:42]] For 184 Decision taken. Unfortunately, we don't have enough potential. Tomorrow, I beg you, we'll bet. And now, I want to say that there was a Head's commission. Please don't break up! There's more work coming! There's still work to do, please don't break up! Now there's gonna be a speech by the head of Oleg Beresuk's faction, just a minute. I want to tell you, the Head gave the commission in the morning to 4057 and 3196 to be considered on the committee. Unfortunately, the committee did not meet, nor did it consider these extremely important bills, extremely important bills. I want it. 4057, this is the confiscation of Yanukovic's assets. We'll have the committee meet to look into them. And now there's a request from two factions to announce the break, but they're willing to replace their announcement of a break from the rostrum. Oleg Berezuk, from the rostrum. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-18-m1.u223	The noble, noble people of Ukraine, the noble lords of the MPs! The faction of the political party "Unification of Self-Help" in accordance with article 83 of the Constitution of Ukraine claims that its participation in the ruling coalition in parliament has been terminated. Moreover, the faction claims that the signatures of the members of the political party's National Deputies are being revoked under the Alliance of Self-Help under the Coalition Agreement in Parliament, such as the European Ukraine. And we're handing over our signatures under this statement to the Supreme Council. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-02-18-m1.u224	Dear colleagues, today is a great day in the history of Parliament. Today is a great day in the history of Ukraine. We were finally able to put the last dot in the adoption of visa-free anti-corruption laws. We did our duty to our brothers with whom we were on Maidan. It's a great victory, it's a decisive step. I welcome all of us today as a result of our work: planned, no intrigue, system work. This is a big, decisive step toward a visa-free regime. I am confident that in August our citizens will be able to go abroad without a car and feel free to live in a free world. I welcome everyone for making that decision. And at this evening's meeting, I declare the Supreme Council closed. We'll continue our meeting tomorrow at 10 a.m. I ask everyone to be disciplined tomorrow to continue our work. Glory to Ukraine!
