ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-03-m1.u1	Dear colleagues, the time for recess is over. I'm asking you to come into the hall and get ready for registration. Colleagues, I'm once again inviting all the national deputies into the hall to continue our work. Dear colleagues, I propose the following logic. Alona Babak in the hall? Alona Babak. Invite Alan Babak's reporter to the hall. My colleagues, once again, I want to remind you that one of the fundamental bills that stands for today is the bill of the Supreme Council of Justice. We're supposed to include it in today's agenda for consideration, but right now I'm not going to do it, understanding what's with the votes. Colleagues, that's why we're going to move on in the daytime. At the moment when there's a general understanding in the room, and the general logic of putting that order in order, the question in the agenda, then I'm going to ask that question. Now we have the following daily bills that we owe to the day of housing and utilities, this is the draft Law, 5273, on measures aimed at regulating the debt of thermal and heat-generating organizations and central water supply and water supply companies for energy consumption. This is the second reading, I hope that during the discussion the deputies will come to the hall as they had before. Colleagues, so we're moving to 5273. And I invite you to report to the deputy head of the Committee on Construction, Urban and Housing of Babak Alon Valeriyevna. Mrs. Alona, I'm inviting you to the report. By the time the reporter goes to the rostrum, your honorary colleagues, I see a sufficient number of deputies have gathered, I ask you to register for the evening session. Please register. [[16:09:57]] Registered -360 360 deputies registered. I declare the evening meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine open. Please, Babak Alona Valerievna. Draft Law 5273 is now under review. Please report.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-03-m1.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, before your consideration, Bill No. 5273, submitted by the Government of Ukraine and prepared by the Committee for second reading, is proposed. In order to reconcile the final drafting of the draft Law on Measures aimed at regulating the debt of thermal and heat-generating organizations and central water supply and sanitation. On October 25, 2016, the Committee held an expanded meeting with representatives of the Ministry of Energy, Minneergogil, Minfina, NAK Naftogaz Ukraine, DP "Energorinok", Pat "Kievenergo", Pat "Kievocanal", All-Ukrainian Associations "Crteplocomunergo", "Ukrainian Water" and "The Drinking Water of Ukraine", as well as the Association of Cities of Ukraine. During the project process, 80 amendments were made to the project by 9 national deputies, 45 of whom are included, and 35 are rejected as contradicting the concepts and tasks of the project. A bill with observations was called for by the Chief Legal Authority. As a result of consideration of the comparative table in Bill No. 5273, the committee decided to recommend it to the Supreme Council of Ukraine on second reading and generally as a law. Dear Mr. Head, we are ready to consider the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-03-m1.u3	Thank you, Mrs. Alona. Let's get to it. I ask you to prepare for work. 1st, Yvchenka. Is it insisting? No, it's not. Two o'clock, Captain. Don't insist. 4th, Captain. Don't insist. 9th. Yes, I'm sorry, 5th, Captain. 9th, Captain. Don't insist. 12th, Captain. Don't insist. 15th, Levenchenko. Don't insist. 16th, Babak. Don't insist. 17th, Captain. Don't insist. 18th, Captain. Don't insist. 19th, Captain. Don't insist. 20th, Captain. Don't insist. Sold, 32nd. Don't insist. 33rd, Babak. Don't insist. 36th, Captain. Don't insist. 38th. 38th on. Thirty-eight, please. Paul Pinzenik, I'd like to speak to you on the 38th.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-03-m1.u4	Dear Head, I ask for confirmation of amendment number 38. Correction. Of course, what it's all about, but it's written at this stage so inconclusive that it's not going to have practical implementation. It's about the debt of the energy market for water supply, water supply. Cold water and water, electricity. The thing is, there's no energy at all for this kind of loan on its balance sheet. And without this amendment, the law will work the same way, the idea will be preserved. The only thing that won't be necessary is to work on or go back to this bill to correct technical flaws. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-03-m1.u5	I'd like to comment. Is that your amendment? I'll give you my word. Then, Alona, please comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-03-m1.u6	Dear People's Deputies! I ask that you pay attention to the section where the correction is made. It is set out in article 4 and refers to the inter-accounting that will take place with regard to the settlement of the loan of the difference in tariffs for the repayment of this creditor’s debt. So what we're talking about is that the water channel that owes the gas to electricity is different from the government budget to offset the difference in tariffs. These costs will go to the skyscraper. Obelenergo is going to have to count these debts from the Energy Company DP. Energy Company with a generation. A generation with the Naftogaz of Ukraine. So if we remove this chapter, we're actually going to break the relationship chain to do the calculations for the water channel and the state budget for Ukraine. So it was like a mandatory amendment, and I am very much asking everyone to support it. Otherwise the mechanism won't work.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-03-m1.u7	Thank you. Mr. Paul, I'll look into your understanding. We understand that the people in the room are still coming together, and I'm going to put this amendment before the vote for confirmation. 39th, Captain. Don't insist. He insists. 39th, Captain, insists. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-03-m1.u8	Dear colleagues! In fact, we've got this mess full of repairs because the final table on the website doesn't answer what was on Monday. But nevertheless, I want to put to the vote my 36th amendment, which concerns excluding from all the commitments that are being restructured, in accordance with article 4 on mutual settlement. Oh, she's on her 40s, she's on her 40s. In order to exclude the obligation of participants to settle debts to the State budget or to explain why the non-applicable bill in question applies more precisely to the difference in tariffs, why does the issue of liabilities to the State budget, such as tax liabilities, arise? I suggest we exclude this from the law at all, as this does not apply to the subject matter of regulation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-03-m1.u9	Thank you. Please comment, Mrs. Alona.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-03-m1.u10	An honourable national MP, the situation is that this, like that of a reference, refers to article 4, which deals with the difference in tariffs. The mechanism for resolving the difference in tariffs actually takes place in such a way that the public budget funds go to the enterprise and eventually they are included in the liabilities of Naftogazu Ukraine to the budget. So if we remove, we don't allow the whole chain of relationships to happen. The Naftogaz of Ukraine lists its liability for rent and VAT as a difference in the tariffs of article 200 of the Ukrainian Tax Code. In fact, this mechanism has always existed, and it's the one described here, you just haven't seen it before, because it was described at the level of the decrees of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. And here, since this goes to the law of complex settlement, you see this link at the level of the law in section IV of article 4.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-03-m1.u11	Dear colleagues, may I intervene in your discussion? Do you insist on voting, Mrs. Helen? He insists. 40 revisions. I'm putting to the vote amendment number 40 of the People's Deputy, Captain. Whoever supports the amendment is asked by the committee to reject it, please vote. Please vote. [[16:17:54]] For-98 41st, Captain. Don't insist. 42nd. Don't insist. 49th. Don't insist. 50th, Levenchenko. He missed the 15th. Maybe two. It's 50, but you missed 15 more. Speak both ways, if possible. All right, then, each one of you. Please, 15th.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-03-m1.u12	Thank you. First of all, I apologize publicly for the omission. It's just that here, unfortunately, many deputies instead of working, walking around the hall, are distracted, so I didn't hear you, Mr. Head. As for my 15th amendment. There was a lot of talk at the time of the adoption of this bill in the first reading that it was a very good bill because it was supposed to work exclusively on utilities and state property. So it's logical for them to restructure debt. It would really be logical, but the only "but," this bill actually applies to all enterprises of all forms of property. In Kiev, for example, Kievenergo is owned by Mr. Renat Leonidovich Ahmtov and is offered to restructure the multibillion-dollar debt, which is completely ridiculous. So my amendment is that this law applies exclusively to enterprises where the community or the state have more than 50 percent control. So this is essentially a utility or a state enterprise. Then it will be the right law. Please support my amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-03-m1.u13	Mrs. Alona, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-03-m1.u14	Dear People's Deputies! The point is that public tariff regulation today is subject to companies providing all forms of property, whether they are communal or state-owned as state-owned TECs today, or whether they are private. The government regulates the pricing and tariffs of these enterprises and all market entities, all who have licences and thermal energy supplies. If we remove from this list private - property or state - owned property, we will in fact create discriminatory conditions that are unacceptable.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-03-m1.u15	Thank you. Do you insist on voting? 15th Amendment of the People's Deputy Levchenk, who supports, please vote. [[16:21:04]] For-86 The decision is not taken. Uh, 50th, please, Lehchenko. 50th.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-03-m1.u16	Unfortunately, I regret that the previous amendment was not accepted. Now the billions of assets of Mr. Ahmtov are going to increase with them. The thing is, whether they have the right load or they don't have the right load, it's important that they're megrogeneous and they could cover the right drawback without any help or debt restructuring. Well, unfortunately, this Supreme Council is still working for the oligarhat. My amendment 50 refers to removing the pressures on local budgets that local budgets will make on local budgets the obligation to guarantee this restructuring. It's not a function of local budgets, especially if it's private companies, and now you've left private companies. If you want someone to provide appropriate guarantees, let the corresponding guarantees come from the central budget, let the state as a whole provide appropriate guarantees, but not from local communities. Because it's going to be straight. It's a direct route to decommissioning individual locations. So I'm asking you to rule that out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-03-m1.u17	Please, Mrs. Alona.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-03-m1.u18	Honorable National Deputy, the matter is that we have applied 46 and 47, which have settled this issue, that only utilities of municipal property will be extended to secure liabilities by local governments. With regard to enterprises of a state form of ownership or private form of ownership, appropriate institutions, organizations, enterprises will be. those who operate such enterprises will ensure the fulfilment of obligations or directly of the owners themselves, the creditors of which will be subject to restructuring. I would also like to point out to everyone that this law does not invalidate the debt of both Ahmtov, no one, no community. They are restructured for five years, fines are cancelled exclusively if the restructuring agreement is fully executed and current debts are repaid. So, Your Honor, it's just an element of stopping today's enforcement decisions, which are, well, there's no way to stop them from acting. And the old one.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-03-m1.u19	Thank you. Do you insist on voting, Levchenka? He insists. Anyone who supports amendment 50, National Deputy Levchenk, please vote. Please. [[16:23:56]] For-100 100 for. The decision is not made. 53rd, Yvchenko. Don't insist. 62nd, Yvchenko. Don't insist. 63rd, Captain. Don't insist. 66th, Captain. Don't insist. 68th, Captain. Don't insist. 69th, Sold. Don't insist. [[B in m in s a l in]] 50? 53rd. 53rd, insists Ivchenko. Well, I was wondering, well, be careful! I'm calling you. Well, just listen to me, not talk to each other. Please, 53rd Yvchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-03-m1.u20	Andry Volodymyrovich, we're sitting here with documents we've just been handed out. And there wasn't a table on the website this morning. That's why we're now studying the table to propose an amendment. And actually, it's about population. What are we doing today, colleagues? We're doing a restructuring of the debt of heat-generating companies, or of those that give warmth to people. But we're not talking about the population debt restructuring that started on July 1, 2016. The Fatherland insists that our amendment be voted on. And let's mirror, if we're doing a restructuring of the heat-generating companies, we're going to do a restructuring at the request of consumers. I want to read this right over here, and it goes like this: "Heat-supply and heat-generating organizations that have agreed to restructure the debt for natural gas consumed, are obliged to make a similar agreement with domestic consumers on the restructuring of the debt that arose on July 1st. "
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-03-m1.u21	Please, 30 seconds. Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-03-m1.u22	The terms of the debt restructuring of domestic consumers under such contracts cannot be worse than the terms of the debt restructuring of the thermal and heat-generating organizations envisaged in writing. the contracts signed with them. Dear colleagues, let's really be MPs from the people, from the population. Let's do it, if we're helping our organizations that give heat and utility and private, let's think about people and population and do mirror restructuring. "Paternity."
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-03-m1.u23	Thank you. I'll take the vote on the amendment. Yes, please comment, Mrs. Alna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-03-m1.u24	Ladies and gentlemen, the ruling of the 53rd People's Deputy Yvchenka was unfortunately given, so I understood, with a technical error, because it was proposed to restructure the Heat Energo's debt for gas to the population's debt for gas. But the population blames the Heat Energo for its thermal energy, so we've actually turned it down. At the same time, we held short consultations here among the committee's deputies today after we've been clarified, and we support it as a committee, but as an editor of the committee. Please allow me to read the text in the editorial form that is acceptable to the committee members. "According to domestic consumers, the heat-generating and heat-generating organizations which have concluded debt restructuring contracts for natural gas consumed are obliged to contract with such consumers to restructure the debt of consumers as of 1 July 2016, provided they have made their current accounts for the corresponding services they have consumed. Conditions for the restructuring of household debt."
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-03-m1.u25	Please. Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-03-m1.u26	The terms of the restructuring of consumer debt under such contracts cannot be worse than the terms of the restructuring of the debt of the thermal and heat-generating organizations provided for by the contracts they have signed. That's why I'm asking you to vote in this paper.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-03-m1.u27	One minute, Kugel.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-03-m1.u28	Mrs. Babak, your mistake in your amendment is that you wrote "if they're paying now." I want to say exactly as much as for your businesses that you're now lobbying this restructuring, and for the population, when it starts paying, it's not being accounted for, it's closing interest and that debt. And that's why the words "if the current payments go" have to be removed because now they don't count them.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-03-m1.u29	Here's the situation. Currently, the population has neither a penny nor a fine to account for any fines, and the current payments are made by the 20th or 25th of the month, followed by the population report. The point is that we've taken into account the law of the people's MP Martovitzkém 57, which requires, for example, that water canals that are restructured by electricity debt also pay the current debt of at least 95 percent, that is, the entire restructuring takes place only if the current payments are made. Hence, financial discipline should be maintained throughout the chain of relationships with the current calculation. That's why we're asking the committee to ensure a balance of relations to vote on the ruling of the People's MP Ichchenka, which is actually out of the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-03-m1.u30	So you're asking her to vote, right?
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-03-m1.u31	Yes, I ask her to vote on the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-03-m1.u32	So Ivchenko sounded the amendment, the committee asked her to support her, colleagues. And that's why it's obvious. It's in the committee's office. And I'm asking the committee to support this exercise, colleagues. Or will you, Mrs. Allona, simply announce this amendment during the final vote? Yeah, are you going to announce this amendment like that? Satisfying? That's it, that's it, that's it.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-03-m1.u33	It's a good social standard.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-03-m1.u34	Next. 62nd, Yvchenko. Are you insisting? 62nd Amendment. I won't. 63rd, Captain. Don't insist. 66th, Captain. Don't insist. 68th. Don't insist. 69th, Sold. Don't insist. 71st, Captain. Don't insist. 72nd, Captain. Don't insist. 73rd, Dove. Don't insist. 74th, Sold. Don't insist. 76th, Dove. Don't insist. 79th, Captain. Don't insist. Colleagues, we've been through all the repairs. I'm asking everyone to come into the hall. I'll be right there. There were 36 amendments for confirmation. Mr. Paul, 36th, wasn't I wrong? 36th, right? 38th, yes. 38th was for confirmation. I'm going to ask Mrs. Alona to comment again, and now I'm going to put her in for confirmation, 38 amendments. And please come into the hall, colleagues. In two minutes, the vote will take place. Both the Secretariat and the factions' heads please invite deputies to the Hall. Now I'm going to put 38 amendments first, and then I'm going to put the law in general. As the committee stressed, this law is extremely important; it needs a quick decision. If there's room will, we can take it today. Mrs. Allon, wait for your comment or put to the vote 38th? Please, one minute, Alona Babak.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-03-m1.u35	Dear People's Deputies Pinzenik, we have a situation here. You're talking about that 38 bill that's not exactly correct, which sounds like it's the creditor's debt to the wholesaler for electricity consumption for water production. If this is a matter of some kind, a technical problem, perhaps I would like to vote in favour of this amendment with technical remedies when drafting a bill. The point is that without this debt of water canals, the law will not work. So I'm asking you very much to accept this amendment, to support it all, and perhaps. [[B in m in s a l in]] Thank you very much. I mean, if something comes up here all of a sudden, I'm willing to suggest there's some sort of settlement, but without it, the law just doesn't work. Well, the people's deputy did.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-03-m1.u36	Thank you, colleagues. We'll finish the discussion. I ask you all to come into the hall, prepare for making a decision. As far as I know, according to the Apparatus, all the factions of Parliament support the bill. And the government urged us to accept it as soon as possible. If there's such a general position and factions and government, let's just be more disciplined. I'm asking everyone to come into the hall, take jobs. As the MPs enter, Alona reads, Babak, reads the final amendment that will be voted on. Please, one minute. And I'd like to invite the deputies to the hall. Babak, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-03-m1.u37	Please add article 5 of the draft to paragraph 9 of the following content: "According to domestic consumers, the thermal and heat-generating organizations that have entered into debt restructuring contracts for natural gas consumed are obliged to contract with such consumers to restructure the debt of consumers as of July 1, 16 on condition that they make their current accounts for the corresponding services they have consumed. The terms of the restructuring of the debt of consumers under such contracts cannot be worse than the terms of the restructuring of the debt of the thermal and heat-generating organizations provided for by the contracts they have signed."
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-03-m1.u38	That's right, that's correct, isn't it? That's right. Okay, colleagues, let's move on to making a decision. I am voting on the draft Law on Measures to Regulate the Debt of Heat and Heat generating Organizations and Enterprises of Central Water Supply and Water Management (No. 5273) with the rights announced by the head of Babak Alon Valeriyovn's Committee under the stenogram, second reading and overall. If you support this proposal, please vote on your colleagues. Please vote. Please be supportive. Vote, colleagues, 5273 in second reading and in general. [[16:36:00]] For 245 Decision taken. Congratulations, Mrs. Alona, on this decision. Dear colleagues, the following is an orderly draft of the Act amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts concerning the activities of higher education institutions (scientific institutions) which have been moved from temporarily occupied territories and from populated areas in the territory of which the public authorities have temporarily failed to exercise their powers. We have a number of rectors on the balcony. And we don't just have internally displaced people, we have whole vases that were forced to leave the enemy-occupied territory, and we have to sort it out. The bill has a complete understanding, we just need to make a quick decision. The number 4718 is also a second reading, a special procedure, that is, without a shortcut. All we have is a report by the committee head, and then a quick discussion of the rights, there's very little of them. So don't leave the room, the vote will take place literally in five minutes. I invite you to report to the First Vice-Chairman of the Committee on Science and Education of Spiowakovsky Alexander Volodymirovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-03-m1.u39	Good day, Reverend Head, distinguished fellow national MPs. Once again, we would like to welcome the true patriots of our Ukraine, the rectors of the higher educational institutions of Donetsk and Lugansk. [[Applause]] Dear colleagues, now. Dear colleagues, during the drafting of the bill, there were 17 amendments and suggestions to take 15 and 2 into account. The law is further elaborated in the section relating to the status of a temporary higher education institution. Next. Extend the validity of the accreditation certificates. Next. Establishing standards for the number of people who are studying, i.e. a statutory appointment for one post as a science teacher, the specificity and fulfilment of individual contractual obligations transferred by higher education institutions for the duration of an anti-terrorist operation, and resolving individual issues of employment. We propose to reject the 12 and 14 amendments that the obligation to provide educational services should be properly implemented, as this is the accepted standard in the Ukrainian Higher Education Act. This is a whole chapter V, which is called "The Quality of Higher Education." On the basis of the above, I propose to support the proposal to take into account and reject the proposals made in the comparative table, and to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the outcome of the second reading to adopt this bill as a whole as a law with regard to technical law. Please be supportive. I want to point out that there are some observations from the Chief Scientific and Technical Administration. They are related to the fact that we should take permission from the separatists who are there to make statements that they agree with us that we are releasing them. I don't think we're going to go through this procedure, we're going to adopt this law now, and we're going to finally address the functioning of the higher education institutions temporarily relocated to Ukraine, and we're going to welcome them with this decision. Thank you. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-03-m1.u40	Thank you. Thank you. Dear colleagues, in fact, all the corrections are taken into account, all of which have been submitted, is a fine, fine work of the committee. There's only 10 directions. And I'm asking you to turn on the microphone to the author of the 10th edition of Rybczyn. Please, it's Rybchin's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-03-m1.u41	Alexei Rybchin, Fatherland, Doñecina. Dear colleagues, we have not only people who are displaced but also senior citizens. 11 scientific institutions and 18 colleges from Donbass and Crimea have actually moved to Ukraine with their bare hands and are starting their activities, these are patriots who, in very difficult circumstances, are teaching our young people patriotically. One of the main problems is excessive bureaucracy, they can compete in market conditions, they can develop, but we ask them to give them a chance to debureaucrate their activity in order to develop. And I'm asking the rectors who are here and the student self-governance workers who have come here to look at the Supreme Council. And they're grateful, and the work of the committee, and all the co-authors of all the totally factions, and we ask you to support this bill so that they can develop, and we support the future of the educations of Donbas and Crimea, we vote, friends.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-03-m1.u42	Dear colleagues, the discussion is over. I'm asking everyone to take up jobs, to support our scientists, who are forced to leave occupied, Russian invaders today, territories to be able to carry out a full scientific process, to teach students, and that requires our decision. I ask you to enter the hall, prepare for the vote. So please come in. I am voting on the draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on the activities of higher education institutions, scientific institutions that have been moved from a temporarily occupied territory and from populated areas in which the authorities of the State do not temporarily exercise their powers, number 4718 in the second reading and in general, colleagues. Please vote and please support your colleagues. Please vote. Please vote. [[16:42:34]] For 266 The law is passed. Decision taken. Welcome, colleagues. [[Applause]] The State of Ukraine has made every effort to enable you as scientists to operate in an area free of occupation. Welcome. You have creative success and fine scientific work. Thank you. Dear colleagues, as I have warned that I will make a proposal to consider today one of the key laws necessary for the judicial reform in Ukraine is the bill on the Supreme Council of Justice, a colleague. I'm asking everyone to come into the hall and take jobs. I will propose to include in the agenda the law of Ukraine, which has been submitted by the President of Ukraine as an urgent decision. It's submitted by the President of Ukraine as an urgent matter, and that's sufficient reason for us to begin our consideration right now, colleagues. There is an order of the day session and a day for us to begin its consideration. I'm voting a motion to begin his consideration now, Ruslan. Colleagues, I stress, are listed as urgent by the President of Ukraine. I ask you to vote that we begin its consideration now. I'm asking everyone to come in, take jobs, and I'm asking you to support this proposal. According to the Rules, if we receive a bill that is foreseen as urgent, we must find a solution immediately to include it in the agenda. I ask you to prepare, and I ask you to take part in the vote. So I'm voting to begin a review of the draft Law on the Supreme Council of Justice (5180), (5180-1). Anyone who supports this proposal, please vote, colleagues, please support. Please vote, colleagues. Please be supportive. Let's vote, colleagues. [[16:45:20.]] For 226 And we begin our consideration of the draft Law on the Higher Council of Justice, which is defined. Yeah, sorry, sorry, I made a technological mistake. But we've already started the discussion, we've voted. But before I got to his point of view, I was required to take two factions for a break. I give the floor to two factions. And then we're going straight to 5180, three minutes, and we're going to look at it. We've just voted to start the hearing, we'll be over in three minutes. Who will act? Baby, please. Three minutes from two factions: Self-help and the Radical Party. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-03-m1.u43	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. I want to make a statement about the radical party faction and the position of our colleagues in the self-help faction. I hope that this position will be shared by all the deputies present in this room. Which one of you goes to the dairy store, if you have the opportunity to look at the composition of these dairy products, you'll see that there's palm oil in all of Ukraine's dairy products. What is palm oil? I realize that oligarchs do not eat palm oil. And millions of Ukrainians are eating this product, resulting in cancer, and most importantly, they are importing millions of tons of palm oil into Ukraine, resulting in Ukrainian peasants not being able to sell milk, because instead of milk in dairy products, palm oil. So when we want peasants to have the opportunity to sell their products, so that there's a normal price for milk, not those coopers -- 2.50 per liter of milk, when a liter of water is 15 grams standing, we propose to ban the use of palm oil in all dairy products sold in Ukraine. The ban on the use of palm oil will allow an additional million tons of milk to grow. This is an opportunity for Ukrainian peasants to feed their families and their children. Unfortunately, yesterday a bill led by the representative of Andri Kozemyakin of the Fatherland faction did not support our Bill No. 3871 of 02.02.2016 on the prohibition of the use of palm oil in dairy products. Why they didn't support me, I think they'll explain. But I'm addressing my esteemed colleagues from the Fatherland faction. I spoke to your leader, Yulia Timoshenko this morning, and she expressed her full support for our idea of banning the use of palm oil. And I am convinced that this bill is to unite our entire hall. I ask the head of parliament to put this law under review immediately next Tuesday, and to consider it, and to stop poisoning the Ukrainians with palm oil. Ukrainians should drink natural milk, eat natural dairy products. It's the health of the nation, it's the income of our respected peasants, it's their ability to feed their families. When we see a lobbying effort to overthrow the law, our law that prohibits the use of palm oil, those who want to eat palm oil, eat at least, and give the people the opportunity to eat quality, affordable, cheap dairy products. So I ask the whole Parliament to unite around the idea of protecting the health of Ukrainians.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-03-m1.u44	Thank you. Dear colleagues, let's get to the bottom of this. [[B in m in s a l in]] Guys, I'm sorry. Was the faction offended? Because I didn't hear the speech. Sergei Sobolev, one minute. And let's move on to the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-03-m1.u45	As long as we have the committees of law enforcement working on palm oil, I think it's the last drop of this Parliament and we need to prepare for elections, ladies and gentlemen. So in addressing this room, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that a bill directly related to palm oil should at least be considered by an agrarian committee. If the agrarian committee is not able to consider the bill, it will then be entrusted with the task of dealing with the Rules Committee, with equal opportunities or with the protection of human rights. That's how Parliament gets to the pen. So I'm paying attention to my respectable colleagues. If you are interested in the issue of palm oil, please contact the profiling committee of the one who should conclude that it is necessary to provide a complete analysis of the use of palm oil. And I think the first thing we have to do, like we did on GMOs, is at least on everyone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-03-m1.u46	Ten seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-03-m1.u47	It's at least on every product to bring the question to the attention that the consumer knows that it's a GMO product, it's a product of palm oil or whatever else.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-03-m1.u48	Thank you. Dear colleagues, let's move on to the draft law. Five seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-03-m1.u49	Please contact the agrarian profile committee. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-03-m1.u50	That's the fourth time you've said it. We turn to the draft Law on the Supreme Council of Justice (5180 and 5181). Dear colleagues, this is one of the most fundamental laws, and I've talked to the authors, they're not asking for a reduced procedure, they think we should have a thorough and serious discussion, so I'm not even putting this proposal to the vote, I'm inviting you to the report. We are going in full procedure, and I invite you to report to the deputy head of the Ukrainian administration, Filatov Aleksija Valeriyovich, on the report. Please, I'm starting to work.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-03-m1.u51	Good afternoon! Dear Mr. Head, honourable members of the people, today you face an important issue in the context of the implementation of judicial reform. As you recall, on June 2, this year, Parliament supported the constitutional majority of amendments to the Constitution in part of justice. A special law had also been passed, which had decided on many institutional issues and implemented part of the constitutional provisions, which was the Law on Courtship and the Status of Judges. These two legislative acts ensure the depoliticization, independence and effective accountability of the judiciary, as well as the mechanisms for relaunching the judiciary. On September 30, changes to the Constitution and the Law on the Judiciary and the Status of Judges took effect. We see that in the events that are taking place in our country, we see that not everyone in this country is interested in having these changes fully implemented and fully implemented. And the first problem on this path is the absence of a profile law on the Supreme Council of Justice that would allow the full work of this constitutional body to be started. That's why on September 23 of this year this law was introduced by the President for your consideration as urgent. In accordance with the Constitution and in accordance with the provisions of this bill, the Supreme Council of Justice is an independent body of judicial administration, consisting of politically neutral professionals, it is the principal body in matters of judicial career that decides on the appointment, release, transfer of judges and is responsible for the formation of a high - professional and virtuous judiciary. It is also the only disciplinary body for judges that controls the observance of law and ethics in their activities, examines complaints about bringing judges to disciplinary responsibility and makes appropriate decisions. The bill foresees a rapid, transparent procedure for disciplinary conduct. The Supreme Council of Justice has also played a significant role in the procedure for bringing a judge to criminal responsibility, such as consenting to the detention and detention of a judge, and also deciding to suspend the judge from the administration of justice. These powers provide a real opportunity to ensure that this body works according to international standards and the needs of the judicial system itself and the requirements of Ukrainian society. However, to implement these functions, and more precisely most of them, the Higher Council of Justice will only be able to do so if there is a law of profile. So far, in the absence of such a code of profile, the mechanism for drawing judges into disciplinary responsibility is not working, and there is no clear mechanism for consenting to arrest a judge or keeping him in custody or arresting him. This bill has been prepared by Ukrainian and international experts with the participation of members of various factions of Parliament, has passed several rounds of expert discussions and has been endorsed by experts from the Council of Europe and the OSCE. In particular, the experts who reviewed this bill note that, I quote, "The draft Ukrainian Law on the Higher Justice Council in the above edition is positive, its position properly formulated. Its adoption will be an important step towards the implementation of changes to the Constitution of Ukraine in part of justice and the creation of a truly independent judicial system. The role of the Supreme Council of Justice is key to ensuring the independence, impartiality, integrity and professionalism of judges. The project is a significant step forward in ensuring the independence and accountability of the judiciary." So please support this bill in the first reading today. And thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-03-m1.u52	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear colleagues, we now have a report. Now, ask me a question, please. We're three minutes away, we've got questions for our esteemed reporter. Please sign up. Please, National Deputy Kishkar, your question.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-03-m1.u53	Please hand over Victoria the Bird.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-03-m1.u54	Please, Mrs. Bird.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-03-m1.u55	Thank you. I fully agree with the need for the adoption of the Higher Justice Council Act, since we in particular have 112 articles that stipulate that a decision on the release of judges is taken in the order established by the Law on the Supreme Council of Justice. Obviously we need him. But at the same time, questions came to me from the Association of Lawyers of Ukraine, which suggested changes in the granting of the right to know the materials of the case to the judge and the complainant. Actually, I'd like to ask, what's your position on the ability to reflect these changes. Moreover, members of the Association of Lawyers of Ukraine also asked me to amend part of the publications of the members of the High Council of Justice. I'd like to hear your opinion on this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-03-m1.u56	Thank you for asking. About the last one. The bill had already taken into account such a suggestion that a member of the High Council of Justice would be published along with a decision on a particular point. As for your first question about opening up all the material and giving you an opportunity to get to know each other. I think it's a fair question, and it can be solved that way. The only thing that needs to be protected is personal information, because the case, the disciplinary case, will also include the materials of the trial file, first. And secondly, the use of this information should be limited to the purpose of the complainant's participation in disciplinary conduct rather than to any other purpose. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-03-m1.u57	Thank you. There's still time to ask Anton Heraszczenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-03-m1.u58	Dear Deputy Head of the President's Administration! The draft law provides that a judge may be suspended from duty if the offence is suspected for only 4 months. At the same time, there are cases where the investigation of judges may take longer. What should be the situation? It may be that a judge who has committed a serious offence will be removed for four months, the investigation will not be completed, and he will be returned to duty. Should not the suspension of a judge be extended to at least one year?
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-03-m1.u59	Thank you for asking. I would like to point out that the current criminal and procedural legislation sets a two-month deadline for pretrial investigation and bringing it to trial. As a general rule, then, two months should be sufficient for appropriate law enforcement authorities to investigate the matter. And I would also like to point out that the bill provides that, if the case is referred to a court for 4 months, then the continued suspension of this judge from the execution of justice takes place automatically without any decision, i.e. in this matter it is necessary to strike a balance between, on the one hand, the operationality of the pretrial investigation of the case, on the other hand, the rights of the judge and the practical situation. We can see from practical examples that, unfortunately, in some judges, the law enforcement authorities, through the Attorney General, are 8 times seeking the confirmation and removal of the judge from office. This certainly does not encourage them to investigate matters quickly, bring them to trial, and bring them to trial.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-03-m1.u60	Please finish 15 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-03-m1.u61	But there has to be such an incentive. And that's what this standard is all about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-03-m1.u62	Thank you, Mr. Alexia. We now invite you to the rostrum of the author of the alternative bill. Asking the third question, John Krulko. Please, Mr. John, please, your question. We're three minutes out, but please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-03-m1.u63	Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear Alexia Valeriyovich, the "Fatherland" faction of today's session has carefully considered this bill. And the most important claim that was in the "Fatherland" faction and concern about the bill concerns the formation of the High Council of Justice. There is such fear that in fact this High Council of Justice must be elected to work by 15 members of the 21st. They will be fully controlled by the President of Ukraine, the head of state. Can we, in our first reading, clarify the order of formation of the High Council of Justice or at least the quorum for its beginning of work, so that there is no concern in the national deputies that in fact the President of Ukraine can fully control the order of election, liberation, appointment of judges today? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-03-m1.u64	Thank you, Mr. Ivan for asking. I think that's the wrong conclusion. And maybe it's because not so much time has been allocated to study this bill carefully. I want to point out that the order of formation of this constitutional body is defined by the Constitution. And the President, like the Supreme Council, as well as a number of other subjects, appoints only two members of the High Council of Justice, and he appoints them for the results of the open competition. So any threat to the excessive influence of any body, whether the President or the Supreme Council, who challenged the independence of this body, is not perceived. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-03-m1.u65	Thank you, Mr. Alexia. I now invite you to the rostrum of the alternate bill (number 5180-1). Eugenia Murrayeva. Eugenius Murayev is in the hall? Dear colleagues, there is no author of an alternative bill. And then I invite you, a word for the co-report of the head of the Legal and Justice Committee of Ruslan Knazević. Please, Mr. Ruslan.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-03-m1.u66	Thank you. Dear Madam Chairman! Dear colleagues! Although one of the drafters is not present and his position is not represented, I hope that the committee has made a clear legal assessment of the two bills and has made an objective decision that I have the honour to report today. First of all, I will not be diverted into history, but I will remind you that indeed, after the validity of the changes to the Constitution in part of justice took place on 30 September and the corresponding implementation changes provided for in the Law on the Status of Judges and the judiciary, there is no doubt that a whole series of legislative acts, which are subject to amendments to the Constitution, require immediate implementation at the level of legislative decisions of the Supreme Council. Among the first ones, it is proposed that such a law be the Law on the Higher Council of Justice. For the sake of justice, I must remind you that the Transitional Positions of the Constitution do not mean that we are creating a new body today, because we have authorized, at the time of the formation of the new body, the valid members of the High Council of Justice to exercise the powers of the members of the High Council of Justice. And the Higher Council of Justice will be created precisely by the restructuring of the High Council of Justice, and this process cannot last longer than the end of April 2010. However, the President of Ukraine, as the subject of the law of the legislative initiative, on September 23rd, using his right under the Constitution, appealed to Parliament with the relevant legislative initiative, submitting, as an urgent draft of the Law on the Higher Council of Justice, within 14 days of the Act on the Rules of the Supreme Council, such a right was exercised by one of our colleagues, and more specifically by a colleague of Murayev. And these two bills have been sent to the Committee on Legal Policy and Justice as a profile, so that they can give a proper legal assessment by drawing the legal conclusion set out in the law so that the Supreme Council can make the informed and correct decision. At the same time, the committee, taking into account 108 articles of the Rules of Procedure Act, could not consider these two bills until, on November 1st, the decision of Parliament was taken, more precisely in Parliament, a decision was taken to approve the order of the day of our session. Among other things, it included the Higher Justice Council Act, introduced by the President of Ukraine, and an automatically alternative bill, by our colleague Murayev. The two bills were immediately considered by our committee by the Head of the Supreme Council. Yesterday at our meeting, we devoted a lot of attention to this as to me, focusing on two bills, and the committee members came to the following conclusions. The main thing that can be said immediately is that these two bills under their structure are fairly similar to that of the President, and that the Muraieva colleagues consist, as it were, of two main parts, of a particular part that regulates the resolution of the status of the High Council of Justice, its powers, order of election, the appointment of members of the High Council of Justice, their status, rights, duties, guarantees, activities, order of release, termination of activities, the structure of the High Council of Justice, as well as procedural matters, the exercise of powers of the High Council of Justice and its organs. In addition, in order to comply with the new constitutional provisions of the rule of law on the issue of justice, the bill proposes to make appropriate changes to a number of legislative acts, such as the failure to meet the legal requirements of the High Council of Justice, its body or member regarding the provision of information on the temporary suspension of the judge from the exercise of justice in connection with the prosecution of criminal liability, the order of detention or detention of the judge (the arrest), the order of election of members of the Supreme Council and justice, and so on. In doing so, it should be noted that legislative changes have certainly been made with consideration, and this must be taken into account when deciding on the conclusions and recommendations that have been made repeatedly by the advisory body of the Council of Europe, the Venice Commission, and in line with the European standards that have long been in place in the European Union. At the same time, it's a bill of registration.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-03-m1.u67	Give me a minute to finish, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-03-m1.u68	I'm asking you to give me an extra five minutes, because I am.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-03-m1.u69	An extra five minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-03-m1.u70	On behalf of the committee, I'm reporting on two bills. Thank you. It contains sections VP that define the order for the organization of the work of the High Council of Justice, the order for the resolution of matters that fall within its competence, the organization and the information provision of the activities of the High Council, the Transitional Positions, the End Positions. The section of the “Principal Provisions” itself amends the alternative bill to include a wide range of legislative acts, such as the Administrative Code, the Administrative Justice, the Code on Administrative Offences, the Criminal Procedure Code, the Laws on Lawyers and Laws, the Enforcement Act, the State Service, the Prevention of Corruption, the Prosecutor's Office, the Criminal Procedures of the Supreme Council, the Courts and the Status of Judges, etc. In considering two alternative bills, the Committee on Legal Policy and Justice emerged from the fact that, in view of the status of the Supreme Council of Justice as the constitutional body of the judiciary in the system of restraint and the opposition of the State authorities under the Constitution of Ukraine, the members of the Committee supported the purpose of a clear and detailed legislative definition of the Supreme Council of Justice, its functions and powers. At the same time, the members of the committee pointed out that, in order to ensure full legal regulation of social relations in the field of justice and, taking into account the need to eliminate in due time the legal reform of the law-abiding practices of gaps and colossals, the Bill (registration number 5180) provides a more systematic approach to resolving the legislative status of the Supreme Council of Justice, its order of establishment and its activities, and therefore supports its adoption as a basis in the session room. However, we believe that this bill will require further work on the committee during its preparation for the second reading of Parliament. In particular, it contains provisions that do not directly or indirectly comply with valid legislation. According to article 3, paragraph 18, of the first section of the bill, the Supreme Council of Justice agrees on the orderly redistribution of budgetary expenses between the courts, except for the Supreme Court. In this regard, according to part three of Article 148 of the Courtship and Status of Judges Act of 2 June 2016, the functions of the Chief Accountant remain with the State Court Administration. In addition, the proposal for a bill on the formation of the salaries of staff members of the High Council of Justice at the expense of the funds available to the State budget under the programmes of the European Union, the Government of Foreign States, international organizations, donor institutions is not fully aligned with the current special legislation. Since the requirements of Part Two of the Public Authorities Financing Act are met, the public authorities carry out their activities solely on the basis of budgetary financing, except in cases defined by law, within the limits provided for by the State Budget Act for the year in question. It should be said that a number of proposals conflict with the fundamental principles of law, such as information on the date, time and venue of the meeting of the High Council of Justice on organizational matters, the draft agenda for such a meeting is not subject to publication, and the possibility of disciplinary proceedings against judges in a closed session is not in line with the principles of openness and publicity. The proposed procedure under which the complainant has the right to appeal the decision of the Disciplinary Chamber of the High Council of Justice only for the possibility of a disciplinary chamber to file such an accusation does not correspond to the general principle of the complaint, according to which the complainant has the right to challenge the decision of the administrative authority without obtaining any permission. I don't want to stop at all now, in the absence of time, without the exception of the proposals made during the committee's consideration. Let me just say that this is a serious document on the six pages, including it is based on the conclusions of the General Scientific and Scientific Administration, which, in our view, are fairly thorough and professional. But let me draw your attention to the fact that the proposed amendments to the Code of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and the Procuratorship Act are quite fragmented, contain ambiguous and conceptually incorrect formulations, and therefore require considerable substantive editorial and technical legal work. Taking into account all the comments made and taking into account all the arguments made in the explanatory notes to the relevant bills, based on the above-mentioned positions, the Committee on Legal Policy and Justice decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft Act on the Supreme Council of Justice number 5180 to be adopted on the basis of the first reading, at the same time another bill to reject, but to appeal to the author of the Murayev bill, if he has such a wish.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-03-m1.u71	15 seconds to complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-03-m1.u72	As amendments to the second reading, make appropriate suggestions, and the committee will be able to consider them and give them an assessment.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-03-m1.u73	Thank you, Your Honor, for the thorough report on the two bills. Dear colleagues, please sign up for the question: we have three minutes, to our distinguished co-conspirator. Please, Yuri Solovay, your question.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-03-m1.u74	Yuri Solovay, 89 constituency, Gutzulščina, and Pocust. Mr. Reporter, I have a question of the next point. In fact, when we voted for judicial reform, we fully autonomously granted the judiciary the right to rule on the disciplinary and criminal responsibility of judges. In fact, such a mechanism worked in principle. Later to the Supreme Council and until now. I have a question for you. How many judges have been brought to justice by the Higher Qualifications Commission in 2015, and how many judges have actually made criminal decisions, or have they been called to account? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-03-m1.u75	Well, I think we need to remind the story first, and I'll tell you that, before the changes that took place and took effect on September 30th, only the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and not the High Council of Justice or the Supreme Judicial Commission of Judges, could be arrested. All of us, without exception, who came to the Supreme Council, were with you. The other thing is how, how. Further, after the relevant law enforcement authorities had appealed to the courts for a precautionary measure, the courts had responded to such questions – a question, as it were, not to Parliament. But I point out to you that Parliament, for its part, was conscientiously fulfilling the responsibilities of me, which were provided for by the Constitution at that time. So the statistics here are pretty positive. As for the Higher Qualifying Commission, I don't have accurate information for 2015. I'm just going to say that, of course, the Higher Qualifying Commission was overloaded by the disciplinary complaints that it had before it. You know.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-03-m1.u76	15 seconds. Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-03-m1.u77	You know, right after that, you've made the right changes, all the disciplinary matters will continue to be dealt with by the High Council of Justice, and I know I have accurate statistics on about 12,000 cases to be considered. And for that.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-03-m1.u78	Thank you. I just want us to get to the vote today, Your Honorable Reporter. Please, Victor Krivenko, the Peter Dust Block. Your question.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-03-m1.u79	May I have the floor for Victoria Ptašnik, a member of the Constitutional Commission.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-03-m1.u80	Victoria Birds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-03-m1.u81	Dear Ruslan Petrovich, yesterday I was present at your committee meeting, where you said that if the bill was adopted on the basis of a committee, a thorough work would be carried out and worked out there, the amendments were made and so on. I wanted to ask you, for my part, to inform all the people's deputies, especially the amendments that will be made, about the consideration of these amendments at your committee meeting and to choose such a time, preferably not to coincide with the meetings of our committees that we are members of, so that we can also participate in the meeting of the Committee on Legal Policy and Justice, and to provide you with the appropriate justification for our amendments to be taken into account. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-03-m1.u82	I can promise that we will do our utmost to invite everyone, without exception, to the right of legislative initiative, who will benefit from their right to amend it. But for some reason, I have this feeling that these subjects are going to be very large and the amendments are going to be very large, so I don't know what we're going to be able to satisfy everyone and find time like this, unless it's a busy time, maybe, to look at all of these adjustments at their participation. But I promise that as soon as the amendment deadline is over, we will announce their preliminary consideration. Perhaps we will set up a working group on the basis of a subcommittee to recommend, for example, such amendments to the committee for consideration, taking into account the position of the subjects. Well, let's see, it's going to depend on how much and how many times the amendments are going to be made. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-03-m1.u83	Thank you. Please, Svetlana Zalitchuk of Peter Dustenk's Block. Surrenders the word Yuri Derevyanko. Please, Mr. Yuri.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-03-m1.u84	Honourable Reporter, Honourable Chairman, Honourable Head of the Supreme Council. I'm proposing and asking you very much that we today postpone the consideration of Bill 5318, this is about expanding the circle of people who are involved in electronic declaration, so that we can use this time to thoroughly discuss everything with our public organizations and correct all the necessary things that can be used as speculation, I emphasize, about a good idea, but as speculation and remove all these issues so that we can carefully consider it for the next parliamentary week and vote on this important bill for Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-03-m1.u85	Thank you. We've run out of time to ask a coconspirator. Please go to your seat, Your Honor Mr. Ruslan. Now we have statements from factions. Please register with the factions for the performance. And we ask you to take a position in your speeches as to whether or not the faction supports the law. Thank you. Please, the Fatherland faction. John Kirilenko gives the well - known lawyer a word, Mr. Vlasenko. Please, Mr. Vlasenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-03-m1.u86	Thank you, Madam Chairman. You know, I, listening to the speeches of the people who presented the bill, I closed my eyes and I felt absolutely rainy. In 2010, when Viktor Janukovich said from this rostrum that changes to the legislation on the judiciary, the status of judges is the best in Europe, that under this Act on the judiciary and the status of judges, the conclusions of the OSCE, the Council of Europe, the European Union -- whoever. And all those people who said they were the best drafts. From this rostrum, Viktor Janukovic told us that the President refuses to give up authority to control the judicial system, but support this bill on the judiciary and the status of judges! And only a few opposition deputies, and I had the honour to do so then, claimed that it was a campaign of judicial reform, that it had nothing to do with the actual reform of the judicial system. Unfortunately, all of this is happening now. Sadly, we hear firsthand the Pharisees ’ statements. You know, I read a lot about the media from the subject of judicial reform, and these media are very direct about Mr. Alexy Filatov's manual administration of the judicial system, that the judges claim that Mr. Filatov is personally pressing them, requires judicial decisions in favour of President Peter Prashenko of Ukraine on the scale of business. You know, and after that, you hear claims that someone here is fighting for the rule of law, you know, everybody's fighting for control of the judicial system. Absolutely. The second rain I had when I closed my eyes, it was raining in the 14th year. When the same Lord Filatov from this rostrum told you, pass the law on fair trial and you'll be lucky, and tomorrow you'll get a reformed judicial system, and tomorrow you'll get justice. And the only goal was to reshape the Higher Council of Justice. I sent a parliamentary request to the High Council of Justice and asked them how long in two years they had brought the judges to justice for breaking their oath. And I got the answer: 51 judges. Not 1051, not 2051, but 51 judges. The rest are judges from the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and the rest are judges who were recommended to be released on general grounds. Unfortunately, once again, we see no reform of justice, we see absolute propaganda for justice reform and nothing better. We're told judges will be chosen at the competition. We see the Commission from the State Service Corps now electing governors at the competition. Within a week, statements are made in the press, which will be the governor, and then the commission from the higher corps will be the fact.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-03-m1.u87	Ten seconds, complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-03-m1.u88	And then the commission from the State Service Corps actually legalizes those they want to see from the President's Administration. We see the same thing in this law, and we can't vote for it.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-03-m1.u89	Thank you, Mr. Sergei. Please, from the People's Front faction, National Deputy Stashuk. He gives the word to a lawyer known to Mr. Yemen. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-03-m1.u90	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Leonid Yemeni, People's Front faction. Well, I don't think I'm going to open a big secret for anyone that the fight against corruption and judicial reform are inseparable trials. It's impossible to talk about the effectiveness of fighting corruption if we have a corrupt court not to make an honest prosecutor or investigator, all of this will be destroyed, destroyed for money in our unfortunately corrupt court today. Therefore, judicial reform is a necessary component of our nation’s development. And today it is more threatened than ever. Part of the judges, namely: The Supreme Court judges, on appeal to the Constitutional Court, want to abolish this initial judicial reform, cancel the competitions that will elect new Supreme Court judges, and remain judges of the Supreme Court forever. That's their goal. Unfortunately, there is no trust in the composition of the Constitutional Court, which will deal with the issue, neither in us nor in society. I would like to remind you that six judges of the Constitutional Court are the people who have been appointed Yanukovic, who have contributed to the capture and usurpation of Janukovic's authority, which today is a criminal case by the Attorney General's Office. Of course, I would like to see the results. That's why we have, in fact, today only one way out: we have to urgently implement judicial reform, ensure that the Supreme Court of Ukraine is held urgently, that the Public Council of Virtue works. Thank God, we already see that public organizations have submitted their bids for the competition, where they have already formed a sufficiently respectable social attitude in part of their trust. We can see that the process is moving, but we definitely shouldn't stand for this process to move slower. So the position of the People's Front faction is the law that the Justice Committee has proposed as a basis, and we support today, we will vote in full. And we also require an accelerated review of the shortened procedure in order to allow us to work on all the changes during this time, but not to delay the process. Literally the following week, we will make a responsible decision, which is a necessary component of judicial reform in our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-03-m1.u91	Thank you for the position of the People's Front. Now, the position of the Peter Poshenka Block will be sounded by the National MP Ruslan Knazević. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-03-m1.u92	Thank you, Your Honor. I'd like to address Mr. Sergei, and you and I were in the same faction, and we stood up for that position together. I really hope that it hasn't changed in all these years, and we're all thinking about it. There are, of course, many shortcomings that we feel are equally negative. But I hope that we are equally positive about what has been done in the queen of judicial reform, at least in the last few months. You can evaluate differently all those legislative acts that were adopted in this queen, starting with the post-it situation. It's also the Law on Restoration of Trust in Judicial Authority, it's also the Law on Ensuring the Right to a Fair Court, constitutional changes that I recall have been quite difficult, and it's been going on for almost six months, the Law on the Status of Judges in the New Order, this law that we're currently considering. Of course, you can judge this process differently, but it's certainly progress, and it's definitely going to have some consequences. No one clearly says that these results will be positive. Like any process, it can have the consequences of what it will have. But the thing is, not doing anything is the worst thing you can afford right now. Imagine, literally next week, we want to start a procedure for filing documents for the Supreme Court judges. Until now, however, we do not understand how the High Council of Justice will continue to make appropriate decisions and how it will respond to the challenges it has faced right now. Although there is no law, the High Council of Justice exercises the actual powers of members of the High Council of Justice. And then yesterday and yesterday, they had a series of meetings where they were discussing the issue of giving consent to the responsibility of detention and arresting a number of judges who were doing so-called justice conditionally in occupied territories and in self-proclaimed secessionist republics. Therefore, it is not possible to lose track of the changes in the legislation relating to justice and, above all, of the Supreme Council of Justice Act. Because we will continue to have the share of responsibility that we bear with you from the time that Parliament has taken responsibility for the Queen's changes to the Constitution, and accordingly we will continue to be hostage to that situation, because the public will, at any time, necessarily remember to Parliament that it has exercised its constitutional powers improperly at the time that they put them on it, and that it does not respond adequately to the legislative changes that society needs and the time to continue this process to be more effective and effective. I propose, on behalf of our faction, that we adopt this law, and on the basis of the committee we will be able, including, with the participation of those critics today, I hope, those disagreements and the discussion moments that have taken place must be removed.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-03-m1.u93	Thank you, Mr. Ruslan. The position of the Self-Help faction will now be sounded by the national deputy, Victoria Vojtsiecka. It conveys the word to Ruslan Sidorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-03-m1.u94	Dear colleagues, I will not now criticize or praise the changes that have been adopted to the Constitution in part of the justice bloc, but this is the fact that has taken place. In accordance with the changes we have adopted to the Constitution, we have introduced a new body, instead of the High Council of Justice, namely the Supreme Council of Justice. What is involved today in the absence of this law? The Supreme Council of Justice, as an authority of state, is obliged to act within, order and in the manner prescribed by law, but it is not. This means that any change, any further movement towards judicial reform without the law of higher justice, is impossible. At the same time, the proposed drafting of the bill on the High Council of Justice has a number of points that, in our view, need to be worked out. What is it? First. After the adoption of this law, the new representatives of the judiciary should clearly be recruited exclusively from those judges who have been qualified in such a way that we can ensure the arrival of, indeed, new people who will undergo the necessary examination. As part of the Council on Judicial Reform, we have long discussed whether it is necessary to limit the representatives of the judiciary to a ten-year trial experience? And it turns out that it's not, because at this point it's impossible to get new people to come in to get a new quality of the body's work. Next question. It's a question of transparency in disciplinary procedure, it's a key. Because whatever quality people we're collecting is going to be the facts of the violations, and it's the disciplinary procedure that has to be the guarantee of a permanent, I stress, permanent cleansing of the judiciary. In order to do so, it is necessary to ensure that the parties have access to the materials of disciplinary conduct, thus ensuring that the parties are equal in that the judge and the actions of which they are tested are not in the highest position. In addition, the new body that is being established, namely the Civil Council of Virtue, must have sufficient tools to ensure the active participation of the public in the task of controlling the judicial branch of power. The next moment. The judges who are still on reserve in the days of Yanukovich should definitely undergo the qualification procedure before they can be in the court. There are a number of other minor observations, but they are no longer so important, I believe they can be worked out. But I would also like to stress the need for the speediest adoption of other bills that primarily deal with changes to procedural codes. Since the adoption of the Supreme Council of Justice Act, the creation of a new Supreme Court under the terms of today’s procedural codes, we will have a procedural collapse. That's why.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-03-m1.u95	15 seconds to complete, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-03-m1.u96	Therefore, I call for the preparation of changes to procedural legislation as soon as possible, to bring it to the walls of Parliament and to adopt it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-03-m1.u97	Thank you, Mr. Ruslan. Please, from the "Will of the People" Group, National Deputy Vladimir Litwin.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-03-m1.u98	Honorable Predestination! Dear colleagues! Clearly, it is an extremely responsible law. We have to form positions that would allow us to work in the High Council of Justice completely flawless people, because they will properly form a judicial corps, and so that we will not form a judicial corps that will learn people again. And I can see that this law requires a substantial revision to the second reading. First of all, judging by the law, it can't be judicial self-government, in fact, we can talk about the Higher Council of Justice as an authority of state, and that comes out of this law. I have doubts about the rules of the High Council of Justice because it has to define its activities in accordance with the Constitution and the laws, or else it is necessary to adopt the Law on Rules, as in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I don't think the High Council of Justice should be able to determine the budgetary financing of the courts. Then it will affect the work of the courts. For this there is a state court administration. And in my opinion, it's completely unacceptable that the High Council of Justice can be a beneficiary of international financial assistance, because whoever pays the money is going to demand the corresponding reports, is going to have to be financed exclusively from the state budget. I, for example, find advisory conclusions to the laws. I mean the High Council of Justice. Responsibilities for consideration by whom, the Cabinet of Ministers, the Supreme Council of Ukraine, or another institution? And one more moment, I can see that evaluation judgements and consensus can't be present in this law, like "a recognized legal expert" and "an impeccable professional reputation," well, these are general words, not legal norms. And yet another point to be said is that you can't get out of control by the National Anti-Corruption Bureau of the Supreme Council of Justice. Why are inspectors, members of a senior judicial committee of judges of Ukraine, under the control of the NABU and the management warehouse completely out of control? And lastly, I am concerned that this law proposes to make substantive changes to the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and I think this will not contribute to the improvement of this document. Thus, until the second reading, this document requires substantial work. Just a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-03-m1.u99	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-03-m1.u100	And I think if we're saying that this is a document that affects the interests of the whole society and should inspire trust, then we don't have to rush and offer accelerated preparation for second reading. Take your time, let's make a quality document. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-03-m1.u101	Thank you. Please, from the Opposition Block, Dmitri Sphenov.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-03-m1.u102	Dear colleagues, our faction has always stated that reforms must be balanced, qualitative and thoughtful. First, Bill 5180 is contrary to the Constitution, as it expands the list of grounds for dismissal of a judge clearly set out in article 126. Secondly, it is contrary to international standards in the field of justice. It is a violation of the principles of openness and publicity, a violation of the right to appeal against an administrative decision without permission. The bill provides that the decision of the disciplinary chamber may be appealed only upon the permission of the disciplinary chamber itself. It's some kind of nonsense. As well as the fact that the disciplinary chamber can open disciplinary proceedings on its own initiative is contrary to paragraph 26 of the OSCE Kiev recommendations on the independence of the judiciary. Thirdly, judicial reform was undertaken to enhance the independence of the judiciary and to implement the recommendations of the Venice Commission, rather than to concentrate all powers in one body, and to make the judicial system subject to control. This bill establishes the jurisdiction of the judicial system. This is clearly demonstrated by the provisions of the bill, such as the re-election by the Supreme Council of Justice of the functions of the SAA and the Council of Judges. In addition, the resolution of all financial matters relating to the allocation of budgetary resources and international financial assistance poses a risk to significant corruption by the management of the Board. The democratic rule on the election of the Chief of Court and the establishment of a mechanism for the appointment of the Chiefs of Courts by the Supreme Council of Justice are also being fully reduced. The right of appeal of the Board's decision is limited to minor technical points, such as the non-signature of a decision by a member or the absence of a reference to an article, which precludes the possibility of appealing a decision in substance and is a mechanism for abuse. Fourthly, the bill was not in line with the recommendations of the Venice Commission. Many evaluation concepts have been introduced, for example, that being recognized as a legal specialist has an impeccable professional reputation. The Venice Commission has consistently indicated that evaluation concepts lead to manipulation and abuse. In fact, instead of judicial reform and compliance with international standards, they simply want to bring the judicial system under one authority, a mockery of the judicial system. I would also like to say that, in accordance with article 121 of Part 5 of the Rules, I am absolutely against the adoption of the Rules. Keep that in mind. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-03-m1.u103	Thank you, Your Honor. Please. Dear colleagues, the factions have exhausted the list of those who signed up. The Radical Party hasn't even come forward yet. Will you be speaking about this law? I won't. Oleg Lazko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-03-m1.u104	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. The Radical Party faction listened very carefully to all the arguments of opponents of this law, the apologists of this law, the representative of the President of Mr. Filatov, and we, as soon as we held the factions, decided to refrain from supporting this bill in the first reading. We voted in favour of its inclusion in the agenda so that society, lawyers, the public, citizens would hear all the pros and cons. We believe that the bill should be thoroughly worked out, the Radical Party faction did not vote in favour of amendments to the Constitution, which in fact allowed us to usurp on the judicial branch of power, and we see that the bill on the formation of the Supreme Council of Justice is actually a continuation of the monopolization plan of influence on the judicial branch of power. The judges are actually becoming dependent on the formation of the High Council of Justice, and the participants in the trial, the lawyers, the scientists, the social organizations are being eliminated, and we see that this is an attempt to monopolize the impact. That's why we're asking the honourable President of Ukraine, Peter Prashenko, to finalize the bill and to give it as an opportunity to unite the Hall, and the main thing is to demonstrate to society the desire for power to really create conditions for the formation of an independent court, because when we talk about cleaning up the Supreme Council and saying there's going to be an independent court, the Supreme Council has been cleared, and we've got the President's Administration, where we have representatives sitting here in Parliament, and on the phone we're giving instructions on how to make decisions in a particular case. Is that independent justice? And remember when I was here from this rostrum on behalf of the Radical Party faction telling you that people are fooling around when they say, "We're going to pass the Fair Court Act and a fair trial will fall on our heads tomorrow." We did not vote in favour of this law. Why? Because it was obvious from the very beginning that discussions about a fair trial were about usurping power, influencing judges, and executing political orders. Can a powerful faction of the Radical Party allow anyone in power to usurp the influence of the judges? No, it's not. Why? Because without an independent court in Ukraine, there will be no investor. That means there will be no jobs in the Ukrainians. If Ukrainians can't find the truth in court, if they don't have mud and a hairy hand, there will be no independent court, and as a result, there will be no Ukraine. So a faction of the Radical Party, protecting the Ukrainians.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-03-m1.u105	Thank you. Dear colleagues, now is the time for the national MPs to speak. Please sign up. We have 15 minutes from the National Deputies to perform, and then we are summarized and voted. Please, Hope Savchenko of Fatherland. Kirilenko, right? To John Grigorovich Kirilenko, please give the word to Mrs. Hope. No, it's not. Ivchenko, National Deputy Ivchenk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-03-m1.u106	Vadim Yvchenko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues, you know, we study the laws carefully and try to study and analyze each article carefully. Today we really see that at the moment, the Law on Court and Court, it does usurp one branch of power, the Presidential branch of power. We do not want to be part of the fact that we do not have an independent judicial system. But at the same time, I want to say to those who today have a question about palm oil. Colleagues, the agrarian committee is a profile committee. The Agrarian Committee is the committee that reviewed the bill and did not allow the use of GMOs today, which will not now be considered by the Supreme Council. Our farmers will not use soy-GMO now in their crops. I want to say that the agrarian committee today has not allowed the concept of milk-mixed products, and on our shelves there will now be pure milk. And the main thing. If someone does not understand what a professional committee is and what questions should be addressed to a professional committee, please read, as in school, the letter is the Rules of the Supreme Council. The agrarian palm oil committee is a profile. And if you don't want to go to the agrarian committee headed by the Peter Prashenko Block, then contact the Health Committee, then they'll explain to you what the responsibility should be and what the impact on health should be. We've always supported the village, we've always been consistent. Once again, when we voted in favour of the Tax Code and the 15-16-year budget, the only Fatherland didn't take the benefits out of agriculture, and they didn't take the taxes out of villages and villages. That's why we're consistent. And we want people who do not read the Rules simply to be urged, please read the Rules carefully, and contact the Health Committee if you think they are professional. And the agrarian committee has already made its decision because there are specialists sitting there and they understand what palm oil is for our manufacturers and consumers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-03-m1.u107	Now Mr. Yvchenko gives the word to Mr. Vlasenko. Please. And then from.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-03-m1.u108	Thank you, Madam Chairman. From palm oil to judicial reform, if you please. You know, the head of the profile committee, my colleague, said that we should follow the same principles. And he's absolutely right. And then, and now I firmly oppose the usurpation of the President's influence, whatever his name is, on the judicial branch of power. And then, and now I've said that it's unacceptable to form a High Council of Justice under a particular President for the purpose of total control of the judicial system. Do we not know what the political agenda and political influences on the Supreme Council of Justice look like today? Should I call you the names of the members of the High Council of Justice who were personally lobbyed by Mr. Alexei Filatov? What is his connection there, and who does he control in this High Council of Justice? The name, please, is not a problem. I've just worked long enough in law school. This is the first time. Secondly, and then, and now I thought that the destruction of the judicial system was the worst thing that could happen in the Ukrainian state. And then, and now I thought that the destruction of the Supreme Court was the worst thing that could happen in that state. Since I am now speaking from the deputies and not from the factions, I have not touched this issue in the faction of factions, I will say my personal private position by the National Deputy of Ukraine Sergio Vlasenka: I consider this to be a definite and strategic mistake of Parliament, allowing people who do not have judicial internships to come to the Supreme Court. It's the same propaganda as the campaign for police reform. It's as much a propaganda as a proponent of public service reform. It's the same kind of propaganda as campaigning for governors. This is the destruction of the judicial system that we're going to see in 1.5-2-3 years, in 2-3 years. Propaganda is not about enacting the law but about executing it or doing it improperly. That's why, right now, I urge you not to support this law. Today there was a whole series of comments, one of the deputies came clean and honest and said, "Yes, possible consequences, and these consequences will not always be positive." So it's obvious. This law is designed to preserve the influence of the President of Ukraine on the Supreme Council of Justice, which has now been renamed the Supreme Council of Justice. There's nothing else in this bill. It will be absolutely normal and correct to return this bill to the author of the legislative initiative for redrafting, creating a normal law. So that we don't have to repeat ourselves as we did with the Fair Court Act, when everyone was promised that there would be amendments, and then no amendments were considered, put in the room, and by one vote instead of discussing 4,000 amendments, passed a law that gave the President total control over the judicial system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-03-m1.u109	Thank you. Please, Vadim Denisenko of Peter Dustenka's Block. Passes the word Alexia to the potterenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-03-m1.u110	Thank you. Dear colleagues, in fact, we now have the opportunity to vote on a key, one of the key laws. Yes, we're only looking at it as a basis now, but this is the first step towards the adoption of the Law on the High Council of Justice as a whole in the near future, and finally to the implementation of judicial reform. What is today’s judicial system? This is Ukraine’s biggest national security challenge. I want to give you an example from my native Odessa. The judge of the Economic Court of Odessa Zelenov (so very name, which says much) decides that Mr. Kurchenko actually receives today, three years after the revolution, after all. He gets control of the Odessa oil refinery by a judicial decision. Because he makes the decision that $600 million in debt, $600 million in debt to Odessa NPPs to the companies of Kurchenk. That's one example. And we've been fighting this for months, going to courts, going to court, turning around, doing everything we can. Where is the result? There's no result. Because only judicial reform can change the system. Why are we here now hearing such ghastly things against us? And it's very simple, one of the factions here, not to say the name of a deputy whose name was caught in a hot, how he takes the money, and we're all sitting here sitting in this room, and we're looking at this unnecessary, and this disgrace, how he takes the money to the whole country, and then to the Supreme Court, the Supreme Court gets the decision, we don't take the parliamentary immunity, not so, come back, friend, to the hall, we can't do it without you, you just take the money all over the country, you just tell the whole country how much a parliamentary request is worth, a parliamentary appeal. Now, honestly, he showed it all, he's in the declaration of his collections, his antiques, his money, everything else, and we say good boy. But of course they need judges in whom they will always be redeemed, because they have acquired enough to remove one of their Swiss watches and give it back, redeem themselves forever, and sit in the Supreme Council Hall again, and teach us how to live and what to do. Colleagues, this law supports the Council of Europe, this law supports all experts, I ask you to support it, take the first step towards real reform of justice. Without that, we will have no victory over the enemy outside, nor over the one inside. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-03-m1.u111	Thank you. Please, the national deputy Makarian passes the word Yuri Solové.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-03-m1.u112	Yuri Solovay, 89 constituency, Gutzulščina, and Pocust. Dear colleagues, I'd like to draw your attention to one question. Remember, six months ago, we successfully conducted a package of legislation to improve the management of state property, where we envisioned competitive selection for all heads of state enterprises. Unique laws were passed. Do you think these laws work today? Absolutely not. Today, the judicial system has completely blocked the process of assigning directors to key strategic state-owned enterprises, such as Ukrenergo, for example, or Centrenerego. Or can. Don't interrupt, please come out and talk. What does that mean? That today’s judicial system is as it exists, it is doomed. And that is why, as a Parliament, we are obliged to make absolutely clear and radical changes. And so this law that is being considered today is a systematic and strategic law that will determine the fate of the judicial system for the future. Let me remind you that we've self-sustained the judicial system. But I believe that the Ukrainian Parliament should ensure parliamentary control over the Higher Council of Justice. That is why I believe that, between the first and the second readings, we are obliged to make changes that oblige the head of the High Council of Justice to report annually to Parliament for the results of the work of the High Council of Justice. I believe that we should improve our standards as to who can make complaints and who should appeal to the judge. We should clearly prescribe time limits in which the Supreme Council of Justice should respond to every appeal, and we should prescribe a clear responsibility for each judge and for the wrong decisions he has made, and for the decisions made by the Supreme Council of Justice regarding disciplinary judges. That is why I believe that this law is necessary today, and this law allows me to resolve my hands. But this law must be very seriously worked out, particularly in the part of maintaining parliamentary control over the activities of the High Council of Justice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-03-m1.u113	Thank you. Sergei Vlasenko gives the floor to Igor Lucenko. Please, Mr. Igor,
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-03-m1.u114	Dear colleagues, you know, when I applied to the question before this bill, I just wanted to ask you one question: why is this bill being reported by Mr. Filatov and not Mr. Portnov? It's really strange, because it's absolutely, this pseudo-reform is completely embedded in the canvass of these criminal steps to destroy our legal system, which is now being done in an orderly manner under the wills of this great genius. The best gift for Maidan Yanukovich’s anniversary will probably be the anniversary of these legislative initiatives by this very vote today. I would like to remind you that in Portnova's will, the role of the Public Prosecutor's Office in overseeing the rule of law in the actions of public law entities — officials and deputies — has been abolished. Now we can't have citizens and us with you, by the way, complaining to the D.A., so she can run a background check and force the officials to enforce the law. And now this whole shame of the so-called NAMK is a anti-corruption agency that has failed to implement a law that has not been able to ensure a normal electronic declaration process right now. This is, in particular, the problem of the absence of authority from the Public Prosecutor’s Office to force officials to enforce the law. Similarly, customs were now introduced under the port vows of this warehouse, including the Parliament for subpoenas. Now, in order to return to Kiev, the stolen lands of Chernovetsk need to pay huge sums to the citizens. Now, in order to make any decision that the previous authorities have implemented, it is not possible to roll back without money. And another "wonderful" money (in paws) is the introduction of a legal monopoly, which also makes it difficult for citizens to access justice. It is designed to prevent ordinary people from using the court as a mechanism for protecting their rights and protecting their legal interests. Everything is designed to be a privilege of the feudals who are based on the Bank. Listen, uh, did the experience, the bloody experience of Maidan teach us nothing? That the separation of branches of power is a deterrent against the disaster we experienced in 2014 against what may happen again and again, as the experience of mankind has shown. There must be a division of power: there must be a judicial independent branch of power, there must be executive power. Instead, we have one king trying to govern everything. How many judges in Maidan have he punished, having all the power to influence the Public Prosecutor's Office, the High Council of Justice? It's practically zero, because 50 is nothing. Therefore, the Fatherland faction will not vote in favour of this, nor will it vote in favour of this criminal so-called constitutional reform of the court. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-03-m1.u115	Thank you, Your Honor. Please, Olga Cervakova of the Peter Dust Block. And that's where the speeches end.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-03-m1.u116	Good afternoon, dear colleagues. Indeed, it is very important to adopt laws that ensure fair and fair judgment. I want to inform you that today is actually an unprecedented event in the city of Irpen that characterizes what. says that the reforms initiated by Parliament have finally reached the district courts, and the district judges are finally conscious and are beginning to make normal decisions. Today, the Irpine City Court overturned the decision of the Cotsubin Village Council, which had been totally unlawfully removed by the village head Olga Matushina from office. The court found the decision to be totally illegal and thus the village head now returned to her post. I want to remind you that the result of this decision of the Council of Cotsubin has been a forceful coup d'état and the capture of power by this "gkchp" which, in fact, resulted in the Supreme Council of April 14 disbanding the Council of Cotsubins. Appointed successive elections that resulted in public activists fighting against the land-based coastal mafia in the Priorpina region of Kiev gaining 2.5 times more parliamentary mandates, and now they run the village, not these mobsters who came to power to rob the community. I thank all 260 national deputies who voted in favour of this decree on April 14. I thank you for the principle position of the Parliamentary Committee and, personally, Sergio Vlasenko for having demonstrated the principle of position. Unfortunately, then the Supreme Council was forced to restore justice much faster than the court could. I want to remind you that it's been eight months since the court ruled. All these eight months of settlement was in Kiev, this is 4 kilometers away from Kiev was actually in disarray and in conditions of this kind of chaos, when there's always a dress that can't be made up, because it doesn't understand who the village head is, because each self-proclaimed, in the words of one of our parliamentary leaders, the cattleman, says she's the head of the village. Once again, I want to thank all those who have shown a principled position, and I think that the laws that are aimed at judicial reform must be adopted, and this will contribute to the fact that there will be an honest court in Ukraine that there will be conscious judges. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-03-m1.u117	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we will continue our meeting for 20 minutes. And now the summary word is given to the Vice-Speaker of the Ukrainian Parliament, Oksani Siroid. Then, according to the Rules, we have three minutes of co-reporters, this is Mr. Filatov and Mr. Knazevitch, and we return to the vote. Please come into the session room.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-03-m1.u118	Mrs. Oksana, one second, me. Colleagues, there will be a vote in five minutes, I ask the secretariat of the Supreme Council and all the heads of factions to invite deputies into the hall, in five minutes we will move on to the decision. Please, Mrs. Oksana.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-03-m1.u119	Thank you. Honorable colleagues, an independent and fair trial, will not really be there unless we do anything. Yes, the High Council of Justice or the High Council of Justice today has been and remains dependent on the President, including. But it should be remembered that the majority of the members of the High Council of Justice are judges, with judges elected by judges. And now that they are slaves, it was their choice, they decided to become slaves, they wanted to become dependent. But this did not happen today. This slavery began at least ten years ago, even more. But many who were involved in bringing judges into slavery are now in this room and are even very actively opposed to making a difference. Yes, the High Council of Justice must become independent, but it will become independent not when we do something or do something with the President, but when those judges who are the majority of the High Council of Justice are no longer dependent. And that depends only on who will be the new judges instead of those who have already given their authority today, who will be judges in the newly elected, newly created Supreme Court of Ukraine, who will be judges who will come for the new competition. Only then can we say that we can get a new and independent Higher Council of Justice. But today we have no right to do anything, because we just agree that this should always be the case. The Law on the Supreme Council of Justice should be voted on in the first reading today. And all the flaws that are today, especially in the disciplinary procedure, especially in the new competition, all of them need to be corrected for second reading. But the decision to make in the first reading is to be made today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-03-m1.u120	Thank you, Your Honor. Who insists on the closing word? Knyazevich, Filatov? They don't insist, they don't insist. I'm asking everyone. The prince insists. Turn on Knjazewicz's microphone, and please come into the hall and take your jobs. Final word, head of the Knyazevich Committee, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-03-m1.u121	Thank you, Your Honor. It's very important that we have a successful vote today. We should not lose this legislative initiative. I'll tell you frankly, these were the names of those people who delegated their representatives to the High Council of Justice and controlled their activities. I'm willing to check with you publicly that there is no representative from Knyazevitch, although it was said that there are representatives from the committee. And I'll be honest with you, I don't like the work of the High Council of Justice. More to the point, I believe that in recent times, even the criticism of the High Council of Justice at the parliament has not always been objective. I did not understand the situation when the High Council of Justice showed some inaction, and we were forced to hold an extraordinary meeting. I still don't understand their position. But this does not mean that I have to give some objective assessment now, because it is not provided for by the Constitution and by valid legislation. One important point was not said here. The Supreme Council of Justice will now, if we vote in favour of it, be charged with new members who will be formed at the expense of the corresponding quota of the reunion of judges. This body will become more and more judicial each day. And thank God that the judges will finally take full responsibility and will never again complain that someone outside is exerting some kind of political pressure on their activities. And they will not completely avoid this responsibility, but they will bear the same burden as those who are now responsible and who have been objectively identified by the Supreme Council. But in any case, I assure you that the second reading of this bill will be open, involving all interested persons, will be with the legal evaluation of every proposal that comes mainly to the committee. You know, I'm here. I'm approached by colleagues, and I've heard from Parliament's rostrum that they don't want to vote in favour of this bill, because the committee is proposing to prepare it for the second reading in a simplified procedure. It doesn't fit with reality, and I didn't say that in my speech, and I didn't make that decision. I don't think that's the case when we have to insist on it. We are ready to follow the full procedure, but we ask you instead to vote on this bill today. This should not be an obstacle to non-voting for the bill. And take advantage of your constitutional right: to send the amendments to the committee. And let's have a very serious discussion together in order to get out soon, really, on that draft law that will put everyone in the room. And the fact that the drafters of the bill are on the one hand the President, and on the other hand the representative of the opposition, is a good sign that we are able to find a common denominator in order to make an absolutely, I think, justifiable, intelligent and effective decision. Thank you and I urge everyone to work together on this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-03-m1.u122	Colleagues, let's move on to decision-making, colleagues. Let's focus, please. Please take your jobs, go back to work, please, colleagues. I emphasize, the law recommends that the committee should only be accepted as a basis. So all the underdevelopments that are, we can adjust between the first and the second readings. But I strongly believe that judicial reform, one of our most global reforms, should not stop. And so I urge everyone to take a responsible vote and take part in the vote, colleagues. So I'm voting on the bill on the Supreme Council of Justice (No. 5180) according to the committee's decision on the basis. Colleagues, please vote and please support me, colleagues. Vote, please. [[18:08:35]] For 232 Decision taken. Attention, colleagues! Attention! We have a chance now, we have a chance to assign new deputies to the committees in one minute, this will bring everyone together in the hall. The Regulatory Committee has a decision to make, by one decision, that's all of you interested in it, colleagues, don't diverge. It's two minutes, it doesn't need special inclusion in the agenda, it doesn't need. I invite the head of the Paul Pinzenic Regulatory Committee to report. It does not need to be included in the agenda. Please report, and during the report he will announce all compromising positions, and we will be able to employ all our new deputies. Paul Pinzenik, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-03-m1.u123	Dear colleagues, the committee has considered a number of statements by Ukrainian national deputies that do not form part of any committee and proposes to resolve the following issues and to entrust the Rules Committee with the task of formulating the decision in the event of a positive vote. So, a statement by national deputy Sevrukov Vladislav Volodymyrovich from the MP's "Block of Peter Poroshenko" about his election as a member of the Committee on Freedom of Word and Information Policy. Sri Lanka's Grigory Aronovich was elected as a member of the Committee on Freedom of Word, Information Policy. Melniczuka Sergio Petrovich about his election as a member of the Health Committee. On the coast of Vadim Ivanovich about his election as a member of the Transport Committee. Brigadier Alexander Mikhailovich for election as a member of the National Security and Defence Committee. Karpuntsov Valerija Vitaliyovich for his election as a member of the Committee on Legal Protection. Bilocerkovnik Dmitr Alexandrovich for his election as a member of the Committee on Prevention and Anti-Corruption. By Oxana Volodymyr is about to be elected member of the European Integration Committee. The Meparishwili of Hwich Nodarovich on his election as a member of the Committee on Environmental Policy, Environmental Use and the Elimination of the Effects of the Chernobyl Disaster. Jedaków Jaroslava Juriovich was elected member of the Committee on Agricultural Policy and Land Relations. Nemirov's Andri Valentine's Day about his election as a member of the Committee on Prevention and Anti-Corruption. Bogdan Ruslan Dmitrovic was elected as a member of the Committee on Fuel and Energy, Nuclear Policy and Nuclear Security. Majekina Oleg Markovich for his election as a member of the Committee on Family, Youth Policy, Sport, and Tourism. Danilina Vladislav Yuriovich for election as a member of the Committee on Freedom of Speech. Dubois Valeri Alexandrovich on his election as a member of the Committee on Budget Affairs. Darchenka Yuri Vitaliyovich for the election of his member of the Committee on Construction, the city of housing and utility. Rick's Aunt Borisovna's election as a member of the Committee on Prevention and Anti-Corruption. Savrasova Maksim Vitaliyovich is elected as a member of the Committee for Legislative Protection. It's post-faction. Irina Miroslavovna, a member of the Committee on Science and Education And Shevchenko Viktor Leonidovich is a member of the Committee on Budget Affairs. It is also proposed by this vote, if supported, to decide on the transition of the national MP Lozov from the Legal Security Committee. legal policy for the agarni committee. And about the election.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-03-m1.u124	Please, 30 seconds, finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-03-m1.u125	On the election of the National Deputy of the South Secretary of the Legal Policy Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-03-m1.u126	Colleagues, we've been looking for agreed decisions for a long time. Please finish, Paul, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-03-m1.u127	Also, the national deputy Shahov, who is not a member of any committee, filed an application for election as a member of the Rules Committee. Thank you for your attention. I would like to support you in general.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-03-m1.u128	Colleagues, agreed upon, I ask everyone to come into the hall, take jobs, colleagues. And I ask you to support the ruling of the regulatory committee on the distribution of our new deputies to the committees, colleagues. Please support our colleagues. I'd like to vote together. I'd like your support, colleagues. Please vote. Let's vote, colleagues. Please vote. I'd like your support, colleagues. [[18:13:36]] For 185 There's no will. Colleagues, another suggestion is that under the reduced procedure, consideration of the second reading of the draft Law on the High Council of Justice. Short cut. There's no such position in the room. Colleagues, thank you. It's been a very hard day. We couldn't move on to the second block: law enforcement. This is because we have considered the full procedure of important laws. We'll take it to the next week. It was an unforgivable, hard day, but thank you all for your hard work. Dear colleagues, I declare the evening meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine closed. Tomorrow at 10 o'clock we'll continue our work. Happy birthday to you. Good-bye.
