ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-09-m0.u1	Good morning, fellow citizens of Ukraine, guests of the Supreme Council! People's deputies, please prepare for registration. Stand by, gather around. Please register. [[10:00:56]] Dear colleagues, the board indicates that 306 national deputies have been registered. The morning session of the plenary of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues, today is the birthday of our dear colleagues, Mrs. Helena Kolganova and Taras Jurik. Let's welcome them, please. We wish for age and health, long years of work for the benefit of Ukraine. [[Applause]] Today, by the way, respected colleagues, International Anti-Corruption Day. And it should be borne in mind that our Parliament has done enough in this calling to form an appropriate legislative framework and create appropriate structures to combat corruption. Let us now wish these structures to start working well. And I inform you that according to our Rules today we are starting our plenary day from the hour of the government report, questions to the government. And in the plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, members of the government are taking part in the meeting with the First Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Mr. Kubi. Please welcome our government, all members of the government. [[Applause]] Dear colleagues! So now we have an hour of questions to the government. And as for today's session, the faction that we have the most questions today and the desire to listen to the Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine and the Minister of Ecology. And that's why I'm announcing the next rule. We now have the Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine, Andrew Reva (15 minutes), the Minister of Ecology, then Ostap Semerak, and then we have 30 minutes to go. We welcome you to our meeting of the Prime Minister of Ukraine, please, Vladimir Groysman. Dear colleagues, we welcome our distinguished Prime Minister. We thank you, Mr. Prime Minister, for joining us today and participating in the "hour of questions to the government." We now give the floor to Andrew Revey (15 minutes), then to Ostap Sererak, and then we will have 30 minutes with you to ask the Prime Minister and all the ministers of the Ukrainian government. Please, Mr. Reva. Mr. Reva, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-09-m0.u2	Dear Mrs. Head, distinguished national MPs! Once, back in Soviet times, there was a popular feature in the media called Back to Printed. When I think about this practice, I want to take advantage of the opportunity to speak from this rostrum, not to mention old times with nostalgia, but to dispel the accumulation of lies and innuendo that have filled our media space lately. It will be about the government's initiative to raise the minimum wage in Ukraine by 3,200 dollars per month, which was sounded by Prime Minister Groisman Volodymyr Borisovic of Ukraine. First of all, I would like to thank the people's deputies who supported the adoption on December 6 of the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to certain Ukrainian legislative acts, which created the conditions for raising the national social security rate to a minimum wage of 3,200 dollars in 2017. With this decision, Parliament has demonstrated an understanding of the needs of the working population and the importance of raising its income. However, there are separate statements that such a decision is premature due to economic possibilities. But there were more than enough reasons for such an initiative. If, in January 2014, the minimum wage ratio and the actual size of the wage were 80.5 percent, I would stress that the actual living minimum in Ukraine was not 50 percent in December 2016. So today, a person who has worked full - time for a minimum wage has not been able to provide even his minimum needs for living. At the same time, if the consumer price index has increased by 200 percent or three years in three years, the minimum wage is only 31 percent, which is also a convincing indication of the need to restore the purchasing power of the minimum wage. According to the calculations to restore the level of 2014, the minimum wage should be 2,000,442 dollars, not to mention its increase. The availability of economic opportunities for recovery at this stage demonstrates a very low average wage ratio and a minimum wage, which was only 27 per cent in October in Ukraine and is expected to be at least 50 per cent in the EU and 60 per cent in the EU. These figures show that the average wage in Ukraine increased by 69 percent between January 2014 and October 2016, while the minimum wage was only 19. It would seem, and what can be debated here at all, since Ukraine has a shameful last place in Europe where we all want it so badly. And among the countries of the former Soviet Union, we are only ahead of Tajikistan for the time being. But as the classic said, if geometric axioms were to affect people’s interests, they too would be denied. And when it comes to the key guarantee of paying millions of Ukrainians, the number of people who want to make up for the obvious is just disappointing. I want to point to objective facts to correct similar myths. First. Unwarranted accusations about the problem of balancing the salaries of qualified and unskilled budget staff after raising the minimum wage to $3,000,200. At the same time, the government reported that when the minimum wage was increased, it was proposed to increase the salary of the staff member of the first tariff level of the single tariff grid to 1,600 dollars, i.e. to the size of the subsistence minimum for working persons. That is, the salary of the staff member of the first tariff level of the single tariff net, compared to today's day, from January 1, 2016, will increase by 44 percent, thus eliminating the gap of 265 sums between this figure and the approved subsistence minimum. By the way, this is the first time in 20 years after the adoption of the Pay for Work Act in Ukraine. For the rest of their lives, the unions struggled to make the first tariff rate rate equal to the minimum wage that was then equal to the subsistence minimum and had never been made. And just now, thanks to your decision, this becomes possible as of January 1, 2017. There will be a corresponding increase in the salaries of budget workers, with an average increase of 50 percent. And you can see on slides that the salaries of budget workers are differentiated, and so the level of pay for workers and workers will vary depending on the level of qualification and complexity of work. In order to increase the salaries of budget workers in the Ukrainian State Budget project for 2017, which you will be looking at in the near future, the provision of, attention, additional funds, compared to 2016, is worth 40 billion dollars, including in the amount of allowances and incentive payments. And so the average salary paid by the regional doctor of the higher category is assigned to the thirteenth level of the single tariff grid is going to be 4 000 940 dollars, a higher poltergeist of about 3 000 960 dollars, because his position is assigned to the tenth tariff grade. Teachers. The level of increase in their pay will further take into account the increase from 1 January of the following year to 2 tariff levels of the single tariff grid. So it's not just about raising wages, it's about moving these people's salaries up to two tariff levels. Thus, the salary paid by the teacher of the higher category, which will be allocated to the 14th grade, will be about 5,000,266 dollars from January 1, 2014, and the teacher, without a category of 3,000,960 dollars. The second, as it were, is that the rise in the minimum wage will result in a high level of inflation. Yesterday, by the way, the National Bank of Ukraine made a statement that, according to their calculations, if this decision was implemented, inflation could increase by one point, one point, to honor. Even the National Bank admitted that this decision did not significantly affect the level of inflation in Ukraine. We argue that under these conditions, this increase in wages will not lead to an increase in consumer prices and services. The left side of the resource is a reduction in shadow not official wages. We all know that much of the wages are paid in envelopes that do not pay the premiums. About 50 percent of employees receive wages of up to 3,000 dollars on paper, which is not based on the structure of economic employment. The name of another number, 47,000 business managers have a salary of 1 thousand 450 dollars, managers, and according to the main accountants, and you can be sure that all their employees do not have an official salary of more than 1 thousand 450 dollars. Nor do we agree that the decision to increase wages will force businesses to transfer their employees to a reduced working week. The government has created sufficient conditions for employers who can raise wages for workers. Thanks to your decision, respected colleagues, the tax burden on the Labour Fund was reduced from 38% to 22% last year, particularly for the EU. This is about an additional resource given to entrepreneurs, 65 billion dollars. So the money for all of this is absolutely there. Including. Thus, we want to address systematically the problem of ensuring the employment rights of citizens and their rights to social protection. Reduce the part of informal employment that is widespread and does not meet European labour standards. What must be done to make it very important? A decision should be made, and it needs to be made, and it needs to be checked. And we believe that it is necessary to improve state control over compliance with labour legislation. The law that has been adopted gives the authority to exercise control over employment and to pay work to the executive boards of cities of regional importance and of the unified territorial communities. That's where shadowy employment is the highest. The city’s head, the city council, is well - acquainted with the work of all the leaders of the construction organizations to which they allocate the land. If they have informal people working on the construction work, it is much easier for them to find owners and make them pay taxes. Moreover, 60 percent of the PDF goes into the local budget. So, then, as the classic put it, the salvation of the sinking ones should be a matter of hands, including the sinking ones themselves. What does the State get out of this? As the number of legal workers increases, contributions will increase, the only social contribution to the Pension Fund, which means it will reduce its deficit, and this will improve the situation for our pensioners. In addition, honourable Members, I would like to point out that in the law approved on December 6, renewed, this is very important, the recalculation of insurance payments to victims of manufacturing. For two years these men, miners, metallurgists, who had lost their health in manufacturing demanded that we renew these payments. Thanks to your decision on December 6, these payments were renewed. As of March 1, 2017, this figure will be renewed for 220,000 victims in production. In addition, since January 1, 2017, payments will be increased for the most vulnerable category of victims of production, those who receive small insurance payments because the calculated earnings amount to less than the minimum wage per 100 per cent of the loss of employment. So they get an extra 100 to 400 dollars respectively. And that's not much, that's not enough -- 65,000 victims. Dear National Deputies! The approval of these changes makes it possible to establish in the State budget for the following year a basic social guarantee in the field of labour of 3,200 dollars, which will have a real impact on the situation of poverty in the country, protect low-income workers and allow other important social reforms to be carried out. I want to point out that we will continue to work to improve the standard of living of our citizens, in particular the level of pension insurance, to establish justice in the accrual of pensions, depending on the length of service and the contributions paid, to modernize the pensions of previous years. The reform in the area of pay will speed up these changes and provide a real opportunity to overcome the deficit of the Ukrainian Pension Fund. I thank you very much for your attention, and I want to thank you again for the important decision you made on December 6th, I think it's a historic decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-09-m0.u3	Mr. Secretary, we thank you for such a thorough report and clarification, all the more so, on the eve of parliamentary voting for the 2017 budget. I think you'll have a lot of questions from our colleagues. But now, please, please, our distinguished Minister of Ecology, Ostap Semerak, for his report. And then we'll be able to ask questions with you about the entire composition of the government. Please, Ostap Mikhailovich. Please, you have 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-09-m0.u4	Good day, distinguished national MPs, honorable Presidium. Today, I wanted to dedicate information and fight the garbage dumps that exist in Ukraine. In Ukraine, more than 30,000 garbage dumps, but where they are and what morphology has been left on them, no one has been aware or interested in the last 25 years. For the Ministry of Ecology, the solution to the garbage issue is fundamental, since waste management, storage, and treatment of household waste is primarily detrimental to the environment and the health of citizens. It is for these reasons that, at the direction of the Prime Minister of Ukraine and the Cabinet of Ministers, we have begun to inventory all garbage dumps in Ukraine. Today, we demand that local authorities expand their information on waste disposal sites. As of today, we know about the official six thousand 153 garbage dumps. But we need to understand that this figure is quite incomplete because it's only about garbage dumps that are attached to geocoordinates and where we understand the morphology of this garbage, the filling of these garbage dumps. Regrettably, no area has been properly addressed today. The difference between 30,000 garbage dumps and six thousand identified ones is, in fact, the state of implementation of the Ukrainian Cabinet of Ministers' regional administrations. I'd say the regions have managed to do this kind of weak assessment of "sufficient." I would like to say that Odessa, the Hersonian region, and the city of Kiev have not been able to provide any information about organized or unorganized garbage dumps in six months. We don't get that result. In places where I believed, the government’s mandate was not accepted and not all the garbage dumps were reported. Of course, the paper doesn't blush and endure any kind of information, you can draw any numbers, but the objective reality is different. With the natural garbage dumps, which are in the most unexpected places, and you, the distinguished national deputies who travel your districts, see this information every time you travel to the county. There's a lot of explanation why garbage and now there's not enough technology, there's no weather, there's no resources, there's no technology or equipment to determine its coordinates whether there's any other reason. But the real reason is different, and we understand that. And I would like to remind these people that Ukraine has chosen a decentralization course. And garbage at the front of your own house is primarily the responsibility of local authorities and the community. The total cost of environmental taxes — over 1 billion dollars in 2016 — remained in local budgets and unfortunately were not used for these needs. Renovation of schools and kindergartens for these costs is, of course, good and necessary and many national deputies raise such issues, but waste, such as household waste, is no less a social problem. Just wait till someone comes from Kiev, solves this problem, cleans up the trash in your territories. And what's more, the garbage doesn't dissolve in itself, in time in the air, it actually poisons nature and poisons the environment we live in. And it has a negative effect on those who are being treated in rehabilitated hospitals. Once again, the Minn-Natures are ready to be a sidekick in this story. To get this process out of place, we've created an interactive service called ecomapa.gov.ua, which is on our Ministry's website, and you can find it on the Internet. Citizens were added to this process. But it works very effectively with the equivalent contribution of three participants: central authority, local authority, and, of course, communities. Now you see on the screen a situation that looks like. What a garbage map of Ukraine really looks like. It's completely red, and there's no living space in it. Therefore, we can speak boldly of Ukraine’s sinking in the garbage. I want to report on the work of this interactive map. All the references we received in three months of interactive service work were sent to local self-government authorities for further response. The citizens of Ukraine came to meet us and joined us in the fight against garbage dumps. They are daily via the website of the interactive map and mobile apps that can be loaded on all mobile devices, transmit information that is processed by the Ministry of Nature and directed to the appropriate district government administrations and the State Environmental Inspectorate. Dry statistics. In three months of online service, we received more than 500 requests from citizens about garbage dumps, from which the local authorities eliminated only 17 percent. In places we're promised that garbage dumps will be completely eliminated, that they're constantly engaged, but in fact we see full sabotage of this work. Let's look at the slides. The most active were the work of the Mikolai district, the Donetsk district administration. Kyivsky, Kharkivska, Vinnicka, Dnipropetrovska, but frankly, that's not enough. 199 responses to areas of seemingly timely resolution were rejected by citizens, i.e. citizens did not confirm what local authorities were doing. Not good enough statistics. Citizens’ appeals by local authorities are simply ignored. Their disappointments are understandable. Conclusion one: Local authorities, local authorities, ignore their direct duties and violate Ukrainian legislation, which clearly defines their area of responsibility in this direction. Today I report to Parliament, as each of the national MPs represents Ukrainian citizens and represents a certain territorial community and district. And I ask you, honourable national deputies, to support the work of the Cabinet of Ministers, which is aimed at combating organised and unorganized garbage dumps. Your help is very important. Individually from the Supreme Council’s rostrum, I would like to contact the district leaders and ask them to take the lead in getting involved in the work. Because the question of garbage dumps is, first of all, their responsibility, first of all, their work, and the improper performance of their duties usually leads to the kind of red card that we see. Finally, I would also like to address the citizens of Ukraine. In fact, we are the enemies of our nature. We are the ones who embezzle the environment, who do not properly remove garbage, and the limit on nature’s trust in us is limited. The solutions are, of course, two of these. Either we activate our work and clean up Ukraine and the territory of our territorial communities, or together we're all going to sink into these wastes. So I urge each of us, every Ukrainian, to become actively involved in the work and clean up the country of garbage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-09-m0.u5	Thank you, Your Honor, for a very timely presentation, a timely report. And it should be borne in mind that the government today has made very, very timely presentations. Dear colleagues, our ministers have saved 10 minutes in their speeches for answers. And so we're going to have 40 minutes to ask and answer the Prime Minister of Ukraine and the ministers. I'm announcing a question to our esteemed Ukrainian government. Please sign up, your honors. Dear colleagues! I ask everyone to move away from the government's bed, because the government has to focus on the questions that our deputies will ask. And the first question, please, is from the Peter Prashenko faction of the People's Deputy of Sugonjako. Turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-09-m0.u6	Please pass the word to Yuri Solov.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-09-m0.u7	Please, Mr. Solovay.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-09-m0.u8	Yuri Solovay, 89 constituency, Gutzulščina, and Pocust. Dear Vladimir Borisovich, we've talked about this before at the faction. I fully support the government's initiatives to increase the minimum wage, to substantially increase the average wage in the budget sector, especially in the education sector. But in addition, I would like to draw your attention once again to the disproportionate distribution of budgetary support grants, particularly in mountain areas. Because a clear approach to school, for example, in the mountain village of Biloberazka and the city of Kiev, cannot be accepted. So I ask you once again to pay attention to this issue, to review and review the size of the basic grant to maintain budgetary institutions in mountain settlements. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-09-m0.u9	Please, Mr. Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-09-m0.u10	Thank you, Your Honor Irina Volodymyr. Thank you to the distinguished national MP for asking. We've really talked about this. And that question needs to be settled. I've given a mandate to the Ministry of Finance in the second reading and the entire budget to take this matter into account. So the mountains need special attention, because there are distances, and there are many specifics that need to be taken into account. There is a definite understanding in government of this matter. So the inhabitants of the mountains can be absolutely calm, we'll go very carefully on this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-09-m0.u11	Thank you. Please, People's Deputies from Peter Dusty's Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-09-m0.u12	Please hand over Victoria the Bird.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-09-m0.u13	Please, Mrs. Bird.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-09-m0.u14	Thank you. Victoria Pteshnik, head of the DemAlians Party. I have a question for the Minister of Economics. Mr. Stepan Ivanovich, in February 2017, representatives of the Cabinet of Ministers will go to Washington to report on the so-called "301 list" on the implementation of the commitments we have made, and I remind you: first, the fight against Internet piracy, second, the adoption of legislation on collective governance and third, the legalisation of software in public bodies. I want to ask you, what is the Cabinet of Ministers planning to do to go to Washington and how is it going to protect our Ukrainian producers who might be deprived of the possibility of importing goods duty-free into the United States if we go back to that category of "list 301" for failing to meet our commitments?
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-09-m0.u15	Please, Mr. Kubi.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-09-m0.u16	That's a very good question. This problem has not matured in the last six months of our government’s operation, but it has been a problem for 25 years. The government did the first: it approved the strategy of reforming intellectual property and securing the base. The other one. This is the question that you've been discussing, and at a joint meeting of the community of lawyers in Lviv, Kharkiv, and 26 of us are going to Odessa. The summary will be followed by a meeting of the Committee of the Supreme Council, which is interested in solving the problem. And the main thing. Until now, we have properly prepared documents that should be expressed by the end of December either in appropriate regulations, if possible, or at the level of draft laws that will be submitted by the Supreme Hall. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-09-m0.u17	Thank you. Please, from the Rebirth Group, Ilyuk, the People's Question.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-09-m0.u18	Artem Ilyuk, the Renaissance Party, the city of Nikolayev. I have a question for Prime Minister Vladimir Borisovich. Last plenary week, we asked you a question about the Nikolai company Zora-Mashprojekt and the situation there with the tender. During this time, Naftogaz cancelled the bids for the modernization of the GTS, and the Nikolai plant loses billions of bracelets on preliminary calculations. I have a question: who is responsible for this, what should I do to get the Nikolai enterprise loaded? And you promised to take this matter to personal control. So I'm asking you from all of the Nikolai people to take this issue for control and develop a plan for loading the Nikolai company Zori-Mashprojekt. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-09-m0.u19	Please, Mr. Groissman.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-09-m0.u20	Thank you so much for your question. In fact, it is extremely important for us to load our industrial enterprises with real work. But it's a question of the host subjects, according to the factory you're talking about, including Ukrattransgazu and Naftogaz Ukraine. All procedures were carried out. But Naftogaz has made another decision on this subject, this is their sovereign right. Now, as I'm informed, they're studying relevance in terms of the fact that there are problems in the south today, I'd say. Today, they will probably look at the technical needs of the system itself and announce a new tender accordingly. It's going to mean that a certain period of time, actually, it's going to take a while. But as a result, I think we can talk again about a new tender for new technical solutions, and the enterprise, in particular, that you said would be able to participate in this process in a very transparent way. Thank you for asking.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-09-m0.u21	Thank you. Now the question from the Radical Party is Oleg Lazko. Please, Mr. Oleg.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-09-m0.u22	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. I have a question for the Prime Minister. The Radical Party's faction over the past two and a half years has sought and convinced all governments that it is necessary to raise wages radically. Anyone who thinks double the minimum wage is bad can only think of it as people who don't know how most Ukrainian citizens live because they count every single penny. And if someone says 1,600 bucks is good and 3,200 is bad, they should live on the 1,600 bucks. We feel that the decision is right, but it is not enough. I would like to tell you, Mr. Prime Minister, that in Ukraine half a million pensioners who receive a pension of less than 1,000 dollars are 947 dollars. How Can I Live on This Retirement? We're asking you to support our initiative and set up a pension for these categories of pensioners at the same level as the minimum of living -- 1,600 dollars -- and index it to the inflation index for all Ukrainian pensioners. So that they can at least buy a cure.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-09-m0.u23	Thank you, Mr. Oleg. Please, Vladimir Borisovich, your answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-09-m0.u24	Thank you for your question, Oleg Valeriovich. You know, I went to Ternopilla yesterday and met people on the productions and on the street. And when we were communicating and talking about the minimum wage of 3,000 200, they asked me why not everyone was supporting it. You know, and I didn't have an answer to that question. I don't know why only 227 Ukrainian national MPs in this room who were in the voting room didn't support the decision to raise the Ukrainian people's minimum wage of $3,000.200. I have no answer to that question. And then I want to thank all the deputies, "Peter Prashenko's Block", "The People's Front", and the Radical Party, all the people's deputies who were in the Hall at that time. It was a few votes from the "Rebirth Party," "The Will of the People," non-fractional national MPs, where you can see it. They actually made and made decisions, and they opened the way for Ukrainian citizens to get at least 3,000, 200 dollars of wages on January 1. And when I hear from a lot of sources that some people start spreading information that that's not going to happen, friends, what will you say in February when people in Ukraine get a salary of at least 3,000, 200 dollars will be counted, what will you tell people that you lied to them? I believe that such things should only unite us, regardless of our political affiliation. As far as minimum pensions are concerned. I totally agree that 949 bracelets is a huge problem, a challenge for us, for all of us. But where did these people come from without a job? These include the victims of hidden unemployment, which has reigned for decades in our country. And that's why what we're doing right now, together with you, we're getting out of the shadows, we're doing the childishization of wages, we're increasing the responsibility. It means that those people who get at least 3,000 200 from January 1st will already be counted from that amount to the Pension Fund, and will be able to apply for retirement. As far as minimum wage is concerned. In fact, it was 1 thousand 450, almost all of 2016, it was only 1 December that we raised and also thank the MPs for supporting the government's initiative and changing the law by 1 thousand 600, and from 1 January it will be 3 thousand 200. And what's going on with the drugs. We have adopted all necessary regulatory frameworks to ensure that the prices of medicines in the country are fair, no greater than those in our neighbouring countries. We have 30, 40, 50 percent or more in Ukraine than in Poland. The question why? And I can't give it either, because it was speculated on, it was made by hundreds of millions and billions, and people had to pay for it because they didn't have an alternative. And today, the government's decision to limit price formation is fair, reference pricing, will allow every honest company involved in drugs to lower prices by three types of drugs on 1 January. And one more thing. We've been implementing since April 1st, and I'm also asking the people's deputies to support all the budget-related laws because this budget has been set up so far for the beginning of 500 million, but we're going to fund this program 100%, 500 million for reimbursation, compensation for the cost of drugs for people with hypertension, bronchial asthma and second-type diabetes. This will mean that these chronic state patients will receive targeted support, and we will have the opportunity, I'm sure, to reduce mortality in Ukraine. 65 percent of Ukrainians die of cardiovascular disease, and our job is to help solve this problem. As far as pensions are concerned. We're working on it. And it's only a question of the cost, of the resource. I also have a hard question about when a person gets 949 dollars, and it hurts me to ask when a person gets a thousand 600 dollars of pension. This is also a huge problem. But we have to remember that we have the 156 - billion - dollar pension fund with you. This means that we have to overcome the deficit and in parallel raise the corresponding pension. This is a very difficult task. But I want to assure you, my fellow countrymen, I want to assure all the Ukrainians, all the pensioners, we think about this every day. Once we have the slightest opportunity to do so, we will not even think about it; we will do so immediately. And this will be our joint decision: the Ukrainian Parliament and those who are concerned and the Ukrainian government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-09-m0.u25	Thank you, Mr. Prime Minister. I would like to inform a colleague that this "hour of questions to the government" is now being followed by children, schoolchildren from Yasinautsk, Marinsk and Volnowsk regions of Donetsk. We're so glad to see you. And we want to say that it's a good tradition when future deputies, future government officials, future regional authorities come to visit us. And now we're going to continue with you "an hour of questions to the government." Such a good European tradition, when deputies, you see, may ask questions to the government. And please, Mr. Kisse, the Rebirth Group.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-09-m0.u26	I have a question for the Prime Minister. Dear Vladimir Borisovich. Vladimir Borisovich, first of all, I want to thank you very much for the fact that it is the Kabmin you are leading that has indeed begun to deal specifically with the roads. Today, much work has been done on the Odessa-Reni road, and bridges have been reconstructed. But at the same time, I would like to ask you convincingly to travel to Odessa-Reni, in particular Tarutino, to keep the work going. It needs a small sum. The area is allocated, I think the Tarutins deserve to link the district center to the district. And lastly, the most important question is weight. If we don't get the weights on the Odessa-Reni route, the work that you and all of us are doing, it's going to go down. I would like to request an urgent order to place weights on the Odessa-Reni route, where they have already been made.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-09-m0.u27	Thank you. Will the Prime Minister or the Prime Minister answer? Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-09-m0.u28	I'll answer that. Thank you, Anatoly Ivanovich, for your question and concern about the region. We started a major building on the Odessa-Rani road this year, we're going to finish it, this is the construction of this road. As far as funding is concerned, obviously everything we could have done this year, we would have done, we would have done. This is one of the priority projects for 2017. In 2017, we will continue to build the Odessa-Rani road. As for the weight complexes, I want to assure you that for the next season we have already made the necessary purchases. 78 complexes will be purchased and, in particular, on such highways will be installed to ensure that heavyweights do not destroy our work. Because doing, restoring roads is good, but they still need to be properly exploited to serve people for many decades. So this is a question in our perspective, and we will continue to build this road. There's no problem with that. I can say that if our government hadn't focused on this road and started building it, it wouldn't have been restored in any way to this day. That's why we're working, the VP's working on this, and everything's going to be fine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-09-m0.u29	Thank you. Next question from Mr. Timish's esteemed colleague from Peter Dustenk's Block, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-09-m0.u30	Thank you. Please give the word to the colleague of Souslow Irina.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-09-m0.u31	Please, Suslova Irina.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-09-m0.u32	Thank you. Mr. Prime Minister, there are two questions. First question. What is the state of affairs with regard to the purchase of drugs through international organizations next year? Will citizens be provided with medicines for the following year and vaccines, including vaccines? The second question. The Russians began to tell the story that in connection with the cold winter in Ukraine, energy carriers were not enough to pass through the winter. This subject was also found in the Ukrainian press. Please tell me, is that true or not? Will the Ukrainians be provided with energy? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-09-m0.u33	Thank you for asking. As for the purchase of drugs, we have taken the purchase issue seriously enough. In 2016, we actually completed all the procedures that were implemented and actually got the supply of drugs. In 2017, we're predicting 5.9 billion dollars that we're going to send for the care and treatment of the sick, well, the hospital patients. By delivery, what we have today, we have 100 percent TB tests, it's UNV, child oncology -- 95 percent of the security, now adult oncology 99 percent, HIV tests 100 percent, orphan disease -- 100 percent, HlV, we bought almost 100 percent through UNICEF. The UNICEF vaccines we've been buying, 94 percent are already collateral, but we saved $4 million on these purchases, sorry, $3 million. Just imagine the corruption involved in the purchase of drugs. We will continue to purchase through international organizations for the next year. This only means that public procurement is competitive, and every bracelet that's going to be sent there is going to be used perfectly effectively. Not because of any schemes, not because of any intermediaries, but because of international organizations with both experience and authority, and they are absolutely open. Thank you for asking. As far as energy is concerned. The situation is perfectly normal in terms of both gas reserves and other energy resources. We're totally in a state-of-the-art mode. And that's why it's a panic. Well, it's basically our enemies. Well, let them roll, and we'll work and live normally. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-09-m0.u34	Thank you. Please ask the following question from the national deputy Kuril.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-09-m0.u35	Dear Volodymyr Borisovich! Dear members of the government! Two short questions. Already the whole world knows about the problem of water supply to the occupied Lugansk region and the cost of water. So, Volodymyr Borisovich, there are problems in our area, apart from what is not paid. They are primarily linked to the Luhansk Energy Union. I'm asking you to create an interdisciplinary commission and solve the problems that are there, because today, first of all, budget organizations are suffering from power cuts. I think it all depends, first of all, on government issues that can be resolved. And the specific question of the Minister of Social Policy of Reva. Please tell me if you have already found a pay-as-you-go mechanism for students.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-09-m0.u36	Ten seconds, complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-09-m0.u37	Social scholarship fees for students from January 1, 2017. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-09-m0.u38	Please answer the second question first, Mr. Reva. And for the first time, please identify the government that will answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-09-m0.u39	Dear People's Deputy Mr. Kurilo! In order to launch this mechanism, a decision of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine must be adopted to regulate the payment of social scholarships from 1 January 2017. The work on developing such a document is now ongoing. I am absolutely confident that by January 1, this mechanism will be approved by the government.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-09-m0.u40	As for the debts, Mr. Prime Minister, who will answer from the government? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-09-m0.u41	I'll give you an answer. If you remember, we already had a catastrophic problem with Leo. And that's when we decided, we've blown up this question and we've done all we can to make the calculations. Now it's the same position. Once again, they collect debts, they don't pay a penny, and that's the problem. This problem is in our perspective, we're now looking for options, how we solved it. But once again, I point out that we have solved this issue once and for all. Then it starts to accumulate again. Thank you for asking.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-09-m0.u42	Thank you. Please, Commissioner Medunica of the People's Front, your question.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-09-m0.u43	Dear Volodymyr Borisovich, I have two questions for you. Question one, yesterday the Supreme Council failed the Law on Special Confiscation, which is budgetary. This is an initiative that we have given birth to, "National Frontiers." Please give us some clarification as to what we will do next and how we will balance the revenue of the state budget. Question two, not just from me, but from all the voters in my district of Suma. This is a question related to the annulment of the Naftogaz tender for WAT SMART, which has just been asked. But there are only one billion Santa Clauses, and 3 billion, three quarters of the order is a sum of machine builders, where five months is now owed a salary. I'm asking you to settle this question. What's more, I want you to gather a big meeting with yourself, call the bricks of all the machinery companies: Naftogaz, Crushing, Energoatom, to figure out how to load our enterprise.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-09-m0.u44	Please, Mr. Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-09-m0.u45	Thank you for asking. As far as the seizure is concerned. Friends, one and a half billion dollars, found stolen, arrested. We never thought with you that someone could steal a hundred and fifty billion dollars completely insolently. And that's why it needs to be settled by law right now. So we can get these funds back to where they were stolen. And they were stolen in the state budget, in the citizens of Ukraine. And it is our duty to be holy. And when I hear it here, some people say that they're willing to support it when the corruption factors in this law are dressed up, so what are the corruption factors? How about the other way around? They don't vote because there's no corruption? Or maybe they don't vote because they promised not to vote? Or do they support those who want to take the money out of the budget and take it out of the country? I have a question. And I have the answers to these questions. So I think it's a matter of honour for the Ukrainian Parliament, for the Ukrainian government to return the money that was stolen to the state budget. These funds are to serve Ukraine and the Ukrainians. Second position. The government of Ukraine has drafted a law that allows the issue to be settled. If the Ukrainian Parliament believes that this law should be amended or supplemented, please do not deny it. We are interested in the restoration of justice in an absolutely legal way. That's why we supported and supported, and we think we need to vote on this law as quickly as possible and get the money back into the state budget. Next position on the tender. I talked about it, it's a tender between two host entities. This is Naftogaz and Ukrattransgas, who launched a tender for the appropriate equipment for the gas transport system. In view of the fact that the south direction, and they just announced it, is now not as promising, it is necessary to change the technical, it gives me an explanation, the technical parameters of this equipment, and to modernize a little differently. It takes time, it needs proper adjustments. So I understand that Naftogaz intends to adjust its technical tasks, to put them, again, in a transparent way through the ProZorro tender. And all of Ukraine's machinery companies can participate in this tender, offer quality conditions, win and work on strengthening the work, strengthening the gas transport system itself. Thank you for asking.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-09-m0.u46	Thank you. Please, National Deputy Illenko, non-fractional.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-09-m0.u47	Andrew Illenko, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. I have two questions. First. What is the situation and the situation with the Deputy Justice Minister, such as Petuhov, whether he is released for statements he has allowed himself that Ukraine, in order to be liked abroad, must accept illegal migrants from the European Union in exchange for what. And the second question is the same, because it's interesting who is protecting either Ukrainian national interests or someone else's foreign interests, when representatives of the Ukrainian government have repeatedly claimed that the Supreme Council should abolish the moratorium on the exit from Ukraine of the roundwood forest, thereby transforming Ukraine into a raw colony, destroying, in fact, the production that we have to protect today, not to protect foreign production. Actually, these are two questions to understand whose interests Ukrainian officials are protecting.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-09-m0.u48	Thank you for your questions. First. This is not the position of the Ukrainian government with regard to migrants. Our position is perfectly clear and clear: we do not support such initiatives. That's the first one. Second position on government policy. In our activities, we come only out of the national interests of our nation. We believe that domestic production needs to be developed in Ukraine. We believe that Ukraine must fully comply with its international obligations. And we think we need to move away from the raw type of economy. Ukraine is not a woodchopper. Ukraine is a country where a competitive and quality national product is to be created. And this product has to conquer international markets. Thank you for your questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-09-m0.u49	Thank you, Mr. Prime Minister. Please, Matthew, a national MP. He's referring the right to a question to the national MP, Krivenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-09-m0.u50	Volodymyr Borisovich, I have listened to your position on the holding fund and I want to support it. We are about to end the destruction of the Herson cotton combination. Instead of supporting an investor who is willing to invest money that is a profile player in this market for more than 15 years, where more than 400 people are working, who take out guarantees after the business is restored, they are completely throwing this enterprise into liquidation. There'll be a cassation complaint, there'll be a cassation at the end of December. Asking for personal control of the question of the preservation of the Herson cotton combination. Next. There's ABBY. It is the only company that has come across the Ukrainian government and has legalized with huge discounts its software products that stand on every computer in the government. And we haven't given them five million dollars in three years. They're starting to judge us. The request is a matter for resolution. Minfin is "for", Mineconomy is "for", request is appropriate. And the last. There's a Ljubljana mine that's ready to be created, and 3,000 jobs for high-value miners with wealth.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-09-m0.u51	Please. Just a lot of people who want to ask questions. Mr. Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-09-m0.u52	Dear Mr. Victor, this question you're asking is absolutely correct. The government is now creating conditions for an investment climate. When we're talking about these businesses that you called about, please make suggestions, I'm willing to meet with investors literally on Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, the more non-sessional week. And then publicly answer the specific question that, first, it doesn't have to be lobby, secondly, it doesn't have to be corrupt, and thirdly, the investment has to be transparent, public, with the names of the firms you're proposing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-09-m0.u53	"ABBY." ABBY Software Company.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-09-m0.u54	We're talking about legalization software, it's supposed to be in line with actual legislation.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-09-m0.u55	Thank you, Prime Minister. And now the National Deputy Boyko is handing over the right to a question to his colleague Gusak. Vladimir Gooseka.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-09-m0.u56	Questions to the Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine and questions about the activities of the Railroads. Dear Vladimir Volodymyrovich! When the Transport Committee met with the new leadership of the Crucifixions, it looked at the results of the work, and there were more questions than answers. When the new RPG management replaced the job, they promised to overcome corruption, at the expense of more effective management, to cut costs by 10 percent or 7 billion dollars. Instead, we just have a breakdown in September's shipments because the Cruise Station couldn't buy fuel, and this failure cost Ukraine hundreds of millions of dollars. And I've got a question for you. Is the transport situation improving? Did the first results come from the improvement of the operations of the Railroads? And are these results planned next year?
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-09-m0.u57	Please turn on the microphone, Mr. Omelyan.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-09-m0.u58	Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your questions. So on Wednesday, on the Transport Committee, we looked at, let's say, the midterms of the work of the new Congressional Government. This discussion was resumed at the Ministry of Infrastructure yesterday, and in a week, I hope it will be completed with respect to the 2017 fin plan. Some elements of improvement are regarding the transport of coal when the situation of excess has been stabilized. At the same time, all other things need, of course, further development. And I hope that we can end this discussion at the level of the Cabinet of Ministers and give a clear development plan. As of today, the U.S. government has already given its vision of the development strategy of the U.S. Railroad for five years. It also needs proper work, and I hope we can give you a comprehensive answer by the end of the year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-09-m0.u59	Thank you. Turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-09-m0.u60	I'm just going to add, I'm just going to add, you know, "The Railroads." In order to understand why such a failure took place in September, we need to see what happened to the Crucifixion for a decade. And if you look at why there was a fuel failure, you also have to look at how the tenders were conducted and at what prices were purchased for the Crucifixion Fuel. This is what we need to develop and put an enterprise on completely normal public and normal activity, and it's a matter of management, directly to the company's management. As far as the wagons are concerned. Next year we plan to build new ones. 9,000 cars, repair 14. The strategy, which is designed for five years, foresees a complete and full and capital recovery of the fleet, of the fleet, and of the moving warehouse, and of the energy, that is, all that is necessary for the normal operation of our beautiful company, the Cruise. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-09-m0.u61	Please, Gennady Tchakouk, your question.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-09-m0.u62	Congratulations, Prime Minister. I have a question. In this room, one of the political forces, to thank God, she was small, said that the gas for the population had begun to sell 9,000,400 dollars. Can you confirm or refute this information?
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-09-m0.u63	First of all, my reaction is this: complete nonsense, complete. The marginal price of gas in Ukraine is equal to the import parity, which is equal to 6,000 879 dollars, which is the upper limit. If someone, even in a small fraction, has a cheaper gas, please kindly correct it for Ukrainian citizens. There's this expression, well, I'll rephrase it: "To talk about work and to do work is two different things." Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-09-m0.u64	Please, a question from the national MP Dirov from the People's Front.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-09-m0.u65	I'm sorry. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-09-m0.u66	He conveys the word, the right to the question of Crimson. I see, yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-09-m0.u67	Thank you. Good afternoon, fellow officers, good afternoon, Mr. Prime Minister, distinguished officials! There's literally a few questions, but they actually relate to the same topic as the environment. Volodymyr Borisovich, to you the question, I know that it has been stated that an initiative group is going to work on forest farming testing, to this day, I just don't know whether it was going to work or not, or not, please let me know how, or is there, an appropriate job in the field? And the second. I would like to pay attention not only to government officials, but to all the national MPs that we have now registered Bill 5494 on the issue of electric cars. I'd like to hear the position of the Ministry of Transport because I know they're very active in supporting the initiative in Ukraine at all. What is the situation with regard to the questions in this area? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-09-m0.u68	Please, Prime Minister, and then Minister of Transport.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-09-m0.u69	Thank you very much. In fact, such a group is organized by order of the minister. If you have to raise the level, and I'm willing to do it. I asked our colleague, National Deputy Ostap Ednak, to be the co-chair of this group. I don't know if she's already met this task force, but I've been expecting some work from them. I'd like to ask you to join in this work because it's important. You know, the government has now created such an interactive resource, where you can absolutely see the real state of affairs in the forest economy. What's more, I realize that we have a lot of abuse in this direction, and we're working on it today. Including I know that there are, especially in western Ukraine, enough serious warnings regarding forest smuggling across the border of our country. We're also dealing with this issue. I think we're going to do everything we can to stop any technical possibility, even the possibility of smuggling from Ukraine abroad. In principle, we understand where this is already happening, and we are now working very seriously on this issue so that it does not happen. This is our task, and if you want to, join the group itself. We've done a lot of things about abuse, but it's just the beginning, there's still a lot of, a lot of challenges. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-09-m0.u70	Please, Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-09-m0.u71	A distinguished national MP, thank you for your question. Yeah, I'm pretty sure electric cars are the future that we have today. The Ministry of Infrastructure is working on a package of measures, including a bill that we consider appropriate to consider first and to stimulate imports. Second, and this is equivalent to the first point in the development of Ukrainian electricity production. Thirdly, to assess the environmental impact, on the environment, on the further restoration of such batteries, and this will clearly have a positive impact on the country's energy balance when we give up imported expensive energy and move on to domestic electricity consumption. This round table and finalization of this supply package will take place on December 22 at the Ministry of Infrastructure. We invite everyone to the discussion, first of all, the national MPs, of course. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-09-m0.u72	Thank you. People’s MP Papiew refers the right to a question to his colleague, Mr. Dudenkov. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-09-m0.u73	Thank you. Some representatives of factions who voted in favour of Bill 5130 would like to speak. And who say that they have raised the minimum wage and saved the population from extinction and hunger, would like to break up a few myths. First, Bill 5130 does not raise the minimum wage. Both the subsistence minimum and the minimum wage are increased by the State Budget Act, which has not yet been voted on in the Supreme Council. Bill 5130 provides for the extension of the retention mechanism of 15 per cent of retired workers, in fact, a lowering tax. No salary is paid to civil servants, no pension is paid to retirees. Most importantly, amendments are being made to the Pension Insurance Act, where the indexation of the pension will not automatically take place due to the increase in the average wage of the minimum and will be increased manually by the decision of Kabmin. That is why the opposition bloc faction did not support these destructive anti-social laws.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-09-m0.u74	I understand that this is a question for Mr. Reva. Please turn on the minister's microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-09-m0.u75	Dear Mr. Dludenkov, I have applied to the media, and now I have to ask for an analogy to our respected films of the past, that everything is gone, that plaster is taken and the client is gone. That sounds about the same in your statement right now. Sorry for the assessment. You personally requested amendments to Act 5130. And these changes have been reflected in this law that you are now criticizing. Secondly, to say that this law has nothing to do with raising the minimum wage is at least unfair. Because you know very well that in this law seven laws have been amended to raise the minimum wage. And the last thing I want to say. We have provided for this law for all aspects related to the increase in minimum wage. Because without this law, it is impossible to raise the minimum wage in Ukraine. If we did not accept it, the question of the State budget would simply not be today. And the last. The norms that you are talking about are those that were in the laws adopted earlier by the Supreme Council. And if you don't know, I do. I'm so sorry. If you have any further questions under this law, I am ready to answer, including your faction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-09-m0.u76	Thank you. I understand that the minister is ready to come to the faction meetings. We don't have the opportunity to debate about it. There's no way to debate, it's a question of answers. Dear colleagues, there's one flaw in the Presidium, you can't sign up for a question, but there are questions in the Presidium. So I'm happy to pass on the final question, the right to him, to my esteemed colleague, Mrs. Vice Speaker Oksani Siroid. Please, Mrs. Oksana.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-09-m0.u77	Thank you. I have a question and a comment to make. A question to the Deputy Prime Minister. Mr. Deputy Prime Minister of Cuba, First Deputy Prime Minister of Cuba, I would like to ask you why the Minister and the Ministry are hiding the list of contracts under which the actual defense orders are made. I'm sure and we're all convinced that the state needs to know who the people who do these contracts are and what they're doing under these contracts. And the second question, or, more faithfully, the Prime Minister's comment. Mr. Prime Minister, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the changes that today relate to medical and educational subsidies, the changes to the Budget Code, are discriminatory because the function of education and the function of medicine is not decentralized. And if you translate this into local budgets, it will inevitably lead to a difference in the quality of these services. This situation needs to be rectified immediately and not allowed to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-09-m0.u78	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-09-m0.u79	Thank you. One minute, if you'll excuse me. An emphatic question, Reverend Oksana Ivanovna. What exactly do you mean: discrimination on education subsidies, health care – what does this mean?
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-09-m0.u80	This applies to changes that are intended to be financed by subsidies only by science and education workers, on the basis of educational subsidies, and by others. financing everything. I'll pay for the work of technical workers, utility services.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-09-m0.u81	Thank you, thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-09-m0.u82	Capital expenditure will be financed from the local budget. This will inevitably lead to discrimination. We can't let that happen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-09-m0.u83	Dear Oksana Ivanovna, the Honourable Deputy Head of the Supreme Council! I'll speak to you as a lawyer, but as a lawyer. The Ministry is transparent in the use of economics, and as far as defense orders are concerned, we're shaping politics, we're not making any contracts. Contracts are concluded by the Ministry of Defense. That's the first one. The other one. We are not the subject of farming. And the third. I know that your request, which I personally wrote down, I know that for two weeks four workers and a large volume worked, gave you the documentation we had. With regard to protection orders and conclusions, regarding the disclosure of information, you can obtain information from the host subject, and with regard to the formation of politics, the ministry is ready to ask you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-09-m0.u84	Please answer the question. And a closing word to the Honourable Prime Minister of Ukraine. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-09-m0.u85	Thank you, Your Honor Irina Volodymyr. I would be happy to answer that question. The issue is paid for housing services by budgetary institutions — educational institutions, health institutions. These funds used to pay the State budget, and it may be said that in the old system it was possible to do so objectively because the local budgets did not have their own revenue, and they were all deeply subsidized and stagnant. We changed the system in 2015, and I think. And I'm one of the authors of this system that has enabled us to feel the benefits of financial decentralization right now. But if we look at the authority of our state and locals, we'll realize that the funds at the local level are given in the form of tools, and the authority under these funds is not. So if we look at the structure that the school belongs to today, the school building? Municipalities. Who owns the heat? Municipalities, 90 percent of cases. Who pays for these services? State. So we pay for them to produce heat at their company, local authorities, put it in a hospital, then take state funds from that hospital, and make a profit. And somewhere, energy conservation motivation, can you tell me? And I can't see because. I'm speaking as mayor, I've worked as a mayor for eight years, and I realize that it's a responsibility not only to make money, but also to spend it. Next, if we're going to do the power engineering, who's the caterer? The beneficiary is the local budget. If he invests in warming, in modernization and so on, it reduces energy consumption, which means that his budget will have less spending on it, which means more income. So we decided that the money we spent on the heat utility would be spent on raising the salary of the teacher and the doctor. Local budgets today have enough resources to pay for residential services. So what do we have to take away from people and pay for it? And now for the results of financial decentralization, my friends. I can tell you this from one city to the next. And in principle, we understand that these are mostly big cities or small cities that have centralized security. So let's see, your honor, that in just 11 months, budgets have already been implemented by 104.1 percent, once. They're increased by 44 billion dollars, two. The cost of local budgets is sometimes, unfortunately, tens of billions of dollars in bank accounts under interest. And what's more, you and I made a decision when 60 percent of the PDF, 60 percent! We transferred 60 percent of the income tax immediately to the premises. Then we left 15 percent in the fields. And only 25 percent were taken into the state budget. So in fact, 75 percent are in place today. We've given communities the opportunity to develop today. And it's going to be a completely energy-energizing, energy-efficient and saved step for the local budgets. As a mayor, I can say that this is a perfectly right approach to both responsibility and financial instruments. Schools and hospitals need to be warmed up, modernized. And this is the task of the local authorities to which this property belongs. I understand that I asked one of the mayors yesterday, "How do you feel about that?" He answered me quite honestly. He says, "Well, you know how? This is going to be an extra cost for us. From this point of view, negative. But basically I absolutely support it, in principle it's the right decision. Because we've got the same pro today." So our job is to make the right and responsible decisions. And it doesn't have any effect on manual control anymore. We also took care of communities that may have problems at the district level or united tergroas. And we've put 14.9 billion dollars with you to support these communities if there's any problem with housing services. And we'll support them. But we will know exactly who we supported. And please, in the budgetary process, we can make this formula absolutely automatic without any manual control. That is the balance of authority, finance and responsibility. You can't just have money and not be responsible for anything. Thank you. And I'm counting on further support for this idea. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-09-m0.u86	Dear colleagues, allow me, on behalf of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, to thank the Ukrainian Government for a very informative, productive day today, "the hour of questions to the Government." More than 20 questions were answered, all answered, all satisfied. Thank you. And by the next sessional Friday, the distinguished Prime Minister, the honourable government officials. Thank you. Let us applaud, thank the officials for today. And now, according to the Rules, Your Honor, we have a time for parliamentary inquiries. As we had two weeks of circuit work and committee work, there were 317 parliamentary inquiries. Hopefully, we'll be able to deliver them all in time for the break. And we have two questions for the President of Ukraine. As you know, when we consider requests to the President under the Rules, we must vote in favour of the request. So I'm voting in favour of a request from Yuri-Bogdan Shuhević to the President of Ukraine for the removal of the "no-publishment" fine and the lifting of all the classified legal acts of the President of Ukraine establishing illegal pension privileges for former national deputies of the U.S.R. and the U.S.R.R., former First Secretaries of the Ukrainian Company, and so on, and members of their families, who are calculating pensions from the office of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, and the suspension of pensions for these persons. I am in favour of this motion for voting. Please be supportive. [[11:18:05]] For-84 Unfortunately, dear colleagues do not have the necessary support for this request. Only 84 people's deputies. I move on to the next request to the President of Ukraine from Olga Belkovy, the National MP, for the implementation of the provisions of the Ukrainian Law on the National Commission for National Regulatory in the Field of Energy and Municipal Services. I ask you to vote in favour of this request. [[11:18:49]] For-90 That's all 90 votes were in favour. Even if a few deputies have not arrived, it is regrettable that although we have 306, we do not have 226, traditionally on Friday, so this request is not supported. I'm moving on to making inquiries to other authorities. Dear colleagues, therefore, Victor Razwadowski up to the temporary responsibility of the Minister of Health of Ukraine, the head of the Zitomir District State Administration for the allocation of $220,000 for the acquisition of an automatic hematological analyzer for the Romanov Central District Hospital of the Žitomir Region. Victor Razwadowski to the head of the Zitomir district administration, the head of the Žitomir district council for the allocation of funds for the acquisition of 15 students' antiscoliosis parties for students of the 1st grade of the Lake Osern high school of the Žitomir district, the Zitomir district. David Makarian to the director of the National Anti-Corruption Bureau of Ukraine, the Attorney-General of Ukraine, the head of the State Audit Service of Ukraine for the verification of violations of Ukrainian law by officials of Ukraine, and for the prosecution of guilty persons. Stanislava Berezkin to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the increase since 2016 in the remuneration of disabled athletes to the extent of the awards of Ukrainian athletes to the champions of the Olympic Games. Olesia Long to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine for the calculation of pensions to former government officials Olesia Long to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the development of alternative fuel production. Sergey Larina to the Minister of Education and Science on the appeal of the Kyrovograd Regional Educational and Scientific Association of Ukrainian Education Workers to prevent narrowing the content and scope of existing rights and freedoms of citizens in the adoption of the Ukrainian Education Act. Ruslan Solvar to the Minister of Finance of Ukraine, temporarily acting as the Minister of Health of Ukraine for the financing of the State Program "The Watchful Service of the Society of the Red Cross of Ukraine. Vitalia Kurila to the Head of the Kyiv Local Prosecutor's Office No. 1 on the provision of criminal investigation information No. 12013110010008073 of 16 June 2013 on the evidence of a criminal offence envisaged in part three of article 197-1 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine, according to the fact that the construction of a complex of buildings and buildings on the occupied land along the coast of the Gulf of Gallery along the coast of Obrežno-Korchiatska Street, 35 in Kiev. Vitalia Kurila to the head of the State Service of Ukraine in emergency situations, the state health and epidemiology service, the first deputy head of the National Agricultural Inspectorate of Ukraine, the head of the Kyiv City State Administration for information on the question of the voluntary construction of a complex of buildings and buildings on the occupied land along the coast of the Gulf of Gallery along the coast of Coast and Korchita Street, 35 in Kiev. Stanislav Berezkin to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on ensuring the viability of the Crevice Mining and Enriching Combined in the 17th year. Jacob Besbach to the Authorized Supreme Council of Ukraine for Human Rights, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the Ministry of Social Policy, the Ministry of Health on the need to take effective measures to ensure the implementation of the constitutional right to social protection and the State-guaranteed free medical care. Sergia Soboljeva to the Attorney General of Ukraine on sabotage in the investigation of criminal conduct regarding former National Deputy Yuri Ivanyushchenka and attempts to implement a scenario aimed at avoiding the last criminal responsibility. Irina Herashchenko to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on a series of measures aimed at resisting corruption at checkpoints of entry into Donetsk and Lugansk areas. Irina Herashchenko to the Head of the Ukrainian Security Service for a comprehensive series of measures to combat corruption at checkpoints of entry-exit in eastern Ukraine. Oleg Dmitrenk to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the calculation of pensions to pensioners of internal affairs bodies. Maria Ionova and Irina Heraszczenko to Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine Viacheslav Kirilenka, Minister of Culture of Ukraine for the holding of the competition for the post of Director-General of the National Museum "History of Ukraine" in World War II. A memorial complex. Vladimir Litvin to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the conduct of a cardiological operation at the State Institute for Cardiovascular Surgery of the Name Amos National Academy of Medical Sciences of Ukraine and post-operative treatment at the expense of budgetary resources. Vladimir Litvina to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the provision of ball joints, operational intervention with endoprostetics and post-operative treatment at the expense of budgetary resources. Valery Pisarenko to Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need for adequate financial support for the health, education and social sphere of the city of Harkov. Valeria Pisarenko to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on increasing Ukraine's investment attractiveness by creating appropriate conditions for development and using radio frequency identification technology in industrial, transport and complex logistics, agriculture and other economic areas. Julia Yooffe to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need to address the issue of securing former employees of the State Open Shareholders Association "Raduga" of the state-owned holding company "First Handicraft" free coal for consumption and payment of the statutory compensation. Vladimir Katsuba to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Culture, Minister of Agrarian Politics, acting as Head of the State Service of Ukraine on matters of geodesy, cartography and cadastre, Head of the Kharkiv District Administration, Head of the Kharkiv District Council for the extradition of the Ukrainian Orthodox Church of the Land Area to the construction of a temple near the source of Reverend Onufry the Great in the village of the Dergačiv District. Vladimir Katsuba to the Prime Minister, Minister of Culture, Minister of Justice, Head of the Kharkiv District Administration, Head of the Kharkiv District Council for the formal execution of the mandate of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, which led to the failure of the authorities of the State to take appropriate action, making it impossible to resolve the issue of the return of the Kharkiv diocese of the Ukrainian Orthodox Church to the construction of the former Kurjak Presbyterian Monastery in the village of Dergacziv district of Kharkiv. Vladislav Buhareva to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for amending the Ukrainian Budget Code and the Ukrainian State Budget Project for 2017, which envisions the creation of a State Regional Development Fund in the Suma Region and other regions of Ukraine as part of the general fund of the Ukrainian State Budget. Vladislav Buharev to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the increase of the State Fund for Regional Development of the Suma Region by increasing its funding from the general fund of the State Budget of Ukraine to the 17th year. Groups of National Deputies (Karpuntsova, Kunicina and others, only 7 deputies) to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the conduct of the competitive selection of the head of the strategically important national energy company Ukrenergo. Mikoli Skorak to the head of the State Border Service, Head of the Ukrainian Security Service, to provide information on the reasons for the ban on entry into Ukraine of some citizens of the Republic of Poland. Igor Shurma to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the deliberate concealment of information regarding the education of the acting Minister of Health of Ukraine. Igor Shurma to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the inadmissibility of delaying the appointment of the Authorised Government for cooperation on border waters that endanger Ukrainian-Polish cooperation. Andrija Kota to the head of the State Architecture and Construction Inspectorate of Ukraine on the verification of the arbitrary capture of the land of the general use of the city of Zolocheva Lviv district by citizen Bartkiv. Constantine Jarinić to the Minister of Home Affairs, Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine for the Protection of the Constitutional Rights of Veterans and Pensioners of Internal Affairs Institutions for Social Protection and Retirement, Avoiding a narrowing of the content and scope of their existing rights and freedoms, Taking urgent measures to recalculate pensions by former employees of internal affairs bodies (Militaries) in accordance with the current legislation of Ukraine. Igor Guza to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the need to ensure full payment by the Public Association for Coal Coal Coal Coal Association in September 16th. Igor Guza to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need to pay off the debt owed by Vladimir Volinsktécommunergo on the basis of housing subsidies. Groups of National Deputies (Rybčina, Syumar and others, only 7 deputies) to the head of the Ukrainian Presidential Administration, the Head of the Ukrainian Security Service, the Head of the State Protection Directorate, the head of the Donetsk District Administration, the first Secretary of the National Journalists' Association to prevent journalistic activity during the opening of December 05, 2016, televisions on Karachun Mountain near the city of Slavyansk Donetsk Region. Groups of National Deputies (Timoshenko, Soboljeva and other 16 deputies) to the Minister of Interior of Ukraine, the Head of the Security Service, the Henprocurorate on the improper investigation of the circumstances of the deliberate murder of the MP of the Soledar City Council of the Donetsk Region, a member of the political party "VO "Fatherschina" Resnichenko. Vassila Petovka to the Prime Minister for the restoration of financing of flood control measures at Zakarpatta. Vladimir Husak to the head of the Donetsk district government regarding the formation of the Volodymyr village united territorial community. Vladimir Husak to the prosecutor of the Donetsk district for the provision of information on the progress of the pretrial investigation of criminal conduct No.1201605000000451 (in relation to the falsification in the determination of the results of the Manguschsk (formerly First Level) District Council of the Donetsk Region). John Melniczuk to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine for ensuring proper investigation. John Melniczuk to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, Ministry of Health of Ukraine, Vinicko District Children’s Hospital for the implementation of the constitutional right of citizens to free medical care. Igora Lucenka to the head of the National Bank of Ukraine on the introduction of a special regime for monitoring the activities of banks and the appointment of a bank curator in the following banking institutions: PAT Bank Mikhailowski, AT Bank Finances and Credit, Pat KB Krystatik, AT Delta Bank, Pat Bank Kijivska Rus, Pat Ukrainbank. Maxima Burbak to the Prime Minister of Ukraine regarding the extension to the Ministry of Finance of Chernovka Order No.865 of 30 November 2016 on the counting of heat bills in multi-room buildings without counters. Vladimir Solar and Michael Bondar, head of the National Commission for State regulation in the fields of energy and utilities, for the establishment of local self-government tariffs for the production of thermal energy, including at thermal power plants, thermal power plants, nuclear power plants and cogeneration plants and facilities using non-traditional or renewable energy sources. Alexia Lensky to the Attorney General of Ukraine, temporarily acting as head of the National Police of Ukraine, temporarily acting as head of the National Forest Resources Agency of Ukraine for the purpose of carrying out an economic activity check to confirm the illegal export of timber in an unprocessed form by the limited liability of OGM Ukraine, the use of the results of the verification of response measures. John Sporish to the head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Budget, Prime Minister of Ukraine, on the allocation of funds from the State Budget in 2017 to ensure the financing of the municipal institution of the Tomaspil City Hospital in the province of Winnitsk. John Rybak to Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine Paul Rosenk, Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine, Head of the Montenegrin Regional Government Administration, Head of the District District Administration of the Montenegrin District Administration, Head of the District District Council of the Chernobyl District. John Rybak to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, temporarily acting as Minister of Health of Ukraine, head of the Montenegrin District State Administration, head of the Visitors’ District State Administration of the Chernobyl Region for the provision of medical assistance to the onco-hospital resident of the town of Beregomet, part of the Visniki district of Chernobyl. Dmitry Linka to the Head of the Ukrainian Security Service, the Attorney General of Ukraine for the destruction of the Crimson Diesel Plant, a company for the production and repair of rail transport, internal combustion engines and their seals by former Ukrainian Defence Minister Paul Lebedev. Jury of Miroshnitzka to the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine, Henprokur of Ukraine, on the cessation of torture of prisoners for dismissal, the removal of inhumane conditions of work, and the provision of adequate food in the Castle Correctional Colony No. 58 in the Hmelnitz region. Jury Miroshnicka to the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine on the appeal of a citizen named Philonenko to investigate improperly the kidnapping of his car and the offences committed by the police investigator Bracilo. Groups of national deputies (Dechtirczuka, Bilozore and others – only 10 deputies) to the Secretary of the National Security and Defence Council of Ukraine on the extension of expenses, sanctions to physical ones. a, about extending the types of sanctions to natural persons. Michael Bondar to the Brody City Head for the dismantling of the long - distance building on the street. Banders of the Bili Kazarma district in the city of Broda Lviv district, which is potentially dangerous to the lives of people living next door. Michael Bondar to the head of the Lviv Regional Administration, Director of the Society with limited responsibility for checking compliance with the terms of the contract for the service of the passenger transport route of the Redgrove-Jastrubic motor carrier called Auto-Line. Olga Bogolitz to the Prime Minister for the execution of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine Order No. 94 of 20 January 2016. In addition to the temporary duty of the Ukrainian Minister of Health to provide emergency care for citizens with joint endoprosthesis, Olga Bogolec is a member of the Ministry of Health. Mikhail Golka to the Prime Minister, Minister of Interior, Minister of Social Affairs, Minister of Finance, on the statement made by the Public Organisation of the Association of Veterans and Pensioners of the OLA of Ukraine in the Crimea Region of Veteran. Mikhail Golka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Education and Science, for not allowing the closure of the public education school in the village of Hmeljlika Podvolocchik District of Ternopil. Jacob Besbach to the Cabinet of Ministers of the Ukraine, the Ministry of Internal Affairs, the Ministry of Finance, the Council of Judges, the State Judicial Administration to ensure conditions for the proper administration of justice. Maxima Mikitas to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the restoration of the work of the hospice department of the Czernigow Central District Hospital of the Chernigiv District Council of the Chernigiv Region. Oksana Jurinec and Mikaly Knieżicky to Minister of Foreign Affairs to restore the status of the Ukrainian Consulate in Gdańsk to the level of the Consulate General. Alexander Suprunenka to Henprokuror Ukraine on the verification of compliance with the requirements of legislation and on the use of procuratorial response measures to protect the rights and interests of the territorial community of Kyiv in connection with the sale of social infrastructure objects of the state-owned enterprise Production Union of Kyiv Radio Plant. Alexander Suprunenka to the Prime Minister on the use of measures to protect the rights and interests of the territorial community of Kyiv in connection with the sale of social infrastructure facilities of the state-owned enterprise "The Kyiv Radio Plant" Igora Brichenka to the head of the Security Service, Minister of Justice, on the lack of a decision taken on the outcome of the hearing of complaint No.19196-0-33-16 of 02 July 2016 of the Private Shareholders Association "Lugcentrocosis of the Name of Monatowski". Sergey Melniczuk to Henprocuror of Ukraine on the inaction of law enforcement authorities in the investigation of the illegal activity of Pat "WTB Bank" in Ukraine. Anatolia Denisenka to the head of the Nazi Commission, which regulates the state in the fields of energy and composers with regard to the setting of electricity tariffs for residents of the Prove. To Cherry, 12 cities of Kharkiv, with a view to energy consumption and consumption. Anatolia Denisenka to the Prime Minister for the Social Protection of Emergency Liquidators in the Chernobyl AES. Vasil Janicky, until temporarily acting as head of the National Forest Resources Agency, Ukraine, to resolve the issue of auctions for the sale of unprocessed wood in the field. Vasil Janicki to Henprocuror of Ukraine on the inaction of criminal investigations into illegal possession and the destruction of state property of the state firm Kragrotechservis in the Cherkas region. Tetjana Bacheyeva to Prime Minister of Ukraine on the unsatisfactory response of the acting Minister of Health of Ukraine, U.K. Suprun, to a parliamentary request for information on the actual state of implementation of State programmes with the purchase of medical supplies, vaccines and medical products by international organizations and the provision of copies of contracts made between the Ministry of Health and international purchasing organizations. Mikoli Skorak to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine on the state of the resonant crime investigation against representatives of the political party "The Opposition Block" in the Odessa region. Alexander Gerega to the head of the government of the Ukrainian Railway Association for the construction of a land-based pedestrian crossing through a railway line in a village of the Danube-like village of the Hmelni district. Alexander Guerrega to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine on the calculation of pensions for former internal affairs officials. Mr. Dmitra Kolesnikov to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the solution to the problems of rail transport in Ukraine. Irina Efraemov to Prime Minister, Minister of Education and Science for the allocation of additional funds to the city of Lozoy Kharkiv region to cover the danger, excuse me, to cover the indemnity of wages and energy. Vadim Krivenk to the Minister of Internal Affairs, Attorney General, for the illegal mining of useful fossils (the sand) in the territory of the Corstostis region of Žitomir. Alexander Kodola to the Prime Minister for the Heat Supply of the Housing Sector of the Chernigiv Region. Alexander Kodola to the Prime Minister on the appeal of veterans and pensioners to the Ministry of Interior of the Ukraine of Warwick and the Serb regions of the Chernig region. Irina Sisoyenko to the Minister of Education and Science on the results of the work of the Scientific and Methodological Commissions (subcommissions) of the Higher Education Sector of the Scientific and Methodological Council of the Ministry of Education and Science of Ukraine, approved by the Order of the Ministry of Ukraine dated 6 April 2016, No. 375. Anatoly Evlakhova to the Prime Minister on the urgent action taken to address the situation that has resulted from the retirement of former employees of the internal affairs authorities of Ukraine. Anatolia Kuzmenka to the Prime Minister on the issue of the transfer to the state property of unfinished buildings (eight multi-story buildings) of the city of Dolinska Kirovograda through the legal settlement of relations with the countries involved in the construction of the Crevice mining and enrichment combination of oxidized ores. Jurija-Bogdan Shuhevich to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on criminal inaction in the issue of non-contribution to Parliament of the draft decision on the lifting of voting results for draft Ukrainian Law No. 3252 on the amendment of certain Ukrainian laws on the pension of individual categories of persons in the anti-terrorist operation, thus continuing to be unfair in the pension provision of present-day supporters of Ukraine - participants in hostilities that are refused in the appointment of early retirement pensions, compared to other categories of participants in hostilities granted this status during periods of hostilities in the territory of other states (Afghanistan, Iraq, Kosovo, etc.), as well as in the period of hostilities in Ukraine in 1944-1951. Can I ask the boys at the rostrum not so loud? Because it's hard for me to read. Dear Mr. Mushak! Thank you! Because I want to finish all the questions. And it's hard, actually, when there's a rally going on under the podium. Taras Batenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, temporarily acting as the Minister of Health of Ukraine, head of the Lviv District State Administration, head of the Lviv District Council on the need to establish a hospital district with an administrative centre in Zoločów for timely and quality medical services to residents of Zoločov, Brodivsky, Bussky and Przemyslánsk regions of the Lviv Region. Taras Batenka to the head of the National Commission, which regulates national energy and utilities regulations to provide clear information on the cost of gas for the population, respecting the principles of national regulation of natural monopolies in the application of enabling regulation. Vladislav Sevrukov to the minister of youth and sports for the announcement of two major coaches of the state team of the national archery team. Andrija Illenka to the Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine, the head of the government of the public shareholders association "Ukrainian Railways" for the appointment of additional trains with the aim of improving the railway connection of the Sumenje to the western and southern regions of Ukraine. Andrew Illenka to Henprocuror of Ukraine for possible corruption by officials of the Righteous District in Kiev State Administration. Vadim Krivohatka to the head of Vadim Krivohatka to the head of the Zaporozhye District Administration on the results of the 2016 crop program. Sergey Kaplin to Henprocuror of Ukraine on the conduct of a pretrial investigation into the service negligence of Minister of Interior of Ukraine Arsen Awakov. Andrija Šinkovica to the head of the regional branch of "Southwest Railway" on the need for the resumption of the train along the route of the city of Hmelnicki – the town of Staroconstantine or the replacement of the timetable for the traffic of the suburban train town of Hmelnicki – the town of Shepetovka. Andrija Shinkovič to the Minister of Interior of Ukraine, Minister of Finance for the establishment of legal succession between the police and the internal affairs authorities, and the provision of funds in the State Budget for Ukraine for the 17th year for the provision of benefits to former employees of internal affairs agencies. Jaroslava Dubnević to the Prime Minister on payment of one-time cash assistance in the event of the death (death) or disability of certain categories of persons under the Ukrainian Law on the Status of War Veterans, guaranteeing their social protection. Jaroslava Dubnevic to Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Defence for the allocation of funds in the 17th year for the reconstruction of a military dormitory (the building of a formerly decorated clinic) under a six-bedroom residence at: Lviv district, Sambor city, ul. John Frank, 31-b. Vitalia Barwinenka to the director of the National Anti-Corruption Bureau of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine for the verification of the falsification of the decisions of the Regional Council for the Fifth Appeal (Odessa Region) of December 25, 6th year, No. 109, and for the prosecution of guilty officials to be held accountable in accordance with the requirements of the current legislation of Ukraine. Alexander Nechayeva to the head of the Security Service to provide information on the state of pretrial investigation in criminal proceedings concerning abuses during the privatization of VAT by the Shrimpet. Alexander Nechayeva to Henprocuror for the provision of information on the state of pretrial investigation in criminal proceedings under article 191, part 2, of article 364 of the Ukrainian Criminal Code. Vladimir Aresonkova to the temporary responsibility of the Ukrainian Minister of Health to improve the financial situation and to provide modern medical equipment to the National Centre for Radiation Medicine of the National Academy of Medical Sciences of Ukraine Vladimir Aresonkov to the Prime Minister for amendments to Cabinet Order No.440 of September 3, 14th. Jury Bublika to the Minister of Interior of Ukraine, Minister of Ecology, Henprocuror of the illegal mining of sand in the Jacinovo-Slobid region of Poltava region. Jury Bublika to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Justice, Minister of Internal Affairs for the violation of the requirements of effective legislation by the liquidator in the case of bankruptcy of the Housing and Communal Office of Poltavablahrrobud, improperly maintaining his dormitory, leaving his residents unheated during the winter period and failing to secure his transfer to the municipal property of the territorial community. Groups of National Deputies (Bilozer, Lesyuka, Packana) to the Prime Minister, Henprocurorate on the use of urgent measures to prevent exclusion from the market of Ukraine, through unfair competition, the home doctor's “MAXICIN” for the treatment of bacterial infectious diseases, whose cost is three times lower than the cost of an analogue import product, and the protection of Ukrainian citizens' rights to provide affordable medicines. Oksana Jurinec to the Minister of Culture of Ukraine on protection of cultural heritage. Groups of National Deputies (Jachenka, Gulyava, others) A total of 6 deputies) to the Prime Minister for the provision of funds in 2017 for centralized purchase of endothelials and other implants and implantation tools. Groups of National Deputies (Jachenka, Gulyava, others) A total of 6 deputies) to the Prime Minister for taking the necessary measures to ensure that children who suffer from rare (orphan) diseases, medicines and adequate food are provided for special diets. Vitalia Gudzenka to the Head of the Kyiv District State Administration for active financing in 2017 for the construction and capital repair of social facilities in the Kyiv region. Vitalia Gudzenka to the Prime Minister, Minister of Finance, on the settlement of debt and the allocation of funds for the socio-economic development of the Tarostian region of the Kyiv region. Oleg Osuhovski to Henprokuror Ukraine for the execution of the decision of the Shevchenkov District Court of Kiev on 4 October 2016 on the initiation of the trial. Oleg Osuhovski to the Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine for the restoration of the right of a disabled child to receive a pension at the loss of a breadwinner. Jury Timoshenko to the Prosecutor of Odessa to provide information on the results of the Odessa Prosecutor’s Office. Jury Tymoshenko to the Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Regional Development and HKG of Ukraine, for the possible violation of the requirements of the State Building Standards in the construction of a commercial entertainment complex on the street of Heroi Dniper in the Obalon district of Kiev. Oleg Kulinić to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine for the award of a subsidy from the State Budget to the local (district) budget. Oleg Kulinić to the Minister of Finance of Ukraine on the need to make changes to the Ukrainian Ministry of Finance order No. 11 of 14 January 2011. Borislava Bereza to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine for the repair of patrol cars Borislav Bereza to the Prime Minister for the competitive selection of NEK's head of state enterprise Ukrenergo. Groups of National Deputies (Consumptions, Livikas, others) In total, 5 to the head of the Lviv district government regarding the use of cleaning measures in Turka Lvivsk district. Alexander Vilkula and Constantine Pavlov to the Prime Minister on the issue of the status of higher education (technics and colleges) since the Ukrainian Higher Education Act 2017 will remove the network of technical and colleges from those educational institutions that train professionals with higher education. Alexander Villkull and Dmitri Kolesnikov to the Prime Minister of Ukraine to prevent the actual elimination of the guard service and the search service of the Red Cross Association of Ukraine by preserving the financing of the Red Cross programmes. Andrija Lopushanski to First Deputy Prime Minister for Economic Development, Head of the Lviv Regional Administration to accelerate the restructuring of the State Food Security Service and the protection of consumer rights in the Lviv region. Andrea Lopushanski to the Minister of Internal Affairs, who is responsible for the head of the State Agency for Road Traffic, heads of the Lviv District State Administration on the unsatisfactory state of road safety prevention and road maintenance problems in the Lviv region. Igor Popova to the Minister of Finance of Ukraine for the non-derogable reduction of the threshold for the duty-free importation of goods by citizens into the customs territory of Ukraine. Alexander Brigintz to the Attorney General, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, head of the Kyiv City Public Administration regarding the situation in connection with the illegal termination of the lease to the Bookstore "Sivo". Alexander Brigintz to the Prime Minister, Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine, Minister of Internal Affairs, Henprocuror, Head of the Derjauditor Service, temporarily acting as Minister of Health of Ukraine on the need to stop the theft of state property, medicines, food in the Volodyrimir Psychoneurological Internet, which led to a local outbreak of tuberculosis, a representative of the former gang-communist government. Roman Semenha to the minister of culture of Ukraine regarding the calculation and preservation of cultural heritage. Roman Semenha to Henprocuror of Ukraine on the verification of the status of the conduct of the criminal investigation No. 320160600000026. Romana Macola, until the provisional duty of the Ukrainian Minister of Health to carry out an endoprosthesis within the budgetary funding of the citizen, Shevchuk Valerija Vasilovich, a resident of Shepetovka Hmelnické district. Romana Macola to the Prime Minister for the recalculation of pensions for former internal affairs officials. Igor Lapina to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the activities of Pat KyivZNDTEP. Gregory Times to the Minister of Finance of Ukraine, temporarily acting as the Minister of Health for the need to develop and approve the formula for the distribution of medical subsidies from the State budget to local budgets, in part for the budgets of the unified territorial communities of expenditure for the provision of primary and secondary levels of health care. Igora Lucenka is the Managing Director of the Fund for Guaranteeing the Investments of Individuals regarding the Valuation of the Property of the Pat "Kristátík". Sergey Lechchenka to the Head of the Security Service of Ukraine on the monitoring of the online publications "Ukrainian Justice". Sergija Lešchenka to the Minister of Finance of Ukraine for planning in the Ukrainian State Budget for 2017 the cost of restoring the material and technical base of transferred higher education institutions. Sergey Rudika to the Ukrainian Defence Minister for housing for members of the Cerkas region. Sergey Rudika to the Minister of Interior, temporarily acting as head of the National Police of Ukraine for the exacerbation of the criminality situation in Smila Cherkas region and the urgent need for a competition for the city’s patrol in 2017. Igor Alekseyeva to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for information on the status of implementation of the action plan on the implementation of the system reform strategy, the judiciary and the neighbouring institutions for 2015-2020. Yuri Solovya to the minister of infrastructure for the financing of the current repairs of some of the Snitinski, Kosovo, and the Upper regions of the Ivano-Frankow region, at the expense of the state budget. Jurya Solovya to Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of Regional Development, Construction and HKG for the financing of certain objects in the region of Svetinski, Kosovo and Vrhovina, at the expense of the State Regional Development Fund. Victor Krivenk and Paul Kiskar to Henprokur, Ministry of Justice, Head of the U.S.S.A. on the liquidation of the political political party Family, whose activity is aimed at overthrowing the constitutional system of Ukraine. Victor Krivenk to the State Fiscal Service Energy Customs on the groundless detention of T.O.G.P.U.S. Anton Kisse to the Prime Minister for the allocation of an additional subsidy from the State budget for housing subsidies to the population of the Kili district of Odessa. Anton Kisse to the Prime Minister for the preservation of the Balgrad district of Odessa, as an independent administrative and territorial unit, in the process of decentralization of power. Sergia Kiwalova to the Prime Minister on the application of measures to implement competitive tariff policies regarding the establishment of port assemblies in Ukraine. Dear colleagues, I continue my morning session for 15 minutes, until 12.15. Paul Kishkar to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Ministry of Justice of Ukraine, on the failure to execute a court decision and on the criminal responsibility of the state executive of the Department of Forced Enforcement of Decisions of the Directorate of State Executive Services of the Main Territorial Administration of Justice in the Kharkiv region of Picula. Constantine Jarinič to the Donetsk District State Administration, Dnipropetrovska District Administration, Zakarpatské District Administration, Zaporziski, Ivano-Frankovsky, Kyivovsky, Kirovogradski, Lugansk, Lvivsky, Mikolaiivski, Odessa, Poltavaski, Ravenski, Sumski, Ternopilski, Kharkivsky, Hersonski, Hmelnicki, Cerkaske, Cherniewski, Chernigivski, Vinnitsky, Volinski, Žitomirski State Administrations for the provision of timely and complete information on the availability of vacancies in the health care facilities of the area (city of Kiev) in accordance with the requirements of legislation. Jury Solod to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine for ensuring that due legal assessment is given to the actions of individual members of the Slovenian District Election Commission of the Donetsk Region in connection with their deliberate avoidance of the duties of members of the electoral commission. Paul Rizanenka, head of the National Property Fund of Ukraine for the protection of the housing rights of residents of the hostel, at the address of the Independent Boulevard, 3-B in the city of Brovary Kyiv district. Paul Rizanenka, head of the government of the Public Shareholder Society of Kyivoblanergo, head of the Bohrar City Council Capital Building Department, on taking urgent action to prevent the disconnection of two hundred families, members of the Apple Garden Production Corporation, who live in the IV residential area of Brovary. Sergey Vlasenka to the managing director of the Society with limited responsibility "Company of Asset Management "Investment Capital of Ukraine" Constantine Stecenka, managing director of the Society with limited responsibility "Company of Asset Management "Investment Capital of Ukraine" Makar Pasenyuk, on the involvement of the head of the National Bank of Ukraine of Valeria Gonnaareva in assisting the family of Viktor Yanuković to illegally withdraw funds from Ukraine. Sergey Vlasenka to the head of the Winnitsky District Council, the head of the Chernigovsky, the Dnipropetrovsk District Council, the Acting Head of the Donetsk District Council, the Heads of the Žitomirski, Zakarpatski, Zaporizki, Ivano-Frankivsky, Kyivsky, Kirovogradski, Lugansk, Lvivski, Mikolaiówski, Odesski, Poltavski, Ravenski, Sumski, Ternopilski, Harkovsky, Hersonski, Hmelnitski, Cerkaske, Cherniewski District Council, the Head of the Volinsky District Council on the arrangements for the establishment of tariffs on residential and utility services. Alexander Dombrovski to the Director of the National Anti-Corruption Bureau of Ukraine, Minister of Interior, Head of the BSB, Henprocuror of Ukraine, Prosecutor of the Vinnitsk Region, Head of the Office of the Security Service in the Vinnitsk Region, temporarily acting as Head of the National Police Directorate in the Vinnitsk Region for the Legality of the Provision of the Health and Sports Development Fund, Public Initiatives, to the long-term use of a forest area of 2.7 hectares per land account in the use of the State Enterprise "Vining Forest Management" for recreational purposes. Ruslana Demczak to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the increase in the grant amount in 2016 from the local government budget for the financing of subsidies. Jury Derevyanka to the head of the Kiev City State Administration on the need for an expanded OSB and Kyiv City Debt Reimbursement Council to be held on behalf of municipal services. Jurya Derevjanka to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the allocation of additional funding from the State Budget of Ukraine for 2016 to pay off the arrears of employees in the health and education sector of Ivano-Frankiv region. Igor Popov to the head of the Zitomir district government regarding the non-elimination of the cosmonautical museum. Yuri Lewchenk, head of the Kyiv City State Administration, deputy head of the National Police, head of the Police Department in Kiev, on the immediate response to the systematic violations of public order and the creation of a criminogenic environment caused by the location and operation of the “watershed” on the street of Simyrenko in Kiev, the “navalika” was in the paws. Jury Lewchenk to Henprocuror of Ukraine, Minister of Internal Affairs for the repeated criminal activity of members of the Tarutin GUP in the Odessa Region, the local prosecutor's office and the inaction of the Odessa Region Prosecutor's Office, which took place during the criminal conduct of the death investigation, the employee of the Ukrgazenergoservis, the child's company Ukrtransgaz, during his deployment. Robert Gorvato to the head of the State Border Service of Ukraine on the legality of the actions of the members of the Chopper Border Guard and the immediate use of measures to protect, protect and restore the rights of citizens violated. Dmitry Timchuk and Paul Dzublik to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine regarding fraudulent activities in relation to owners of property certificates of the reformed "Niva" PCP of the city of Radomisl of the Žitomir region. Paul Dzublik to the National Anti-Corruption Bureau of Ukraine, Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, Henprocuratorial Office on the legality of the actions of the Head of State Environmental Inspectorate in the Žitomir region of Bogdan Gnatuk. Paul Djublik to the Prime Minister on the privatisation of the State Enterprise "Ukraine" in the Chernykhiv region of the Žitomir region. Ruslan Solvar to the Minister of Agrarian Policy for the Protection of Land Rights of the Regional Society of Malolisovetske Rural Council of the Skirski District of Kiev and, on the basis of the evidence, to resolve the issue of bringing to justice the disciplinary responsibility of the guilty. Jaroslava Markevich to the Minister of Ecology and Natural Resources of Ukraine for the protection of the environmental rights of the inhabitants of Dniprovski and Darnicki district of Kiev. Edward Matviychuk to the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Social Affairs, the Odessa District State Administration, the Odessa District Council on the need to provide medical and social assistance in providing adequate treatment for cancer patients in the Kyiv district of Gorokhov Valentina, and the return of a disabled person to Tamara Powiakola for disease. Ruslana Demczak, Minister of Education and Science, for the promotion of the graduation process of the University of Stries from the structure of the Lviv National Agrarian University. Oksana Sold to the Minister of Justice about the protection of the rights of persons who, because of their religious beliefs, want to refuse to obtain a passport from a Ukrainian citizen containing an uncontacted electronic medium. Jurya Berezi to the Chief of Genstab, Commander-in-Chief of the Armed Forces of Ukraine, for providing information on the responsible persons for the conduct of professional psychological selection in the Ukrainian Armed Forces, particularly those who selected a military contractor, a fighter of the 93rd Specially Mechanized Kharkiv Brigade of Popov Oleg, who killed a platoon commander, Sergeant Oleg Lisenk, in the Novotoshkov district of Lugansk on December 1, 2016. Groups of National Deputies (Vojcecka, Najem and others) are only 4) to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine on the procedure for the purchase of Mitsubishi cars. Oleg Velikin to the director of the National Anti-Corruption Bureau, Henprosecutor, Deputy Minister for Economic Development and Trade of Ukraine, Head of the State Audit Service for the verification of corruption and violation of current legislation at UDFP Mail and the prosecution of guilty persons. Groups of National Deputies (Ionova, Heratschenko, Lucenko) to the Prime Minister on the settlement of the issue of the payment of cash compensation to military personnel for the lifting of their living quarters. Dear colleagues! I read them all honestly. has announced all 317 requests that have been registered, and there have also been 4 complaints from Ukrainian national deputies about unsatisfactory answers to a request from a national MP. In this case, according to our Rules, we must give the floor to a national MP who wishes to speak on the question of dissatisfaction with his requests. And I invite you, we have exactly 12 minutes left for these announcements, and I invite you to speak to National Deputy Vladimir Lithuania. Prepare, please, for the national MP, Mr. Matthews. So I am giving, in line with article 226 of the Rules, three minutes to the Lithuanian National MP to declare his dissatisfaction with the response received. Please, Vladimir Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-09-m0.u87	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues, you and I have listened to the brief content of parliamentary inquiries, and some 90 of them are directed to the need for medical care. In fact, we have a situation today where the issue of preserving the Ukrainian people from extinction would become a national idea in our nation. And at the same time, I have to say that this work that we do with the communities, that we do the right thing, and that they do the right thing, and that they break down into the bureaucratic notes that we get with you. Let me give you an example of how this is done. In Novograd-Wolinski, a long-term solution is being made and a surgical corps is being built, which is essential because this hospital serves a huge area and a large number of people. In addition, the city is located near the Kiev-Chop route, where, unfortunately, traffic accidents with tragic consequences occur regularly. And it's obvious that the hospital should have a modern surgical corps. Construction began and was halted in connection with the country’s complex processes. It's like the situation is now aligned, you need 65 million dollars. I'm analyzing draft documents, budget projects, and I'm seeing how huge costs are spent on a variety of objects and topics that could wait. All turns are broken, and promises are turned. All turns end with a reference to the area, the area to the center. The last eloquent letter to the Prime Minister of Ukraine. Responsibilities with the Deputy Head of the State Administration. He says it's all right, it's all necessary. At the same time, this problem can be solved at the expense of the Regional Development Fund. I have a question, so why don't you decide? But year after year, it's said that in 2017, if documents are prepared, we will consider this problem. Sadly, there is no way that the problem is being addressed or resolved. I am once again turning from this rostrum, the highest rostrum in Ukraine, to the Prime Minister of Ukraine. Finally hear and resolve this issue positively. Otherwise, people are going to cover the Kiev-Chop route, I think they're going to run, and they're going to promise to solve this problem one more time. And the last. I appeal to the Prime Minister with a proposal and a request for a foreign minister to be appointed. I apologize to the Minister of Health of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-09-m0.u88	Thank you, Your Honor. We now give the floor to Mr. Martovicki, a distinguished colleague of the people's delegation of Ukraine, please. Matvienkov, I'm sorry, please. Mr. Matvienkov, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-09-m0.u89	Matvienkov, 57th District, Mariupol, Opposition Block. Dear President, distinguished colleagues! It's hard to speak when you're not heard. It is difficult to pass bills that are almost out of session hall. Well, for today I've decided to take advantage of this situation and speak out, use this right to raise questions. Because these issues concern not only the electorate of my district, but I think all Ukrainians. In recent times, public payments have increased in our country. And whatever rooster we have here from the government rooster that protective measures are being taken with regard to subsidies and that we have increased wages by Act 5130. By the way, I would like to take this opportunity to say that there is no increase in wages in this law. We should pay our respects. Indeed, it provides a basis for wage increases. But our wages are rising, and the minimum wage, and the minimum subsistence wage is only budgeted. But no one is saying that this bill contains a serious bomb. We have linked the indexation of the minimum wage automatically and have given this right to the Cabinet of Ministers, which at any time may include “stop, brake”. But that's not what I'm talking about. It is clear that every citizen living in that country barely ends up paying for community payments. It is clear that this room has repeatedly discussed the unwarranted nature of such an increase in utility payments and that it is necessary to review these rules long ago and to understand why such prices for utility payments are needed. But I've come to the impression that the government has developed some kind of permanent immunity to this issue, they just don't hear our speech anymore. But on the other hand, you know what upsets you -- cynicism is the answer when you try to help people in this situation and change this situation somehow. What am I talking about? You all remember the situation when you started setting up so-called home accountants in the accounting sector. And then we said that these home counters are only done to shift the problem of non-payers to payers, to payers. Already today, it is necessary to deal with the fact that houses that have between 5,000 and 6,000 debt alone are excluded, and those who have overpayments are running for those who do not pay to arrange the payment. But that's not the point. I'm making a request. I ask: Let us go individually to establish individual accounting instruments. They say, on three sheets, Deputy Minister Karp answers, he writes: it's complicated, it's difficult, it's 4.6 million bracelets needed, it takes a very long time, it takes at least 10 years. Well, people are looking for ways to get out of this situation: they're giving up gas, they're installing electrical appliances to heat the hot water with electricity. At the same time, the Cabinet of Ministers is immediately increasing the standards for gas consumption. He says you're a gas man. But we're not gas. We're electricity. Please review the gas consumption rate. To which I receive a reply from another Deputy Minister, Lubawanko, who writes to me that only individual accounting means can solve this instrument. I mean, we're practically being sent around. That's why I want to ask you one question. This is where the Prime Minister spoke and said he was in pain.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-09-m0.u90	Ten seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-09-m0.u91	If it really hurts, let's recalculate those standards for those people who really have to pay what they spend. We're not asking for anything, but really for what they're spending, let them pay for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-09-m0.u92	Thank you. I invite you to speak now in accordance with the regulations of the national MP Martovitchki and to prepare for Mrs. Cervakovi. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-09-m0.u93	Deputy Martovicki, Opposition Block, 36 constituency. Dear colleagues, I would like to present my dissatisfaction with the Prime Minister's response to my request. In 2016, I received and received numerous appeals from the heads of various educational institutions and students regarding the payment of scholarships that fall under article 5 of the Ukrainian Mining Act. The Ministry of Education, in line with the mandate of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, along with Minfin, Minzocpolytica, and Minnegowil, would have to deal with the issues that had been asked and determine how to resolve them. However, the Prime Minister's mandate was formally completed by a write-off from the Ministry of Education and Science, in which it is assumed that changes to the order that take account of the requirements of article 5 of the Ukrainian Mining Work Act have not been made, and therefore there is no basis for the appointment and payment of scholarships. I have a question. So who's responsible for not paying the scholarships? Perhaps the students and their parents, or perhaps the instructors or even the Cabinet of Ministers, whose direct competence is to resolve these issues? In turn, further delay in dealing with this issue creates a dangerous situation for the existence and functioning of educational institutions because the executive service passes on to the treasury authorities the requirement of forcing an underprivileged scholarship, and the latter arrest the accounts of the educational institutions. As a result, educational institutions do not have the capacity to account for even utilities at the right time, let alone pay the bills for the materials and services they receive. The Ministry of Education and Science also reports that it will initiate the inclusion in the budget of the state budget for 2017 of funds to pay off debts on scholarships, payments in accordance with article 5 of the Ukrainian Mining Act. However, in the first reading of the Ukrainian State Budget Bill for 2017, which I did not vote for, by the way, lack of adequate funding for these scholarships. Thus, in view of the above, I reiterate my request to the Prime Minister to provide for funding for the payments of the scholarships awarded, as well as to develop an order for their payment on the basis of decisions of the courts that have gained legal power. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-09-m0.u94	Thank you. Again, I emphasize that we now have four deputies who were not satisfied with the answers to their questions, and by their insistence under article 226 of Part Two of the Rules, they are entitled to the appropriate speeches. The last one in today's category is Mrs. Olga Cervakovy. Please, Mrs. Olga.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-09-m0.u95	Thank you, Mrs. Irina. Good afternoon, dear fellows! I have repeatedly talked from this rostrum about the facts of the resonant insidious attacks on activists in the village of Kotsubinsk Kyiv region. This issue has been considered by the Committee on Anti-Corruption by Egor Sobolev, and it has been this summer, but since then, unfortunately, not only has the situation improved but it has worsened much. On October 31st, a brutal attack was carried out in the village of Kotsubinska "the aunts" on the local activist Lesy Jelikova. She's the wife of an ATO participant, she's the mother of two children. With a concussion and numerous beatings, she was examined in the hospital. But so far, she's been recognized as a victim, but no further investigation has been done, and the owner of the car that the aunts arrived on has not even been installed. A month earlier there was an attack on a local activist in the Kotsubinsky Igor Dombrowski, who was showing up in court, and right in court he was attacked by aunts and local deputies from the New Face party, or whoever was there, it's in the case files, but I'm pretty sure it was at the direction of certain people. He was also beaten: a concussion, a nose operation, because of a nose fracture. So far, no forensics have been assigned. A month earlier, at the end of September, a lawyer at the Kotsubin village council of Andrija Opolinsky was beaten. Activists also say that for his public activities and active public position. I asked the head of the National Police and the heads of the Ministry of Internal Affairs about how these criminal cases were being investigated and asked to speed them up. What I came up with was a sassy note about the fact that the facts are being studied, the investigation is being conducted, you know, don't worry. At the same time, I asked the prosecutor's office the same question, and here's a letter from the prosecutor's office of the district directly stating that the state of pre-trial investigation into the criminal conduct in question is, I quote, heard at an operational meeting in the prosecutor's office of the area where it is established that the judicial investigation by the investigators of the Irpine Police Department of HUNP in the Kyiv region is not properly carried out. The citation, however, was repeatedly given to investigators by the authorities of the district, in order of 36 articles of the Ukrainian KPC, which remained unfulfilled. Dear colleagues, what's going on? We have the police living our lives, they are not ordered by the public prosecutor, nor by the national deputies, nor by the Police Act. I blame the leadership of the National Police and the leadership of the Ministry of Internal Affairs for the fact that their inaction, not taking action, regarding those investigators who do not investigate these criminal cases, these leaders are.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-09-m0.u96	These leaders are in fact accomplices to these resonant crimes because unpunished crime provokes a recurrence of crime. I demand to investigate these crimes immediately, and I ask you to consider my statement a re-deputy request. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-09-m0.u97	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear colleagues, according to the Rules, we have a 30-minute break with you now. And at exactly 12:45, I ask you to go back to the session room, and there will be a series of speeches by national MPs on various issues, and all those who wish will be able to participate in this legitimate right. Please announce a recess for exactly 30 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-09-m0.u98	Good day again, dear fellows! 12.45, now according to our Rules, we have time for speeches by national deputies under the heading "Variance." I call on the people's deputies, who are now in the towers or dining rooms, to return to the session room, and we will announce the recording for the performance. Please log in. You wouldn't be waiting for me, Volodymyr, but I'll be waiting for you. Please, we're announcing a recording under the heading "Victory", distinguished colleagues. Please. Thank you. Please invite Mr. Illenko to the presentation.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-09-m0.u99	Andrew Illenko, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, the city of Kiev. Dear colleagues, honourable Ukrainians who listen to us today, I would like to draw attention to the questions I have asked the government in the morning. And at least one of them didn't actually hear the answers. I asked questions about Mr. Petuhov, deputy minister of justice, who said that it was necessary to consider the possibility for Ukraine to receive illegal migrants from the territory of the European Union into its territory so that someone might like it there, bring Ukraine closer to receiving the visa-free regime and so on. In fact, the absurdity of such statements is not even welcome to comment, because I can't imagine at all what I was thinking whose interests this official was defending when he said it. And by the way, the Prime Minister said that the government does not support these statements. But in fact, my question was whether he was released, whether he was released, or whether he was a deputy minister. Because if he makes such statements while serving as deputy minister, he should probably understand that he represents the State of Ukraine, not just himself. If he had made such statements, he would have allowed it to be logical to resign after that, even more so when the government claims that they do not support such a position. Similarly, my second question was that there had been repeated statements from government officials that a moratorium on the export of unprocessed wood, i.e. roundwood, had to be abolished in order to meet the demands of foreign partners. Well, we have to respect foreign partners, we have to compromise with them. Well, we understand everything, it's politics. But you can't trade in your national interests, you can't destroy your own production in order to get other loans, you can't increase national debt. Because we don't have to take the debt to the queue, increase it to astronomical figures, but we have to provide ourselves. It's important that Ukrainians don't have to go abroad to work illegally or legally -- it doesn't matter, but Ukrainians have to have a job here in Ukraine, so that there's production here, so that there's an added value, so that we don't sell raw materials, and we're selling products that's already made, with added value, to develop our production to develop our economy. And that's what the government should be doing, not the representatives of some who say that we need to become a raw colony, to get our taxes back. It's not just money, it's debt, it's debt, it's debt, it's loan, and it's not clear what to pay back. We must respect ourselves, respect our national interests, and act in harmony with them. And then we will be respected by our partners who will understand that we are strong and predictable people who act in their own national interests. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-09-m0.u100	Thank you, Your Honor. Please, Mr. Musai, give me your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-09-m0.u101	Good afternoon, distinguished national MPs, distinguished Ukrainian people! I would like to draw your attention to the continuation of the catastrophic situation surrounding the Ministry of Health and the performance of the functions provided for in the current Constitution and laws of Ukraine, delegated to the relevant national central authority of the Ministry of Health. You all know that the government that was formed by the new coalition of Peter Prashenko and the People's Front didn't bring us the Ukrainian Health Minister for Parliament's consideration. Instead of following the principle of the parliamentary-presidential republic in a culinary way, one performer was appointed first, and now the performer has been appointed for three months — Mrs. Suprun Uljana. Recently, two weeks ago, the acting minister and prime minister were declared, unfortunately, and the Ukrainian society, the so-called reform package, was misled in the form of ten decrees of the Cabinet of Ministers. More than half of these regulations to date are not available on the Cabinet of Ministers’ website. Not only have they not been seen in the eyes of the national MPs, they are not even in agreement with the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine, as most of them are openly anticonstitutional and illegal. The attempt to privatize the entire health care system that follows Mr. Kvetashvili and now Mrs. Uljana Suprun has been reflected in the Committee on Health Care’s consideration of the vital bill 2309 — so - called autonomy. So here I am bringing to the knowledge of the Ukrainian people and Mr. Prime Minister, which has now taken place, today, an illegal audit in a totally illegal way, despite. in an unconstitutional way to prepare this bill for second reading. The Ukrainian national deputies did not submit any rights there; it was voted two weeks ago. Instead, with the manipulations of the Secretariat of the Health Committee and some national MPs, unfortunately, it would seem that a progressive faction like "self-help" was reviewed and revised, adopted by the committee, a bill that again sought to privatize health institutions and violate 49 articles of the Constitution. Instead of the committee's proposal, a package of fundamental eight bills that are agreed upon with the people's deputies, where there are more signatures. The majority of members of the committee, not only do these bills not enter the hall, but they are blocked in many ways by the factions and the members of the committee. That is why I ask the Prime Minister to immediately, as was the appropriate decision of the committee, immediately put here in the Hall, to comply with the Constitution of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-09-m0.u102	There are so many who would like to speak. Thank you very much, Mr. Musai. I'm not giving anyone an extra word today, because they're asking everyone to finish on time so everyone can make it. Please, Kirichenko and Popov convey the word Laško – exactly 6 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-09-m0.u103	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. I want to raise a few very important subjects for you, my fellow Ukrainians. Not for my fellow MPs, because when a part of them doesn't vote a few days ago to double your salary, I think they're enemies of the working people. So they don't live on this minimum wage, they don't count those coins. How can it be said that 3,200 is bad? So it turns out, 1,600 is the minimum that is today, if 3200 is bad. And when it's told that raising half the minimum wage is bad and that's going to lead to, well, maybe we should stop paying people for that kind of logic? And let them continue to be beggars for subsidies and for all other taxes from the authorities. If a person is working, they should receive an absolutely normal salary that allows them to feed their family, not their family. We have 4 million people in Ukraine getting a salary of 1,600 dollars from December 1, and before that, we got 1,400 dollars. Let those who did not vote for the salary of 3,200 out of January 1st live to pay 1,400 dollars or 1,600 dollars. I know what politics is. I understand what debates are, what parties are, but there are things that should unite everyone, no matter what political power. This is an increase in Ukrainian income. Where people take money that they don't do corruption that doesn't sell ministers. Ecology and everyone else? Where do they get the money? Only by honest work and honest work should a person receive a decent salary. And the faction of the Radical Party, I've been trying for about a year and a half and a half and I've been trying to convince Yatzenuk, and Groysman was convinced that if he wanted to rebuild the economy, we had to raise wages to make people have money. No loans from the International Monetary Fund, no imports will give what the internal market can give for the development of its own economy. This is possible only if people have money to go to the store, buy products, buy goods, buy some goods for long - term use. And then there will be domestic demand, internal market and economic development. And we have people holding beggars, collecting loans around the world that we can't get back. Why? Because in order to get the loan back, they had to make money to get the loan back with interest. So the decision to raise the minimum wage twice is the right decision. Is it much, or is it 3200? I don't think that's enough given today's price levels, but that's the first step. Then we're going to make sure there's a minimum wage, at least 5,000 dollars a month. They say, "Where do you get the money?" 80 percent of the Ukrainian economy in shadow, and because people in envelopes get paid, then they beg for a penny pension, working hard all their life. European pensioners retire, live, ride around the world in resorts, drink water, breathe fresh air. And our pensioners will not go through the streets and spend their entire pension on drugs and utilities. So our job is to get our pensioners, except for a trip to the pharmacy, where they take their last copies, so that they can buy gifts to their grandchildren so that they can go to Svalava or Morshin or the Watershaket, breathe fresh air, or maybe go to a resort once a year. That's how our pensioners should live. And the economy will work when the pensioners have the money, and they will use it to support the national producer. Who doesn't get it, you. They don't have economic knowledge, they don't have love for people, they live by the principle: the worse for the country, the better for them, because they've been parasiteizing people's problems all their lives instead of solving these problems. Because when, for example, Groysman's government, to which I'm a political opponent, but if Groysman raised his salary, I welcome that decision. If we continue to sit on it and he raises his salary again, we will applaud this decision again. Because we are opposed to the socio-economic policy of today's government, the President and the parliamentary majority. But we are not opponents to Ukraine, and we are not opponents to the Ukrainians! And if it's up to me to give people a higher salary, a higher pension, I'm going to break up, but I'm going to give them a higher salary and a higher pension. Because millions of people live from salary to salary, from retirement to retirement. And many lack the money they receive for a month! So aside from wages, we think that the next decision is going to be a radical increase in pensions. First of all, half a million people who get less than a thousand dollars in pension. At least index inflation pensions for all other pensioners! In order for them to be able to congregate at least their basic needs! And another requirement of ours is that it's free medicine for pensioners. People die today because they have no money to buy drugs! We demand that the government give cheap, free medicine for pressure, headaches, diabetes, asthma, and the lives of hundreds of thousands of Ukrainians! Well, finally, milk. We've been in this room fighting a lot, including my colleague Anatoly Evlakhov, to raise the minimum purchase price for milk. We've done it. Today, the minimum price is 5 dollars. And that's what we've been up to. And these are our concrete decisions that the Radical Party can show our citizens. That's why.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-09-m0.u104	Thank you, Your Honor. Please welcome to the floor the national MP from Mr. Rosenblatt's "Peter Duster's Block." Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-09-m0.u105	Good afternoon, folks! Madam Chairman, colleagues! Yesterday, on direct air, the President of Ukraine signed two bills establishing the Road Fund and establishing its sources of existence, fulfillment and distribution. This is the Law of Ukraine amending the Law on Sources of Finance for the Road Economy of Ukraine on Improving the Financing of the Road Sector and amending the Code of Budgets for Ukraine on Improving the Financing of the Road Sector. I think 2017 will be a turning point when Ukraine, with a large transit territory through which very large flows can flow, will develop its ways. I want to be honest with you: roads are the ways of life that fill every country that really cares about it and makes it a huge economic growth. You know, I want to say that this is a joint achievement of the government, the president, the parliament. For many months, parliamentarians, government officials, have been working on this bill, and it still gives, once again, the opportunity to create conditions for growth. We're here to save for an increase in wages, we want our people to work to create jobs, but how can we do that if there's no place to work. So, creating the Road Fund, filling it up at the expense of the local budgets, at the expense of investors who are going to invest in these roads, that's the guarantee of road growth. Because, once again, every job on our roads is creating 17 additional places for our neighbours, and this makes it possible to recapture the fact that Ukraine is beginning to grow economically. But yesterday we had to consider a few more bills on this transport sector. We have to consider the issues were the law on the State Aviation Safety Program. We had to make the Law on the Expansion of an Expansion of Financial Insurance for the Reconstruction of Current Repair of Motorways of General Use of State Value in All Areas of Ukraine, we had to do internal water transport. What I'm saying is that water transport is an alternative to our automobile routes that will allow us to unload our roads, which are driven by multi-toned cars, by wrecking them. You know, what's the catastrophic situation in the south of our country, where grainmakers, everyone else, just smashing these paths. And it's not because we're bad at building these roads today, it's because these roads need to be really not just built, it needs to be protected. Thus, the translation of a million tons of cargo into the water arteries today saves 800 million dollars that go to the Road Fund. So today I want to encourage everyone to continue our work, to create all the alternatives to really, I support that not IMF loans should be our budget, but jobs and taxes of our people. Here you go.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-09-m0.u106	Thank you, Your Honor. People’s MP Irina Fryz gives the floor to the national deputy Paul Kishkar. Please, Mr. Paul. And then prepare for Volodymyr Parasuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-09-m0.u107	Friends, my word to both the people and to the national MPs present, as always, refer to the sphere of security and defence. In fact, in times of war it's hard and easy to talk about, because it's the most important issue in the end society, the triumphant end of this war, and the question that the Ukrainian Parliament has done to accelerate this victory. We like to talk a lot, we pass a lot of bills. But the effectiveness of this is usually not much. And in particular, the fact that we have not fulfilled our obligation to the international community has not resulted in the completion of a single register of military obligations. This could allow us to significantly improve the mobilization process, to set up real mobilization work in the military and other military formations, because we do not get everything down just to the functioning of the Ukrainian Armed Forces, including in the ATO area, to work and carry out the service, to carry out various military formations, to do so effectively enough. That's why Parliament has to get the 25-year anniversary of the Armed Forces, which we celebrated this week to complete this process, to normalize and adopt the relevant law 54. 2,504 to solve this issue definitively. It is a shame for some national MPs who were absent in the hall during the vote and did not support the reform of the mobilization training of troops. My second brief question concerns yesterday's failed competition for Secretary of State of Minmolodsport. It's a disgrace when in 15 minutes, the minister comes in and tells the commission what to do. If Mr. Danevitch does not have the mental capacity to use the computer, and he receives from all that handicap on the second round of 0.25 points, all of it, friends, this person now performs these functions, say good - bye to them. I urge the Prime Minister to take this as my interlocutor's request to consider this comrade at the relevant Kabmin meeting to release him from his position, because he does not meet this position, he cannot pass the appropriate tests and pass this competition. We insist that the Naccommodation Service complete the third stage of this competition and appoint a decent man of the two people who have won the minimum score on the second round and have gained more than two points. Please let us begin the reform of physical culture and sports. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-09-m0.u108	Thank you, Your Honor. The national deputy Semenchenko gives the floor to his colleague Volodymyr Parasuk. Please. And prepare for the People's Deputy of Crimson.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-09-m0.u109	Thank you, Simeon Semenchenka, for taking the floor. I want to raise the problem that is now in Ukraine, it's about cars on foreign registration. You know, a lot of people now use cars like that, they have the right to do that, they use a document called the Istanbul Convention, which was signed by our country. But there's one minus. They're taking a huge amount of cash out of Ukraine because they're paying for a variety of schemes, and they're taking it out in currency, that's, in euros, in dollars, and so on. So the activists of this movement, these people who have cars on foreign registration, they have suggested how to settle this issue and how to leave all this money here in Ukraine. Therefore, a group of national deputies had drafted bills to regulate the transit and temporary import of personal means of transport on foreign registration. I call on all members of the people to sign this bill. I urge all factions to do so. The Radical Party faction has already said that they are ready to support the Self-Help faction, Timoshenko's Yulia Block, the People's Front, part of the MPs from Peter Prashenko's Block, the non-fractional MPs, let's settle this question and help people not to bribe, involve them in a variety of schemes. Understand that right now, we can't ban this international agreement and we can't allow anything. We can settle this and make sure that Ukraine gets a good result of this, a good budget coming. We're simply paying for all these schemes that are abroad, that is, paying legal firms, giving money not to residents of Ukraine, we're sending it all as an official payment to Ukraine, and a person can use this means of transport all year round here in Ukraine. With everything that's going to be hard on these vehicles, we're not going to be looking for any ephemeral owners of these cars, and they're going to be Ukrainians. And so if there's even some kind of accident, we'll figure out who's responsible. In the same way, we're going to reduce the queues on the border, we're going to fight major corruption on the borders of our country, and the main thing is we're going to stop the output of cash in currency from Ukraine, and we're going to accumulate it in our budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-09-m0.u110	Thank you, Your Honor. Please welcome the People's Front People's Deputy of Krivoshi.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-09-m0.u111	Good afternoon, fellow countrymen, good afternoon, fellow Ukrainians! Gennady, the Faction of the People's Front. As the car continues, I would like to draw attention to the fact that today in Parliament there is Bill 5494, which relates to the large-scale development of electric cars. The first author there is Oleg Valeriovich Lazko, and I thank you for joining me as a co-author, because we've been raising this topic and Mr. Halasyuk for more than a year, and it's a very important and important topic that we need not just to talk about, but to show the important decisions right here in Parliament. And so that, in principle, all the parliamentarians can understand why we need this, I would like to dedicate my speech to this today. First of all, dear friends, according to previous data in 2015, some more than 700 electric cars were transported to Ukraine. In 2016, this statistics show that the number of cars driven increased more than twice, almost twice. If we look at this cut, by 2030 we will have a percentage of cars that will be taken to Ukraine, which will increase by almost 100 percent. This is a fairly serious potential for transporting car data to Ukraine. But given that individual cars, which, for example, cost Tesla's car, cost at least $50,000, come to us and go for $3,000. And Nissan-type cars and so on, costing between $10,000 and $15,000 abroad, are blurry for $2,000. The question is, Why is it not justice and where corruption is? And corruption is that individual customs officials do the right kind of defective acts, like they do the car either after the accident or they do the battery not seem to work, which is the main financial one. The main financial burden on the green car. So we as parliamentarians and I propose, in principle, to take note of the bill's number, once again, 5494 and to accept it as a basis and as a whole. Dear friends, the development of the electric car business is not just someone's whim or desire, we don't have it. But if we look at what's going on in Europe in the relevant international Paris climate agreement, we actually have most of Europe's leading countries by 2030 giving up petrol and diesel cars and going mainly to electric cars. They think not only about business but, above all, about their health and about their nation. So let us worry about our children, about our future, and accept the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-09-m0.u112	Thank you, Your Honor. The national deputy Lensky gives the word to his colleague Silantiev. Please, Mr. Silantiev.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-09-m0.u113	Respectable citizens of Ukraine, respected colleagues! Dennis Silantiev, faction of the Laishka Radical Party. I want to draw your attention to the moment when the Paralympic games ended, when the athletes from the competition arrived, when they heard greetings, admiration, admiration from all the media, and how quickly this ended. Take your attention, so to speak, to the consumerism of athletes, to those who defend the honour of our country, position it positively in Europe and in the world. So it doesn't go on like this. Why do I say that? Because I know from the treatments I get from athletes. Now they're abandoned. They ask me to help them fulfill the promises made to them by both the central authority and the local authorities regarding premiums, with regard to the provision of the necessary housing space and much more. In order not to continue to correct this situation in any way, the Radical Party has taken the initiative and called on the Prime Minister of Ukraine to find them this year. The Cabinet of Ministers has found an opportunity to compare the prizes for the Paralympic games of both the Paralympics and the Olympics, because it is unfair and unfair to those who, with various physical disadvantages, fight at the level of the athletes of the highest achievements, win medals and have no opportunity for the elementarys to reach their sports base, do their jobs and return home. They only need medals because they have arrived and returned, and they do not have the basic conditions. You cannot create conditions, so at least give them the four years they deserve. Second moment. The Radical Party appealed to the Prime Minister of Ukraine to make an assessment of the governors, their work, a criterion that would allow them to assess their work with regard to the development of physical culture and sports in the areas entrusted to them, to report on how many sports complexes were created or maintained, how many children were involved in sports, how many sports schools were made, how many children were involved. Next. During the next sessional week, the Radical Party is initiating a decision by the Supreme Council of the Cabinet of Ministers on development. on the development and establishment of a targeted State programme for the development of physical culture and sport. Only through such an integrated programme will we be able to address the problems that have arisen in our country today with regard to the health of the nation and the health of the growing generation. Instead of putting out fires, it's a complex solution, let's unite, set a goal and go to it. The Radical Party is already doing it.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-09-m0.u114	Thank you. The National Deputy of Ukraine, Mikola Palamarczuk, is invited to attend. Mr. Mikola, Mikola Palamarczuk, your word. Mikola Palamarchuk gives the floor to our colleague, Gennady Tkachuku. Please, Mr. Hennadia.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-09-m0.u115	Good afternoon, dear Ukrainians! I want to make a few statements so that all Ukrainians know what's going on in the Supreme Council. Not for the first time in our history, a new government led by Vladimir Groysman has made a timely budget so that MPs can get to know each other, process, make their own adjustments. And, in principle, vote consciously what we did in the first reading. Yet, demagogism and populism take the lead in admitting that only 227 votes were cast in the first reading. That is, when we voted on December 6th for Bill 5130, which envisions an increase in the minimum wage from a thousand 600 dollars to three 200 dollars, which is an automatic increase in the welfare of our citizens, millions of citizens, especially those working in the budget area, is 227 votes in favour. This suggests that there is a very small supply of strength. That is, the rest of the deputies, promising the heavenly Manna, are in practice blocking the positive decisions of the government and the positive decisions of prospective deputies who care for the state and care for people. So I have a specific question to ask the heads of the Self-Help faction and the Fatherland faction, and I want all Ukrainians to know that when it comes time to take responsibility, it was these two factions that escaped from the battlefield, deserted from the battlefield for the sake of the Ukrainians. Another disgraceful example and a disgraceful phenomenon is when on December 7 we adopted a decree calling on the democratic state of the world to recognize the Holocaust as a genocide of the Ukrainian people. It seems that this theme must unite all of us, because everyone in the family has people who have suffered this terrible affliction, the Holocaust is our common pain, and we must bring to the leaders of the civilized states the truth, information about how millions of Ukrainians have been killed. Even on this literally sacred subject, some politicians decided to speculate, and the decision was given 233 votes. Again, no self-help party and part of Fatherland, especially its leader, Julia Timoshenko. Perhaps Yulia Timoshenko and the representative of self-help is deeply indifferent to what the Ukrainians receive minimally -- 1,600 or 3,200 -- and perhaps the difference is not important to them, because they do not live on this salary, but for those living in the village, for the teacher, for the fieldmaster, that is a significant increase. And let them go.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-09-m0.u116	Thank you, Your Honor. The factions were mentioned. In the end, I'll give you the word for it. Please, National Deputy Soloway of Peter Dustenk's Block. And I've got everybody there.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-09-m0.u117	Yuri Solovay, 89 constituency, Gutzulščina, and Pocust. Madam Chairman and Secretariat, I ask you to consider my statement as an official parliamentary request to Prime Minister Vladimir Borisovich Groissman of Ukraine for the maintenance of budgetary infrastructure in 2017 in mountain settlements. Dear colleagues, during this week we have adopted a number of laws in the first reading that regulate the budgetary process and, in fact, the budget for 2017. And in addition to the positive changes that relate to raising the minimum wage, raising the average wage in the budget area and, in particular, raising the salaries of teachers, we also, I want to remind you, voted that we are transferring to the maintenance of the local budgets of the budgetary infrastructure facility. And there's a number of questions about this, because the first line of changes voted raises concerns about directly my electorate and budget staff, who represent mountain populated areas. Because a proportional approach to funding for one student or one of the places that the government provides for funding, for example, a school or a hospital facility in Kiev, it is totally unapproachable, a proportionate approach to financing such facilities in mountain settlements, because we clearly understand that the number of students or the number of beds in the secondary school or in the central hospital in Kiev is much higher than that in the mountainous settlements. At the same time, however, we are obliged to maintain all necessary budgetary infrastructure that can provide quality education and medical services, especially in this difficult area. And so this morning, I asked the Prime Minister of Ukraine with an appropriate request. And also from this rostrum, I am again asking Vladimir Borisovich Groissman to provide for changes in the methodology for the calculation of basic budget support, especially in mountain settlements, and to anticipate the necessary coefficients to ensure in 2017 the necessary funding for medical facilities, educational facilities in Hutzulščina, in the region of the highest district in Ukraine. I'm sure the necessary resources in the government today are. And I believe that everything needs to be done in order for 2017 to become a year of necessary funding for the mountain population budget infrastructure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-09-m0.u118	Thank you, Your Honor. Please welcome the Radical Party representative Igor Popov. And by the way, there was a saying that, as the faction sounded, you don't have to say a word. I'll remind you that all the factions here all week demanded a replica of the factions. So let's stick to the same rules. Please, Mr. Igor.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-09-m0.u119	Igor Popov, faction of the Radical Party of Oleg Láška Dear colleagues, distinguished voters! Today is the International Day to Combat Corruption. And the best greeting cards on this day would be the verdicts of the highest Ukrainian corruption. Because the problem of corruption is very urgent for Ukraine. Corruption is the reason we don't have a growing economy. It is the corruption that takes money from those articles of the state budget that we should use to defend the social needs. It's corruption that scares investors away. This week's application for the Odessa Port Facility, how much did it take to privatize it? Zero. Because investors fear our corruption. The Radical Party believes that the biggest problem is high corruption, corruption in the highest offices. It's government corruption, huge state enterprises, and political corruption in the Supreme Council. The fish rots from their heads. Why is it offered from the tail? They offer to catch, I don't know, a teacher who gets a bouquet of flowers or a doctor who gets paid for it with chocolate. But in the world, it's called tips, not corruption! And that's why we need to investigate the highest level of corruption. An oligarch fugitive Oneshchenko makes statements and names names, publishes films that tell how corruption takes place in the highest echelons of the Ukrainian government. And the Radical Party has registered a project and requires the establishment of a temporary special commission of the Supreme Council. And figure out how that oligarch bought a minister's position to engage in corruption and steal money from the budget in one of the factions that, unfortunately, is missing today and can't even answer. How did that oligarch, and to whom did he transfer the money to the Supreme Council for the vote? And the names were called. Today, the National Anti - Corruption Bureau has violated criminal conduct, but it waits for Oneshchenko to come to give a witness. The National Anti-Corruption Bureau should question those people whose names were called. If they are decent people, they can immediately deny and prove that they are not guilty. If they give a witness, which will then be refuted by other investigating bodies, let them even American, then they will be found to be corrupters, and they will answer. For more than a month now, these electronic declarations have shocked our citizens. And so far, electronic declarations have not begun to be tested. Is that how we fight corruption? The members of the Radical Party, who have savings, showed where these savings came from, showed their income all the time they were in office. And we require the National Anti-Corruption Agency to verify the legality of the origins of savings, the property of all officials, all judges, all prosecutors, if anyone can't prove it, again, it's a subject for investigation. Soon we will hear the annual report of the National Anticorruption Bureau and ask where the big fish they promised us to catch in a year. We call on everyone to fight the unfortunate phenomenon of corruption.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-09-m0.u120	Dear colleagues, thank you. National MP Igor Melniczuk passes. John Melniczuk, if you'll excuse me, gives the floor to a colleague of Mr. Sporish.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-09-m0.u121	Dear Chairman, distinguished national MPs! John Sporish, Winnie. I wanted to address everyone today because on December 18, elections were being held for the united communities, for the heads of the united communities. And you know, I've been approached by the Ukrainian Union of Fighters and Volunteers of the ATO in Tomaspil district. And they turned to look into the situation in our village when we registered candidates for the election. I want to read it a little bit. In fact, it seems that the turbulent 1990s are returning to our Tomaspil. Because filing papers turned into a detective kidnapping story. threats, persecution of candidates and their families. As it was known, the resident of Komargorod Volodymyr Nemirowski also decided to take part in the elections, but not for an hour since the submission of the documents, and as the people of the village's current head, family ties were used, applied moral pressure and threats of physical execution, brought him to the election committee (it is located right in the village council), and at half the first night they took him with law enforcement officers (let's note, along with law enforcement) to the office of the village head and after (in coffees) a "soul conversation" with real threats to Vladimir Nemirowski, living for the life and health of his family, wrote a statement about what is being taken from the elections and took the documents. The whole process was determined by law enforcement officers, who then took him to the testimonies department. For the next day, Volodymira was called by a stranger and told that they would return for a conversation. I'm going to say that this story had to be tampered with by the S.B.I. It's actually a detective story, it's really the deities are coming back. And what you think is that there's no pull on the village head and what's going on right now is absolutely gone. And, you know, the person who submitted to Vladimir Nemirowski, who applied, the wife is pregnant, there are children, they're afraid, they're scared. It was just another car outside his house to do everything he could to get him out of his candidature. That's how it happens today, unfortunately, we do. I wrote a letter to both the prosecution and the police, and so on, to the police, I apologize. But so far nothing has changed and no one has been called to account. That's why I'm asking you to consider my question. Perhaps because of the rostrum of the Supreme Council, I think we should take every measure to order the guilty. And I wish. Yeah, there's no time.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-09-m0.u122	Thank you, Your Honor. We give the floor to the National Deputy of Teteruck Andrew of the People's Front. Please, Mr. Andrey.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-09-m0.u123	Dear Chairman! Dear fellow national MPs! Dear Ukrainian people! In July of this year, Ukrainian Prime Minister Vladimir Grossman urged every minister to report today on corruption and corruption schemes that have been overcome in every ministry. I don't know how this report is going to go before the Prime Minister, and I would very much like him to call on this very report to the national MPs who would be interested to hear about every minister's report. But I would like to say a few words about our space agency. Similarly, there are problems, some problems that stop Ukraine from developing and harnessing the technologies that exist to make Ukraine profit. And so there was the head of the Space Agency, Lubomir Sabados, all those troubles, and they stopped all those schemes that allowed the Red Directors to just steal money from the government budget. Under strange circumstances, he was released without an explanation. And that's why today, I don't know who will report to the space agency. Although there are really very painful questions. The Cyclone-4 project, which cost the people of Ukraine almost half a billion dollars, is now unrealized and a heavy burden on our shoulders. And we continue to live up to our obligations by paying our expenses. The "Libya" project, which would provide both the High Commander and our Deep Corps, and the External Intelligence Service, our intelligence, our military liaison, is not implemented. It costs almost $400 million for our budget. None of these projects have been implemented; none of the managers who conducted these projects have been punished. All investigations, all attempts to hold them accountable will be stopped by corrupt politicians who cover up the old corruption system. Not a single move to enable Ukraine to break away from the difficult consequences of the Soviet Union, to cooperate with the corrupt Russian system, to interact with modern European partner countries, to bring young scientists to the level where they could compete with the most modern development of American, European partners. All of this is completely stopped, and now, at the base of the space agency, they're trying to build a monster like this on clay legs, a concert called Ukrosmos, which is going to be even more closed, like the Ukrobanprom, and where our hopes for any modern space work will be completely buried, and red directors will continue to implement their cynical schemes to steal our funds. You have to do something about it, take it.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-09-m0.u124	Thank you, Your Honor, Mr. Andrey. I'd like to invite you to the floor of the National Deputy Irina Suslov of "Peter Prashenko's Block." Mrs. Irina.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-09-m0.u125	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues, Ukrainians! Today we are in the final line of the budget process, the government has done everything in its power to ensure that the budget is presented in time and voted in the first reading, followed by us, followed by Parliament. So we started out well, but the main thing in the final is not to spoil everything, and there is always such a risk. Because of the desire of some political forces to make preferences for themselves through political trade, there is a threat of a break in the timely approval of the corrosive. There are ultimatums, blackmails, attempts to impose secret agreements, all of which question the final result, effective voting. I'm not going to detail why this budget is so much needed by the country, it's been analyzed, and it's made positive conclusions by dozens of experts, including the economic sector. I'm going to talk about what she's practically dealing with, and I think it's giving the community perspectives. This is about the State Regional Development Fund, where the government is charging 6.5 billion dollars, twice as much as it is this year. This mechanism, initiated by Kabmin and supported by Parliament, has become a powerful and effective tool for modernizing social infrastructure on the ground, and has already proven its effectiveness. And I want to give you a couple of examples. The construction of a new school in the village of Vrhna Rožanka Skolovska district in Lvivščina, I was approached as a national deputy by representatives of the community who asked for help to modernize the educational institution, and now there children are learning in disgraceful conditions, in a room that is almost unhistorical. This is a shame for Ukraine and for the country that declared European choice. We have made a concerted effort to reverse the situation, including by promoting the head of government, Vladimir Groysman, the community has received adequate funding under the State Regional Development Fund. Thus, a new school will be built for 20 million dollars and will be completed in 2018. So kids get a modern, modern education facility where they can get quality knowledge to compete in the labor market in the future. This is just a little example of how DFRD works. The increase in its funding in the 2017 budget gives hope that the number of similar projects will increase at the same time, including in Lviv. It's not just schools, it's FAPs, hospitals, country clubs, libraries, local well-being, etc. So when someone starts speculating on a budget issue today, trying to put their political interest here, it's causing me a sudden negative reaction. I advise such deputies not to sit in Kiev or in the surrounding tax camps, but to go out into the region to the people. They will see that the petty, speculative interest of citizens is not of interest. The public needs new roads, renovated schools, hospitals, new jobs, and a decent reward for hard work. Today we do.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-09-m0.u126	Thank you, Mrs. Irina. I don't let anyone in, because there's a lot of people who want to come out. Please, the national deputy Kishkar, who gives the floor to the national deputy Levchenk. And then Antonistak.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-09-m0.u127	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223 District, Kiev City. During this week, especially yesterday and today, massively throughout the country and in this hall, it is reported from this rostrum that it is said that someone has removed the touch of the thief Novinsky. In fact, it's outright lies and manipulation. The Supreme Council did not remove any intrusiveness from it, for the Supreme Council voted solely in favour of allowing him to be brought to criminal responsibility. Instead, there is no detention permit, there is no arrest permit, according to any moment the Novinsky may continue to escape or may not go into interrogation, in fact, it remains untouchable. And we can see that this manipulation is going on and on, as it was with Klaviv, as it was with Oneshchenk, this outright lie is always told to the Ukrainian people. Why is there such a possibility? And that's because we have in the Constitution an open mind. And we need to understand, frankly, that as long as the Ukrainian Constitution is intact, no rich national MP can be held accountable. Regrettably, Bill 1776, which had already been sent to the Constitutional Court, which had received the Constitutional Court's acknowledgment regarding the annulment of the immunity of national MPs, was, in fact, overwhelmed because its adoption was prolonged in its entirety, and ended by changes being made to the Constitution, other changes to the Constitution, which were in conflict with part of the bill, in the judges' plan, and now this project cannot be accepted in full, should be reopened. This was deliberately done by this authority to continue telling people about the submission and the supposed struggle, and in fact, to release all these thieves outside of Ukraine. So I would like to point out that until we undo the inviolability of the Constitution, nothing will change, and there will still be a caste system where 450 deputies will have completely different rights than all the other Ukrainians. So today, I'm starting a new convention of signatures under a new bill to remove parliamentary immunity, and I'm calling on all the MPs who really want to cancel it, but they're just talking and not only arguing about it, to sign under this submission. I hope we can still find 150 signatures and end this shameful situation in our Constitution. And in conclusion, I'd like to say something positive, and it's rare: I'd like to invite all the Chinese and guests of the capital tomorrow to a wonderful concert of the beautiful band "The Shadow of the Sun," which is the band that our collection of Euros went to, with boxer Alexander Usik. They have a big concert tomorrow, in Kiev, Rustaveli Street, 11 a.m. I'd like to invite everyone, you know, to forget about this frostbite that's been going on around us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-09-m0.u128	Thank you, Your Honor. Please, the national deputy of Tchakouk, gives the floor to his colleague Antonistak. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-09-m0.u129	Good afternoon, reverend people of Ukraine! Please be careful. Madam Chairman, please consider my statement an official parliamentary request. Attorney General of Ukraine, Mr. Lucenk, Minister of Defense of Ukraine, Mr. Poltorak. I was approached by the employees of the Public Enterprise Ivano-Frankow Military Forestry Company about the unsatisfactory work of the temporary director of this company, Mr. Greenik. The complainants are concerned that the incumbent of the duties of the Director of the DP of the Ivano-Franco military forest combination was to make a selection of candidates for a temporary duty. According to the complainants, according to the Secretary of Defense's instructions, the efficiency of the use and preservation of DP's assets, "The Ivano-Franco military forest combination", was checked. The test of Mr. Grinika's temporary duty as Director of DP's Ivano-Franco military forestry unit was not satisfactory, which was the result of a report on the results of the verification of the efficiency of the use and preservation of the assets of the enterprise over a period of time. In the course of the inspection, huge abuses were detected, including more than 6 million dollars in the first quarter of 2016 alone. In addition, certain positions were accepted by persons who did not qualify. Then, on the basis of the results of the survey carried out on specific issues of the activities of the DP "Yvano-Frankov military forest combination" it was proposed to recognize the activities of the so-called "Franco-Francist". Mr. Greenick's director is not satisfied with the offer to the Ministry. U.S. Secretary of Defense to relieve Mr. Greenick of his position. Some of this, the applicants reported that, based on the vote of the Competition Commission, Mr. Greenick did not hold a competitive selection for the post of Director of the DP "Yvano-Franco military forest company", but that person is still in charge of the enterprise. Given the above, I demand. The Ministry of Defence of Ukraine shall carry out a verification of the facts and, if confirmed, take measures to react, inform whether the Ministry of Defence of Ukraine has been informed of the results of the verification of the specific activities of the DP "Yvano-Frankov military forest combination", and immediately release Mr. Grinick from his temporary position as Director of the State Enterprise "Yvano-Frankovské military forest combination", to proceed with the submission of the so-called so-called Director-General Concern "Military Management" Tradeschenka, addressed to the so-called Chief of General Property and Resources Management, Shevchenk, on the appointment of temporary candidates. The U.S. Attorney General of Ukraine will report to the GDR on Mr. Greenick's illegal activity and inaction as the temporary director of the State Enterprise Ivano-Frankov Forest Company. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-09-m0.u130	Thank you, Your Honor. And I invite you to the speech of National Deputy Sergio Mishchenka of "Peter Prashenko's Block." Please, Mr. Sergei.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-09-m0.u131	Dear colleagues! Dear citizens of Ukraine! Sergei Mishchenko, 98th District. Today’s talk has forced me to have a different attitude toward decentralization. First of all, I also want to thank the Minister of Justice, Peter Paul, for the fact that this is, indeed, the minister who is in his place, who is really in the process of decentralization. Because two years together with the minister, pilot projects were launched in Sumska district in 13 areas, in Kyiv region, particularly in the Borispil region, about the rural councils being set up to establish rights, such as sales contracts, other contracts, and people who form an inheritance in places. But today's conversation with one of the "parents" of the decentralization of Yuri Hanuschak, who, everyone knows, who is pushing this decentralization, has led me to regret that, unfortunately, people who advise the President's Administration, the Cabinet of Ministers, the district administrations don't think it's necessary. It is not necessary for the elderly to have the right to take up the functions of the registrars and those who make up an inheritance in the rural councils. And so as long as we don't have the same opinion in high-rises as this decentralization, like Hanusztak will continue to advise us to send the same grandmother or grandfather to a nearby village with a transport that doesn't work, so that they can form all the rights there, including an inheritance. So once again, I would like to thank the Minister of Justice for his proper work. And yet, for two years now, as my Law on the Simplification of Heritage Procedure has been in force, that people no longer pay tens of thousands of dollars for a father to transfer his property to his son. Sadly, though, government notaries today use different schemes to illegally raise money from people. Because the Ministry of Justice's orders say that only 463 dollars of government duty should be paid by a person plus a small service of a notary, a state notary, and that's about a thousand dollars. But government notaries are wise at different places to have black books and to offer people 3 to 5,000 dollars for such services. That's what's going on in the transshipment area, and we've handed it over to the minister. This is Deputy Kugel who said last week that in the Kirovograd region such facts are happening. That's why I'm asking everyone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-09-m0.u132	Thank you, Your Honor. We're not adding to anyone, because it's my turn to speak. I thank you so much for your performance. And I give the word to Igor Lucenka, who is given the right to speak by the national deputy of Karpunts. I'm sorry, everyone just wants to speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-09-m0.u133	Thank you. Dear friends, today is Anti-Corruption Day, an international day. Today we have a war in the country. I want to inform you again how our corruption today prevents us from winning, prevents us from defending ourselves from Russia. In the Soviet Union, there was a DOSAAF organization that had numerous polygons, airports, clubs, and fighting infrastructure for the front. In the early years of independence, this infrastructure came under the control of a pseudo - civil organization called the Society for the Defence of Ukraine. The Ukrainian Defence Society now owns about 500 auto schools, a large number of track, airports, polygons, other infrastructures to prepare a mobilization reserve, or trained fighters for the army. In order to take national patriotic measures. In order to finally prepare for the territorial defense. It's not happening right now. Colossal, billions of assets are used for commercial purposes! Baths and saunas are set up in the tracks. They're giving money to shoot for fun. At airports instead of preparing a future specialty, they just throw money from a mountain with parachutes with tandems and so on. So there's a lot of land in this organization, and there's all sorts of commercial, profitable activity. Instead of channeling all of this colossal resource into increased resilience. Unfortunately, in 20 years, we have not corrected this situation. Unfortunately, things are only getting worse. It's getting worse. That certain groups in the government are going to help to change their statutes and introduce certain standards that allow for the sale of virtually all property at once. So the course is to literally sell everything in the next few months. And so close DOSAAF TSOE as a question. In order to ensure that Ukraine does not have the opportunity to improve its security. Unfortunately, now it's a question of the inactivity of our organs. Now, I think we need to activate the Ukrainian State Property Fund. I think it's necessary for the D.A. to help through the court, as is the case with the law, to return all this property to state property, state accounts. And be properly directed to defend ourselves to build an army of our country and for similar purposes. There is now a law in the Supreme Council that simplifies all these procedures. I call upon the leadership of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the leaders of factions.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-09-m0.u134	Thank you, Your Honor. Please welcome the people’s deputy of Aresonkov, who is given the word of the national MP Artyushenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-09-m0.u135	Thank you, Madam Chairman, distinguished colleagues, distinguished viewers! Vladimir Aresonkov, 64 constituency, Žitomirščina. I would like to inform everyone that on this Monday, the All-U.S. Chernobyl Forum, whose participants, including public organizations, national MPs and current officials, have jointly expressed the view that when preparing the budget for the following year, everyone on whom the formation, adoption of the budget, takes into account the wishes of those affected by the CHAS accident, needs to be refocused. A budget committee is scheduled to meet today. And once again, I would like to ask our colleagues and government officials to pay attention to these questions. Once again, even part of the national program that dealt with the recovery of citizens, the treatment of cancer patients, the 60 million dollars that were in the budget this year, disappeared in the next year's budget project. The following is the question regarding the activities of our state enterprises. Indeed, we can agree with the government that there are enough businesses, not even hundreds today, and thousands of people in the country are doing enough inefficient work, causing damage, and we need to think about what their future fate will be. And there are, let's say, statesmen who are strategically important, including, in my opinion, Ukrthorf. I would like to point out right now that the Zitomirth Living Department, which has two peat factories in the Lugina and Oleuvian regions of the Žitomir district, is today not receiving support from state institutions and organizations such as Dergeondra, the State Forest Resources Agency, which today are supposed to promote the work of state-owned enterprises themselves. Instead, the game is played and played by private companies who are willing to enter the territory of these areas and get into possession, to process the lands that are now in state enterprises and where amber can potentially be found. That's why I'm calling today not to play games, once again, with private companies, but to support active state enterprises, where hundreds of our citizens work. And finally. Dear Head of the State Property Fund, Mr. Billows, please comply with your order for December of last year, which you signed, and conduct a restructuring of the state-owned enterprise in the Chernyachiv region of Ukraine, the agricultural enterprise, reorganize it into a collective agricultural enterprise, as you planned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-09-m0.u136	Thank you, Your Honor. The word is given to the People's Deputy, Shinkovic, of "Peter Prashenko's Block." And I'm also drawing attention to the Supreme Council's apparatus, that the two deputies, this is MP Sporish and Antonistak, asked them to make speeches as MPs. The request has a different form of form, colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-09-m0.u137	Andrew Šinkovic, 189th constituency, Hmelničina. Dear colleagues, I ask you once again to address very important issues regarding the authority of local self-government authorities to regulate housing and utility tariffs. In line with the concept of reform of local self-government and territorial governance in Ukraine since 1 April 2014, and on the basis that government regulation of prices and tariffs is based on the principle of accessibility of housing and utility services for all consumers according to the level of prices and tariffs, the extent of economic justification for costs of production, guarantees of social protection of the population at the cost of housing and utility services and the advance of population income growth over rising prices and tariffs for housing and utility services. This is a quote from article 30 of the Ukrainian Housing Services Act. I want to raise the issue of the transfer of authority in the area of regulation of prices and tariffs for residential services to the jurisdiction of local self-government authorities, which will allow for the construction of tariff policies in the region, taking into account its real socio-economic situation and taking into account public hearings. Today, most district councils in Ukraine have decided to hold a moratorium on tariffs, stressing that tariff policies should be transparent, understandable and accessible to the population. People want to participate in the formation of economically sound housing prices with a view to countering corruption schemes in this area. An active tool for community participation in the life of its community can be the introduction of a mechanism for contractual relations between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the District Council. Let me remind you that it's already Ivano-Frankivsky, Hmelnicka, Poltavska Odeska, Kirovogradska. The Kiev and other district councils voted in favour of a delimitation of powers. This means that the MPs on the ground are confident that it is only in this way that social tension can be lifted and Ukraine brought closer to real democratic values. That's the first one. And the second. Using time, I want to draw attention to Bill No. 5119-1 (the authorships of Andri Nemirowski, Roman Macola and Andri Shinkovic). The bill provides for increased administrative and criminal responsibility for the cruel treatment and killing of animals, the harassment of animals against one another, the killing of animals, the propaganda of this negative phenomenon in society. Thank you to the activists who went to the Supreme Council today. And please, from the authors, place this bill on the floor as early as 2016 – 5119-1. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-09-m0.u138	Thank you, Your Honor. The national deputy Martovitchki gives the word to his colleague Igor Shurma. And I continue, at the request of those deputies who remain and are on the list of speakers, today's meeting for 15 minutes. Please, Mr. Shurma.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-09-m0.u139	Igor Shurma, Opposition Block. Dear colleagues, citizens of Ukraine! Environmental protection issues have been raised on several occasions in this room: illegal logging, misuse of water resources, and other widespread environmental violations. The situation around the West Bug River is critical. In recent years, pollution and landslides have left Ukraine 100 acres [100 ha] of land behind. There is a risk of further loss of Ukrainian territory. And according to the report of the Ukrainian Court of Auditors, the absence of a clearing of the West Bug River and the strengthening of its shores threatens Ukraine's loss of territory in the border area with the Republic of Poland. Think about it and figure out what 5,000 acres is. In fact, this is the territory of small nations. Fish die off as a result of pollution. High concentrations of chloride in water have a devastating effect on plant growth and cause soil salinization. The river flows through Ukraine, Poland, and Belarus. Transboundary pollution of water in the territory of neighbouring nations poses a threat. And taking into account the entire Baltic Sea basin, the ecological state of the river affects the lives of people in 13 countries around the world. Let us now consider the international image of Ukraine. With the aim of avoiding an environmental disaster in the framework of the Agreement between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Poland on Water and Border Water, a bilateral Ukrainian-Polish Commission on Border Waters was established. According to the agreement, the commission should meet regularly once a year and make appropriate decisions. The last meeting took place in 2014, Michael Yatsuk, head of the Water Management Department, who was then authorized by Kabmin, was released under the Cleansing of Power Act as early as October 2014. It will be possible to hold another session of the commission after the appointment of an authorized government from the Ukrainian side. However, Kabin’s new authority has not yet been appointed. For two years, Poland has been waiting for an authorized Ukrainian party to manage and make decisions. Journalists, the public, have repeatedly addressed the Ministry of Public Information. The Ukrainian State Water Agency confirmed the failure to hold a joint meeting because of the absence of an authorized Ukraine. The last working group meetings were in 2012. Ensuring good environmental status and cleanness of surface waters is an international task. Thus, Ukraine’s absence of an authorized representative poses a threat to further cooperation with Poland, has a negative impact on Ukraine’s international image and threatens our nation’s national security. I am calling from this rostrum to the Prime Minister, and I demand that the next meeting of the government consider the question of the appointment of the Authorized Government for cooperation and border waters for further fruitful cooperation with the Republic of Poland. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-09-m0.u140	Thank you, Your Honor. And now the people's deputy, Bereza, is handing over the word to his colleague from the People's Front to the people's MP Meparishville, who now has six minutes, because he's got three minutes left, and it's all coming together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-09-m0.u141	Good afternoon, distinguished colleagues! Meparishvili Hwicz Nodarovic, "The People's Front" of Ukraine. I would like to draw your attention to two questions. The first is the decentralization that is taking place in our country. We make laws with you, we do a lot of things to make decentralization happen in Ukraine, but there are some problems. For example. Today, in the field, especially in the regional administrations, different people are responsible for decentralization: either the department of architecture or the facilities that are not directly involved. When the Cabinet of Ministers of Yatsenuk was in office, there was an order: in each district administration, to allocate one loan, which would deal directly with the matter. Today, the issue has come to a close. And I want to give an example in Kiev. In Kiev for two years, two communities instead of 29. This issue should not only be addressed in the field of human beings, but also directly with the Head and the Governor's initiative and direct orders to do so. Today, I would like to draw your attention to the second issue of culture. You see, in our country, culture is the least funded today. Here's an example of Kiev again. Our museums are in lamentable condition, the walls are falling down, and no one can answer for this. Everybody says no funding, no money. The Department of Culture receives very little money in the areas. I would like to draw attention to the question of theatre. Here in Kiev is the town of the White Church, the Saksagan theatre. At the beginning of the fiscal year, they received 23 million bracelets. Well, we got 17, 6 million bracelets, said we're using that money now, and in the fall we're going to return. Unfortunately, that didn't happen. Today, actors or theatre workers sit without pay, and the district council says we won't give them money. I would like to ask as an official request to the Minister of Culture for help in dealing with this situation, how to deal with these groups that have been in such a state to date. That's bad. You have to understand that everything changes, everything goes away, culture and people always stays -- it's our face, it's our story. Thank you. That's what I wanted to pay attention to, everything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-09-m0.u142	Thank you, dear colleagues. Your speech will be presented as an address. The request has to be formalized and announced in an appropriate section of the Supreme Council. As the address will be formulated, of course. Now, the national deputy Golovko, please invite me to the floor. Dear colleague, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-09-m0.u143	Mikhailo Golovko, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, Ternopolishte, 164 constituency. Honorable MPs and colleagues, distinguished viewers! I want to point out that unfortunately, but unfortunately, the government of Groysman continues to pursue the government's policy of the previous Yatsenuk, as it were, who are once again "mangled in three pines" and do not want to change the concept of our nation's development and change Ukraine's economic policy. Unfortunately, once again we've gone to the so-called needle to the oligarchs, subsidizing them as so-called grants to subsidies, and this year we're increasing the budget for subsidies to the oligarchs, their companies. Of course, it's burdening the economy, and the main thing is that we're still working in this closed cycle that doesn't allow us to reorient our strategy. The main thing is that in this way we're hiding a large part of the Ukrainian economy today, which is the main thing, is the wages of small and medium-sized businesses. The government is calling for a salary raise of up to three thousand 200, it's really kind of a good idea, but it doesn't show where, how they're going to take the costs and, of course, doesn't change the tariff grid, realizing that there's a clear speculation going on. I have repeatedly called and talked about where to get the money. Ukraine today could increase the budget from one hundred to two hundred billion in revenue to the budget by adopting several bills proposed by Freedom. We have repeatedly stressed this, this is the Offshore Elimination Act, this is the law on the elimination of private monopolies, this is the bill on the return to the state of lottery control, Ukraine loses more than 10 billion a year, unfortunately no one hears, nobody wants to react. These are laws that encourage the development of Ukrainian business, the creation of jobs. "Freedom" has registered bills on decommissioned duties and VAT for imports of equipment that is not produced in Ukraine to create jobs. Unfortunately, these bills are blocked, not entered into the session hall. It's going to have to be stimulated by credit policy, but unfortunately we're seeing again the so-called corruption led by the Head of the National Bank of Honduras, we're seeing total ignoration, in the next devalue of the national bracelet, the rise of inflation. And of course, the budget forecast, which is projected at 8 percent, that's ridiculous, that's absurd, that's about 20 to 30 percent, that's what's going to hit the queue on the most vulnerable population. Today, it is necessary to index wages and pensions, for Ukrainians who have a thousand or a thousand 200 dollars of pension will not be able to survive next year on such tariffs, with such a price policy on essential products and medicines. So Freedom calls for the immediate submission of our draft laws. This will enable the economy to really reorient, it will enable jobs to be created, that is, produce with high added value rather than being a raw asset of Europe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-09-m0.u144	Thank you, Your Honor. The word is given to the national deputy Sergei Leschchenk.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-09-m0.u145	Good afternoon, Ukraine! Today is the International Day to Combat Corruption. And unfortunately, we have nothing to boast about in this part, there are many laws that have been passed that have been created by independent anti-corruption bodies, but corruption remains the main problem that destroys Ukraine from the inside. And what's even more evident is that this week, there's a major political scandal that neither the TV channels nor most newspapers are reporting. This is an accusation made by fugitive deputy Oneshchenka to the President and his environment – Igor Kononenko and Alexander Granovski – that he had been involved for months in a corrupt scheme of bribe payments to MPs, financing political corruption, and so on. In my speech, I want to draw attention to an article that just appeared in the main English-language edition of Kiev Post, which quotes Oneshchenko as saying that he paid 2,000 dollars off for every thousand tons he provided. Excuse me, for every thousand cubic metres of gas supplied to state-owned enterprises: Odessa Airport and Centrenergo, in his interview, he calls the deputy to whom he paid this discount. The name of this deputy, Cononenko. Similarly, in this interview, Kyivpost Oneshchenko claims that he paid $20 off for a ton of coal from the occupied areas of Donbas, which was supplied to Ukrainian businesses. And the name of this deputy is Cononenko. In this speech, I want to draw attention to another Long Deputy who was not in this room who was driving to Oneshchenka in London and there was trying to arrange with him to keep his mouth shut so that he wouldn't speak out with his manifestations of corruption. In any civilized state, such statements would have long been the reason for the commission of inquiry to be set up so that the MPs themselves would evaluate what was going on in this Parliament. Unfortunately, the commission of inquiry isn't created, and I'm sad to say that it probably won't be created, and this topic will be silenced in Ukraine again. I can only support the investigation that started the National Anti-Corruption Bureau after this episode, because political corruption is a problem that will destroy our Ukraine for many years. And I want to warn you that they're trying to hold a playwright named Granowski -- the same one we mentioned -- as head of the State Bureau of Investigation. In particular, Mrs. Varchenko, who now works in the so-called Department of Connonka-Granowski in the Attorney-General's Office, is a favourite. And finally, I want to point out that we recently stopped a billion-dollar polling at the South Port that was supposed to move away from the People's Front, especially the Firemark. Yesterday there were searches for this tender in the company, which was recognized by the winner even though it offered the highest price. I want to support the NAB in this fight and to draw the attention of all citizens, corruption has not disappeared from this room. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-09-m0.u146	Thank you, Your Honor. We still had a speaker, Bereza, who was given the word by the national deputy Antonishtak. But there is no national MP, Bereza. Ladies and gentlemen, this has exhausted all those who wish to speak now. And on that, on that. Ladies and gentlemen, let me remind you that next week the national deputies are working on committees, commissions and factions. The next plenary meeting of the Supreme Council will take place on Tuesday, December 20, at 10 a.m. I wish you all a fruitful week working on committees and factions. And the morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. Thank you very much.
