ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-08-m1.u1	Dear colleagues! Time taken for a break is exhausted. I ask the National Deputies to come into the hall and prepare to participate in the evening session and to register. Please, everyone, come into the hall. As the MPs enter, I give you a minute to speak to the First Deputy Head of the Supreme Council, Irina Heratchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-08-m1.u2	Dear colleagues! I would like to inform you, along with our distinguished speaker, Andri Parubi, that we have an extremely important news regarding the visa-free regime. Literally an hour ago, a bill was approved by the European Parliament's Committee on Civil Liberties, Justice and Home Affairs on the introduction of the visa-free suspension mechanism, i.e. the suspension mechanism, which has been discussed in the European Union for so long. In fact, this is the way out of our path -- the way of Ukraine and the Ukrainian society to a visa-free regime. And now the European Parliament has to vote on this bill and vote on the visa-free regime already being granted to Ukraine. And so we propose today to the European Parliament that our honourable speaker address his colleague, Mr. Martin Schulz, the request that next week, which is the last sessional week in the European Parliament this year, the issue of the visa-free regime of Ukraine should stand in the order of the day. That's very right. And it's very symbolic that today this kind of finish actually took place on the day that the Soviet Union was destroyed 25 years ago. Barriers fall, borders fall and Ukraine becomes more open to the world and the world becomes more open to Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-08-m1.u3	Thank you. Dear colleagues, are you ready to register? I'm asking you to sign up, and I'm asking you to sign up. Please, colleagues, please register. [[16:04:05]] A total of 340 national deputies were registered. I hereby declare the evening session of the Supreme Council open. Dear colleagues, I want to explain our logic, we are very busy at the morning session to discuss matters. These questions were, of course, important questions needed to form a budget. But it's important for us to work intensively so that we can look at the following issues of the agenda that we have. I would like to point out that we now have the following issue to consider for budgeting: this is the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on ensuring the collection of unwarranted assets by the State of revenue (5142). The next one is 4744 – this is the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine 2016 – and then we have a block of "inclusion into the agenda of the day session". There are also a number of important issues needed for budgeting. And so I would very much like to ask the people's deputies to work actively and intensively so that we can get to the bottom of these issues. Colleagues, I very much ask you now from the first question to support the consideration of the reduced procedure. If we go into full procedure, we won't be able to deal with the following budgetary issues. So I ask you all to come into the hall and prepare for making a decision. In the first vote, I will consider the reduced procedure 5142. Please come into the hall. Dear colleagues! He's on his way to the interview room on the next question, asking to wait for a minute or two until he gets to the hall. During this time, I ask the people's deputies to come into the hall, take up jobs, ask the secretariat of the Supreme Council to invite the deputies into the hall, ask the deputies to come into the hall. Dear colleagues, there is a committee representative who can start a report on the question that follows the order of the day, 5142. I will now put to the vote a motion to vote in favour of a reduced procedure, colleagues. We've waited 10 minutes for the MPs to gather, there's no waiting for them anymore. I've already declared the evening session open, and we can move on to making a decision, colleague. So I would like to support the proposal to review the draft Law amending some of the legislative acts concerning the provision of revenue to the State of Unwarranted Assets (5142) under a reduced procedure. Anyone who supports it, please vote. For the summary procedure, please vote. [[16:10:44]] For-90 Okay. We're going full if that's the case. Okay. Colleagues, all right. If there's a wish in the room in full only I'm warning that it doesn't give us a chance to get into transport today, and it doesn't give us a chance to get into the agenda of the day session. I invite you to report to the Deputy Justice Minister, Janchuk Anton Volodymirovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-08-m1.u4	Good afternoon, distinguished national MPs! First of all, I would like to say that, thanks to you, this year a special confiscation institution has been improved in Ukraine, resulting in Ukraine's full compliance with the European Union's best practices on the collection of proceeds of crime and assets, which are the result of criminal activity within the framework of criminal conduct resulting from the conviction of a person for committing a crime. At the same time, in order to fully respond to all the world's best practices on revenue collection by the State of unjustified assets, including those of illicit criminal origin, it is necessary to introduce in Ukraine an institution to raise assets in the income of the State outside criminal conduct. Sometimes in the media, it's called "civil confiscation" or "seizure beyond criminal conduct." In the world, this institution has the established name "Non-conviction based asset forfeit" and it actually exists in many countries around the world. In its time, the World Bank has generalized the practice of establishing and implementing such an institution, and it has drawn up appropriate guidelines that exist in open access in many languages on the Internet. In fact, these World Bank guidelines, best practices, have been the basis for the drafting of a government bill that is proposed for your consideration. What is the point? It's about an institution for compulsory deprivation of ownership of assets if it's impossible for the owner to prove their origin in a civil trial, in a back-up process outside the criminal process. Despite many manipulations around this law, the draft law and warnings about the idea, at present, of the beliefs of the Ministry of Justice, the experts involved in the drafting of this project, the product that was introduced to the Supreme Council, is the most balanced of all the similar bills that were previously discussed in this room. Of course, there are no limits to perfection, but it is suggested that we consider this bill and approve it in the first reading, because, while there were warnings about this project, they are all fit to be taken into account in the work of the project. None of the warnings that destroy the idea itself, which denies the design, is the essence of the structure that goes into the institution for the collection of unwarranted assets. So this is actually a procedure in which a State can apply to assets that belong to a person who is suspected or accused of committing a corruption crime and who is in turn hiding from the investigation and the court. The use of this tool is extremely narrow. And while there is a myth about the possibility of applying this institution to private business, to private individuals, to the bill that you consider, it does not foresee such a possibility in principle, because it only applies to cases where property belongs to an official who is accused of committing a criminal crime of corruption and who, in turn, is hiding from the investigation and the court. At the same time, the law also contains other safeguards. In particular, it is a circle of objects to which it is proposed to extend the institution, which is rather narrow and characterized by two signs. First, these are objects that can be very easily transformed from one look to another, for example, money, into securities and vice versa. And secondly, these are assets that, by virtue of their physical and economic properties, can easily move from jurisdiction to jurisdiction, that is, money in accounts, securities, bank metals in accounts. This bill does not extend to other movable property, it does not extend to real estate, because such assets by their property, they are generally easier to trace, their movement than, for example, money on accounts. The third precaution that contains this bill is from abuse, which is a circle of subjects that can in principle initiate this procedure, either by the Attorney-General or by his deputies. The fourth alert is an unprecedented set of ways to report to all interested persons in general on the initiation of such a process. Information on the application is provided on the website of the Attorney General’s Office, on the website of the National Court of Justice. The law provides for the owner’s notice of initiation of the procedure to all other possible means of communication that provide feedback to the owner who has actually been notified. I mean, once again, in a part of the person's report on the beginning of the process, the law contains an unprecedented circle of tools. It's a circle that doesn't apply to any other kind of trial in Ukraine. Third: standards of proof. The prosecutor’s party of the charge, who will appear in the civil proceedings, must carry out his duty in court according to the world’s most stringent standard of proof. It's called "out of reasonable doubt." This standard of proof in the world is applied to criminal conduct. In fact, it also applies to evidence in criminal proceedings in Ukraine. In other words, in this civil trial, the prosecutor's party, the prosecutor, will have to prove its position with the same depth, on the same standard of proof as in criminal proceedings. Properly superficial evidence, evidence based on circumstantial evidence, is in principle impossible. Fifth. These are requirements for the obligation to prove to the party responsible, that is, the owner of the asset. The Law contains an exhaustive set of circumstances that the owner should be able to prove in order for the suit to be refused. It's not possible for any manipulation of whether or not a person has proved the origin of an asset. If a person proves that the assets acquired by him are based on well-founded sources, he can at least explain the nature of those assets, where they came from, and at what cost, he cannot be satisfied with the prosecutor's claim for the model set out in the draft law. In addition, the law, the draft law, provides for the possibility of standard charges against decisions and other insurers. Finally, it contains warnings that its position is applied to criminal conduct in which individuals are informed of the suspicion. So it's used in retrospect. Now, I repeat, this is the most balanced product that was created in Ukraine on the implementation of the Institute "Non-conversion based asset forfeiture." All the warnings that have been made to this project, and we've accumulated them for more than six months, they're all receptive to the second reading. There is no objection or warning to the very idea of the draft law. There is a need for this project. The Attorney General's Office, as the principal contracting authority of this institution, which will apply it, approved the draft law as a whole. The project was also approved and developed in support of European Union experts. Accordingly, I ask the Hall to take the next step in improving the tools of return to the state of assets, the funds obtained by criminal means, by committing corruption crimes. After that, we will be able to say that in Ukraine there are indeed all the most modern legislative instruments of return to the income of the state of proceeds of corruption crimes. I very much ask that the hall be supported and ready for further cooperation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-08-m1.u5	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we have it now. Stay in the rostrum, please. Anton Volodymyrovich, stay in the rostrum. We have three minutes of full-time question-answer procedure. I'm asking you to record the question-answer. Please. Please, Irina Fries. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-08-m1.u6	Please pass the word to your colleague Janicki.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-08-m1.u7	Let's give it to the Chicken.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-08-m1.u8	Dear colleagues, I am very pleased that at last common sense triumphs in this session room. This bill finally translates the question of the return of the looted funds from the essentially political to the legal field into the legal plane. Let us speak objectively: in the first form of the initiative given by the authors of the bill was, in fact, emotionally, it was so medial, there were so many, many gaps. Today, a special confiscation of the looted funds is transferred to the legal plane and has to be resolved. The dirty money, the respectable colleagues, can't have a party ticket or any last name, steal money back to the state. We vote in favour of this bill. This will allow the issue of justice to be resolved, not only by Yanukovitch and his fists but by many other criminals.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-08-m1.u9	Thank you. Colleagues, I want to remind you, this question-answers, then there will be statements from factions, from MPs, will be an opportunity to speak. Now the question to the reporter. Please, Odarchenko Yuri Vitaliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-08-m1.u10	Tell me, you don't think the adoption of this law is very much like the procedure that the Supreme Council voted for the Attorney General. Yuri Vitaliyovich did not fit in his education and, in his experience, developed a bill that broke the established foundation. Does it not appear to you to be the deputy minister of justice, which is a much simpler way to recover Janukovich's assets? Two years ago, we made changes to the KPC about distance driving. Please condemn Yanukovich and his gang in absentia as provided by law and return to confiscation of his property. But this will not be a judgment. This will be a judgment that is understood by all, not by some misunderstandings that persist through the break of the Constitution and the violation of Ukrainian legislation. Please give me the answer to what you're not introducing.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-08-m1.u11	Thank you, Mr. Odarchenko. I saw that you listened carefully to my report, and I thank you very much. I'll try to answer that. First. This institution exists in many countries around the world, primarily in the United States, and it also exists in Latvia. So it's not an invention, it's an implementation of better practices. From the beginning of your question. In the event of even an acknowledgment of an asset collection in a special confiscation mode, it may be only after the sentence has been handed down. If the issue is complex and there are hundreds of episodes, a huge number of volumes. This objective length of criminal conduct can be six months, a year, two years, three years. This tool allows you to pull assets into the government's income faster.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-08-m1.u12	Thank you. Please, Ednak.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-08-m1.u13	Please pass on the word of Victoria the Bird.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-08-m1.u14	Thank you. Dear Mr. Yanchuk, I would like to point out to you that you are making changes, that you are proposing to introduce into the Criminal Code, where the article includes 96.1, where you foresee one of the grounds for a special confiscation: attention! – which is not used in civil proceedings, but on a criminal basis, such as the acquittal of a court on the closure of criminal conduct in connection with the death of the accused. This raises questions for me. And how do you view such an institution as an inheritance and do you think it's an adequate norm to apply a special confiscation in criminal proceedings, while the accused just died and not even his guilt has been proven, nor has the court's judgment been applied. As is the case with the institution of inheritance, it is in the criminal process of applying a special confiscation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-08-m1.u15	Mrs. Victoria, thank you so much. That's a good question. To be honest, this is the basis for a special confiscation of criminal conduct such as the death of the accused (the suspect) was added in order to remove the gap. In fact, this reason, it was not involved in the improvement of the institution of special confiscation last time by Parliament, so in general, when a suspect (accused) dies, it does not allow the acquisition of assets that will be finally proven to be obtained by criminal means and are proceeds of crime in any of the regimes that exist in the state, is a failure. From the point of view of regulation, such as the death of the accused, may be the basis for the recovery and collection of assets, both in a special confiscation regime and in a confiscation mode outside criminal conduct, there is no difference. It is easier to do so by removing the gap in the Criminal Procedure Code. This was to be done a year ago, unfortunately, it went beyond that.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-08-m1.u16	Please, 30 seconds, finish. You're done, aren't you? Thank you. Thank you very much, Anton Volodymyrovich, for the report, you can take your place. I have a request for a coconspirator, perhaps to speak more concisely so that we can consider other questions. Anton Volodymyrovich, thank you so much for the answers to the questions. And I invite the head of the committee's committee on legal policy and justice, Alexeiev Igor Sergiyovich, to report. Please, Mr. Igor.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-08-m1.u17	Dear Chairman, distinguished national MPs! I will be concise, considering that the previous speaker has given quite a detailed account of the contents of the bill and its basic positions. On 2 November 2016, the Committee on Legal Policy and Justice, commissioned by the Head of the Supreme Council, discussed at its meeting a bill governing registration number 5142 on the provision of revenue to the State of unwarranted assets. The purpose of the bill is, as stated by the author, the initiator of the bill, to establish an institution for the acquisition of unwarranted assets in the income of the State before the completion of criminal conduct, during which such assets were detected and the rightfulness of their origins not proven. In order to achieve that goal, the bill proposes to apply the institution exclusively to property that has been identified in the course of investigating corruption crimes against a person authorized to perform functions as a state or as a local government. In doing so, it should be stressed that this institution is proposed to apply only to funds in cash and cash, national and foreign currencies, securities, and other payment documents, bank metals, and precious stones. The procedure for the collection of unfounded assets is proposed in the Civil Procedural Code with the application of the general principles of civil justice and the characteristics provided for by a separate chapter in the Civil Procedural Code. As a result of the committee’s consideration, the committee concluded that all proposals and observations, both the GNEU and other legislators who took the initiative during the meeting, could be taken into account in the drafting of the bill for second reading. As a result of its consideration of the bill, the committee adopted a decision on the bill of registration number 5142, submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the basis of the results of the first reading, to be adopted as a basis.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-08-m1.u18	Thank you. Please remain in the rostrum. Colleagues, three minutes of question to the co-rapporteur. Please hold the recording. Danielne Vladislav Yuriovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-08-m1.u19	Please pass the word to Andrija Pomazanov.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-08-m1.u20	Andrew Pomazanov, People's Front faction. You know, dear colleagues, right now I have a question and a reporter who's standing on this stand and a previous reporter, and maybe everyone who's in this room right now. Dear colleagues! Let us recognize the fact that this bill has already existed in Parliament for more than six months in many of its presentations. This bill is the most perfect form that could be made, it's not a pure, clean confiscation. And we all have to ask ourselves, do we still have a chance to wait for this bill to be passed? And I have a question, if we don't adopt this bill today, in that form in the first reading, and then this year, with the second reading, we won't endorse it as a whole, is there any chance that we can get the money that Arsenij Yatsenuk, as Prime Minister, has blocked into the savings bank accounts of Ukraine as early as 2014. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-08-m1.u21	Thank you. Please, Igor Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-08-m1.u22	Thank you for asking. I can briefly point out that this bill is a budgeting project for the following year, because the draft State Budget Act 2017 concludes that the budget committee has prepared the draft budget for 2017, taking into account this legislative initiative. It is therefore necessary, necessary and necessary to vote in favour of this bill before the 2017 budget is adopted.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-08-m1.u23	Thank you. Sergey Sobolev, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-08-m1.u24	Sobolje, Fatherland. Dear reporter, do you remember very well what a constructive conversation the profile committee had, how many suggestions were made? Please tell me, in your opinion, so much time has passed since then, there are conclusions from the Scientific and Expert Office, which everyone recognizes as both previous speakers, and you need to take them into account immediately. There are the findings of the National Deputies and their proposals with specific formulations. There's a letter from the head of the European Commission, which clearly says that settle this issue in the way it is today. Why is it not urgently introduced to replace the previously passed bill, where this will be considered? And then the hall will vote on it. So why do they continue to follow the pattern by which they try to violate the Constitution, violate the fundamental rights of people's freedom, what do you see the problem here? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-08-m1.u25	Thank you for asking. Well, probably all the questions about the bill's design are more correctly addressed to the author of the legislative initiative and accordingly to the person who will report this bill from the government. I can tell you that at the committee meeting we discussed this. There were questions and discussions, but the committee decided on the basis of the bill to recommend. And we have come to the conclusion that all the proposals, all the comments, from both the legislators and the comments that the GNEU concludes, can be taken into account when it is being redrafted into the second reading. But we can only do this by voting on it as a basis and by starting the legislative procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-08-m1.u26	Thank you. And Jurik Taras Zinovyovich is the last question.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-08-m1.u27	Please tell Barney Oleg.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-08-m1.u28	Dear friends, we talk a lot about this and other similar bill, that the confiscation of Janukovic's assets. In addition, we know that this bill is practically suitable for all the comments that have been made. But I'm asking him not to play political pianist or other dividends to do. We have to admit one thing: first, there are criminal funds and they're at the expense of Ukrainian banks. Second, Ukraine's budget needs a lot of budgeting, people demand it. And the third point is that we also need to think about our military personnel: the military, military and material security that we now need to ensure Ukraine's national security. So please stop any discussion and vote on the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-08-m1.u29	Thank you. I have no authority to stop the discussion, we had a chance to vote in favour of the shorter procedure, but unfortunately there were no deputies in the hall. And thank you for the report, Igor Sergiyovich. We now have statements by the Rules of Procedure from factions and I would really like to be as concise as possible to participate in the discussion so that we can do more at the evening meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Please record statements from factions and groups. Please. Burbak Maksim Yuriovich, People's Front. Krivenka, I'm sorry, I still have a previous list. Now get out of the rostrum. I'm sorry, that's right. Krivenko Viktor Mikolaiovich from Peter Dustenk's Block, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-08-m1.u30	Victor Krivenko, People's Movement of Ukraine. Your Honors, Your Honors, I urge you, everyone has already taken a position on this bill. Unfortunately, there were no deputies when they were scheduled to be in the hall at four o’clock and did not vote in favour of the reduced procedure. There's no discussion about someone being hesitant about the MPs. In advance, the vast laws, the laws that affect our security, the laws that our army needs. If we do not vote on them today, they can be forgotten because the funds will not be used by the end of the year. We don't have the funding for the state-of-the-art procurement. So I urge all those who are no longer eager to say anything, say it as briefly as possible. Please proceed to the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-08-m1.u31	Thank you, Your Honor. And now the national deputy of Eutuszk from the "Fatherland" faction gives the word to his colleague Mr. Odarchenk. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-08-m1.u32	Ladies and gentlemen. Yuri Odarchenko, Fatherland faction. Dear colleagues, we need to see how much money is spent today in the budget on the power structures: the Public Prosecutor's Office, the Security Service, the Ministry of Internal Affairs. We're going to see that these are crazy numbers that are more than one and a half times the budget that goes to the army. against the army that today is in a state of military opposition to the aggressor. And what do we have on the way out? When I asked the Deputy Minister of Justice, who the customer is, and why the mechanism of absenteeism is not being applied, he said that the Prosecutor's Office couldn't prepare these volumes, and so we need to adopt a special law that will allow them through the mechanisms of confiscation in violation of legislation to return this money. You can only hear the argument: billions of dollars are being allocated, more money is being allocated to the prosecutor's office than to farmers' benefits, but they weren't able to do it in time after Janukovitch escaped, put these volumes together to get the sentence out through the law enforcement institute and then take the money away. And now, unfortunately, we're looking at this pear project called "special confiscation." We are promised in this project to confiscate the billions of Janukovics, even though the project will take business and lower political opponents. Because the bill contradicts the European Convention on Human Rights, the Constitution of Ukraine and common sense, no country will give us a penny of the assets arrested. Let's take another look at what we're offered to accept. Let's just see, for a second, let's forget about Yanukovich and the Party of Regions, and imagine that this could be applied to everyone in Ukraine. So, if a person is suspected of committing a crime, the prosecutor can sue the person for any property. In doing so, this person must prove that he or she has the right to acquire his or her property. That is, a person must prove that he did not receive property from committing crimes. This violates one of the basic logical principles of discussion, the so - called principle of Russell’s teapot: you cannot prove that there is anything, you cannot ask a person to prove that he did not steal. In addition, a special confiscation may be applied to anyone who is not suspected of anything at all, but the prosecutor considers him to be a nominal owner. And once again, the answerer has to prove that he's not. That he is the real owner of the property, how to prove it – it is not clear either. And what's really interesting is, even if in the future the suspicion is removed or the person is being corrected.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-08-m1.u33	15 seconds, please, 15 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-08-m1.u34	Thank you. I mean, in plain language: if any prosecutor likes your property, he can take it away from you -- and a dot. None of Janukovich's assets are here. There's a perfectly simple way out, I repeat.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-08-m1.u35	Thank you. Dear colleague, we have a lot more. Here's the agenda for today. Please, Your Honor, thank you. And here's the invitation to the leader of the People's Front faction, Maxim Burbak.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-08-m1.u36	Dear colleagues, honourable people of Ukraine, it is regrettable that for the representatives of the Party "The Fatherland" the Law on the Special Confiscation of Money Stolen by the Yanukovic regime is a pear project. Sadly, they feel that Janukovic needs to be abstracted and that legal aspects need to be discussed. But it is the faction of the People's Front that insists that the main and fundamental task for us today is to vote in this room for the special confiscation regime of the money stolen by the Yanukovich gang. That's why we were chosen here, and with these slogans, all the democratic parties came here. What happens now? One and a half years ago, the government of Yatzenuk, one and a half billion dollars, or just to make it a little bit more clear, it's 40 billion dollars, it's been arrested in accounts and a procedure has been initiated for the return of this money to Ukraine's budget in order to finance security and national security so that they can go to higher social standards. Instead, there is a discussion for over a year about how this bill will not be launched. Or I can tell you that there's information that someone already wants to buy this money with a discount of 80 percent, and 20 percent of the nominal is going to give that money back to Janukovich's gang. In particular, there are the firms of Oneshchenka. And from his confession in the newspaper Independent in Britain, we see that he personally received $30 million to systematically, in black, destroy the government of Yatsenuk and other democratic forces, the People's Front, especially those that came after the Victory of the Dignity Revolution. What could be done for $30 million? Perhaps we could increase the funding of our boys who are now fighting in the ATO. Social standards could be raised. And now one and a half billion dollars stolen by Yanukovich, with such factions in this Parliament, want to return this gang. We will not let the people of Ukraine rob again. So I think that all the democratic parties and factions that are represented in Parliament today should vote in favour of this bill and finally return the money to the people of Ukraine. Don't let them steal them for the second time. Not allowing them to be used under the black pianist to glean political parties that came after the Dignity Revolution and protect the pro-European, pro-Ukrainian course. Today, we have taken the first step toward restoring justice. Bodaj has been granted the right of the Attorney General to bring to justice the members of the Party of Regions who were the founders of the Januković regime. Let's take the second step. Let us return the money that Yanukovich, the people of Ukraine, stole back from the people of Ukraine. We won't let our nation get robbed twice! Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-08-m1.u37	Thank you, Mr. Maxime. Please, from the Radical Party of Oleg Lazko.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-08-m1.u38	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. The Radical Party faction will support a bill that will allow the Ukrainians to recover the funds that Yanukovic has stolen from the government. One-and-a-half billion dollars, which are being blocked in state savings accounts today, have been there for a long time. And it turns out that Janukovic could steal this money, and so-called democratic power cannot bring back what was stolen from the people. I think I understand why they don't want to pay back Janukovich's stolen money. Because perhaps when power changes today, they too expect that the funds they have stolen will not be recovered. Thus, the Radical Party faction will do its utmost to ensure that the funds stolen by Yanukovic are returned to the property of the Ukrainians in which they were stolen. But I want to warn the Ukrainians that there is now widespread corruption and that Ukrainians are stealing money. The Radical Party insists on investigating the facts of Ukraine’s runaway national deputy, gas oligarch, and corrupt Alexander Oneshchenko. Destroyenko claimed that he was taking money to parliament with suitcases, bribing MPs. He reported that he was involved in corruption by handing out millions of dollars for voting for the Attorney General for the release of the head of the Security Service. There is no secret in Parliament that Oneshchenko bought a five million - dollar position as minister of ecology for which his assistant, Igor Shevchenk, was appointed. It is the Radical Party that has been fighting for the release of Shevchenk for the past year and a half. And I told myself from this rostrum about the corruption of Oneshchenk, about the bribery of MPs. The reaction was zero, because Oneshchenko was in the middle of power, because Oneshchenka had partners, including the leaders of the political parties that were present in this room, so he was not responsible for his corruption. What money did Oneshchenko take to the Supreme Council? Yours? No, it's not. He was carrying the money that had been stolen from the Ukrainians. Part of their corrupt funds that they robbed on top, he took here and bribed MPs, he distributed them to the judges, he distributed them to the President's Administration. So in order that we don't have to fight again, like now, for the stolen money of Yanukovich, we don't have to fight for the stolen funds of today's government, I demand that the NAB investigate all the facts cited by Oneshchenk. I demand that the NAB investigate the circumstances and reasons behind the appointment of the minister of ecology in a corrupt way as assistant to Igor Shevchenk. I demand that an investigative commission be set up in Parliament to investigate corruption in these walls.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-08-m1.u39	Thank you. Please, from the Self-Help faction, the People's Deputy of Semimenach. Please, Mr. Semenha.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-08-m1.u40	Honorable colleagues, should we take property from corrupters who have been illegally exploited? The question is absolutely rhetorical: obviously what needs to be done. But we need to make it clear that the thing that we're discussing right now, the bill that we're talking about right now, it's become too politicized with a lot of focus. What are you talking about? First. Specialization adopted by the Ukrainian Parliament a year ago. One year ago, a special confiscation was adopted, but please give examples of the application of the law that we passed a year ago. Where is the revenue of the state budget of those who robbed Ukraine’s budget and its people? The next question. We are encouraged to apply a very innovative, such as a legal product, which is not applied in many countries. And when we use these new things in Ukrainian law, in Ukrainian practice, we need to understand clearly who we're putting those tools into our hands. And we're putting in the hands of the unreformed prosecutor's office and the unreformed police force, because the road police are far from the whole police force, and the investigators and searchers in their main mass have remained who they were. And can we get the same result in the courts where the judicial reform just started, where we may be able to get a new Supreme Court, which may only start in the following year. The next moment. We are talking about the application of such a mechanism and such a law regarding an overly limited circle of persons. And please tell me, for today's corrupters, what do we do about indulgence? If someone in power today robs the people in office, we will not apply such a mechanism, such a procedure? Will they remain unpunished, unpunished? Absolutely, obviously, this is totally unacceptable. The next moment. We don't want to get a shaft and a scowl of appeals to the European Court of Human Rights, where is the question of private property one of the fundamentals? And the procedure for establishing whether or not a person is a good owner of the bill is in no way resolved. We now have six types of confiscations in criminal law, three types of confiscation in civil law, several in administrative law, but they don't work. Why? Because it's obvious that those of us as legislators have given this tool and this mechanism, are not able to use those things effectively, those legislative mechanisms that we've proposed. There are also a number of other shortcomings in this bill, but in general, by putting it at risk, I want to say the following. We have no right to stand on the verge of progress so that the assets of corrupt people are in the state budget. Therefore, the decision should be as follows: a bill should be sent to the Legal and Justice Committee to be drafted, and together with the Ministry of Justice, together with our experts.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-08-m1.u41	Please let me finish for 15 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-08-m1.u42	together with our foreign experts, who have expressed a huge number of critical comments, in the shortest periods of processing, to give quality legal documents, bearing in mind that we should ask the same question before the Attorney General's Office.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-08-m1.u43	Thank you, Your Honor! I just figured out the position of your esteemed faction. And from the "Will of the People" group, Vladimir Mikhailovich Litwin. Please come to the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-08-m1.u44	Dear colleagues! One of the famous leaders, when he prepared his speech and realized that the arguments were weak, he made a note in the fields, saying, "The arguments are not enough, raise the voice." So when I listen to speeches on this subject, and when emotions and voice throws go all the way down, I realize that there's not enough arguments and they want to yell at each other. The question is obvious. What do you need to pay back? I have to. However, honourable national MPs must adopt a civilized law. Why this law violates the Constitution of Ukraine, I don't talk about the European norms and rules that we're used to referring to. Why is there a presumption of guilt? Why should she prove her innocence by understanding the legal and judicial system in which we have it? We talk about it all the time. Is that what we think the problem is about someone else? But you read it, it says, it's about people who are authorized to perform the function of the state. If you're saying that it's one and a half billion dollars that people need, let's make a specific law, if that's what it takes, let's limit the duration of this law, write down all the legal rules and make the right decisions. Otherwise, it seems that the decision is generally taken to keep in subjection, including the national deputies of Ukraine, knowing what is going on and how much we need to go to the rule of law. So I support the suggestions that have just been made. And in general, I think we need to listen to those people who calmly, considerately, without hysterical reasoning and make a clear decision that would be implemented without a problem of harm and political harm, yes, the authority of the State, otherwise international institutions will dictate that we are making difficult decisions. So the suggestion is, let's seriously work out the document in case, especially if it's accepted in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-08-m1.u45	Thank you. From the opposition block, the people's deputy, Doubenkov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-08-m1.u46	Good evening, fellow citizens! Here, indeed, it is decided that a decision is being taken regarding one of such premeditated bills, which are already trying to push out several times, a violation of all the rules of the Rules. It's a very serious decision, you don't need to characterize the act of the law against specific individuals. This law will be distributed to all without exception, all of them will be targeted. The Opposition Block faction points out that the draft law is in grave violation of the principle of innocence. In accordance with article 62 of the Constitution of Ukraine, a person is not guilty of a crime and cannot be criminally punished until his guilt is legally proved and found guilty by an indictment. In accordance with article 62 of the Ukrainian Constitution, no one is obliged to prove his innocence in the commission of a crime. A person who is suspected of committing a criminal offence in order not to overload our law enforcement agencies, our prosecutor's office in proving the alleged offence in a pretrial investigation, as part of the preparation of a corresponding indictment and the transfer of the relevant materials to the court. She's asking the investigating judge to find out about the procedure for the collection of unwarranted assets within the framework of, you just think about it, the Civil Procedure Code of Ukraine. So in civil litigation, they're going to offer any person to prove whether or not he's legally acquired one or the other asset. That is to say, the principle of presumption of innocence is violated and the principle of not necessarily proving his innocence in committing a crime. The bill in question is in grave violation, as I say, of the fundamental principles of both our and the general rules of international law. One cannot make a stated decision on the basis of the need to achieve a political goal. In many cases, members of the House are guided by emotions rather than by a healthy, analytical approach to studying a bill, especially the consequences of its adoption. The Opposition Block faction calls for not working, but rejecting the prescribed bill in which you have done it many times before. Because the quality of this bill has not changed, its basic positions have remained unchanged.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-08-m1.u47	Thank you. The factions all took place. Dear colleagues, according to the Rules, we now have, because we are going through a full procedure, speeches by the national deputies, but we have a rather tense agenda. Is there a need for deputies to speak? Yes. Please sign up for the speeches by the Ukrainian National Deputies, please. Please, Boris Ivanovich Tarasyuk of Fatherland. Passes the word to Sobolje.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-08-m1.u48	I give the floor to my colleague Odarchenk.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-08-m1.u49	Oh, Odarchenk. Sergey Sobolev, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-08-m1.u50	Dear colleagues! I actually said everything in my question to the reporters. What is our offer? I have before me the conclusion of the Scientific and Expert Office on the 10 pages of the text, which clearly shows the violation of the Constitution, the key norms in which there is a violation of the key rules of the CPC, the Civil Code. The other one. You're not comfortable with this document here, someone tells us that it's all bought in Parliament and the Science and Experimental Authority. There is a letter from Mr. Migrinelli, head of the European Commission in Ukraine, who has clearly warned against violating the key norms that are the norms of the European Union. Third. You don't like it and they're all bought there. Is there a letter from the previous representative, the head of the European Mission, who gave details of the violation? The key is that each faction has made its warnings clear enough for both our faction and many others. That's why our proposal, if there's really something missing in the law that's running out of a year of special confiscation because it's not the Law on Special Seizures. At least read the name of the law, and you must immediately make changes to that law and close the matter. But we have an open key issue, and I make it clear that it was not the Prime Minister's contribution to the court, but that he brought the Office of the Attorney-General directly to the Pecher District Court to arrest $1 billion of the $20 million that he spent on the company that Mrs. Gontareva was the head of the Board of Directors and almost all the management of today's National Bank. In Cyprus’s offshore, 14 Cypriot offshores stand directly in the court’s decision. And when these securities returned to Ukraine to be presented for payment, these securities were arrested in five Ukrainian state banks, and they are there today. That is why our proposal is to take responsibility not only for Yanukovitch but also for Gonnaarov, and for all her company that allowed Yanukovich to carry out these ill-gotten costs abroad. But it's not just Janukovich's bones, it's also Azarov's money and his company, it's Kolobov's money, which is now waiting for a decision in Spain, and his representatives are sitting in the government. You don't know that? That the head of his office is sitting in the government now, to yours, who you have appointed! I think that's enough playing with words!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-08-m1.u51	15 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-08-m1.u52	Do you want to confiscate this property? There's a law on confiscation, there's a law on oblivion – make a decision. You don't need to make any changes, and you need to adopt this Law, and we're ready to help you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-08-m1.u53	Thank you. Please, from the People's Front, Meparishvili, the People's Deputy, passes the word to Tetjani Blackwall. Please, Mrs. Auntie.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-08-m1.u54	There's a very simple logic to this process. First, there are large funds stolen from Yanukovic, arrested in Ukraine, and the task of Parliament is to make sure that these funds are returned to the State Budget. There is a Ukrainian Parliament that has been treacherously blocking this issue for over a year. There is the interest of Yanukovich and his team, who are constantly trying to unlock these funds. For your information, in September, the last time Parliament blocked the bill, the court sat down and decided to remove those funds. And thank God, the court has made a negative decision. But knowing our judicial system, believe me, we're just lucky. Next, there is a situation of bribery, in which Mr. Oneshchenko (Kadirov) confessed. He directly stated that $30 billion. Millions of dollars in his pocket went to bribe deputies and discredit, including this bill. Because he had his own interest in blocking the seizure. Because seven days after the first draft of the law on special confiscation in the Supreme Council, Mr. Oneshchenko (Kadirov) bought one of the offshores whose costs were arrested in the Ukrainian Savings for 20 percent of the value. After that, he was directing a large sum of money -- millions of dollars, tens of millions of dollars to block this issue and allow Yanukovich and other criminals to take down their arrests. Who was he working for? I'm not going to keep my mouth shut, I'm going to name the curators, I'm going to name the curator and the groups he was smoking. If we're talking about Oneshchenka, he was directing the "Fatherland" position here. That's why she's blocking the seizure. If we're talking about Oneshchenka, he was in charge of Strike. Next, if we're talking about "self-help," their curator in this question was Bugaj, the lawyer of Kurchenka. If we're talking about Eurooptimists, their curator in this matter of blocking this project was Portnov through Mr. Kaska. So, I'm responsible, I'm saying, no way, honest traitors, these funds will return to the state budget of Ukraine, you won't get rid of them in your own pockets. And I promise you, traitors, that your curators are Mr. Kasko, Mr. Oneshenko, Mr. Bugaj will sit. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-08-m1.u55	Thank you. Please, from. People's deputy Barna, representing the faction of Peter Dustenka. Colleagues, prepare for the presentation a little earlier so that more colleagues will be able to speak, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-08-m1.u56	I want health! You know, when we're talking about European human rights standards or an example of a European law enforcement system for the confiscation of illegal assets, first of all, we need to take an example from the European country, Latvia, where the European Prosecutor and the European Court seized these assets, which belonged to our representative of the Janukovic Arbuzov regime, 50 million euros. Unfortunately, due to the delay in the adoption of this law in Ukraine, we have lost these funds, and now the Attorney General has to resolve these issues with the Government of Latvia in order to recover these costs, at least partly, because of our indignation. One second. When we're talking about a violation of the presumption of innocence, venerable, first moment: any high-level official is obliged to prove the legality of his assets. To do that, we have filled out an electronic declaration, and everyone who has submitted property according to the declaration must prove the legality of their assets. Accordingly, the presumption of innocence should apply primarily to ordinary people, but any official who illegally acquired these assets is suspected of it, and the more involved in criminal crimes, is not a simple person, he is obliged to come and prove the legality of the origin of his property. Moreover, the bill provides a fully civilized opportunity for any suspect to prove whether he can prove the legality of his assets. Either it comes and goes, or it passes the materials. But if he does not appear or can’t prove it, these assets and property are obviously illegal. In addition, the court itself will decide to confiscate these assets into the income of the state. The bill therefore corrected all the rules relating to the confiscation of assets on the basis of Ukraine's legislation, compliance with the Constitution of Ukraine, including European norms. But by the way, we all have to give the law enforcement agencies a tool that they can pay back to the nation's income the funds they've stolen so that they can serve the people and in particular enable us to maintain the security of our army. Please vote. And the faction of Peter Dustenk supports this bill in its entirety. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-08-m1.u57	Thank you. Drauk Sergei gives the word to Anton Heraszczenko. Please, Anton.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-08-m1.u58	Dear friends! Dear Ukrainian people! Today, we are looking at a bill that applies to the Ukrainian people. It's the bill on the confiscation of assets acquired by dishonest means, through the procedure of civil justice, that is the most effective tool to combat corruption in our country. When Prime Minister Lazarenko arrived in the United States 15 years ago and bought six million dollars for the house of a comedian, Mr. Edi Murphy, he was arrested and given 14 years just for not being able to explain where he got the money. In our country, it is still virtually impossible to confiscate the property of those corrupts and villains who hanged it. Because it's a very complicated procedure in criminal justice to prove it. We have adopted the world's best methods developed by UN and World Bank experts on the basis of the International Convention to Combat Corruption, and it is the way of months of work. Together with the Ministry of Justice, the Attorney General’s Office, and the deputies, this bill was drafted, which is being considered in this room today. If we accept it, there will be no way for corrupters in this country to exploit property dishonestly. Because the DA's office will be able to come to the civil court and say, "Clear out where you got the cars, where you got the assets and stuff." This law is now being enacted in short form. It is aimed only at confiscating assets, money, gold, and other values. The Bank of Ukraine accounts for about a billion 400 million dollars, assets belonging to the Janukovic environment, which unfortunately in the criminal process is very difficult to prove that this money belongs to Mr. Arbuzov and others. But it is under this law that we can do this, confiscate these funds, send them through the budget, through the decision of the Supreme Council openly and transparently to defend our country, to strengthen its security, to strengthen the social protection of citizens. Dear colleagues, I very much propose that you support this bill. In Moscow, there are many people who want these funds to be frozen until they return and can not recover them. If we do not confiscate these funds by adopting this law and they will be arrested someday, they will go to fight Ukraine, to fight our European path. Please support this important bill, it is indeed a legacy.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-08-m1.u59	Thank you. Hellenic Victor Evgenovich. Commits Anointed One.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-08-m1.u60	Dear colleagues, Andrew Amazanov, the People's Front faction. You know, there's a lot of pros in this room today, against this bill. We know that for more than six months we have not been able to adopt that bill and take into the state budget the money that was stolen from Yanukovich and his party. We've seen Latvia do it lightningously simply -- they took 50 million euros and they didn't explain anything to anyone. Our country has been struggling with this for six months. Today, there were a lot of rumors in our room that some mythical robbers would go and collect property from everyone. This is purely a lie because property will be taken from corrupters. And first of all, I would like to quote what is being done solely, the collection of unwarranted assets is being carried out by a court decision, by the outcome of a hearing of the Attorney General's application. Therefore, dear colleagues, do not lie to yourself or to the Ukrainian people. What's more, I want to dispel the second myth that it's kind of groundless just to get rid of everything. No, there are only two reasons: this lawsuit may be filed for the collection of such assets exclusively to the owner if it is nominal or if he is suspected of criminal conduct. All I'm saying about all these myths right now is that the Attorney General alone needs to gather the necessary evidence that these are looted corrupt assets, the criminal that we're talking about every day in this room, and that we're talking only in words to fight and fight, but we don't approve of this bill. So, dear colleagues, today we have a lot of information about what really is, if we don't adopt this law in the first reading today and by the end of the year we don't approve it with the necessary rights and observations for the second reading, we won't have a chance to include the money already provided in the draft state budget into its filled part and there won't be a chance of financing from this part of our army, there will be no chance of financing the social benefits that Yanukovich stole -- billions, millions. Billions of dollars. So, dear colleagues, there's information from various sources that really is now planned to buy these assets that we can't take with you to the state budget for 20 percent of their value. This is another corrupt device. So by adopting this bill, we can stop this illegal corrupt device. And it was the People's Front that recently approached the National Anti-Corruption Bureau to investigate all Mr. Oneshchenk's claims. And today we have no right not to adopt this bill. So, honourable colleagues, there's a note -- we're working on the second reading, there's no comment -- we're voting now and we're supporting the second reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-08-m1.u61	Thank you. Next Levchenko Yuri Volodymyrovich. But time is running out, so two minutes, two minutes only. Yuri Lewchenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-08-m1.u62	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223rd District, Kiev. "Freedom" will vote in favour of this bill, even if there are no different speculations from the various here-exposed individuals who have spoken before me, so that they do not tell anyone that they are stopping something, they won't let them return "Janukovich's assets." Although, in fact, active legislation allows this to be done. And it wasn't just because the law enforcement agencies didn't work properly. But we're going to vote for it so there's no such speculation. But there are a few rhetorical questions. Then we were given an appropriate amendment. The main amendment is that government bonds cannot be resold in the event of their confiscation and that these government bonds should be extinguished and essentially covered by the corresponding government debt. That would be logical: if someone had these bonds, they were confiscated and immediately extinguished, that's right. But somehow this amendment is not proposed in this law, and there is no such thing. And I'm going to tell the Ukrainian citizens why it's not there. Because these billions, which are being spoken of today by some of the exclusive speakers, are actually the left-hand parts of these billions -- these are government bonds. And instead of having them extinguished after confiscation, they want to resell them with a huge discount, and then the state will pay them billions for years, sorry, no, actually. You know, there's a rhetorical question here: why don't we put it into this bill and make it a lot better, why don't we ask this bill to apply exclusively to those who occupy and occupy responsible and particularly responsible positions. That would narrow it down a lot, and that would apply exclusively to Yanukovich and his textbooks, and then the speculations would stop. But somehow, we don't see it, so we're going to vote for this bill, so there's no such thing as stupid speculation. But I'm paying attention to all of the Ukrainian people about things that are somehow not prescribed.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-08-m1.u63	Thank you. Dear colleagues! In a minute, there will be a decision to be made, so I ask the secretariat of the Supreme Council to invite all the deputies to the Hall. And I ask the factions to invite the deputies into the hall and prepare for the decision. Colleagues, please, now, the final word of the reporter, Paul Petrenko, Minister of Justice, three minutes. After the closing statement, we move on to making a decision. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-08-m1.u64	Dear National Deputies! Dear Ukrainian people! There were a lot of legal, political, passionate speeches in this room about whether or not it was necessary to vote in favour of the special confiscation of assets stolen by Yanukovic's gang in the Ukrainian people. I want to say something else. I want to ask the Ukrainian people, is it fair that in a third-year country where almost 100,000 Ukrainians are currently on the front, 50 billion dollars are being arrested and not being sent to the army? Is it fair before that pensioner who is currently receiving cash, within the last three years, 50 billion stolen by Yanukovic are not going to receive social benefits? Is it right in front of a single mom who gets 1,000, 600 bucks and barely survives? And now that national MPs don't vote for the return of 50 billion dollars stolen by Yanukovich and his environment, is that justice provided by the state? Is there justice in the walls of Parliament, which is a representative body of the Ukrainian people, when there is no vote in favour of the Law on Refunds Stolen? When everyone in society knows that this money has been stolen, that this money has been spent on offshore companies, that this money has been arrested by the government, and this money has now been actually fixed in the Ukrainian state, and now individual nationals have come up with myths so that this money doesn't return to the Ukrainian people. No, that's not fair, and that's what every Ukrainian citizen who's watching television is going to say. I have another question. Will those who leave the hall today not vote for this law be held accountable? Of course, they will be accountable both to God and to humans. So I ask you very much, dear friends, with most of you standing on Maidan, with most of you going through a very difficult period of time, revolution, start a war, give new justice, let's re-justice show that there is a responsible authority in this country that can make responsible decisions. As Minister of Justice, as an ordinary Ukrainian citizen, I assure you that this law, after eight months of fine work, corresponds more than any other law to all European standards and the Constitution, and to the laws of Ukraine. We've taken away every opportunity for manipulation, just the basic, this law renews the law and justice for every Ukrainian.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-08-m1.u65	Please, 10 seconds, finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-08-m1.u66	20 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-08-m1.u67	30 seconds. 30, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-08-m1.u68	It's one of the few laws that allows every national MP as a simple Ukrainian to confirm that we have voted with you in vain, that we can guarantee justice and justice in this country. I ask you very much to vote so that you will not be ashamed in front of your children and in front of your offspring. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-08-m1.u69	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the decision-making process. I want to stress this law, which allows the funds to be stolen from the Ukrainian people to return to the Ukrainian people. Returning the Ukrainian army to combat the Russian aggressor. So I hope that we can get a positive vote, and I ask everyone to take up their jobs and prepare for a decision, my colleague. A very responsible vote, I'm sure we have no right to break this law. And I'm putting a bill amending some of the Ukrainian legislative acts to ensure that the State's income is secured by unwarranted assets. Number 5142 is just on the basis of the proposal, colleagues, only on the basis of the proposal. Edits, suggestions can be made to the second reading. Please vote and please support, colleagues. Mr. Secretary, please ask the deputies to take your seats, please vote and please support, colleagues. Vote, please. [[17:23:05]] For 176 176 for. Colleagues, if I am. to the committee at one more time, do you support or not? Colleagues, I'm about to make a second offer, please support her. The committee has a re-reading session. Will you support me, colleagues? Will you hold on, colleagues? I'm asking you very much, let's concentrate on being wrong, unfair if we lose the bill. I ask you very much, fellows, to unite. I propose the following: under the Rules, return to the committee for further work on the re-reading. Please vote and please support, colleagues. Please, colleagues, please vote. Vote, stand by. [[17:24:14]] For 201 Colleagues, I'm going to make a third proposal: the subject of the legislative initiative for further development. Is this going to be supported? Another committee? Let's try the committee again, colleagues. I ask everyone to step into the hall and prepare for the vote. Colleagues, please come into the hall, I'll read, according to the factions: "Clock of Petra Poshenko" – 85, "National Front" – 66, "Resistance Block" – 0, "self-help" – 18, "Fatherhood" – 10, Radical Party Laska – 10, "Resurrection" – 0, "Will of the people" – 0, non-fractional – 12. Now I'm going to lay the groundwork again. Return to the committee for a second first reading for work and, colleagues, I ask you to concentrate and support this proposal. I'm asking you to support me return to the committee for re-reading. Please vote, colleagues. Please vote, colleagues. Please be supportive. [[17:25:29]] For 212 We don't have the votes. Colleagues, I'm going to set up a third subject-specific legislative initiative for pre-work, colleagues. I am very much asking all those who will now hold back, the subject of the legislative initiative for further development. Colleagues, please, we have the potential, I'm asking you to support this initiative. I very much ask everyone to respond carefully to this vote. I'm asking you to take up jobs. My third suggestion is to return the subject of a legislative initiative for further work, a colleague. And I ask your support, and I ask you to vote. Colleagues near the government's bed! Mr. Minister, ask the deputies to take part in the vote. Colleagues, please support: The subject of the legislative initiative for further development. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to vote. Let's vote, fellows! Please vote. [[17:26:43]] For 212 Colleagues, let's move on, please, let's exchange thoughts on how to proceed, what suggestions. [[B in m in s a l in]] Colleagues, I'll give you a minute. Bourbuck, one minute, please. And invite the deputies to the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-08-m1.u70	Ladies and gentlemen, your honor, the presiding officer! I'm asking you to put the vote back on the table so that we can eventually put it back in the room, because I want to remind our coalition colleagues, the BPT faction, that this bill, it's budgetary. Coming from a special confiscation regime is going to go to the income part of the budget and it's going to be spent on raising social standards, paying the minimum wage in 3200, which we all voted on, to increase defence spending and national security. And to you, Andriy Volodymyrovich, I would like you to publish in the newspaper "The Voice of Ukraine" and in all the media the results of the roll-call vote for the first time in this bill so that everyone in Ukraine knows their "heroes" who vote to return the money Janukovich stole from the people of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-08-m1.u71	Thank you. Colleagues, I'm going to make this offer again. Please enter the hall, take up jobs, colleagues. I'm asking you to focus. Colleagues, when we vote to return to the committee for work, it's a completely compromising proposal, it's a completely supportive proposal. Please return to the hall. Colleagues, I'll put it to a vote. Come into the hall, take up jobs. Colleagues, I'm re-voting the proposal: to return to the committee for re-reading. I ask your support and I ask you to vote, colleagues. Please vote, colleagues. We're voting on the committee for re-reading. [[17:29:11]] For 211 Nothing changes. Colleagues, bill 5142 has been rejected. Colleagues, I want to announce to you, we're 5369, I didn't put it up. Please stay put, colleagues. I did not put a motion to the vote: a reduced procedure for preparing for second reading 5369, a reduced procedure for second reading. And please stay put. Now I'm going to put the proposal to a vote -- changes to the calendar plan. So, colleagues, I'm asking you carefully, 5369. 5369 A shortened procedure for preparing for second reading. This is a proposal that everyone has been supported. I'm asking you to vote 5369 on the simplified procedure for preparing for the second reading, please support me, please vote. Please vote on the simplified procedure until the second reading of 5369. Support me, colleagues, please vote. [[17:30:30]] For 202 Guys, I'm on it. Attention! Please, I'm asking everyone to pay attention. Now I have a request for a break, I'll give you my word, but before I go to the next bill, I'm going to make proposals for changes to the calendar plan that we've been talking about. So I'm asking the people's deputies not to disperse, to stay in the hall. Now, I have a request for a break from two factions: the People's Front and the Radical Party, but they're willing to replace the break with a standoff. Then there will be the voting changes to the calendar plan. I ask you, colleagues, to come into the hall and prepare for the vote. And now I'm putting my word on demand from two factions to the entrance from Oleg Láška's rostrum. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-08-m1.u72	Dear citizens of Ukraine, dear colleagues, I would like to inform you of the incident that took place today in the Supreme Council after the end of this morning's session. When I left this House of Parliament, I was approached by a young, beautiful, smart girl, former battalion fighter, Idar Julia Tolopa, who accused me of not giving her Ukrainian citizenship, as promised, and she was a citizen of Russia. And in protest of not giving her citizenship, a glass of tomato juice poured on me. I thank Julia very much for pouring out tomato juice, not sulfuric acid. But I would like to make the following statement on this point. With Julia Tolopa, a Russian citizen, a patriot who defends the Ukrainian state against Russian aggression, I met on August 29, 2014, in Happiness, on the fore. When I learned her story, I asked her to write a presidential application for Ukrainian citizenship, and I told her on Facebook that I would contact President Prashenko to give him citizenship, which I did. Then I found a copy of the letter, and I directed the President to worry about giving Julia Tolopi Ukrainian citizenship. In addition, publicly in this Chamber from the rostrum of the Parliament on December 2, 2014, I asked President Prashenko to grant Ulya Tolopi Ukrainian citizenship and other patriots who are protecting our home country with weapons in their hands. Since the President grants Ukrainian citizenship to the oligarch of Novinski, our business partner, oligarh Grigorisin, our deputies, together with the deputies from other factions, have initiated a bill on the simplified order of acquisition of Ukrainian citizenship by foreigners serving in the Armed Forces of Ukraine. This law became effective in 2015. The members of the Radical Party are co-authors of this law. All these documents I'm demonstrating to the venerable Julia Tolopi and all the other patriots in order to see that everything that depends on us is what we've done to make them become Ukrainian citizens. This girl, who deserves only respect, was cynically used in her dirty provocations of politics. Sergey Melniczuk ordered the holiday of Julia Tolopi. It's a "guest" who became an MP on the list of the Radical Party. Then he bought it with a little bit, and now he's serving in an oligarchic group called "The Will of the People," serving the government. Whoever's in charge of this provocation, I don't think it's hard to guess, the ones who are facing our position of principle, our fight against corruption. That's why I'm once again calling on President Prashenko to grant citizenship to Ukrainian patriots who are protecting Ukraine! They can't go back home to Russia or anything.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-08-m1.u73	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-08-m1.u74	They can't go back to Russia, nowhere, because they're criminals. They are criminals because, unlike many who have Ukrainian citizenship but have betrayed countries, they, foreign citizens, protect Ukraine! So I'm asking the President to give citizenship not to oligarchs, but to patriots and foreigners who are protecting Ukraine. And I wish Julia Tolopi good luck, family luck! And I'm talking to the Patriots. Do not let yourself be used in cynical provocations by politicians. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-08-m1.u75	Thank you. So, honourable colleagues, now I'm going to put to the vote a proposal that is to move December week from December 19 to December 23 to December 12-16. Colleagues, we may have a chance to get to the budget faster. And so there's a general request and agreement with the government that we will support the transfer of the plenary week from December 19 to December 23 to December 12 to 16. I mean, next week it's plenary, colleagues. I ask you to take your seats and prepare for the vote, colleagues. I ask very careful attention to that question, and I have sounded it in advance on the Conciliation Council. All the factions agreed with him. I'm going to put him to the vote. So, colleagues, I'm voting on the proposal to move the plenary week from December 19 to December 23 to December 12 to December 16 and, accordingly, December 19 to 23, to make the work of the national deputies on the committees, and December 12 to 16, the plenary day. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. December 12-16 is a plenary week. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to vote. Please. [[17:36:38]] For 184 There is no such political will. Colleagues, may I have your attention now? Now we have another bill, and then we have a series of questions in the agenda. I very much ask you to stay in your seats so that we can work hard. The inclusion in the agenda of the day session is very important. It'll take a while, but it's very important. After that question. I now announce the following question 4744: the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget of Ukraine for the 16th Year. I ask you to support the consideration of the reduced procedure. Please, colleagues, please back up. Please support us so that we can work hard. [[17:37:30.]] For 169 Decision taken. I invite you to report to the National Deputy of Ukraine, Mr. Bondar Mikhail Leontijovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-08-m1.u76	Thank you. Dear colleagues, as I have always done, as head of the coal - mining subcommittee, we try to resolve every time the issues related to the wages of miners. Law 4744 is precisely related to this, and it is proposed that we increase the cost of a billion dollars ’ worth of coal production at the expense of this billion, and that we deal accordingly with the issue of the debt of mining wages. Literally between the second and the fourth, the meeting at Oksana Siroid, where representatives of the Fuel and Energy Committee were present, there were trade unions, there were national deputies present, and there were areas where there were coal industries. And everyone was just stressing that even though the problem with coal restructuring is the biggest problem at the moment is that it's actually a pay-per-view debt. So I'm going to ask, colleagues, to support this bill and with a source of revenue, these are taxes, congregations, payments of local budgets, temporary out-of-control areas. And it's a billion dollars to pay off the debt to coal miners. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-08-m1.u77	Thank you. The co-report invites the head of the Committee on Budget Affairs, Gorbunov Alexander Volodymyrovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-08-m1.u78	Dear Andrey Volodymyrovich! Dear colleagues! On July 14, the Committee on Budget Affairs considered Bill 4744. The legislative proposal provides for an increase of $1 billion in expenditure under the general budget fund of the State to provide State support to coal-based enterprises and a partial cost-sharing of the cost of coal-based production due to a corresponding reduction in the public budget reserve fund. The Chief Scientific and Expert Authority of the Supreme Council indicated that it was necessary to draw the Government's conclusion on the bill. The Supreme Council's Committee on Prevention and Anti-Corruption in its expert opinion noted that the bill revealed corruptive factors and the draft act did not meet the requirements of anti-corruption legislation, given the lack of a sound financially sound legislative initiative. The Ministry of Finance does not support and report on the risks of financial management of emergency response and other measures to be carried out under the Budget Code at the expense of the contingency fund. The Anti-Monopoly Committee issued a warning about the non-compliance of the EU's legislative proposal with the requirements and standards for support for individual coal companies and the weakening of competition in Ukraine's energy market. It should be noted that the bill’s proposed source of additional expenditure in general is unrealistic, since the government has already allocated nearly 1 billion dollars out of one and a half billion dollars planned in the Reserve Fund. In addition, the planned amount of expenditure for state support for coal companies has been increased by 672,8 million dollars since the committee’s consideration of the bill and is estimated at 922,8 million dollars, of which only 76 percent have been used for 10 months this year. As a result of the review, the Committee on Budget Affairs adopted a decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-08-m1.u79	Please, 30 seconds. 30 seconds, quick, finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-08-m1.u80	To recommend to the Supreme Council a bill numbering 4744 would give the subject the right to a legislative initiative to work to determine the real source of additional expenses. Thank you. And please support the committee's decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-08-m1.u81	Thank you. Please, two for, two for against. Very lightly, fellow MPs. Please, Winnick from Peter Dust. He's handing it over to Doubenko. Please. Dowbenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-08-m1.u82	Colleagues! The most important problem of this bill was to find a source, which would make it possible to finance this national programme. So I think we can support this bill for two reasons. First. It's about supporting carbon-carbon-based enterprises that are state-owned, or those that have 100 percent state-owned shares, or those that have state-owned whole property in leases or concessions. So I think that if we go here, we have the right to support them. And secondly, the funds that this program can target will be taken from the local budgets of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, which are not currently being used. And I think that because it's not being used temporarily, Minfin supports, supports other interested organizations, and I think it gives us reason to vote for this bill. Colleagues, I'm asking you to support him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-08-m1.u83	Thank you. Wozniak Yuri Volodymyrovich, People's Front.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-08-m1.u84	Please pass the word to Igor Guzu.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-08-m1.u85	Good afternoon! Gus, 19th constituency, Shakhtar Novovolinsk Dear friends, I ask you to concentrate, because when we look at political issues, there is, there is no discussion here, and miners need to stretch out their hand, hand of help. And what the budget committee and the government says is that there's no money, so you have to look for the funds to keep the miners from starving. Three weeks ago, I had nothing to eat, drink, and give my money to the Novovolinian miners of the tenth coal mine. Excuse me, we have to find the tools, Parliamentary. I thank Mikhail for registering this bill, and I thank those colleagues who have joined. And once again, we need to look for ways to find out where to find this bill, not to play it and tell it to us we don't have any money, and so on and so forth. Unfortunately, I would like to say that Minister Nasalik is not dealing with the problems of miners. A financial year is coming. Minister Nasalik is going to the resort for half a million. What's that approach? I've been asking him to come to Novovolinsk for over a year, talk to the miners, so there's no time to come to Novovolinsk, and there's no time for a half-million-dollar resort to run in the budget period? Shame! So, colleagues, please all support this bill, let the government look for money. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-08-m1.u86	Thank you. My colleagues, once again, I'm asking you in a very concise manner, because we're not going to be able to get into the agenda. This is a very important next block of questions. Gusak Vladimir Georgievicz, Opposition Block, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-08-m1.u87	Dear Ukrainians! Dear colleagues! Dear Head! Today, the Supreme Council will not consider many very important bills for the country. And of course, the biggest problem is the organization of the work of the Supreme Council itself. I would like to remind you that before that hour and an hour and a half, we considered the bill, and then we voted more than ten times before we rejected it, with the rest. But there are times when the Supreme Council has to adjust its schedule to make the lives of Ukrainians easier by compensating for the total inactivity of the government. Dear colleagues, over the past two years, we have voted in favour of bills to increase government support for the cost of coal production, the quarter, because there is no other way to pay wages to miners on government mines. With the change of government, it was hoped that the situation would improve, for in the past government, the Ministry of Fuel and Energy had no understanding of what was going on in the field. Sadly, though, the situation has not improved, and today the debt owed to government mines is again over 700 million dollars. And we normally vote for this bill because people have to support the salary. But, dear fellows, next year's budget, I made an adjustment, offering immediately, all the costs that are allocated to the coal sector, to support self-sustainment. Because this government will not solve the problem, and the debt to miners will remain, and the Supreme Council will have to vote again and again on similar bills. The country continues to lose its leadership, and we can only expect the winter to be warm.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-08-m1.u88	Thank you. I ask everyone to come into the hall and get ready for the vote. Yes, now Yegor Sobolev. After that, the decision was made. Please invite all the deputies to the hall. More Fatherland. All right, Yegor Sobolev. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-08-m1.u89	Self-help decided to support this bill. And our Anti-Corruption Committee found it corrupt, because there's no clear specification on how this money could be used? And it's not in this room to say that tens of billions of dollars of taxpayers' money went missing in the pockets of coal generals and the people who put it down. I have a request, as in the head of the Supreme Council Committee against Corruption, to the author of Bondar's bill, let's put into the law the words "that this money can be used exclusively to repay the debt owed to miners on wages."
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-08-m1.u90	Can I have a minute, please? One minute Krulko, one minute Oleg Valeriyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-08-m1.u91	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. The Fatherland faction will vote in favour of this bill, just as the Fatherland traditionally supports mining and the prestige of mining. And I would like to remind you that it was thanks to the government of Yulia Timoshenko that the Law on the prestige of mining work was adopted in the session hall. That's why we're going to vote for this bill this time. But at the same time, I'd like to make sure that most factions stop drugging oligarchs through Rotterdam+ schemes and buy coal miners at a fair price. Then we won't have to adopt bills to get them out of the budget. Now, before New Year’s Eve, let us give people what they have earned, pay their wages, and show that this hall can be united even in the matter of the problems of miners and the problems of Ukrainian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-08-m1.u92	Thank you. Oleg Easy, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-08-m1.u93	The cost that we're allocating to coal miners, they're going through corruption schemes. It's billions a year, it's taxpayers' costs. It's the same story as the gas, with the exhaust gas schemes, it's the same story as the Mikhailian bank, when they stole one, and from the State Budget, and, in fact, the taxpayers have to pay the Ukrainians. I don't think that's a solution. The solution is worthy of the wages of miners, one. The state has to stop doing corruption because of these schemes, so-called drugs, and buy coal from coal miners at the real price it costs. And then there won't be any funding for the state budget for the grant. The coal miners were mined — pay them the price it costs. And today, when coal mines are bought twice as cheap as they cost, and then compensated from the government budget, they are purely corrupt schemes that exploit oligarchs, authorities that are close to them.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-08-m1.u94	Maxim Burbak, one minute, and let's move on to the decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-08-m1.u95	Dear colleagues, recently from the rostrum there was a flaming representative of the opposition party, who, as a young man named Alex Dobbusz, fell apart in his love and protection of miners. On Tuesday, the Fatherland faction gave no vote in favour of Bill 5130, which predicted an increase in the minimum wage to three hundred and an increase in the regression payments to miners of a thousand 300 dollars to two 600, well, that's blasphemy! [[Noise Nodes]] So lie to your electorate, so lie to your citizens, men of honor. Well, it's people who see what you're lying to them. Right in front of your eyes, you say black, you say white, you say you're for them, you're going to tear shirts, you're going to restore all payments. Instead, there is no vote for wage increases or for raising the regressive payments to miners. Shame on you!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-08-m1.u96	Guys, I'll give you a line. Replica, one minute. Who? Sobole, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-08-m1.u97	Sobolje, Fatherland. I want to answer Burbak's lie. Take the line. [[Noise Nodes]] What's not. There's no word on three hundred in this bill. What is in this bill? That three 200 doesn't pay to the eighth grade to all the working and to the twelfth grade teachers. You're lying again, as always! In this bill, there is no mention of raising the minimum wage to 3,200. There is a direct way to get a scholarship, there is a direct way of not paying the minimum pension of 3,200 that you have to do; there is a break in payment of the minimum wage and the minimum standard of living that you are doing for the first time in the country of Ukraine. So you will be responsible for this lie and for your vote. Go to the districts now, the simple teachers, the doctors, the village staff will tell you how much you've done. Then go to the markets and ask how 3,200 will be paid.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-08-m1.u98	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-08-m1.u99	But it's the tactics of these liars, who, instead of telling the truth about mining work and the fact that the "Fatherland" faction will support this bill, are once again taking the session hall into a false past. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-08-m1.u100	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I'll give you a message. [[B in m in s a l in]] Can you make a message? [[B in m in s a l in]] Please, I'll make a message for everyone. We'll have five minutes before the job is done. I told you in advance that we have 10 more questions to be included in the agenda of the day session. Among them were questions of national security and defence, for which Turkinov had asked several times for them to be introduced. We have several more replicas to each other -- and we won't even have a chance to include any of those laws. And, colleagues, I've been stressing all along: I need to be able to see Ukraine through politics. I explained in advance how important these questions were. I spoke in advance about the fact that we should catch up with them at least to include them in the agenda. We're now with an easy 4-5 replica and we won't even have a chance to put them in the order of the day session. That's why I'm calling on everyone right now. I'm going to give you a line right now because it's not a replica on the line. This one's a faction and this one's a name. But I ask you to stop this discussion and stop it. This is not a replica. This was the faction mentioned, and the name was mentioned here. This is not a replica. Bourbuck, one minute. And let's move on to making a decision. Please don't mention any last names.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-08-m1.u101	I wish I had a respectable master, but I understand that the politics of his faction finally forces him to work under the Dark Bears of the Kremlin. But now I would like to remind you that this bill foresees the conditions that allow the government in the budget next year to increase the "minimum" to 3200 and increase the regressive payments to miners, which we will now talk about, from a thousand three hundred to two six hundred. Here is the harsh truth of life. And the fact that you're breaking up there, we understand who paid for it. Ask Oneshchenka. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-08-m1.u102	One minute, Minfin. One minute, Minfin.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-08-m1.u103	Ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much for your word. I would like to point out that, unfortunately, the prescribed bill cannot be supported. Because those resources that are foretold are not realistic. So please support the committee's conclusion.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-08-m1.u104	Please, one minute, Dombrowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-08-m1.u105	Dear colleagues! I want to address all the political factions and say that I do not recommend any of the national MPs or politicians to politicize the issue of paying off the wages of miners. Thesis two. I want to thank all the factions who understand how difficult this is and how much these people need for their work to be supported. Thesis three is very important. I ask you to consider and listen. If someone in this room doesn't understand that we have to go to the miners' meeting, the miners will come here to meet the national MPs, and then we'll have another discussion. This is about the debt of wages. I'd like to support it, because if we were to compare what was 5 years ago, it was billions, billions, billions of dollars from the government budget. So far, in the 16th year, if we don't take this bill into account, we've only used 650 million or 670 million dollars to support the state industry. I'm underlining.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-08-m1.u106	Thank you. Now, 10 seconds, do you agree with the offer that Sobolev made? 30 seconds, please. Mikhailo Bondar. And let's move on to the decision-making process.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-08-m1.u107	I agree with Egor Sobolev's proposal and I want to say that the bill was the source of a reserve fund because we agreed and changed the source of the coming, it's taxes, it's congregations from temporarily uncontrollable territories. And everything, i.e. we're changing. And for the first time, why did you reject the budget committee? It's because it came from a reserve fund and there's not enough money.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-08-m1.u108	Thank you. Let's move on to making a decision, colleagues. I ask everyone to take up jobs, we move on to making decisions. And I'm voting on the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the State Budget for 2016 (for the State Support of State Industrial Enterprises for Partially Covered Costs and Self-Sustainment of Prepared Commodity Coal Production) (number 4744) on the basis of an amendment by Bodnar and Sobolje from the Supreme Council Tribune. Please vote, please support. On the basis and in general with the correction that was made. Please vote! Please back up! Please. [[17:59:39]] For-195 Colleagues, I'll be right back. I'll make the next offer. I'll put the next proposal on the ground. I'm asking for bill 4744 as a basis. On the basis of the next proposal. Please back up! Please vote! [[18:00:22]] For 244 244 for. Now, please, colleagues, short-term procedure. Can I make the whole offer? No, it's not. All right, colleagues, we just put her up, there were no votes. Let's have a simplified procedure for preparing for second reading. [[B in m in s a l in]] Can we? All right, I'll put it up again, colleagues. On the basis of this, I once again take the amendment that Bodnar and Soboljev made, a total of 4744, as a whole. Please vote, please support, colleagues, please. [[18:01:05]] For 222 Colleagues, I told you, no votes. Short procedure for second reading. Please support the simplified procedure for second reading. Please support the simplified procedure for second reading. Please vote. [[18:01:33]] For 239. Decision taken. Colleagues, therefore, based on a bill adopted with a brief preparation for the second reading. Dear colleagues, we now have, colleagues, we now have 10 questions in the agenda of the day session -- an extraordinary, very important one. Dear colleagues, now I'm going to put them up, they're all in order of the day, they've all been marked in advance, now one by one I'll bet. I am reporting that I am continuing for 15 minutes the meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Now one by one, I'll put them to the vote. The first, as is the order of the day, 5482 is the inclusion in the agenda of the day session of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine 2016. Please vote, and please support the budget bill, which is very important, except for the inclusion in the agenda. Please vote and please support. Please be supportive. [[18:02:42]] For 213 The decision is not made. 5502 is a draft law amending the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine 2016. Include in the agenda of the day session. Please vote, please support. [[18:03:08]] For 242 Decision taken. Next: 5445 is a draft of the Law on Demonopolization and Market Principles for the Functioning of the Spirit Industry. Include in the agenda of the day session. Please vote. [[18:03:40]] For 178. The decision is not made. 5491 is a draft Ukrainian Cultural Fund Act. Please support, vote for inclusion in the agenda of the session. Please vote. [[18:04:03]] For 209 The decision is not made. 5425 is a draft law amending article 23 of the Ukrainian Budget Code on budgetary allocations for the activities of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. 5425, please vote, please support, colleagues, please. Integrating into the agenda of the day session, voting. [[18:04:33]] For 196 The decision is not made. 5350 is a draft decree on measures to protect national interests, national security, sovereignty and territorial integrity of Ukraine, countering terrorist activities, including the day-to-day session. Please vote, please support, colleagues, please. [[18:05:04]] For 193 193 is not a decision. 5428 is a draft law amending certain Ukrainian legislation on railway undertakings whose assets are located in the ATO. 5428. Please vote, please support, colleagues, please vote. An important bill. [[18:05:36]] For 217 217 is very close. I'll do it again, colleagues, please concentrate. 4528, inclusion in the agenda of the day session. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to vote. Please. [[18:06:02]] For 218. 218 -- you don't make a decision. 5222 is a draft law amending section VI, paragraph 33, of the Budget Code for Ukraine. 5222, inclusion in the agenda of the session, please vote, please support, inclusion in the agenda of the session. [[18:06:32]] For-189 Decision Not Adopted Colleagues, 5417 is a draft of the Act to Appendix 3 of the Ukrainian Law on the State Budget for 2016 on the increase in expenditure on the production of defence supplies. The solution is important to the PNB. The decision is important to the Security Forces. I ask you very much to support the inclusion in the agenda of the 5417 session, please vote. I'd like your support, colleagues. Please, 5417 the defense bill here has no politics, please support me, colleagues. [[18:07:18]] For 213 The decision is not taken. Fellows, I'm putting 5482 again, the first one that stood there is very important for the adoption of the budget. This is a draft law amending the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine 2016. Colleagues, this is the last vote, I ask you to support and please vote for inclusion in the agenda of the 5482 session. Please vote for inclusion in the agenda of the 5482 session. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to vote. Please. [[18:08:05]] For 214 It's not a decision, colleagues. Dear colleagues, we've gone through all the questions we can. Now I, my colleagues, demand two factions to perform, one minute from the rooslav Moskalenko's rostrum. Please, one minute. One minute, Jaroslav Moskalenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-08-m1.u109	Dear colleagues, I was absent from the Conciliation Council on Monday in connection with the disease, and I had a fever, and I was lying at home, and I was reading the book of the great Ukrainian author, Lena Costenko, "The Note of the Ukrainian Automobile," where she writes the events of 2000 in the Ukrainian politics and says, and she calls it all one word, "the centrifuge of idiotism." I want to say that it's been 16 years, and this "idiotism centrifuge" hasn't passed because we've forgotten the word "culture" in general and we've forgotten the word "political culture." There was an incident today with our colleague, the party's head, the Radical Party, Oleg Lazko. I want to publicly apologize to him from that rostrum and for that girl and for the people who organized it. And take the first step towards understanding in this room. We had a faction meeting, and Melniczuk, our deputy, made an application to get out of our faction. Thank you for your attention, and I apologize to this entire hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-12-08-m1.u110	Thank you, Mr. Jaroslav. Dear colleagues, it was an important, right gesture. I welcome such gestures when we acknowledge mistakes, we understand them. We had a very difficult day, but we made very difficult decisions, but important decisions for the State. I declare the evening meeting of the Supreme Council closed. Tomorrow at 10 a.m., we'll continue our work. Thank you, colleagues. Good-bye.
