ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-02-m0.u1	Good morning, dear colleagues. I'm asking you to come into the hall, get ready for registration. Vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] The package. Colleagues, please come into the hall and prepare for registration. Dear colleagues, are you ready to register? People's deputies please register. [[10:05:19]] 345 deputies registered. It's a victory. The morning plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Colleagues, today is the birthday of our fellow national deputies. Andria Bogdanovich Kota. Welcome! [[Applause]] Good luck with your work. And Vadim Vasilovich Sidorczuk. Welcome! [[Applause]] Welcome, fellows, to your birthday! And I want to remind you that on Wednesday we have 30 minutes of performances by national deputies, not by factions, but by national MPs. So if the faction does not fall, it does not mean that a single word will be given. And so I'm asking everyone to adjust, concentrate on their buttons, to press the "Exhibition" button. And please record the performance. Please, colleagues. At times, I pressed several times to fall. Shentz Dmitry Alexiyovich is invited to attend, please. Wykulu gives the word.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-02-m0.u2	Respectable People's Deputies and the Respectable People of Ukraine! Last week Prime Minister Vladimir Borisovic Groisman announced a proposal to increase the minimum wage twice, effectively doubling our bill 4900. We don't mind that he gave it up for his initiative, but we do note that simply increasing the minimum wage twice in isolation from the resuscitation bill package proposed by the Opposition Unit can have very serious negative consequences: and such as hyperinflation, and such as further impoverishment of pensioners. What needs to be done, am I now addressing the members of the budget committee and the members of the Government? First. This is, of course, an increase in the minimum wage. Second. At the same time, there has been a double increase in the minimum pension. Why? Because when you only offer a 10 per cent increase in your pension, the risk of inflation can make pensioners much poorer. Third. At last, a 15-percent disgraceful pension tax for working retirees, which is not available in any country in the world. Next, adopt Bill 5236 on tax breaks for small and medium-sized businesses. Because such a minimum wage may not last, namely, 4-5 million people in our country, 5 years of vacation for small and medium-sized businesses, for self-employed people who work and feed themselves. Next crucial question. This is our Bill 5315. We propose the introduction of a non-payment of salaries, pensions and scholarships, half a per cent per day in order to clearly form and understand responsibility, criminal responsibility and foam, and then pensions and salaries, and scholarships will be paid. We've already reached $2 billion in wages. And the fifth, the most important question, is the need to adopt our new industrialization package in an integrated manner. Money to raise wages, pensions should not simply come from a printing press. We all remember the 1990s, we all remember hyperinflation. Money to raise wages and pensions can only be taken from a working economy; it must be provided with our goods, the goods that a Ukrainian buys in the internal market, the goods that will buy abroad will come to our country with currency. But then it's not going to be inflationary money, and then it's going to be a real rise in social standards. We are ready to negotiate with all factions, we are ready to work with the budgetary committee, with the Government. But once again, only the comprehensive adoption of a package of laws will have an effect on the increase in minimum wages, pensions and will make these pensions and salaries pay. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-02-m0.u3	From the Radical Party, Lensky Alexiyyovich. He's giving the word to the leader of the Radical Party, Oleg Lászko. Please, Oleg Valeriyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-02-m0.u4	Dear fellow MPs! Dear citizens of Ukraine! Yesterday, Parliament made a very important decision to cancel the disgraceful decision of the previous parliament to raise the salaries of the people's deputies several times. Our faction voted in favour of this decision, we think it was a completely inappropriate decision, especially in the present circumstances. And in secret, to continue to raise the salaries of deputies, I'm again addressing those who did. The parasites, you've established the entire Parliament, you've suspended each of your colleagues. If you are short of a deputy’s salary, put in your parliamentary mandates and go into business. If you had 17,000 dollars to pay. And the brothers to set up each faction, each deputy, to be reckoned with, and you're short of wages. People who live on a thousand dollars of pensions and wages are enough, and you're 17,000 short. But that's half the case. Next. Yesterday, we demanded that our faction and the Fatherland faction, colleagues from the Peter Prashenko Block, cancel the government's July decision to raise salaries for cabinet members. Unfortunately, yesterday you, Mr. Head, did not put this proposal to the vote. That's why I'm addressing you, and yesterday we registered Bill 5331 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's appeal to the Cabinet to cancel the increase in salaries for members of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. I ask you, Mr. Head, to give an immediate commission to consider this bill on the committee. After. Today, after 12 goals, take to the House of Parliament. And I am convinced that 300 national deputies will vote in favour of cancelling the government's decision to raise government salaries. The same applies to the salaries of prosecutors and judges. For the prosecutor’s office for the following year, $2 billion is spent. Why would they increase their expenses? Show me one thing that Lucenko has brought to an end. A few months ago, the Medes, a former national deputy, were linked, accusing him of separatism. I spent three months, and now Lucenko quietly released him for lack of a crime scene. I'm asking, who's returning 3 months in prison? Who will return and be responsible for the pianist who is leading Lucenko? They catch people for nothing, and then they release them for lack of guilt. The guilty Medes, let him sit if he's not guilty, why did you plant him? So I demand 2 billion dollars, which are going to be added to the prosecutor's office next year, from the prosecutor's office to remove and send animals to support animals, so that Ukrainian cows of blackberries are in Ukrainian villages, not prosecutors running around with sacks of money. And lastly, Mr. Head, our bill. Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-02-m0.u5	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-02-m0.u6	Last one. Our Law 4491 on the Provision of Free Medicine to Retired Persons. Four thousand people died in Ukraine last year because they could not buy a cure. We demand that the law be passed and that pensioners be given free medicine.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-02-m0.u7	Thank you. Please, Melniczuk Sergey Petrovich. Ivan Krulko.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-02-m0.u8	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues, dear Ukrainians, I would like to draw attention today to the issues of the banking system and the investors of the Ukrainian banks. Such a situation in the banking system created by Mrs. Gonnaareva, Head of the National Bank, has never been. In fact, the bankruptcy of Ukrainian banks was created, 82 Ukrainian banks were bankrupt. The fattest customers of these banks had information in advance and raised their funds by transferring them to banks that are controlled, including the head of Nazbank and the head of the country. At the same time, ordinary bank investors lost their funds, their savings in bank accounts. This undermined the confidence of Ukrainians, Ukrainian citizens, finally in the banking system. That's why investors and lenders of banks, charities that lost money in banks, put out the ultimatum of parliament, the President and the Cabinet of Ministers on how to act in this area. The first thing they demand immediately is the submission by the President of Ukraine of the release of the Hontareva from office of Nazbank and the establishment of a temporary commission of inquiry in Parliament to investigate the bankruptcy of the Ukrainian banks, as well as the activities of the Hontareva in this post. Next. They call on the Cabinet of Ministers to immediately cancel Decree No. 662 – and stop the billing of pennies, interest and fines to bank lenders. They also address the Head of the Supreme Council and the entire Parliament immediately to consider a number of bills relating to amendments to the Consumer Rights Bill, the Judicial Assembly. I'd like to name the bill numbers right now. This is 5316, 5317, 5256, 2188-1. These are the bills that need to be considered soon in the session hall and that are aimed at resolving the question of the judicial congregation that bank investors have to pay and cannot today even defend their rights in court; that apply to their payment schedules for the savings they have lost in the banks. So I very much ask the Head of the Supreme Council to give the committees this week a mandate to consider all these bills on the committees, and next week, to set aside a single day to consider these bills in the plenary room, to make a decision, and to solve this problem. Let's let those people who lost what they believed in the banking system today at least return what they lost or create mechanisms to protect their rights. Protect our investors, restore confidence in the banking system. And, most importantly, let's finally get Gottarevo out of office, she's destroying the banking system, she's killing citizens' trust. And look at her declaration: she keeps all the money in dollars. What protection the bracelet can speak of and protect the Ukrainian bracelet if it keeps its money.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-02-m0.u9	Thank you. I'd like to invite you to the floor of the People's Front, Mr. Andrey Teteruk.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-02-m0.u10	Dear Chairman! Dear fellow national MPs! Dear Ukrainian people! Our parliament's position on the opening of registers makes it clear. The declaration is a declaration, making it clear what assets the official apparatus has, not just the national MPs. But I want to show you one of the mechanisms for enriching corrupt politicians. There's Mr. Dehtyarov, who headed the South Bank, who hid taxpayers' money about a billion and a half dollars into his private bank, a new bank. Hundreds of millions of dollars are washed each year. Instead of giving a witness to the prosecution and the investigating authorities, it's the Fatherland faction that's covering it, keeping it as its own watch. They're breaking up the competition. And Mrs. Kugel is breaking up the competition. What's more, this corrupt director, instead of forbade the Fatherland faction, covers it. What's more, he collapsed at the contests, it's true. And instead of choosing in a legal way a leader who can get our space branch out of the tough spot, a decision is being made to make this position unique and to appoint it exclusively without a competition under Mr. Dechtharov. This is how corruption takes place in our realm! This is how those who steal taxpayers’ money are preserved. Then these corrupt national MPs cannot explain where they have hundreds of millions of dollars. They can't explain their lives, they can't explain how they live in their choirs, they go on hellandwagens! They ride, they walk every day, hundreds of thousands dressed. By means of such corrupt directors as they cover, protect, and create favorable conditions. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-02-m0.u11	Thank you. Mrs. Alexandro, I'll give you the right to speak after all the speeches have been completed. Excuse me, Mrs. Alexandro, if you'll allow representatives to speak according to the list. Mrs. Alexandro, Mrs. Alexandro, may I have a word with you? One minute to Mrs. Kugel's lineup.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-02-m0.u12	I'm very happy to represent the Fatherland faction, because I'm not referring to the faction that is the richest faction in the Ukrainian Parliament. I want to say that it is pride to represent Ukraine's only most important industrial diamond, "Yushmash" and "Southern." We represent the working groups of these factories, we've met with them. Not the way some people drive and their advisor put their head first of the space agency, then they wanted to raid the only profitable enterprise in Ukraine, and therefore "no" is the raiders in Ukraine. These companies should only go as state control, because this is a unique enterprise, the Lipas competition, where boys offer space tourism and water from asteroids, to develop such an enterprise, I think Mayor Dnipropetrovska knows that this is a budgeting enterprise. It must be protected.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-02-m0.u13	Thank you. I'd like to invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy Oleg Barna.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-02-m0.u14	Praise Jesus Christ. I always ask this question: why in 25 years have we turned from the most developed republic of the Soviet Union into poverty, and Poland and Lithuania are much better. Maybe it's because we don't have reform and we don't have investment. Why are reforms not carried out? Perhaps it is because we have few intelligent and decent people in our positions. Why do we not have many wise and orderly men in power? But maybe it's because we don't properly pay our wages? For it is the wise person who has received knowledge with a truly hard work, not with a sticky diploma, who will arise and demand the proper payment of his mind, for sooner or later his family will ask. Thus, a wise person who takes office and has a low salary will sooner or later stand before a decision — whether to go to a paid job in private companies, to pursue them, or to work as they pay, or to sit on corruption schemes. And this is because some in this rostrum begin to claim that public officials do not need to raise wages. Who claims that? However, this is claimed most by those who have never lived on a state’s salary. Because it's the oligarchs and thieves who are comfortable with the poor government officials, because it's cheap to buy them, because by giving them a thousand dollars, they demand that the state official abuse their business interests by selling the people and the state for millions of dollars. And before I say it from the Supreme Council's rostrum, I'd like to ask: and who of those screaming MPs who have declared millions and so on have officially lived on this deputy salary of four and a half thousand dollars more than six months, more than a year, and even now 12 traveling to the Supreme Council by three cars, traveling with security, flying abroad every week, dressing from the cots or eating away from the Supreme Council's table? Then let's face it, we don't live at the expense of the MP's salary that we have business. While the compatibility of power and business? Or did we turn the business from the MPs or sit down to corrupt schemes? Can our "rich relatives" fund us? So, Your Honor, I'd like to address all of you. Baltzerovich said, "When populism is defeated, society and the state loses." But to all of you, I want to say that we need to take care of the public, the anti-corruption authorities, about the cleansing of power. And they have to be smart and rich. And you have to take an example from Japan. And I say to all of you, to all the officials, don't forget the gold rule of two square meters. Sooner or later, first, we all die and go to the ground. Second, regardless of party property or property.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-02-m0.u15	Ten seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-02-m0.u16	And that we won't take anything with us into that world. But we need to consider what we will remember about ourselves or whether we will be spoken of.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-02-m0.u17	Ten seconds, please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-02-m0.u18	We've been stealing Ukraine, or we're going to go into history as the people in the big letter who created our great state. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-02-m0.u19	Thank you. Welcome to the speech of the People's Deputy of Knieżick. Please. People's Front.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-02-m0.u20	Thank you. Dear colleagues, at the beginning of this week, my colleague Sumar and I passed a bill that stipulates that 75 percent of the air of national channels, those using terrestrial frequencies, should be conducted in Ukrainian. This bill did not provide for any regulation for satellite cable channels, colleagues from the ATR channel were worried about it, for local channels. It's extremely liberal, and in my view it's absolutely soft. And all of a sudden, there was an absolute hysteria in Ukrainian information space. Russian media from Westey reported that we had submitted a bill prohibiting the press of neighbouring countries, including Russian-speaking countries. It's obviously a complete absurdity. But it's a big information campaign that's called on to do everything possible to get the Ukrainian language destroyed in Ukraine definitively. And it's not an accident, because when you look at the map of occupied territories, it's where the Ukrainian language wasn't allowed to develop, where the local leadership didn't support it, where education wasn't supported in a Ukrainian language, that's where the invaders came in, hoping that in the referendums under the automatic guns, they would be supported by the local population. And part of it supported. Now this plan of total destruction of Ukrainian language, of Ukrainian culture, is being implemented in all of Ukraine. I have in my hands the latest publication of one of the agencies led by the people of President Yanukovic's Administration, which has something to do with colleague Ljovczyn. Nikolai Skorik, our colleague, says, "Because of the Ukrainianization of the air, the viewers will go to satellite channels and the radios on the Internet." Our colleagues are not ashamed directly in the media to speak against the Ukrainian language on the air at all. Colleagues in which country do we live? How do we endure the destruction of what is causing the Ukrainians to die on the fronts? How do we endure the destruction of what our parents and grandparents fought for? How can we build an effective country when nothing unites us if we do not realize who we are, when we do not understand, how do we differ from the neighboring Russians, who occupied us with machine guns and now try to occupy us with weapons? And I urge you not to give in to provocation. I'm asking the Ukrainian Security Service and the Ministry of Information Policy to monitor the false statements by Westey, Ukrainian News, other pro-Russian media, television channels such as the Inter Channel and many other channels that destroy Ukraine and do everything they can to finally destroy our statehood, and we never get close to Europe. We're not going to let that happen, but we have to be alone in this, and together we have to feel threatened. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-02-m0.u21	Thank you. I'd like to invite you to the floor of National Deputy Sergio Visock.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-02-m0.u22	Thank you. Colleagues, last week the president of Ukraine, Peter Poroshenko, signed a decree on sanctions against the Russian Federation. We see that Ukraine’s sanctions list has expanded considerably. And we thank our President for that. But what I'm saying is that our Parliament was in a period of crisis and war, and it was the victory over the enemy, the victory over Russia and the call to confront aggression, that is what our Parliament is doing. It was the military laws, the decrees to fight the Russian Federation and its forces that united and united our hall. Sanctions policy must continue. The sanctions policy must be transferred to the Supreme Council Hall in order for the Supreme Council to be able to exercise its authority and put in place and call on our President to impose additional sanctions. We can see that these sanctions have been extended, we can see that, for example, scum like Mr. Kisayev, the owner of the Dehtyarov factory, which provides weapons fighters, is now under sanctions. But there was a series of oligarchs, both Russian and Ukrainian, who always worked for the enemy, who voted, for example, like Mr. Babakov in the State Duma of Russia for the annexation of Crimea, who supported him as Malafiev, supported Russia's armed aggression against Ukraine, and his factories are now operating in Ukraine. These sanctions should be extended, and we in the People's Front are about to pass a decree on the introduction of personal sanctions against a series of Russian oligarchs and Russian politicians. One more. Yesterday we witnessed a terrible story. Yesterday a letter from Ildar Dadin, a "conscience prisoner" and a Russian opposition was published in the Russian Federation. We've seen that torture in Russian prisons, persecution by political opponents is not just Putin's ghost of Ukrainian citizens. It's not just the problem of Clich, of the Sun and of our citizens who are now in captivity in the Russian Federation, it's a humanitarian problem, because the passport regime abuses the citizens of the Russian Federation. We need to call on the whole world to start monitoring human rights violations in the Russian Federation. We have to show that this is not only Ukraine's problem, that this is a humanitarian crisis, that this is a humanitarian crime that Putin is committing not only against Ukrainians and captured Ukrainians, but also against his citizens. I urge you, we will make a decision to support Ildar Dadin and to support the Russian "conscience prisoners". The Ukrainian Parliament will have to support it. Because it's solidarity with the Russian opposition and the prisoners of conscience that will allow us to portray Russia as a terrorist state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-02-m0.u23	Thank you. I would like to invite you to the floor of the national deputy Yuri Derevyanka.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-02-m0.u24	Yuri Derevyanko, political party of Will. Dear Ukrainians, distinguished colleagues, distinguished national MPs! We won a big victory at the end of last week. The whole country has taken a very important step and a decisive step in the fight against corruption. I want to thank all the members of our anti-corruption committee, and I want to thank all the activists who have made sure that this term doesn't last, so that all the declarations will be made by the end of last week. And now the country is discussing the declaration of politicians, the officials, it's very important for the country to become different. The next step is to verify the legality of all of these funds, to verify which sources or taxes have been paid or have been declared, to verify each of us who has declared and all the officials who have issued the electronic declaration. Now, of course, it is on NAZK, on NABU, that there is a huge responsibility on the anticorruption prosecutor’s office to ensure that all of this is done objectively, quickly, transparently. And we are very concerned that there is no order of inspection today, and NAZK has not yet officially confirmed it, nor has it been approved, and this test needs to be carried out immediately. At the same time, the "Will" political party proposes to take the next step in this area, namely to oblige those members of the national commissions, particularly the commission, which has raised prices for CNRECR services several times, so that these members of the NCRECR also make electronic declarations. The Will political party also requires that other members of the commission, in particular the commissions that regulate communication and communication today, also issue electronic declarations. We also demand that this also apply to the Court of Auditors, and we also demand that these be all the members of the committees, the competitive committees that choose us with you prosecutors, the judges who choose us with you the future police officers. It is these people, including the public present, who should also make declarations so that we can understand that their property situation has not changed dramatically after they have chosen those prosecutors or judges who are needed or not. That's why the political party "Will" has registered Bill 5318, which, including proposing that declarations be issued by public activists who are side by side fighting corruption. Because most of those just and true public activists are ready, just as calmly, before society to explain what, where, and how. So we ask for the support of these very initiatives, we ask that this Bill 5318 be considered as the closest possible on the relevant committees responsible for its approval, supported by the Supreme Council, so that we can move forward with determination in the fight against corruption. I think it's a great step to make Ukraine really change, to see everyone transparent, accountable, and to really say that we have a chance to get a visa-free regime. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-02-m0.u25	Thank you. Oleg Berezuk gives the word Semenchenk. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-02-m0.u26	I will try to speak very appropriately and not use motherly and abusive expressions solely with respect to the people of Ukraine. Today, I filed a statement with NAMK to verify my lifestyle and my income. Not because I don't know what it is, I have something to hide, but because I don't want anything to do with the panopticum that we saw after the electronic declaration in the last few days: mocha, cash, land plots, apartments. To tell you the truth, I have been a businessman for 19 years. My wife was an entrepreneur for eight years. Maybe I'm not talented, maybe I'm broke, because without my hair, without family in power, without bribes, all I could declare after that time is $2.5,000 and 20,000 bracelets. I believe that all those people who show these millions of incomes, financial geniuses or at least financial geniuses are their wives. I don't understand why the country is like this. Under the management of these financial geniuses. I want to talk about a friend. A few days remain to make changes to the electronic declarations. I check my income, my expenses, and I highly recommend to colleagues and officials, judges, prosecutors, customs officers to do the same. Because it's not going to end like that, there's not going to be any legalization. I saw the video from our meeting yesterday. I want to go to the Opposition Block. Dmitry Dobkin, deputy of the Opposition Block, I insist that he come out here and answer that line, buys a tour for 135,000 euros right in the session room. A rich man is wonderful. I'm looking at his income statement. There's one cost per year: renting a hotel room at the Kiev Hotel. This expenditure is paid by the State for millions of dollars in cash. I understand. I don't know what else is going on behind the column, when the pills are being dumped, or something else, and the person is acting completely inadequate. I insist that each of us who is unable to declare their earnings withdraw from the public service. And I insist that these funds be subject to confiscation at all. Otherwise, we will raise the people and deal with you legally, but as you deserve. The thief must be in prison, he must not rule the state! And let us not confuse the honest businessmen, the small, medium-sized entrepreneurs that this country is holding on to, as well as the budget, with those who haven't been at the service for days.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-02-m0.u27	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-02-m0.u28	And the income that anyone can now envy. any international organization. And the last. I know MPs have to get more, but we're at war. During the war, it's either hard for everyone and we live better than 75 per cent of the population, or it's a country crash. So let's do this for another cadence, for the next cadence, and figure out our own expenses. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-02-m0.u29	Thank you. We've got 100 minutes, but I'll give Ischeikin to Solova, that'll be the last performance. Please, Mr. Solovay.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-02-m0.u30	Yuri Solovay, 89th constituency, Hutzulščina and Poksi. Dear colleagues, three weeks ago in Ukraine, the heating season began. The heating season, in which new gas prices are applied, is now being sold at market prices. This means that about 8 million families in Ukraine today receive benefits from a subsidy to pay for residential services. I understand that this is the only mechanism that allows Ukrainian citizens to survive under the conditions of these energy prices today. But I want to draw attention to the subsidy mechanism that is being applied and to the threats that this mechanism poses to the economy of Ukraine. First of all, the existing subsidy mechanism does not stimulate energy conservation. In most cases, in social services, in gas administrations, workers recommend that Ukrainian citizens burn gas standards by not receiving subsidies in the future. In this case, Ukrainians are not encouraged to set up energy-saving technologies, to replace windows. And we realize that our energy balance is going to stay at this level. But in addition, I want to point out that the existing subsidy system also has another threat: the threat of the childization of Ukrainian wages. Today, not the employer, but the employer comes to his employer and says, "Don't pay me the official salary, because I can't get the grant." And so if we leave the existing subsidy mechanism as soon as possible, it poses a serious threat to the Ukrainian economy. And so from this rostrum, I ask the Ukrainian government to clearly assess the risks of this. We have to monetaryize subsidies, we have to do everything we can to ensure that Ukrainian citizens, the Ukrainian household, do not receive any ephemeral benefits, and that this benefit is measured by the specific costs that will come at the expense of a particular Ukrainian family. Only then will we be able to stimulate energy conservation in Ukraine, we can reduce consumption, including import gas. And only in that case will we be able to slowly get the Ukrainian economy out of the shadows. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-02-m0.u31	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the speeches by the deputies have been completed. Let's move on to the agenda. And we have the first question of ratification, after which we will move on to the health unit, the first reading. And I, colleagues, ask you now to support the proposal to consider the draft Law on Ratification of the Memorandum of Understanding between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland on cooperation in the field of defence under reduced procedure, colleague. I'm asking you to come into the hall, take your jobs, get ready for the vote. And I ask you to support the consideration of the reduced procedure, colleagues. Please vote. Vote. [[10:42:45.]] For-149 We lacked just one voice. Obviously, the Health Committee would like to see the bill as soon as possible. Yeah? Short-term procedure. Colleagues, please, I would like to re-vote the proposal for a simplified procedure for the draft Ratification Act (0110). Anyone who supports it, please vote. Please. [[10:43:40]] For 158. Decision taken. And I invite you to report to the Deputy Defence Minister, Mr. Alexander Volodymyrovich. Please, Mr. Alexander.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-02-m0.u32	Dear Andrew Volodymyrovich! Dear National Deputies! The draft Ukrainian Law was designed to implement the internal procedures necessary for the ratification of the Memorandum of Understanding between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland on defence cooperation, signed on 17 March 2016 in Kiev on the initiative of the British side. In view of the fact that an international treaty lays down rules other than those provided for in the current Ukrainian legislation, the memorandum is subject to ratification by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The terms of the memorandum provide that goods moving between the territories of the participants are exempt, in accordance with this memorandum, from customs congregations and from the value added tax. The ratification of the memorandum will provide the legal basis for Ukrainian-British cooperation in defence in the following areas: confidence-building and international security, speciality training, military-technical cooperation development, participation in joint training, procurement of military technology, arms, debris and resources, training of military intelligence specialists. The government authorities responsible for implementing this memorandum are from the Ukrainian side – the Ministry of Defence of Ukraine, from the British side – the Ministry of Defence of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland. The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on European Integration supported the ratification of the memorandum, and implementation does not require additional expenditure from the budget. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-02-m0.u33	Thank you. The co-report invites the head of the European Integration Committee Committee, Jurinec Oksana Vasilovna. Please, Mrs. Oksana.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-02-m0.u34	Good afternoon, Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs. The Committee on European Integration reviewed the draft Ukrainian Law on Ratification of the Memorandum of Understanding between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland on cooperation in the field of defence (number 0110) (since 30.09.2016), introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and approved the decision to recommend it to the Supreme Council of Ukraine as a whole. In making such a decision, the members of the committee came from the fact that ratification would allow for the completion of the internal procedures necessary to obtain a memorandum of understanding. The memorandum ensures an equal partnership in the defence cooperation process, which will in turn contribute to the further expansion of partnerships between the two countries. The content of the memorandum is consistent with international practice. The adoption of the Ukrainian Law does not require amendments to the current legislation of Ukraine and the adoption of new legislation. I will also point out the decision of our committee, in line with the conclusion of the Chief Scientific and Expert Office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, which stresses that the memorandum of understanding between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland on defence cooperation can be ratified and concluded by the National Security and Defence Committee. Today, it is vital that we communicate with those countries that have a strong and powerful army. I therefore urge everyone to support the ratification of this agreement. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-02-m0.u35	Heroic glory! Please record two in favour, two in the opposite. Ribak Ivan Petrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-02-m0.u36	Please give the floor to our colleague Kishkar Paul.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-02-m0.u37	Paul Kishkar, National Movement of Ukraine Thank you for the opportunity to express your position. The ratification of the agreement must certainly be supported. Too bad it's too late, but bilateral military contacts are moving to the formal part. We hope and very much ask the Ministry of Defense to move as quickly as possible to fully cooperate in the implementation of the agreement, that is, to practical action under the agreement. Please support this ratification.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-02-m0.u38	Thank you. Yvchenko gives the word Rybchin. Turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-02-m0.u39	Alexy Ryabchin, a faction of Fatherland, Donetskina, is also co-chaired by a group of friendships with Britain. I'd like a colleague to support this agreement. In fact, Great Britain and Northern Ireland, they are very much helping us fight the aggressor country. The composition of the OSCE mission is second, it's from Britain. Also, very significant funds are being directed by Britain to demarcate the territory, to help internally displaced persons. I would also like to point out that last month, with our friends from the group, we were visiting a parliamentary delegation with a head, along with the members of the Committee on International Affairs, who came to Donetskina, looking at the situation in Kramatarsk, in Bahmut, in Slavyansk, we arrived at the roadblocks. And the British delegation, made up of six deputies, they were closest to the line of collision, unlike other colleagues who were afraid to go there. Therefore, the request to support our friends in Britain and their desire to help us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-02-m0.u40	Thank you. Melniczuk Sergey Petrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-02-m0.u41	The "will of the people" group will indeed support this ratification, and this is absolutely necessary. But I want to ask who represents the Ministry of Defense. The Ministry of Defense is currently representing the Deputy Secretary of Defense, who here told us that he would be in the field of procurement of equipment and crevices, and at this time he was cruising on the front of the cut of the armory. It is a shame for such people to lead the Armed Forces, including a minister of defense who has effectively removed his duties that he does not follow military stations, military forces. And the military units that come out of the front are now going and they're just going into the mud, into the tents, into the cold tents, and there's no room for these units in the permanent locations. Shame!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-02-m0.u42	Monsieur Igor, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-02-m0.u43	Igor Mosiyczuk, Oleg Lachka Radical Party Our faction will, of course, support the ratification of this memorandum. But would you like to ask the government officials, both the MPs, and the Ministry of Defence, and the big Euro-Integrators in Parliament, and in the leadership of the British-Ukraine Friendship Group, whether the issue of the implementation of the Budapest Memorandum to the British side, which is one of the signatories to this memorandum, was it the question of the agenda? Because when we are convinced by both the authorities and the head of the Yuri Boyko Kremlin’s bridal block, that there is no alternative to the norm’s form of negotiations, we understand clearly that Boyka’s mouth is spoken by Putin, says the Kremlin. So there is a question for government officials: was the question of the implementation of the Budapest Memorandum to Britain? Yes, Britain is one of the biggest allies of Europe today in this nation-free war in the East. But if we don't raise the question of the implementation of the Budapest Memorandum ourselves, what do we want the allies to do to run and ask this question? No, it's not. Therefore, the faction of the Radical Party of Oleg Láška requires that all international negotiations, with the participation of the signing countries of the Budapest Memorandum, raise questions about its implementation. This is a guarantee of our diplomatic success, of our progress on the diplomatic front.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-02-m0.u44	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, the discussion is over. Let's move on to the decision of an important ratification, so I ask the people's deputies to come into the hall. Please let the deputies know that we are about to move on to a decision. Colleagues, please come into the hall, we take up jobs. And I'm voting on the draft Law on Ratification of the Memorandum of Understanding between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland on cooperation in the field of defence (number 0110) on the basis of and in general, colleagues. Please vote, everyone back up, colleagues, on the basis and in general. Please vote, colleagues. [[10:54:41]] For 219 We didn't make it. We didn't make it. Please, we'll be right back. Colleagues, I see it's a matter of security and an international agreement, and I ask you to take a more responsible approach to the vote, please all come into the room. Now I'm going to put it back, and then I'm going to put it back on the vote. Invite the deputies to the hall. So, colleagues, I'm voting on the proposal to go back to the draft Ratification Act (0110) and please support, colleagues. Please vote, please support the return, please vote. [[10:55:53]] For 234 We're back. I am now re-voting the draft Law on Ratification of the Memorandum of Understanding between the Cabinet of Ministers and the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland on cooperation in the field of defence on the basis and in general. Please vote. Please support me, colleagues, please. [[10:56:31]] For 236 Decision taken. Welcome to the committee on the adoption of the Ratification Act. The law is passed, colleagues. We will now move on to health issues. But I have a statement from two factions from the People's Front faction and the Radical Party faction for a break. But they agree to replace it with a performance. After that, we will immediately move on to the health unit. And now Victor Halasyuk will be performing. I give the floor to Victor Halasyuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-02-m0.u45	Dear Andrew Volodymyrovich, distinguished fellow national MPs! That budget project proposed by the government today is actually tightening the neck of Ukrainian science. We can't leave you like Ukrainian parliamentarians. Of course, the Academy of Sciences today is a post - Soviet bureaucratic institution that needs major reform. Of course, the reform of the Academy of Sciences should be profound, systematic, inclusive, it should make Ukrainian science work together with education, along with production for the development of the Ukrainian economy, to strengthen the Ukrainian state. But I have a simple question, can we reform the body of the Academy of Sciences, can we first kill Ukrainian fundamental science, and then start reform? No, no, not again. The position of the Radical Party faction, like all the thinkers in this Parliament who support Ukrainian science, is that in this year's budget we have to add at least minimal funding that will allow the academy to throw out those fundamental studies that are being launched, which have a global perspective, to introduce a program of support for talented Ukrainian youth, we have to do this this year, the next one will be late. Therefore, those priority needs of 600 million dollars, which relate to the support of Ukrainian science, are to be put into the 2017 budget first. Because if we don't, we will never go into strategy, because there will be no subject of reform. I want to stress that this is a strategic issue of Ukrainian security. Because if we lose science today, tomorrow we lose industry, and we lose industry, we lose Ukraine's independence, we have no right to assume that. So in the budget next year, to increase the funding of Ukrainian science to ensure that fundamental research, support for talented young people, is carried out today by the schools of science that exist in Ukraine. And at the same time, to initiate a systematic and comprehensive reform of the Ukrainian Academy of Sciences to make science work for production, production worked for the economy, and the economy worked for every Ukrainian citizen. This is the proposal and insistence of the Radical Party faction, which is supported by many thinkers in this room. That is why I am addressing the Prime Minister of Ukraine, and I ask that you consider my statement to be an official parliamentary request to the Prime Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-02-m0.u46	Thank you. So, colleagues, from the health - care unit, we have the first block that stands for this first reading. And the first draft of the Law is 4,074 on the amendment to article 9 of the Ukrainian Law on Medical Devices (on access to the results of pre-clinical study and clinical trials of medical devices). And I propose to vote in favour of his brief procedure, colleagues. Please vote reduced procedure 4074. Please. [[11:01:02]] For 158. Decision taken. And I invite you to the report of Ukrainian National Deputy Jarinic Kostinetin Volodymyrovich. Please, Mr. Constantine.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-02-m0.u47	Dear Mr. Head! Dear National Deputies! The bill, which I have the honour to report now, is technically simple, and at the same time it is extremely important for all citizens of Ukraine. This is about providing delivery, and I'm calling your attention to clear and reliable information about the effectiveness and safety of medical devices. The bill is intended to open access to the results of pre-clinical studies and clinical trials of medical devices. This will enable citizens to obtain objective data on the level of safety and effectiveness of medicines, and professionals to make decisions on the choice and use of medicines. Such access to the results of clinical trials is now closed by current legislation. And so, of course, this creates the basis for possible corruption in the registration of drugs and the circulation of medicines with unproven effectiveness. In addition, my fellow Members, I would like to draw your attention to the proposal that we are also bringing domestic legislation into line with the European Parliament and Council Directive 2001.83 of the EU, with which particular attention is drawn to the fact that the results of all clinical studies are both favourable and negative. In doing so, with the aim of protecting against the disclosure and misuse of the results of clinical and preclinical trials that contain a commercial secret, the bill states that such test results are protected by law and are not subject to public access. I thank all who have joined this bill, and this is the entire committee of co-sponsors of our medical committee. I thank the Ministry of Health for its positive acceptance.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-02-m0.u48	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-02-m0.u49	And please support me in the first reading. There are a couple of terminological lines that we're going to add to the second reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-02-m0.u50	Thank you. The co - report invites the head of the Health Committee, Bogholic Olga Vadimovna. Please, Mrs. Ola.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-02-m0.u51	Dear colleagues, last year Parliamentary hearings voted on the concept and strategy of reforming the health system in Parliament. The aim of this reform is to bring the Ukrainian health system closer to European quality, European values. All the laws that will be presented today bring the Ukrainian health system closer to European values. In fact, this bill allows citizens to get acquainted with the results of clinical and doclonal trials. The observation given to us by the Chief Expert Office on the discrepancy between the terms "commercial secrecy" and "commercial information" can be introduced as an amendment between the first and the second readings. So once again, I want to say that virtually all members of the Parliamentary Health Committee are cosponsors of this bill. And I ask you to support this bill, and to support it on the basis of the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-02-m0.u52	Thank you. Please record two in favour, two in the opposite. Please. Wessel Natalia gives the word to Irina Sisoyenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-02-m0.u53	Dear colleagues, the current legislation, has closed down information on the results of clinical studies and clinical trials. This was introduced into Ukrainian legislation as early as 2007. And it led to corruption and abuse at the time of registering drugs. As a result, Ukraine’s market was overcrowded with unproven efficiency and safety. In the instructions for medical treatment, medical devices are used to prescribe medicinal properties that do not actually suit them. Thus, a doctor who first assigns a medical device is deceived by a pharmaceutical representative who provides medical supplies in pharmacies and, above all, is misled by a patient who receives a medicine and receives it. And he's counting on recovery. For example, there are about 40 medical devices in Ukraine that have instructions on how to use information that they are treating the flu. At the same time, the world knows that only two molecules can actually cure the flu. And there are countless such examples. Therefore, disclosure of information will enable medical personnel, pharmaceutical workers, and interested citizens to make decisions regarding the choice of a medical device on the basis of objective data on their safety and effectiveness. That's why I think this is an important step: this bill to combat so-called "fuflomycins." Thank you for your attention. The Self-Help faction will vote in favour of this important bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-02-m0.u54	Thank you. Please, Don Tetjana Anatoliyevna of the People's Front. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-02-m0.u55	The People's Front will support this bill. It is important enough because it increases information that is available to Ukrainian citizens. And in fact, it's really important, because the reliability of the data is going to be clear and understandable to every person in Ukraine. I propose that this bill be supported by the entire room.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-02-m0.u56	Thank you. Papiev Mikhailo Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-02-m0.u57	Please pass the word to Shurma.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-02-m0.u58	Passes the word Igor Shurmi.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-02-m0.u59	Dear colleagues! Dear citizens of Ukraine! First of all, we should thank you for this. For the first time in two years in the session room, we have the opportunity to address thematically all the health problems that have accumulated in everyday life today. But unfortunately, it's just a drop of water in the sea. Today, there is no approved and accepted concept in the Cabinet of Ministers for the development of the National Health System. We don't know how we need to reform, and then the committee is doing more to improve the existing legislation in order to make the most effective use of it in life, both for those who consume drugs and for those who release them. We know that free access to information by citizens and professionals is an important component of the fight against corruption. This is also highlighted in the work of the World Bank. In view of this, the bill is designed to open access to clinical studies and clinical trials of medical devices that will enable all interested citizens and associations to make decisions regarding the choice and use of medical devices. The purpose of the law is to open this access, but with the exception of information of a commercial confidential nature. I would like to say that today is a real step in the fight against corruption. For no one is a secret, which means today for the manufacturer to go through the licensing procedure in the corruption cabinets of the ministries, and today the disclosure of this information deprives all of those people who continue to bribe in order to lay the groundwork for not making the right decisions. The Opposition Block supports this bill, and we will support everything in legislation that benefits both patients and health care providers as well as drug manufacturers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-02-m0.u60	Thank you. Wolf Viktor Ivanovich gives the word to Kirichenkov, please. Talk to the microphone on the stand.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-02-m0.u61	Thank you. The Radical Party of Oleg Láška also proposes to support this bill, which is very important because the discovery of preclinical and clinical trials will greatly improve access to adequate objective information from all our doctors and citizens. Because we know that today's situation, it greatly distorts the structure of the use of drugs, there are a lot of drugs that are widely assigned by Ukrainian doctors, and nowhere in the world is there any such means. And this is a very correct bill, and we ask you to support it.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-02-m0.u62	Thank you. From Fatherland, please give the word "Alexandra Kugel."
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-02-m0.u63	It's very interesting how we do things first, and then we start taking the consequences. The first step, I was speaking here and saying that both Mrs. Hopko and Mrs. Mantis would be, and everyone who supported them would be responsible for adopting the bill so that we could simplify the registration. You were all very supportive of them, and you thought there would be a cost-effective cure tomorrow. You've already been told "thank you" by your electorate because there are no cheap drugs, but a decree has been issued by the Cabinet of Ministers, who has registered in hospitals, where a hospital can run tests on medicines that have not been registered in its own countries. I want to tell you that I have a letter from a conference that took place in Madrid, all of Europe's pharmacists. They said, one of the presentations was, "I think we're all very embarrassed by the latest initiatives of your government. But as I said, these initiatives have been created."
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-02-m0.u64	Please give me another minute to finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-02-m0.u65	"which are different from European, Ukrainian standards." They said, "As long as this law is in force, forget about European integration, because the garbage you've allowed into your country, we're not letting Europeans into our countries." Now we're talking about this bill. One hundred percent, we want to know how, according to the Cabinet Order, who and what consequences, and who will die by trial, thanks to our own and your own vote on this law. Or maybe we should do it in such a way that only registered European drugs are able to be treated by Ukrainians. Then we don't need it. Who of you knows that you're going to be watching? This will only allow for more espionage and inadequacy. The adoption of this bill will only make matters worse.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-02-m0.u66	Thank you. Names were mentioned. There'll be a line. Yes, it will be delivered, but first, a performance from the People's Front, Leonid Yemen. Give me two minutes, like all factions. And then there'll be a line and Kirichenko's, and Mrs. Ollie, yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-02-m0.u67	Leonid Yemen, People's Front faction, city of Kiev. Dear colleagues, this bill, as well as the thoughts of our colleagues today, we are actually covering up the inactivity of the Ministry of Health. Because all these questions can and should have been resolved at the level of the Ministry. Why does Parliament take on the work of executive power at any time? Let me explain. Because there is no irresistible punishment for corruption. We are now reducing corruption, adopting laws, opening procedures and information, and in fact it should be the Ministry itself. And in fact, the prosecutor's office and the NABU that we created have to give us an answer about the work of the past heads of the ministry, I mean not only in the days of Yanukovich, but their work needs to have an appropriate legal effect. But what I'm interested in is that we took down the minister, we duly removed the governing staff of the Ministry of Health, we took it as inappropriate work, because there were outright signs of corruption. Where are the people being punished? Where are open criminal conduct? Where are the cases brought to trial? Without all of this, our entire activity is like patching holes in a lattice, we're closing each other, but there's still another one. Only the inevitability of punishment for crimes, the inevitability of punishment for corruption, will be the solution to the health problem. I am responsible to the Public Prosecutor’s Office, the National Anti-Corruption Bureau, for responding to the criminal activity of the past Department of Health. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-02-m0.u68	Thank you. In order for me to remember anything, my colleagues were called replicas. Aah! I'm sorry. Not all of them have spoken yet. I'm sorry. The will of the people has not yet been delivered, Sergey Melnichuk. And the BBC hasn't made a statement yet, Jarinich. Please, Sergey Melniczuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-02-m0.u69	Sergey Melniczuk, "The will of the people." I want to support previous speakers from both Fatherland and the People's Front. Yes, indeed, the problem is very big. The problem is that so far no appointed health minister has been appointed. As long as we don't hold the competition until we assign a new head of the ministry until the team gets there, really, those people who are ready to carry out the reforms will be fine. That's why I'm asking the Prime Minister to hold a competition and apply for approval, because this chaos is going to continue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-02-m0.u70	Thank you. Jarinic Constantine, turn on the microphone from the BP.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-02-m0.u71	Dear colleagues, I want to get you back to the bill before the bill is resolved, not to the Ministry of Health. What the representatives of Fatherland said today from this rostrum is absolutely not true. I'll explain why. Because you have to understand what clinical trials are. Clinical trials are conducted by international certified organizations. Now we're talking about how results are controlled and results published around the world and in Europe. At the same time, we are saying that from the European Parliament and Council directive, which reveals a complete mechanism for providing information on the results of clinical trials. I'll tell you more about how we are. During the drafting of the bill, numerous round tables were held with professional organizations, with the medical community, and this is all completely objective information that we want to provide to both the patient and the Ukrainian experts. Thank you for your attention. That's why I'm asking you to back me up.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-02-m0.u72	Thank you. Now three lines were called three. I'm in this sequence. I'll probably give you the last one, Mrs. Ola, as the head of the committee. First it's Kirichenko, then it's 1 minute, then it's Gopko, then it's 1 minute, and then it's Ola the Mantis, 1 minute. Is that gonna be good? Please, Kirichenko, one minute. The replica.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-02-m0.u73	I would like to correct Mrs. Kugel's statement, because it is completely inappropriate to speak of registering and opening research protocols, it is completely different opposites. Research protocols are access to information that is obtained during the research process. And the process of research is what Mr. Jarinić says. And if we're talking about registration, it's completely different, it's not right to even compare.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-02-m0.u74	It's Hanna Gopko. There is no replication. Please, Gopka, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-02-m0.u75	Dear colleagues, I would like to make an appeal to the Ministry of Health. Since the law that was passed by Parliament and here was supported by the majority of parliamentarians, it was about simplifying the registration of medicines. The procedure had taken 220 days before, and it was an opportunity for corruption, and drugs were expensive. When we simplified the procedure within 17 days to avoid making bribes, we made clear which countries could participate in this simplified procedure. These are just countries with strict quality checks, where there are very strict regulatory agencies, and the UN World Health Organization has confirmed. That is why we have taken care of the protection of our patients by granting such a right only to EU countries, Canada, the United States, Japan, where standards are high. And the fact that the law hasn't worked yet is my call to the MOH. And I would urge parliamentarians here not to settle the situation with manipulative statements and call the names of MPs, but to work for the country, for the patients, rather than to try to think that someone is smarter. And in fact, the "tender mafia" that we had to fight.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-02-m0.u76	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-02-m0.u77	When we passed the Law on the Purchase of Medicines through International Organizations in this Parliament, it was also a necessary step. Because in 25 years of independence, no Ministry of Health has been able to overcome the temptation to earn money for Ukrainians through tenders. And when we get the system through anti-corruption institutions, it's going to go away, and now for simplifying drug registration, it's going to help provide quality drugs. So to the government and to the ILO: work more effectively. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-02-m0.u78	Colleagues, I'll give you my word now, but I'm asking you very much, by the name of each other, we're entering an endless discussion, and I'm very much asking you to be more correct during the performances. Kugel is a minute. Then Olga the Mantis for a minute. There will be a vote in two minutes, please call the deputies into the hall. Please, Mrs. Alexandro.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-02-m0.u79	Once again, I urge you to make a difference in what we have heard from each other. Indeed, the issue of the law that we are considering provides an opportunity to learn the results of the plus and minus after the trials are conducted on one condition that we have agreed that confidential commercial information is 100 percent closed. But the question is, why did I mention your adopted bill? Because you discovered Pandora's Skull and there's a Kabminu decree that allowed and secured Ukrainian hospitals to do research on drugs that have not been studied in their own countries. European countries said that we have 120 days of registration, 10 days of clinical research and registration, and until you change this bill, it is impossible to count on Euro-integration. And so you can't, if you're going to say today that you've given the discovery to a nice cheap drug, show me that six months have passed, the drugs are only worth it. And that's not what this is about.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-02-m0.u80	So, colleagues, a lineup and a closing statement by the committee head, Oli the Mantis, please. There'll be a vote in a minute. I'd like all the deputies to come into the hall and prepare for a decision. Please, Mrs. Ola.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-02-m0.u81	Dear colleagues, the greatest danger for Ukraine is not even Russian aggression, not professionalism and populism, which can lead us to disaster. Now absolutely things have been confused that are unrelated. The Law, first of all, 4484, which was voted on, allows only medicines that are allowed to be imported into Ukraine, which are registered in the European community, no spam will enter Ukraine. This law speaks of completely different things, about drugs that have not yet been registered, and it just introduces, like MPs have done their electronic declarations, it's going to be an electronic drug declaration so that everyone can see the truth about it. So this law, simply and simply, opens your eyes to the truth that's written in the results and all, there's nothing more behind it. So I ask you to support it on the basis of the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-02-m0.u82	Thank you, colleagues. So we had a heated discussion, and we can move on to making a decision. In fact, almost all the factions have expressed their support for the bill and, I want to remind you, the committee is only offering to accept it as a basis. So the observations that are, we'll be able to discuss in preparation for the second reading. And I'm asking all my colleagues to support this bill, and I'm asking you to take your jobs. Members of the Health Committee are asked to discipline their factions. Let's move on to making a decision. And I'm voting on the bill amending article 9 of the Ukrainian Law on Medical Devices (number 4074) as a basis, colleagues. On the basis of this vote, please support 4074 as a basis. Please vote. [[11:24:54]] For 272 Decision taken. Welcome to the committee, welcome to the drafter. Next. [[B in m in s a l in]] There are those who are against the whole. Colleagues, if there's a pro, I can put it in general. If there's general support, I bet. The committee? I'm sorry, the head of the committee is against it. "For"? The head of the committee against it. If the committee is against it, I can't put it to a vote, colleagues. All right, colleagues. So let's move on to the next draft of Law 4770, this is the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Blood Donation and its Components. And I'm asking you to support the proposal for a reduced procedure, colleagues. Please vote, please support. Short-term procedure 4770. Vote. [[11:26:12]] For-182 Decision taken. And I invite the head of the Health Committee, Bogopolitan Olga Vadimovna, to report. Please, Mrs. Ola, 4770. Three. Two minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-02-m0.u83	Dear colleagues, you all know that there are donors in Ukraine, in fact, those who give blood. And I was approached by my colleague, Svetlana Zalitschuk, who actually said that in Ukraine, it turns out that people who are not citizens of Ukraine are being violated, and those who want to do so are willing to give blood and become donors. It turns out that Ukrainian legislation deprives non - Ukrainian citizens of the opportunity to become donors. That's why we have drafted a bill that allows non-Ukrainian citizens, people who have reached the age of 18, who do not have diseases that are effective, to become donors and to give blood to our military, our wounded have no problem with the availability of a blood bank. Of course, they are not like Ukrainian donors who can be honorable donors who may be able to make some adjustments to their pension and payment. They have the exclusive right to give blood on the basis of the same people who give up Ukrainian citizens. We have received some comments from the Chief Scientific Authority that the Health Committee disagrees with. In fact, it is suggested that the term "active person 18 years of age who is not a citizen of Ukraine" should be replaced with the word "person". The point is that only citizens of Ukraine and this is enshrined in the law, which is now 18 years old, can become donors. There's a few more rights from the science-expert administration, which is actually about the difference in the status of donors. But it is this law that strengthens the status of a donor solely after a citizen of Ukraine, and Ukraine’s non - Ukrainians are given the right to surrender their blood. And the third point is that there is no point in determining whether a donation is voluntary to non-citizens.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-02-m0.u84	Fifteen seconds to complete, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-02-m0.u85	Therefore, all comments of the GNEU can be taken into account when preparing the law for second reading. And the Health Committee, which is co-authors, all MPs, this bill, we thank Svetlana Zalitschuk for her initiative, and we ask you to support this bill on the basis of the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-02-m0.u86	Thank you, Mrs. Olga. We do not have a report under this law, but the Ministry of Health asks. I'm asking you to turn on the mic for the Ministry, and then you and I, dear colleagues, after the Ministry thinks we're going to go over the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-02-m0.u87	Deputies! Oksana Siwak, Deputy Minister for European Integration. We have some warnings. A year ago, we had a mission of the European Commission of Experts in the Blood Service, which evaluated our Blood Service. And one such serious observation was the lack of a safe and reliable blood-borne infection test. And now we're working on the Blood Service and the Reformation. And we need to adapt all legislation to the requirements of the EU, especially directives, four directives on the Blood Service, and they conflict with the participation of foreign donors. Because we can't provide infectious safety. I can report it in detail.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-02-m0.u88	Thank you to the Ministry. There was a position that there was a warning in the Committee on European Integration. If there was then a wish from the Committee on European Integration to reach a conclusion from the Committee, that would be very correct. And I'm asking you to sign up for a discussion: two for, two against, from factions. Please, Your Honor. Please, Mrs. Chervakova from the Peter Dust Block, Mrs. Olga.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-02-m0.u89	Please pass the word to Oleg Musia.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-02-m0.u90	Please turn on Oleg Musia's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-02-m0.u91	Dear National Deputies! Please support this bill because, in fact, the situation in Ukraine today is very special. It is because of the specific personnel crisis caused and provoked by the government and the Ministry of Health, with a shortage of doctors of 30 percent and an annual decline in the number of doctors of between 10,000 and 15,000, even though the moral part of it should provide an opportunity for this spiritual and moral support for our patients. And it's just this bill that allows our colleagues who are essentially dealing with the treatment of the soul, these are the religious organizations and the pastoralism that is now being distributed and, thank God, we've already adopted appropriate legislation on the chaplainship of the army. Now there's more to it. This one. Oh, donating. That's why I think so. Please support this bill and accept it in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-02-m0.u92	Thank you. Colleagues, I urge you to listen to the bill one day, because it's hard to hear speakers in this noise, and we're discussing an important block now in medicine. I invite Mrs. Wesselov to the floor, and please listen to our distinguished colleague from the Self-Help faction. Let's hear it.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-02-m0.u93	Pass it on, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-02-m0.u94	Honorable colleagues regarding this bill. First. We do not have a proper blood system in Ukraine. We're talking about national security. Including reminding all of us that the issue of the construction of proper blood services is one of the ratifications of the Agreement with the European Union, where we have made commitments to meet the conditions of availability of safety and the quality of donor blood and its drugs. I believe that, as long as we don't build the proper work of the Blood Service in Ukraine, which will be financed by the State budget, which will be administered by the central executive authority, which primarily does not organise the safety of donor blood, we cannot expand the list of people who may be donors, because in Ukraine is the first huge problem, this is a security issue, a huge number of infectious diseases is happening at the time of the donation. So the initiative itself is good, but it is at this stage inappropriate. And I suggest that we address the issue of the Blood Service more systematically and vote in the House for the bills that will be fully adapted to the European Union directives and will address complex issues, and not as we do now, we try to put patches on the huge problems that are in our country. So I propose that this bill be sent to the authors of the legislative initiative for further work. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-02-m0.u95	Thank you, Mrs. Irina. And please, from the Opposition Block, Mr. Shurma is invited.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-02-m0.u96	Igor Shurma, Opposition Block. Dear colleagues, in recent years the demand for blood and its components in health facilities has been increasing steadily, I am no longer talking about the ATO zone. Most health - care facilities have a permanent shortage of canned blood and blood products, resulting in the suffering of professional patients and the need for blood to produce drugs. I'd like to say that the Blood Service, it's not just a community center where blood is given, it's also a production. And if anyone has ever encountered a problem with blood-based drugs, he knows that it's too expensive a pleasure, more that there are no drugs at all. Today, the issue is not to give donor status to those who do not live in Ukraine, but only to perform donor functions on a voluntary basis. I can tell you why there are contradictions in this room. You see, today, five laws relating to health care, where is the minister? It's not in the government's bed, and it's not in the government's bed, because it's not there. We were promised to appoint a health minister. There's no one who understands health care, and there's no one to say "yes" or "no". So I say again, as long as the ministry is ruled by historians, penguins, people without education, let them show their diplomas, let them nostify them, we'll have this situation. As far as this law is concerned, it must be supported in the first reading. Let me give you an example. An accident on the street, a person loses blood; they arrive at a blood transfusion station, a foreigner appears ready to give blood. Why can't a single function be allowed? Moreover, this foreigner must undergo a verification procedure in this institution. In the first reading, the bill must be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-02-m0.u97	Thank you. Please, Odarchenko Yuri.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-02-m0.u98	Yuri Odarchenko, Fatherland Party. Dear colleagues, I am addressing the authors, and I would like to draw your attention to the fact that your very design is making far more changes in legislation than it is necessary to implement the authors' design. Thus, the bill introduces a new category of persons with the donor, a person who performs the donor function. This person, in fact, has the same characteristics as the donor, has all the same rights as the donor, but is not a citizen of Ukraine. In fact, throughout the text of the law now instead of the word donor is offered to write a donor or a person who performs a donor function. This is wrong because the rules of regulation require us not to create unnecessary institutions where we can do without them. The adoption of this law will lead to the need to review the huge regulation of regulations, the replacement of forms, because everywhere it will be necessary to add that the person who performs the donor function. It would simply be in the determination of a donor to point out that a donor may be both a citizen of Ukraine and a foreigner or a stateless person who is legally present in Ukraine. And all, there is no need for any more changes, no need for a new category of persons, no need for a new regulation of their situation. Tomorrow they will be able to be donors. Dear colleagues, I propose that the law should be sent for further work and that it may be possible to amend article 2 of the Ukrainian Law on Blood Donation and its Components, by placing part two of this article as follows: "A donor may be any effective citizen of Ukraine, as well as a foreigner or a stateless person who is legally present in Ukraine, under the age of 18." And then we're going to delete the entire text until the end of the line. If this is correct, the project can be done.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-02-m0.u99	We'll put your amendment when the vote is in place. If it does not go as a basis, we can propose an amendment as soon as the decision is made. It's from the Radical Party. Kirichenko or Oksana Korczynska? Kirichenko volunteered first, Mrs. Oksana. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-02-m0.u100	The Radical Party proposes to follow European practice and to give up the opportunity for foreigners to give blood. All these insinuations that now sound in the hall, you have to understand. Ukraine produces 30 tons of blood a year, with 25 percent of the blood being poured out immediately, and it is missing because we do not have an adequate assessment of the quality of the blood. At the same time, we have an epidemic of viral hepatitis that is transmitted through blood. We've got an epidemic in the troops, which the guys in the east are fighting, and when they're transfused, they're twice as likely to have viral hepatitis. We need to make a quality blood system in Ukraine rather than put dust in our eyes. And we've had enough of our Ukrainian blood within the limits of the law that we have.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-02-m0.u101	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please come into the hall, we are moving on to making a decision. I'm just, I'm really surprised that the bill that should have been put into the hall should have been agreed upon. If they're not passable, if three factions say they don't support it, it's hard to make decisions. As long as the MPs come in, I'll give you, Mrs. Ola, one minute. Please, Ola the Mantis, one minute. Please come into the hall, prepare for the decision. Mrs. Olya, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-02-m0.u102	Dear colleagues, I return to populism and non-professionalism. The Health Committee absolutely supports the creation of a new donor system in Ukraine. The Health Committee and I speak personally about the fact that, yes, we have cases of infectious disease caused by donor blood. But it has absolutely no bearing on the fact that healthy citizens of other countries want to give blood in order to do good to Ukraine. The fact that the Ministry of Health does not want to work and change forms, yes, some work will be needed. But in doing so, we are not violating any legislation, and we are giving citizens of other states to help Ukraine today, which, once again, I remind you, is in war. And this has nothing to do with increasing infectious loads or threats. This threat exists in Ukrainian society, AIDS, syphilis, and hepatitis are sufficient. And there's a question of quality, of blood quality. So I would like to support you in your first reading. And the committee between the first and the second is working on this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-02-m0.u103	Thank you. So let's move on to decision-making, colleagues. It's only proposed by the committee as a basis, and I'm going to put this proposal first. So I'm voting on a bill amending the Ukrainian Law on Blood Donation and its Components (No.4770) for a committee on the foundation, a colleague. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote on the basis. Please vote. [[11:43:03]] For 214 We didn't make it. I'll put it back again. I'll put my colleagues back on one occasion. I ask you to come into the hall and invite the deputies into the hall. If there's no votes to come back, I'm going to make the next proposal -- read again to the committee. Please invite everyone into the hall. I see they're from the People's Front. Colleagues, that's it. Please take your seats. I'm asking you to come back. There's a vote coming, there's a decision coming. They're in the hall, aren't they? So, colleagues, I'm proposing to go back to consideration 4770. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote on the basis. Please vote. Please vote, colleagues. [[11:44:10]] For 221 Colleagues, and I'm making the next proposal for rereading to the committee. So, colleagues, the offer to return to the committee for re-reading, please support. Will you support her? Anyone who supports the proposal to return to the committee for re-reading, please vote. Please re-vote the first reading to the committee. I'd like your support, colleagues. [[11:44:50]] For 228 Decision taken. The next draft law is the draft Law (4552) amending article 244-8 of the Code of Administrative Offences. And I ask you to vote in favour of the reduced procedure, colleagues, please support. Keep it short. [[11:45:30.]] For 175 And I invite you to report to Deputy Health Minister Ilika Romanović. Please, Mr. Roman.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-02-m0.u104	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs! Ukraine's draft law amending article 244 of the Code of Administrative Offences, introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Ukraine's draft law is designed to specify the powers of the public service from medical devices in part of administrative delinquency and administrative charges. Pursuant to article 244-8 of the Ukrainian Code on Administrative Offences, the central executive authority that implements State policy in the field of quality control and the security of medical devices, the Ukrainian State Department of Medical Services deals with administrative offences and, in particular, article 168-2 of the CHR, which provides responsibility for the release of products for sale in violation of the requirements for medical warnings of consumers of tobacco products. And in accordance with article 244-4 of the Ukrainian Code on Administrative Offences, the central authority of the executive branch of the State Prosperity, which implements public policy in the field of State enforcement of consumer rights legislation, deals with administrative offences related to violations of the legislation on the protection of the rights of citizens, consumers, including the release of sales of products in violation of the requirements for medical warnings of consumers of tobacco products. On the basis of the above and with a view to avoiding duplication of powers of designated central executives, a draft law has been drafted, according to which the powers of the Ukrainian State Service with medical resources, in particular with regard to the handling of administrative offences, under article 168-2 of the Ukrainian Code on Administrative Offences, are proposed to be deleted. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-02-m0.u105	Thank you. The co - report invites the head of the Committee on Legislative Security and Law Protection, Kozemjakin Andrija Anatoliyovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-02-m0.u106	Dear Head, honourable national deputies, the Committee on Legislative Security and Law Protection has considered the draft Ukrainian Act amending article 244-8 of the Code of Administrative Offences. This project proposes to amend articles 244-8, according to which the central authority of the executive authority, which implements State policy in the field of control, quality and safety of medical devices, i.e. the State Department of Medical and Drug Control, is exempt from the powers to deal with administrative offences provided for in article 168-2 of the Ukrainian Code on Administrative Offences. In doing so, according to article 244-4 of the same Code, these categories of cases remain subordinate to the central authorities of the executive branch, which implements public policy in the field of State control over the enforcement of consumer rights legislation. So this is the Ukrainian State Service for Food Safety and Consumer Protection. In order to avoid duplicating the powers of the designated central executive authorities, making the proposed changes to articles 244-8 will remove the existing coalition. And it's very important, as a result of the committee's deliberations. The committee recommends that the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopt Bill No. 4552 as a basis and as a whole. With the exception of the number 169 in section I of the bill, since article 169 of the Code was excluded on the basis of the Ukrainian Law on Technical Regulations and Conformity Assessment, since 15.01.2015. Please support, Andrew Volodymyrovich, a technical bill, can be voted on as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-02-m0.u107	Thank you. Colleagues, please record: two-for, two- versus. Please. Ivan Krulko, please. He's handing over Rybchin, or I can't see who. Odarchenek. Please, Odarchenko, a word.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-02-m0.u108	Thank you. Yuri Odarchenko, Fatherland. Mr. Andrey, I would like to point out that on another occasion we received a certificate of low quality of our legislative work. Right now, we're just correcting technical errors that could be considered and prevented at the stage of this bill's consideration. And look, even in this project, there's a technical error in which there's a reference to article 169 of the Ukrainian Code of Administrative Offences. But there has been no such article in the codex for over a year. Obviously, the author of the project was guided by a non-current version of the codex. The way the government didn't notice this error, it's hard for me to understand. It's just a shame for the Ministry of Justice not to check the links between the articles. Students don't even make mistakes like that. So I suggest we accept the project as a whole, but we do not continue to make such mistakes. And, Mr. Andrey, look, you're about to state that we have a special MP ethics in the Supreme Council. You will now consult with the European institutions. I'm a national MP, elected as everyone, and I've filed a statement that I have to work on a committee. Look, I don't understand how you as the Head of the Supreme Council haven't given me a chance to work on the committee yet, and I don't do constitutional duties, not rights, work on the committee. There is no determination today, is that what European ethics are? Is that what we have at the Supreme Council? You're telling me the hall isn't going to vote for anything. I signed up for the simplest committee -- construction and utility -- the simplest one where there's no man from Fatherland. You're not doing what each of the deputies had the right to work in.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-02-m0.u109	Thank you. I've had a slight appeal, I'd like to report that this is not the order of the Chief of the Supreme Council -- the committee's work. If that were the order of the Supreme Council, that question would have been resolved for a long time. It's a question of voting the hall, and on the fourth day, the ruling stands in order, if you've noticed. If that were the matter of the Supreme Council, it would have been resolved long ago, and you know it. On Thursday it stands in order of the day. From the People's Front, the River Andriy Aleksandrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-02-m0.u110	The People's Front supports the initiative, and we'll vote in favour.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-02-m0.u111	Thank you. Kishkar Pavel Mikolaiovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-02-m0.u112	I have similar words of support, please support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-02-m0.u113	Thank you for the heated discussion. Lensky Alexiyyovich, Radical Party
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-02-m0.u114	Please pass the word to Moses.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-02-m0.u115	He gives the word Igor Mosiyczuk. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-02-m0.u116	Igor Mosiyczuk, Oleg Lachka Radical Party We will, of course, support this technical bill. But when we talk about administrative responsibility for inadequacies, inadequacies, other things, it is fair to say that criminal responsibility should be imposed. Because the chalk is sold in our pharmacies, grandmas carry the last pieces, and they sell the chalk there. And personally, even I was the victim of getting drugs in the Ukrainian drugstore, and as a result, after analysis, the drugs became chalk. So what about ordinary people who are just being sold chalk, painted with paints? That's why the Radical Party faction is demanding, and it's going to be preparing a bill on criminal responsibility for the abuse and sale and the release of inadequacies. In addition, we insist that we should consider the radical party Bill 4491 as soon as possible, which foresees that retired Ukrainians will be able to get the most necessary drugs, namely, medicine for pressure, medicine for hypertension, and headache. Why? Because, for example, there is such a practice in Europe, there is such a practice in Poland, and it preserves the lives of Ukrainians. And we poison people with inadequacies, instead of drugs, we give them chalk, and in general, in the pharmacy, it's a supermarket for a pensioner, and it's a jewelry store. Therefore, it is necessary to control the quality of medicines, the price of medicines, and the need for pensioners to receive free medicine, as suggested.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-02-m0.u117	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we are moving on to making a decision. I ask everyone to come into the hall and ask the secretariat of the Supreme Council to invite deputies into the Hall, and the heads of the factions to invite deputies to the Hall. I want to remind you that the committee's decision is based on the whole, but with the amendment that was made by the chairman of the committee, Andrew Cosemyakin, under the transcript. And I'm going to put it to a vote, actually, in the wording with the amendment that Cosemiakin made. I'm not going to repeat it because you formulated it correctly, so that I don't make the mistake of saying it. You've formulated that word in your speech. I'm asking you, colleagues, to come into the hall and prepare for the vote. In fact, all those who spoke supported the legislative initiative. The bill, however technical, is important to the order of our legislation, and so it is important that we make a positive decision. So, colleagues, I'm voting on the draft Law amending article 244-8 of the Code of Administrative Offences (No. 4552), which was amended by the head of the Committee on Administrative Offences (No. 4552), as proposed by the Committee on the Basis and Overall. Please vote and please support, colleagues. Please support me. Please be supportive. Vote. [[11:57:39]] For 224 Not all of them have made it. Please. Colleagues! I'm asking you to come to work, colleagues. Colleagues. I'm asking you to take up jobs. I'll be back in a minute. Two heads, colleagues. Two votes. Please, I'm asking everyone to take up their jobs. Colleagues, help me organize the hall, please. Members of the committee, help us organize the hall. So I'm voting on the proposal to go back to the 4552 vote. We're short two votes, colleagues. I'm talking to those who don't vote. So return to 4552, please vote for return. I'd like your support, colleagues. Please support, we vote. [[11:58:43]] For 227 Now, colleagues, we're back. I'm putting the bill of Law 4552 on the ground and, in general, the amendments that the committee head made to the transcript. Please vote, please support as a whole, colleagues. Please support, please vote. Colleagues, please support. [[11:59:15]] For 233 The law is passed, the decision is made. And according to the Rules, I announce a 30 - minute break and ask that at 12:30 everyone arrive to continue the consideration of day - to - day issues, health issues. At 12:30, we'll continue our work. Thank you, colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-02-m0.u118	Dear colleagues, we continue our work. Yeah, it was a break. To continue our work, I ask the factions to invite deputies to the Hall. Colleagues, please come into the hall. We're not enough to go on. Please invite all the deputies to the hall. Colleagues, we have the next day's draft of Law 4987. Mrs. Ola, shall we get started? Colleagues, there is a suggestion to support his consideration of the reduced procedure. If that's the case, we're going to be cut short, if we don't, we're going to go full-time. I've waited ten minutes for the officers to enter the hall. And I'm voting on a motion for a reduced procedure. Please take over and take part in the vote. Now I'm going to make a proposal for a reduced procedure, colleagues. Therefore, who supports the proposal for a reduced procedure of 4987, please vote. Please vote. [[12:41:19]] For-98 The hall is eager to consider the full procedure. So let's move on to the full procedure. I'm inviting you to the interview. So we go to the draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Health Protection. And I invite the head of the Health Committee, Bogopolitan Olga Vadimovna, to report. Please, Mrs. Ola.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-02-m0.u119	Dear Andrew Volodymyrovich, distinguished colleagues! I see that there are not enough deputies in this room, so I'm ready to make a bill. But before we go to the vote, I still ask you to make a rating vote and see if we have enough deputies in the room. If you don't, I'm going to have to move the vote to tomorrow morning, to the morning, and now I'm going to look at the bill. Bill 4987 is one of those bills that allow for a change in systemic thinking. And I would now like to step back a little bit from this bill and say that in my electronic declaration, I have declared my rights to the Historical Cultural Complex of the Radomisl Castle Museum. This museum, which is open to all Ukrainian citizens, contains 5,000 Ukrainian household icons -- all of them from "baraholoks" and garbage cans. During Soviet power, Ukrainian spirituality was destroyed, and morals were destroyed. And to date, medical institutions and some health workers have become, not moral spiritual people, but craftsmen, who think about making money, not saving a sick person's life. That's why the Law on Postgraduate Care in Ukraine is not a law on priests who will have access to conduct patients last time. This is not the law of priests who will have access to the sick, to the hospice, it is the law on the creation of the pastoral councils and the giving and giving of no duty, but the rights of medical institutions, which, in fact, after the adoption of Law 2309 with you, which is prepared by the committee for second reading, are now not confined to Parliament solely because of the absence of a position of the Ministry of Health. And this law gives autonomy the right to head a medical institution to hire, to release workers who are needed or not needed, to open, to increase or to reduce the number of beds. Thus, the Law on Presbyterian Care in the framework of the adopted Law on Autonomy will allow health - care institutions to form presbyterian councils that will be able to communicate with doctors, with nurses who will be able to give them advice and, in fact, to return spirituality and morality, including to medical facilities, and to help patients. This law is interfaith. It was developed by a group of national deputies along with the Council of Churches. This law allows health institutions to be decommissioned. This law allows us to strengthen the influence of faith and religion on our sick people, to increase their power over recovery, and to affect our morals. That's why we're proposing that the law should introduce the term "dopersternal care" into the legislation and define it, taking into account the principle of equality of religions and religious organizations. By this law, we propose to introduce a combined or transitional model for the execution of pastoral care in health institutions, which includes the activities of priests, chaplains, volunteers, or public institutions. Therefore, the issue of pressure on local budgets is not at all a matter of concern, since the pastoral care will take place on a voluntary or social basis. It is also the right of health institutions, not the duty, but the right to receive priests and chaplains to work. Today, we still lack even those priests and chaplains who can do the work that we hope they will do in the future. So we are currently negotiating with the University of Shevchenk on the possibility of opening a new faculty, namely the pastoral care of medical, military and prison chaplains. We also propose that this law empower the clergy, the chaplains, to be part of the Bioethics Commission, which operates in health institutions, and these commissions will also cooperate with those coordinators, the transplantists who will develop a transplant system in Ukraine. By this law we propose the possibility of creating an advisory body with the Ministry of Health of Ukraine, the so - called Dospastrian Council, to coordinate the activities of the pastoral care in the field of health care. With a view to providing comprehensive, particularly voluntary and charitable care for patients, the bill provides for an extension of the number of people who have access to a patient during hospital treatment in health care facilities. Thus, the adoption of this draft law will contribute to meeting the spiritual and religious needs of the population of Ukraine, which are exacerbated by the deep political crisis, the emergence of a significant number of injuries and psychological injuries as a result of combat in the ATO area, as well as the deterioration of the socio-economic and socio-psychological state of society. Ukraine’s Ministry of Health supports this bill. The Budget Committee of the Supreme Council indicates that the draft law will have no impact on the budget. The Chief Scientific and Expert Office of the Supreme Council makes a number of observations, including on the inability to combine the activities of the clergy and the work of health institutions. But given the height. GNEU comments can be developed between the first and the second readings. Given the high relevance of the bill, the committee believes that the comments can be properly regulated when the bill is being finalized for second reading. And the Committee of the Supreme Council on Health, having considered the bill, decided to recommend it to the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the basis of the first reading. Please support the position of the drafters of the bill and the committee. I want to point out that any insinuation or attempt at political games like this on the inequality of religions is all marked. Because we are simply creating a tool, a tool for access and improvement, an increase in spirituality, without which, I am absolutely sure, a qualitative reform of the health system so that doctors are not employed, and doctors are highly moral people, high-spiritual people who would care for people’s health first, we will not. So once again, I ask you to support this bill as a basis for the first reading. And once again, I emphasize to the Chief of the Supreme Council that there is a need for a signal vote to determine the number of national deputies in the room. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-02-m0.u120	Thank you. We will, of course, be asking questions now. Only, Mrs. Olu, I can announce a signal vote, but it won't solve anything, any bill ends with a decision. Any bill ends with a decision. Either way, it's a decision. I can do a signal before that, but it's not going to solve anything conceptually. Voting is not going to take that form -- transferring it to another day of voting.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-02-m0.u121	[[Unheard]]
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-02-m0.u122	Colleagues, please, three minutes, questions. And please sign up for the performance. Mrs. Ola, stay in the rostrum. You'll have questions. Three minutes. Auntie's daughter, please. Turn on the microphone. That's a question, Mrs. Tetjana, so it's out of place.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-02-m0.u123	Well, you said it was a question and a speech. Okay. Look, I have this question, yes, I understand that this bill does violate the Constitution of Ukraine, because it allows hospitals to take priests to the state. This is clearly stated in the Constitution in article 35, which says that the church in Ukraine is separate from the state. Today, 32.5 thousand religious denominations, organizations, and religions have been registered in Ukraine. Please tell me how and how many religions will people be accepted to work in hospitals?
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-02-m0.u124	Please, Mrs. Ola.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-02-m0.u125	Answer?
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-02-m0.u126	Yes, of course.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-02-m0.u127	Dear Mrs. Tetian, thank you for your question. It is wonderful that there are so many denominations in Ukraine, but in fact, my experience in health care facilities, especially in penitentiary health facilities, says that there are no members of religious organizations in the queue, unfortunately not even in prisons. There are organizations that care, in fact, but most of them have their own incomes, have their own churches and are interested, actually, in their own work. So we give all religions the right to be completely equal to being involved and to participate. In fact, this bill specifically prescribes the equality of the rights of all religions. As far as the Constitution of Ukraine has been written in Soviet times, I agree with you that some positions may not be consistent, but we are moving to the future and we need to change mentality, and we need to change those, actually.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-02-m0.u128	Thank you. The Constitution of Ukraine, I would like to remind you, Mrs. Mantis, that the Constitution of Ukraine was written in 1996 and adopted in 1996. Welcome to the speech of the People's Deputy Bezbach. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-02-m0.u129	Dear colleague, I don't quite get it. You said it wouldn't be necessary from the budget. At the same time, you're talking about people being in the state. I honestly don't quite understand what these people are going to do. These people obviously have to wear some clothes, go to the hospital, walk around the rooms. What's all this gonna look like? I don't quite get it. Answer me, please. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-02-m0.u130	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-02-m0.u131	Thank you for asking. I actually wanted to go back to the last answer. Yes, the Constitution was written in the post - Soviet period when Ukraine had not yet lost its post - Communist mentality. It's about what it's going to look like. If a health care facility, if it is a rehabilitation facility, surely a minister should wear special clothing at the hospital’s request. If this is another, specially equipped, facility that I hope will be in future in hospitals in Ukraine, just as it is now in hospitals of the European Community, Canada, America, other countries of the world, and this law prescribes a transitional period, and it gives only the right, not the duty, to a health facility then, to take a job in the future. Now this work is going to take place on public and volunteer grounds. Hence, no wages will be paid to these priests. The only thing that gives us the right to create the dusk councils, which is actually the purpose of this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-02-m0.u132	Thank you. I would like to invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy of Moses.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-02-m0.u133	Mrs. Olga, a very God-fearing bill, and a faithful one, and the right one, we will support it. I have a question like this to take away the questions that my colleagues are asking. Would a sick person have the right to choose a minister and a religion, namely, to communicate and receive appropriate help? I think that's one of the most important issues that my colleague is concerned about. They just can't express themselves all. And for the bill, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-02-m0.u134	Thank you. And I'm asking for an answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-02-m0.u135	Yes. Every sick person, every patient, every doctor, every nurse, will have the right to communicate with that person, with that spiritual man, with the one who is closer to them. I'm absolutely sure that both the Ukrainian clergy and the Ukrainian Church, like this all over the world, where we can see in the same room different religions work, that we're going to become a civilized state, we're going to be open, we're going to respect all religions and the faith of every person. Hence, this bill does not limit the rights of either patients or doctors or priests or chaplains.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-02-m0.u136	Thank you for your answers. Ma'am, you can take your place, we're moving on to a discussion. Please prepare to be recorded by factions. Discussion from factions first. Please hold the recording. Welcome to the speech of the National Deputy Yuri Odarchenka, the "Fatherland" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-02-m0.u137	Yuri Odarchenka, Fatherland faction. The proposed bill, called for a very good goal, is to give patients access to the spiritual help of the clergy. However, this is the very case where legal regulation is simply unnecessary. Let's do it. The scope of man’s interaction with God historically goes beyond the interference of the State and article 35 of the Constitution tells us of the need to divide the state and the church. The Church is not involved in the affairs of the State, but in the affairs of the Church. This is a guarantee of the critical, necessary, right for religious organizations, for if today the State allows the Church to intervene in its work, it will intervene and regulate the lives of religious communities tomorrow. At present, all the religious rights of the sick are guaranteed by existing regulations, and there is no problem with the access of the clergy to the sick according to their wishes, but the introduction of compulsory pastoral services in hospitals is actually an imposition on the sick of the religion that will be represented in these services. Moreover, such services may be a way of converting believers and not necessarily into the Orthodox faith or any other faith that the authors hope for. Regrettably, such pastoral activity can be practiced by various sects, including those who practice denial of medical care or certain treatments. In the West, by the way, doctors face such a problem. It is also incomprehensible that some councils of the clergy at the Ministry of Health should be made available. What such counsel should decide and what kind of health - care profession it will have is a very complex matter. The introduction of priests into the Bioethics Council is also a source of concern. Every religion has its own view of bioethics, someone considers any medical intervention to be a violation of God's will, someone's an opponent of donorism, someone who's opposed to artificial pregnancy. It is not possible for disputes about the spiritual realm to interfere with objectively existing scientific standards. So I thank the project authors, but I think this bill is too much. The state and the church must coexist, befriend, not unite.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-02-m0.u138	Thank you. I'd like to invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy, Oleg Berezuk, Self-Help.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-02-m0.u139	Your Majesty, the presiding lady, the honourable ladies and gentlemen! There is no psychological service in hospitals. The absence of social assistance in crisis situations in hospitals is not the case in Ukrainian hospitals. So the pastors who are there today are doing two functions right now: a function of psychological support for those people who are standing in an unattended place at the door of resuscitation and waiting for the death or health of their relative. That's what they take on their shoulders. And that's why the state should not intervene in these matters, but create a level playing field for people's access to the psychotherapist, the psychological, the sign is the same today as the pastoral aid. Otherwise, one religion conquered the hospital, and everyone else stood apart. Because a person has the right to receive this support from people who understand what grief is, distress, and have an age - old tool to work with it. But I want to speak to the Medical Committee. We support this law in the first reading. There are legal problems, that's the second question. But I want to say to the medical committee: the Ten Commandments of God say, "Don't call the name of the Lord in vain." The committee should maintain laws on the reimbursement of the price of daily medical supplies, and there are no laws on the autonomous activity of hospitals, which are precursors, medical terminology, insurance medicine in Ukraine. And there's no such thing. We need to talk today about an increase in the budget for medicine, for there is no medical service in Ukraine that is worthy! So it is really necessary for those in hospitals to buffer and support those who do not get what the State has to give them. We support the first reading and continue to work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-02-m0.u140	Thank you. Welcome to the speech of the People's Deputy Volodymyr Litvin, "The Will of the People."
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-02-m0.u141	Dear National Deputies! I think this bill could have been supported as an experiment to lead the pastors to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Because I've been listening to speeches by MPs today, and this is once again a hate session that's been demonstrated, which shows that we're reminding a bunch of comrades who've divided into groups, and the leaders of these troops are trying to establish a dominant position, ploughing around everything that can be ploughed. I think this problem needs to be treated not only from the point of view of doping, but from the medical point of view of Darwinism. And now, essentially. I think people, if they hear what we're talking about today, they're going to say, because there's nothing to ensure that people are being treated, they're going to have to come and sing and send everyone to the cemetery. Well, that, I think, makes sense. I think that this topic can and would have to be considered if we had a monoreligious country, that's the first thing we have to do if we solve all the health care problems and there were dents on the way out. Please tell me how the pastor will help if a mother comes with a girl who is incredibly talented and who loses a catastrophic hearing and needs to be implanted with a hearing aid. And we had 90 million dollars spent a year in the criminal regime. Now, let me tell you, four million. True, the following year they said they were going to see an increase, but at the same time they recorded that this function was to be performed by the medical institutes of the National Academy of Sciences of Ukraine, and they had zero funding. So let us first, perhaps by adopting and considering these vital laws, welcome the efforts of the committee, listen to the health minister, who is the state of health, what is needed first, which is what personnel are needed for this, which should be the medical equipment that needs funding, and then we will adopt a package of these laws. What we're taking now is evidence of our helplessness, evidence that we can't get the minimum funding we need, and that's how we're just trying to keep people. Well, obviously that's a decision to make. But we need to understand what conflicts will be, for each religion will try to take possession of the sick. We have some denominations today that remind political parties that, when there is no political activity, they still rarely pray. Let's take that into account. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-02-m0.u142	Thank you. Welcome to the speech of the People's Deputy, Oxana Korchinski, the Radical Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-02-m0.u143	Praise Jesus Christ! Oksana Korchinska, faction of the Radical Party. "Let there be no gods in you but me" is the first commandment of the Lord God. This hall does not simply forget the first commandment. I understand that it is important for you now that we really are, and for me, as for a committee member, to discuss with you the Law on Autonomy, it is ready and, in that case, only awaits the conclusion of our GNEU. It's important. But the human soul is no less important than the body, and sometimes more important to the Lord God. We don't take the body with us to heaven, we leave it here. And it's better to give it to the donor organs, and that's where the soul goes. This law is important, and I ask him to support it. Ohmatdit has been a social worker for nearly three years now. But at the same time, we have five other religions that go to children, confess them, confess them, and help doctors. We have different religions, and we have priests, psychologists who have education, on volunteer grounds. And they have to have a job at this point. We need these departments. There's a possibility in OHMATDIT. Because we have, we've reached the psychology department, and we have a psychologist. And it's no less important than just a doctor -- it's more important than just a doctor. This applies to all our military hospitals. If I listen to you, there is no need for chaplains in the war today. And without us, our brigades couldn't understand what this room is doing, explain to them the meaning of what happens here when there's a war. So I'm asking you very much now in the first reading to support this bill. The point is that any patient has the right to a clergyman of his religion. It's about allowing the chief physicians to serve as social workers after they saw the priest's summary, looked at his education, let him and the pastor's work, and in this case social work, it's very important. Give them the opportunity to work, including the priests, and there will be no competition. It's an artificially dilated problem. We have a policy here today, unfortunately. And this has turned most of the bills into politics. Think of the patient and their soul. Praise Jesus Christ!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-02-m0.u144	Thank you. I'd like to invite you to the words of National Deputy Yuri Miroshnick, "The Opposition Block."
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-02-m0.u145	Dear voters, dear colleagues! Yuri Miroshnichenko, Opposition Block. I think, my fellow Members, please pay attention, I don't think any of you here can deny the right of man to send out his spiritual needs. Especially when a person is in a medical institution. Especially when she is preparing for a complex operation. Especially when it comes to hospice where people end their lives. And in this context, I think we can't deny it. There's really a discussion about what's going on. And it was in our faction this morning. Does a doctor determine who will be a pastor in a hospital or in another medical institution, or does the person who herself, when visiting a particular religion, turn to the priest of his religion for confession or communion, or for sending away other mysteries that are in one religion or another? Not just Christians, but Jews, Muslims, any other religion that has such a mission. So not just this law, but other laws, in the penitentiary system we've already introduced this institution, it's how it works. The man identifies the priest, the one who will be associated with him. A formed task force based on a profile committee, our colleague Yelensky leads it, and he'll say, I think. And the second question. Is it a discussion of the work of priests? On penitentiary issues, we've determined that they don't take a job, it's the volunteer work of every religion that delegates the formation of its diocese government, created all the conditions and every religion, it delegates its priests to do the pastoral work. These nuances, I think we're going to have to work out, these warnings need to be addressed. And if we remove these controversial things and leave the patient with the right to choose his pastor, the hospital only provides a room for this, for example, where confessional secrecy may be, so that there are no others present or even near the bed, so that they can do so. Because today this de facto activity exists, but in the legal field it's not legal. And this law is designed to legalize, that is, to introduce pre - pastoral activity into the legal field. Thank you for the attention of all colleagues, and I hope that the decision will be made.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-02-m0.u146	Thank you. Welcome to the words of the People's Deputy Victor Yelensky, the People's Front.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-02-m0.u147	Dear colleagues! I am very grateful to my companions and colleagues who have done so, and I would like to say the emotional part of the preparation for the adoption of this bill. Now I want to say something about the problem. First of all, the Constitution of Ukraine. Article 35 of the Constitution of Ukraine speaks of the secession of the church and state. This article is traditionally interpreted in Lenin style, which is the style of an antagonistic separation of the church from the state. In countries where the church has been separated from the state, such as Belarus and the United States, France, and Japan, Poland, and 60 countries around the world. This is not how the separation mode works. Thus, the separation regime, where the church is trying to get into the ghetto, works only in North Korea and perhaps in part in Cuba. That's the first one. It's different. What's this bill about? The bill opens up the possibility of medical chaplainship in health authorities. It's a very big job, it's a very big road. The health system where medical chaplains work is different from the health system, where they are not just civilized, but I would say, evolutionary. This is the difference between chimpanzees and humans. It's a very long distance that you can't go through just by passing this law, and you're going to have to fight for it. Now we're talking about fighting religions around these treatment facilities. Sadly, we do not see such a struggle. But we have to provide patients with treatment facilities with so-called indoctrination, and that can be done. Finally, this law, as it is written, is not perfect. There are really, I would say, plots that go into the regime of separation of the Church from the State and the Law on Central Executive Authorities, so I suggest that I adopt it in the first reading. And on the basis of two of our committees, the Health Committee and the Committee on Culture and Spirituality to work on it.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-02-m0.u148	Please, 10 seconds, finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-02-m0.u149	Parameters that really open the way not just to meet religious needs but to chaplainship in health care. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-02-m0.u150	Thank you. I would like to invite you to the words of National Deputy Yuri Solovia, “The Block of Petra Poroshenko. ”
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-02-m0.u151	Yuri Solovay, 89th constituency. Dear colleagues, I rarely agree with Mr. Litwin, but as for the last speech, I really want to confirm his position. We do. This law is probably important in the medical field, and probably the four laws that we've been considering today are also important for the reform of medicine. But let us ask each other a question: Are these the very important laws in the field of medicine, and do these laws really reform the medical system in our country? The answer is obvious. Dear colleagues, why don't you go to any district hospital today and ask the doctor and the patient whether they're in a medical situation today? Both the doctor and the patient will say no. Today, medicine and the medical sector around the world are part of the economy, one of the most powerful economic sectors that concentrates on 10 percent of gross domestic product. What do we have in our country today? Poorer, practically bankrupt health care facilities, meager medical wages, and inadequate medical services. And that's why I'm going to the government, and I'm going to the profile committee that if we have the next medical day in Parliament, let's still pass the system laws on medical reform. How much can be said about the autonomy of medical institutions? Let's take a look and make a decision. How much can we talk about a patient-money system? Let's put it in the room, let's make a decision. After all, in 25 years, how much can be said about insurance medicine? Let's put in a package of laws on this issue, and let the Supreme Council determine. Because these are the questions that millions of Ukrainians are concerned about. And for that, I call on both the government and the profile committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-02-m0.u152	Thank you. We've finished our discussions with the MP factions. Let's move on to the discussion from the national MPs. People's deputies please sign up for discussion. Welcome to the speech of the People's Deputy Paul Ungurian, the People's Front.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-02-m0.u153	Today this ancient Ukrainian greeting has been heard: "Glory to Jesus Christ!".. Dear colleagues, in short, this bill clearly needs to be voted on, I think in the first reading. There are questions that are objective, as did colleague Viktor Yelensky. There are questions of a strategic nature that colleagues from other factions have talked about. But actually, the debate is now going around the bill that we're looking at. So I would still narrow down the discussion from global health issues to the substance of the bill. There are questions, for example, about the financial security of the work of pastoralists in the medical field. I think that the law at this stage is not a bill that is not categorical, it's not that they have to work in these medical institutions, because the law provides for volunteering and on the basis of public principles to do aid, to help the sick, their families. We will polish this position to second reading and, together with the Committee on Culture and Spirituality, we will consider these amendments with the Committee on Budgets. There are questions, for example, such as: Will there be conflicts between different religious organizations in the matter of access? Well, I'd just like to tell those colleagues who are going through this, they're worried that there's not going to be any conflict, because not so many people and believing people who are ready for their lives, their real time, their emotions, their soul to put into their daily work. For example, you and I already have a very good experience with the work of pastors, chaplains in the Ministry of Defense, in the Armed Forces, and that's very important. Have any of us heard of any conflict between the various chaplains, the religions on the front or the front or the Armed Forces? None. Because. Two moments. First moment. These are the chaplains who go there at the call of the heart. And they work with other chaplains from other denominations as their brothers, providing spiritual, psychological help to our fighters. It's different. What is very important is that the Ministry of Defence and, as proposed by our bill, the Ministry of Health should form an advisory body, the Advisory Council. In the Ministry of Defense, this organ works, and all that.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-02-m0.u154	People's deputy Gus. All right, let's do three more minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-02-m0.u155	Thank you, colleagues Igor Guzu, I will continue. Those religions that have desires, those priests, the chaplains who, at the call of the heart, go to the front to help the fighters, they don't create problems with each other, there's not enough chaplains, there's not enough spiritual work, and we are today actually calling for as much help as possible to our Ukrainian supporters. That is why we certainly need to vote on it in the first reading. The Ministry of Health will form an advisory body. By the way, such an organ is created both in the Ukrainian penitentiary service and in the execution of sentences, in colonies, in prisons, and there are systems of aid through the chaplains who are attached to the execution of the sentences, and there are also calm, well-coordinated issues. Only those religions that are part of the All - Ukrainian Council of Churches, which have a national corresponding registration, come into contact with the relevant body and in the cooperation of the State and civil society, are actually provided with social services, for which neither churches nor public organizations receive a penny from the budget, because this is at the heart’s call. So I think that this practice is very and very illustrative, illustrative that in the first reading we can do this step, more than that, we have to do it, because as of today, chaplainship, pastoralism in hospitals, in hospitals, it is, it is, we just need to get it into the legislative field so that the Ministry of Health can also regulate this issue and have positive experience in the Armed Forces, in our army, in the penitentiary service, and I want to remind you that there are international big, powerful European world organizations that are dealing with chaplainism, for example, in the seaports. And that's normal when sailors visit foreign ports, they're 6-9 months away from home, away from home. And there are chaplains working in ports, including Ukrainian ports. And this is a normal world practice that has come to us since history. So I think we have a first-reading support, and this is a request from the All-Ukrainian Council of Churches. Thank you and my colleague, Olga, for this initiative, and I ask everyone to support me in the first reading today. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-02-m0.u156	Thank you. National Deputy Irina Sisoyenko, Self-Help.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-02-m0.u157	Dear colleagues, worldwide, there has been a tremendously positive experience of chaplain activity in health facilities. This is especially true in the United States, Canada, and the European Union. The presence of a priest in hospitals affects the patient’s mental state, and the recovery process may be faster. Most important, it is the right of everyone to associate with a priest of the religion to which he is dependent. That's why the self-help faction will vote in favour of this bill in the first reading. And for the second reading, we have to work very thoroughly, yes, seriously with the text of this bill in order to exclude all those violations of the laws in force and the Constitution of Ukraine. But what I would like to say is that in all those countries that have a strong positive experience of chaplainism, first of all, effective health systems were built, and only then were those bills that we are considering now adopted. I think that this is where we, as a parliament, have to adopt the system bills that are in the Health Committee, and that are the very beginnings of the reform of the health system, so that our citizens, apart from the priests in the hospitals, can really guarantee the list of guaranteed health services at the expense of the state budget, namely: to pay for the rapid emergency medical care, to pay for the pediatricians, to treat infectious diseases, and to make all of this happen at the expense of the state budget, all of which is not at present. And that's the main thing we can do, is to adopt new legislation. Bill 2309-d, which is now on the Health Committee, I think should become the first basic bill to launch the reform of the health system in Ukraine. So I insist that this bill be in Parliament in the near future, and that we vote in favour of complex decisions, so that, apart from the priests in the hospitals, we can actually give people access to affordable and effective medical care. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-02-m0.u158	Thank you. I would like to invite you to the floor of National Deputy Yuri Lewchenk.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-02-m0.u159	Thank you. Well, I'd really like to, you know, point out that, well, when we really really need full-time drafts, where there are over 100 articles, where very complex questions to understand, we need to write each of them out, then we don't have a full procedure, and so we don't want to speak to the deputies, talk to them. And here, when everything is clear, the MPs come out, and they talk about it a lot, and that's what I wanted to point out, they come out of the majority, from the coalition, and they talk about what this bill is right, but we have to do this, this, this, this medicine reform thing. Well, reform, you have all the power in your hands, which is the problem! Why is that all you're talking about? So I urge my colleague to stop the discussion and vote in favour of this project in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-02-m0.u160	Thank you. Next, I invite you to the words of the People's Deputy Vitaly Stasuk, the People's Front. National Deputy Vitaly Stashuk. All right, then I'll invite the next to the discussion of the national MP Igor Mosiyczuk, the Radical Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-02-m0.u161	Praise Jesus Christ! I have the impression that I am not currently on the Supreme Council of Ukraine, but on the Council of People's Commissioners of the Soviet Union. Some are left with only the tusks to wear and like Sharikov, Schwander to go to churches to break, icons to burn. Why do I say that? Because an important bill is just being politicized and talking about things that you could use a different time to adopt other bills; they're trying to make politics in faith, in perpetuity, in that it helps people in their own way. Of course, it cannot be said that predation will save the medical field from collapse. No, he'll never save you. Work, including Parliament and primarily the Ministry of Health, will be saved. But preoccupation is the care of a person's soul, over a sick person's soul. The body should be treated by doctors. And now the bill that we're looking at is primarily about the soul of a person, caring for the soul, over the eternal thing, about what a person has to think about for the rest of his life, without turning into the same "shrimp" and "shwanders." In turn, I would like to take the opportunity to speak to the government of Ukraine and say that health care is not the only kind of pastoral work, so the government has to take care of medical care and reform. These are probably the first southern medical ones I remember in the history of this call to parliament. So the Radical Party faction requires the government to ask as soon as possible about the introduction of free medicine for pensioners, according to Bill 4491, which is proposed by our faction. I would now like Parliament's leadership to consider the issue of not putting this bill to a vote. Why? Because it's just going to be broken. Think of eternity, think of the soul of man, and of our souls. Praise Jesus Christ!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-02-m0.u162	Thank you. And the last performance is the People's Deputy of Yuzkov, the Radical Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-02-m0.u163	Please pass the word to Moses.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-02-m0.u164	Please, National Deputy Moseschuk, three more minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-02-m0.u165	As this bill has been mentioned, and it is, indeed, the basis for the spiritual healing of the patient’s souls, I would like to say a few words about the ground floor. The fact that it is necessary not only for patients but also for some doctors, some members of the Ministry of Health, for pharmacists who sell chalk instead of medicines to our pensioners for the last penny. Not only do they need to study the Scriptures but so does the Criminal Code. Therefore, when we speak of preeminence in speaking of faith, we must not forget that the foundation of faith is the Scriptures, the foundation of faith is the words that the holy apostles have given us in order for us to be guided by them. And taking this opportunity, I'd like to ask my colleagues that before you press the button for this bill, think about the eternal, think about it, look at the holy writings that you have, contact your shepherds, the people you address with your needs to whom you profess. Because the path to political olympus, to political power, is not possible without a god, the time of "swanders" and "sharky" has passed. That is why I am asking Parliament to support this bill. Shepherding has already been introduced into the penitentiary service and has produced results. And I'm sure it's the same in medicine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-02-m0.u166	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we have concluded our discussion. There will be a closing statement by the committee head. I'm asking all the MPs to come into the hall, take up jobs, and in three minutes we'll move on to the decision-making process. I'm asking the secretariat to invite the deputies into the hall. For my closing remarks, I invite the head of the Health Committee, Olga Vadimovna, to the rostrum. Please, Mrs. Ola.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-02-m0.u167	Ladies and gentlemen, I am 100 percent divided by your position that the laws that we have discussed today and this law is not fundamental. The Health Committee has been prepared for the second reading of Law 2309, awaiting the approval of the Cabinet of Ministers, the Ministry of Health, agreed and prepared laws and medical facilities (2162), on the principles of public policy (4456), on the basis of the provision of medical care. In view of the fact that the work of the Ministry of Health has been blocked for some time, and now the Ministry’s pace of work is not what it would have wanted, we have not been given the position of the Ministry of Health under these key laws. That's why we're ready, but we can't take them to the hall right now until there's no agreed position. Now, about this law that we discussed with you today. Last week my daughter, a fifth grade student in Kiev School, came home and said, "Mom, we were told in class that there are three versions of people's origins. Some say that people from God, others say that people from an ape, and others say people from outer space." I think there are actually people from God, there are people from an ape, and there are even people who are elected by national MPs, but who are now in space for some reason or other. That's why I'm actually talking to people who are from God right now, and even people who are from an ape. Because at a time when every person feels the smell of death, I remember that it's from God. And at this point, she really needs support and care. And I'm now addressing you with two suggestions: either support this law in the first reading, and we'll work it out once with all the interested people, or send it to the committee for work. We're ready for any position you may have, the main thing is that the voices are in the room right now. I'd like the MPs who are in space right now to somehow materialize, and there's enough in the room. And I'm also now addressing the Head of Parliament with what I'm asking for the following two laws: and the increase in the wages of emergency medicine workers, and the social guarantees are off-limits, because there are simply no national MPs in the room. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-02-m0.u168	Thank you, Mrs. Olu. Dear colleagues, please come into the hall, we are moving on to making a decision. There was a very violent discussion of the bill, and there were different thoughts. Finally, I knew in advance that the three factions of Parliament had decided to give the law to work on. Thus, it was known in advance that the law was controversial, but nevertheless the committee insisted on its consideration. We were able to consider it in full procedure. And now we can move on to making decisions, colleagues. I'm asking everyone to come into the hall. I'm going to make the first proposal proposed by Mrs. Ola from the committee, based on it. And then I'm going to put on some work. It seems to me that in the matter of "to work" we will be able to unite and vote in a group, colleagues. So I'm asking you, colleagues, to come into the hall, prepare for making a decision. I'm asking you to invite the deputies into the hall. Colleagues, I'm asking you to take up jobs and we're moving on to making decisions. So I'm voting first. Draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on the Basics of Ukrainian Legislation on Health Protection (for pre-pastrian care in the field of health) (No. 4987) as a basis. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote on the basis. Please vote, colleagues. [[13:40:18]] For 165 Not enough voices. Colleagues, I ask you to unite around the proposal: the committee for further work. Can I count on support in this matter, colleagues, so that we don't lose the bill? Please, I will now make the proposal made by Mrs. Ola, and I ask her to support her: I ask all the deputies in the Hall to support it, this is a compromise position that can unite the Hall, colleagues. I'm asking you very much. I'm putting a motion to the vote: return to the committee for work before the first reading. Colleagues, please vote, please support. Let's vote for the committee. Please be supportive. [[13:41:22]] For-183 I will put the following: work on the subject of the legislative initiative. Colleagues, I have the Rules for Predicted Lists of Suggestions I can make. One thing I ask you to do is convince your colleagues to come into the hall, those who are not in the hall right now. I think it's best now to report to those who support the bill: invite a colleague to the hall. So I'm going to make a proposal right now, colleagues, to return the subject to the legislative initiative for further work. I'm asking you to support this proposal. Please, colleagues, support the proposal: 4987 to direct the subject of the legislative initiative for further work. Everyone in the room, please support, colleagues. Please vote. Let's vote, colleagues. [[13:42:26]] For-183 183. Many are abstaining, many are not voting, colleagues. The bill is rejected. The next two bills are: 1164 and 1332 - the committee is taking it off the table. And we're moving on to the next issue of order of the day. Colleagues, may I have your attention? The next two drafts of the decision are the annulment of the decisions of the Supreme Council. I'm asking them to support a reduced procedure, colleagues. Please don't split up. I'm asking you to vote carefully right now. I'm looking at the draft Decree repealing the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of 06.10.2016 on adoption as a whole, as bill No. 3312-d. And I ask you to support the consideration of the reduced procedure, colleagues. Please support everyone so that we can make it through that stage. Please support me, colleagues, for a reduced procedure of 3312-d. Please support me. [[13:43:35]] For-162 Decision taken. And I invite you to the report of Ukrainian National Deputy Levchenk Yuri Volodymirovich. Please, Mr. Yuri.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-02-m0.u169	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223 District, Kiev City. This regulation refers to a permanent violation of the Rules, as we do in the session room, when, despite the clear requirement of the Rules, that if at least one MP in the room requires a second reading bill, which cannot then be accepted in general, such bills are still passed by the chairpersons as a whole. And this is a direct violation of the Rules, and this leads to extremely inconvenient bills. This leads to, for example, how we now then take 10 different technical changes to the things we've accepted. This is my ruling on the bill. The so-called bill on the abolition of student slavery in medical institutions, pedagogical institutions, that after receiving education students were forced to work in rural areas. In fact, this bill did not apply at all, because this slavery at the legislative level was abolished on September 6, 2014, and there was only one Cabinet Order, which had to be amended, then there would be no slavery. It was a declarant bill, and in principle I didn't have a lot of questions, because it was about nothing, but it had one -- a very crucial moment, wrong. Because it's suggested to write it back, in fact, it's slavery to legislation, and to write that the right to take first-line admissions to higher medical and pedagogical educational institutions on a government basis have persons, if they make a contract to work for at least 3 years in rural and urban areas. In fact, it's a very corrupt norm, because that's what it means. This means that the appropriate managers of the facilities can, on a first - order basis, launch the persons they are close to, but with them, agree that if you refuse to work, we simply will not bring you to trial. And that's how they're going to start people who aren't worthy of that first-class access. Please give me 30 seconds, because it's impossible to explain!
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-02-m0.u170	I'll give you 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-02-m0.u171	And that's how they're going to start people who aren't completely worthy of being. have priority access. higher institutions will be allowed and then arranged with them, and they will be able to learn on a government order, other deserving people will not receive such an order, and then they will not work. So I suggested that this rule be excluded, just one rule, but it took a second reading. For some reason it was decided that the second reading was not necessary and left this corrupt norm in the bill. So I registered this decision and I urge you to support it right now, although I understand that, unfortunately, right now.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-02-m0.u172	Thank you. The report invites the first deputy head of the Committee on Rules and Organization of Work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Pinzenik Pavlovic. Please, Mr. Paul.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-02-m0.u173	Honourable Andriy Volodymyrovich, distinguished Ukrainian National Deputies, the Committee on Rules of Procedure of October 19th, reviewed the draft Decision of the Supreme Council of October 6th, 16th, on the adoption as a whole of the bill of Bill 3312 introduced by National Deputy Yuri Lewchenk (Registrational 3312-d-P) and the written statement of this People's Deputy to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The project proposes to reverse the voting results for the draft Law (register 3312-d) (from 26.04. 2016), which the initiator said was in breach of the Rules of Procedure, namely, the second reading of the bill took place without proposals and amendments. The Committee noted that the draft Law (registration 3312-d) was considered at a plenary meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on 6 October 2016 in a re-reading of the first reading, not in a second reading, since on 26 January this year the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopted a Supreme Council Regulation on Re-reading the draft Act amending the Higher Education Act on the Employment of Graduates. According to articles 109, 115 of the Rules, a re-reading proposal is made within a 10-day period following the day of the previous first reading, a new draft prepared by the Main Committee with the conclusions of the Main Committee and other Committees, and is being considered in accordance with the rules provided for in the re-reading of the Rules. In addition, no transcript of October 6, this year, during the consideration of the draft comments on the violation of the law by national deputies, did not reach the Head of the Supreme Council during the plenary session in connection with the violation of the Rules. In view of the above, the committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council that it should be decided by a vote on the adoption or rejection of the draft decision. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-02-m0.u174	Thank you. We're about to have a discussion, colleagues. There will be a discussion, only we are now considering two decrees, 3312, which we voted on, there are two decrees. I'll give Shurmi another one, and then there'll be two for, two for against, sir. No, it's not a complete, concise procedure. We voted 161 for the two decrees under number 3312, but the vote will be separate. But we're looking at the two of us together. I invite you to report to the National Deputy of Ukraine Shurma Igor Mihajlovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-02-m0.u175	Ladies and gentlemen of the people, citizens of Ukraine! I'd like to say, remind you of the history of this question. On October 6, a bill was considered, which had already been sent to read again. A very controversial bill that says that graduates of higher education institutions III-IV of accreditation with medical education choose their own place of work. The whole point is that the state spends more than 10 billion dollars each year on student education. Last year alone, more than 10,000 people left Ukraine with a doctor’s degree. That 3 billion dollars actually came out of the government budget. Under these circumstances, the state, knowing that there are 30,000 doctors missing in Ukraine today, has the right to teach students, to direct them to the painful points where there are no specialists. Most of it is a rural area. The bill is limited because it's antisocial because we're actually desecrating the village, it's still been accepted by a breach of procedure. After discussion by the Opposition Block, hands were raised with the inadmissibility of adopting the bill as a whole, and on the basis of that, it was voted on as a whole. I have to tell you that right now in the session room, as once loved by the former opposition, and today this is a coalition, they said who voted in favour of this bill, the one that it works, will be responsible for the absence of medical personnel in the village. We must exercise our constitutional right today to cancel this decree and this bill should be sent for further work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-02-m0.u176	Thank you. Is there a need for a committee? Please, by the second order of the committee. There will be a discussion, colleagues. Paul Pinzenick of the Second Decision Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-02-m0.u177	Colleagues, very short. This draft decree was also considered by the committee and the warnings were also considered, the bill was not discussed in the second reading, the re-reading of the first reading. According to 102, the Supreme Council may decide on the adoption of the bill as a whole as a result of the first reading, provided that the requirements of the 102 Rules are met. The decision was made to allow the Supreme Council to decide on the arguments of the people's deputies and on the support or non-support of the draft decision. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-02-m0.u178	Thank you, colleagues. Please record two in favour, two in the opposite. Please. The clone of Sergey Volodymyrovich from Peter Dustenk's Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-02-m0.u179	Please pass on the word of Victoria the Bird.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-02-m0.u180	Thank you. Victoria the Bird. Dear colleagues, I would like to draw your attention to what my colleague in Parliament, Yuri Lewchenko, has been talking about. Because, in fact, the violations of the Rules that are constantly taking place in our session room are leading to, unfortunately, that we are accepting some kind of legislative base, which is why we are putting risks to law enforcement. In practice, we understand that certain authorities and certain officials are manipulating these norms and so on and so forth. I would like to draw your attention, Your Honor Andrija Volodymyrovich, to take this opportunity that yesterday we registered a bill under number 5328 with the Interfractional Union of Eurooptimists. The bill just applies, we're talking a lot about reform of parliament, and you realize now that, unfortunately, there's not enough people in this session room again. Therefore, as an interfractional association of Eurooptimists, we ask you very quickly to facilitate the consideration of Bill 5328, because we want to introduce the responsibility of national deputies for not taking part in plenary meetings, not going to committee meetings, and thus actually affecting the absence of a quorum in committee meetings, not voting while in the Chamber, not even pressing, not choosing any of the positions -- "for", "restraint" or "against". Appropriately, we offer to charge not less than 50 percent of the wages for missing suitable meetings. I think the budget will only save on those deputies who are not in plenary meetings today and who are not visiting the committees. So we ask very much from the interfractional association of Eurooptimists to facilitate a quick review of the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-02-m0.u181	There was a call for me, I'll answer that. I'll give you my word. Mrs. Victoria, I fully support this initiative. What's more, I'm the one who gave the Apparatus the task of drafting this bill. I think it's extremely correct, and we talked about it in our conversation with the Eurooptimists who are here. And I'll do my best to make sure that this bill as soon as it passes the committee is in the audience. I'm sure there's a lot of disciplined responsible deputies in this room. And I believe that we are voting together so that not only part of the salary will be recorded, but there will be fines for not having a deputy in the workplace, for not voting. And maybe it'll be a serious incentive for us to have enough votes in the room to make decisions. And I'm going to support this initiative with all my might, and I'm going to believe that we're going to be able to vote on it as a group. Thank you. And Yvchenko passes the word to Sergey Soboljev. Please, Mr. Sergey, from the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-02-m0.u182	Sobolje, Fatherland. Dear colleagues, at first glance, it seemed that the bill was essentially a bill of some kind that introduced slavery in Ukraine. But let's look at the world practice. If you get a loan to study in any of the freest countries in the world, you have to work it out. If a private company pays for your training, you are obliged to keep working. What's more, when it comes to training professionals who are much more prepared than everyone else, I mean doctors. That's why this bill was essentially allogeneic, unfair. And I think what our colleagues have raised about cancelling it is absolutely relevant. Unfortunately, though, we realize that we will not be able to look into it right now. Therefore, the first proposal is to postpone the vote and establish justice and social and economic. The second is in shape. Today, the "Fatherland" faction and the People's Deputy Pinzenic register a decree in addition to the decision registered by Mr. Ljashk regarding the cancellation, the recommendation to cancel Kabina's decision to increase her salary. Our decisions are not registered. I'm showing Mr. Head today the question: two decisions, alternative, not alternative, but they're registered, they're included in the agenda. What's more, we're looking at them. On what basis will the People’s Deputies be administered by the apparatus? How can we avoid registering decisions that are obvious? I have a request, give the commission to resolve this matter once and for all. We're depriving members of the legislative initiative. I realize that maybe this is some way to break this vote, but it's impossible, and what we're looking at right now is just an unnecessary confirmation. The "Fatherland" faction supports a decision that I think has been mistakenly drafted and needs to return to the old norm. The Power pays for you. If you're alone, no questions asked. You're the one the state pays for, so back off. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-02-m0.u183	Thank you. I'm just going to tell you right now that the Supreme Council of Ukraine, as our Legal Department has explained, has no right to cancel the decisions of the Cabinet. Only the President or the Court or the President is the Constitutional Court. Then we can act exclusively, Mr. Sergei, in the legal field, and we cannot go beyond the legal field. And these draft regulations, as soon as they're registered, they're being examined, and that's why they're being set up today. Now from the Opposition Block, Martovicki is giving his speech to Igor Shurma. Please, Mr. Igor.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-02-m0.u184	Igor Shurma, Opposition Block. We all want to act within the framework of legislation. In accordance with part three of article 19 of the Constitution, the authorities of Ukraine exercise their powers within established constitutions and within the framework of Ukrainian laws, their officials are obliged to act only on the basis and within the limits of their powers and in the manner provided for in the Constitution. On that day, when we made a decision, we severely violated article 102 of the Ukrainian Rules Act. It's not just a rule-of-law decision, it's the Ukrainian Rule-of-Rule Act. We must have the power of will just as we did yesterday, Mr. Andrey, you've had enough willpower, honor and thanks when we voted on the salary of the deputies. And it has to be admitted that this law, which was voted in violation and under article 48 of the Rules, we have asked that it be repealed, is antisocial. There'll be no medics in the villages, no one's going to work there, you all know that. What's more, I'm going to tell you that today we have to understand something that 10 billion dollars spent raising a medical worker can't go abroad. Think about it: 10,000 graduates have gone abroad. Are we feeding a rich Europe? What are we going for today? And the next thing I want to focus on. We need to understand one thing, if we can stop this action today, we're going to keep the medical facility from corruption today. Those who have worked in practical health care know that tomorrow all medical professionals will go to the city and district hospitals. The chief doctor divides the bet by four and starts to employ all of them by 0.25, that's direct corruption. People are good, come on. I propose to vote against this decision, let's work it out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-02-m0.u185	Dear colleagues, please repeat. Colleagues, attention, I'm continuing this session until the finalization of this issue. Now I'm going to give Victor Pinzenic a reprimand from the committee. No, then Lewchenkov as the author. And to conclude as the final of Spiowakovsky. Three minutes, three minutes, we'll move on to the decision. Do you have a deal? Please, Mr. Victor.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-02-m0.u186	Dear Head! Dear National Deputies! The decree is correct both in substance and in the form of a violation of the Rules. I'm not going to stop at that. But I want to take a position on what Sobolev said. Take the order of the day. You can see that we're considering two decisions from the same question, by the same law. I want to understand why I and Sobolev, the Fatherland faction, have been deprived of the rights of the MP's initiative. I've put in motion a decision on non-refoulement of the Cabinet of Ministers, and a request to the Cabinet of Ministers, a recommendation to cancel the decision to increase the salaries of ministers by 2.5 times. Why isn't my project registered? Why isn't there a registered Paternity faction project? Although here in the daytime you see two projects that are subject to the same regulation. I, Andry Volodymyrovich, am asking that my constitutional right of legislative initiative be guaranteed.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-02-m0.u187	It's Yuri Lewchenko, please. No, no, Yuri Lewchenko, I've already announced it.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-02-m0.u188	Thank you. Look, guys, I'd like to make a point. There was a speech by the eternal first deputy to the regulatory committee of the head, so we still have no head, but the first deputy is constantly speaking. And he's obviously not being a head yet, and he's not really studied the Rules very well. Because he referred to article 102, where it was clearly written in part four, that the Supreme Council decided to allow for the final adoption of the bill immediately after the first or second reading, if the bill was recognized as not in need of further work, and if there was no notice of its contents by the national MPs. Commenting on the contents of the bill by the national MPs, a number of comments were received. In particular, I received comments. There were observations in the only form in which they could arrive in oral form to the Head of the Supreme Council. Then he was obliged to place him on second reading rather than putting him in general. So please learn the Rules. And in fact, once again, the question is that instead of canceling what they say is slavery, they're actually proposing that we continue to leave slavery in another form only in this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-02-m0.u189	Siewakovsky is one minute, and we're moving on to making a decision. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-02-m0.u190	Dear Head, distinguished national MPs! First, just for the transcript, to make it clear that nothing was broken. According to part four of article 102 of the Supreme Council’s Rules of Procedure, the Supreme Council’s decision allows for the final adoption of the bill, in addition to draft codes and bills containing more than 100 articles, of the paragraphs immediately after the first or second reading, if the bill is recognized as not requiring further elaboration and if its content has not been noted by national deputies, other subjects of the law of the legal or expert unit of the Supreme Council. Since the Supreme Council Committee of Ukraine in the period since 26.04.2016, when the bill was received by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and by 06.10.2016, when the bill was submitted for consideration by the session hall, no suggestions and comments were received, nor was the conclusion of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Chief Scientific and Expert Office missing. It is therefore believed that Parliament had every reason to accept it.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-02-m0.u191	Please, 30 seconds, finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-02-m0.u192	in accordance with article 2 of the Rules. Next. We held a committee meeting, and the committee unanimously decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the outcome of the consideration of draft regulations 3312-d-P from 06 submitted by Deputy Lewchenk and submitted by 3312-d-P1 Shurma and Papiev to reject them. Dear colleagues, now I would like to remind you, please read the Higher Education Act, where you voted, the previous session voted for what. [[Unheard]]
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-02-m0.u193	Let's give it 30 seconds. Okay. Mr. Spiowakovsky, 30 seconds to go.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-02-m0.u194	I want to. I want to remind everyone that this last rudimentary of Soviet power, we should end it with him. And if you're saying that today, medical graduates who go to the village don't give them $200 or $300 to sign a free-placement certificate, that's not true. So, dear colleagues, we are solving a very important social issue, where every person has the right to free work, which is approved by the Constitution of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2016-11-02-m0.u195	Colleagues, the microphone was turned off, it wasn't part of the performance. Part of the talk was from the moment I gave the opportunity to continue. Colleagues, let's move on to making a decision. Colleagues, I gave my word to everyone who wanted to. Let's not cross the line anymore. Colleagues, I'm putting two orders in a row. First, I'm putting to the vote the draft Order repealing the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of 06.10.2016, 3312 d-P. Whoever supports this draft decision, please vote. Vote please, colleagues. [[14:07:11]] For-90 90 for. Declined. Next. Draft Decision repealing the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of 6 October 2016, 3212 d-P1 as a whole. Whoever supports this decision, please vote. Please vote. [[14:07:42]] For-57 57 for. The decision is not made. The decree is rejected. Both orders are rejected, colleagues. Thus, the law can take effect. We've exhausted the questions that we've had for the day. Thank you for your fruitful and constructive work, dear colleagues. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. I wish you a fruitful committee job. We finally accepted the schedule for the session. This opens the way for committee bills to be considered. I want a productive job. And tomorrow at 10 a.m., I invite everyone to continue our work. Happy birthday. At 3 p.m., there will be parliamentary hearings on the subject of "Tiny orientations of modern Ukrainian youth." And I invite everyone to participate in parliamentary hearings. Thank you.
