ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-14_U1	Good afternoon, honourable Riigikogu. Good afternoon, honourable Members of the Government. Let's start Riigikogu briefing. Checking for presence first, please! 43 members of the Riigikogu registered to be present, 58 missing. Today's Question Hour is attended by Prime Minister Taavi Rõivas, Minister of Enterprise Liisa Oviir and Minister of Justice Urmas Reinsalu. Eight questions have been previously registered, each of them has the possibility to ask one specific question and one question can also be asked from the floor.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-14_U2	Let's go! The first questioner is Kadri Simson, the question is for Prime Minister Taavi Kõivas. The subject is sovereign bonds. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-14_U3	Dear Taavi in the garment! Last year, the European Central Bank was known to launch the purchase of bonds on the secondary market. The central banks of all euro area countries, including Eesti Pank, participate in this programme. As we know, Estonia does not have its own bonds, so Eesti Pank participates in the whole process only as a buyer and directs tens of millions of euros each month to the economic recovery of other countries. Looking at Estonia's latest economic indicators, it feels like we need some stronger measure to bring the economy out of stagnation. For some reason, we do not take this opportunity to be used by all the other countries in the euro area, this is the issue of bonds to place money in important infrastructure objects. Has the Government of the Republic considered issuing government bonds to relaunch our economy? Perhaps even a concrete proposal has been discussed in the cabinet?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-14_U4	Thank you. The Prime Minister cannot assess whether the decision of the central bank at European level is correct or wrong. But it is true that the inflow of cheap money has been exceptionally high and has helped several countries to postpone their structural reforms. This has also led to the fact that the euro area countries' average debt burden as a percentage of GDP has increased by one and a half times as compared to the onset of the debt crisis. This is, in my opinion, a threat rather than a sign of joy. Also, the high debt burden will certainly not extend the business environment of any country and will not contribute to economic growth. Even the loan at the lowest interest rate will ultimately have to be repaid and the loan money spent today will be tomorrow's tax burden. It's worth remembering. As far as infra-investments are concerned, the government intends to do so. We have already allocated nearly EUR 200 million to make Rail Baltic a reality. This is the largest infra project ever in Estonia and the current government has made a number of important decisions so that it can be implemented. We have also set out the resources for this in the country's budgetary strategy. Infraprojects have recently also become financial cover for the electricity line between Estonia and Latvia, which costs nearly 200 million, the gas pipeline between Estonia and Finland, which also costs nearly 200 million, and, oh surprise, the current government is the first in the last 20 years, who has finally found funding for the much-spoken section of the Tartu highway Kose and Mäo. For this, too, there is money in the budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-14_U5	Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-14_U6	Thank you. Dear Taavi in the garment! The issue of government bonds has been under serious discussion in the past. For example, in 2001, Minister for Finance Siim Kallas came up with such a proposal and is now an official presidential candidate for your party. However, you are saying here that all the rest of the countries of the euro area are wrong and Estonia, oh, wonders, is making an eye for everyone here, yes, not in economic growth. Why do the rest of the countries use funds that Estonia does not use? Is this a mistake on their part?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-14_U7	As in other countries, Estonia has actually covered earlier deficits from various sources. We have mainly used the loan instead of the bonds, because the loan has been cheaper at these moments. In itself, the bond and loan as a financial instrument are completely comparable and you have to look at the apples which are cheaper to use at a certain point. We have to take into account that the size of the Estonian economy has low volumes and that the technical costs of issuing a bond, whether legal or other, can be disproportionate if this amount is not very high. That, too, must be taken into account. So once again: there is no loan and bond one better, the other worse. If both are needed to cover the deficit, you should look at the apples, which are more advantageous at the moment. There has been no deficit in Estonia during my government. On the contrary, all of these years.2014, 2015 and, according to current forecasts, the Estonian state budget has also been a small plus. We have managed the country in such a way that we come to the end and our children do not have to pay our debts. All the necessary investments, whether in roads or other infrastructure, be they hospitals, be it schools, we can do it. We only discussed yesterday with the Cabinet how much we can use the support of European funds. Today, I dare say that no major investment is waiting for money; rather, in the case of road investment, the bottleneck is not a lack of money, but a small design capacity. This design capability shall be increased as far as possible.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-14_U8	Thank you. Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-14_U9	Thank you, Mr President. Good Prime Minister! It is strange in itself that we do not have any objects to invest in. The neighbouring Latvians recently issued EUR 650 million of bonds with zero interest and a bond term of 20 years. And these bonds were marked over five times. These bonds are attractive and the neighbors have found objects to invest this money in. It is not, in itself, an indicator that our national budget is a small plus if there is no real growth. I ask why the Estonian state does not issue bonds or take loans. Isn't it the main reason that this is taking the state budget out of balance that we're not getting a loan?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-14_U10	Yeah, well, you've got that budget thing messed up like a Kört-Pärt shirt on Sunday morning. But let's try to figure this out. It is logical to borrow if the loan covers any expenditure greater than the revenue for the same period, i.e. the financial year. If the costs are higher than the revenues, then this automatically means deficit. Estonia has been managing for the last three years and, in fact, many years earlier, I would even say that most of the years since the restoration of independence have been managed in such a way that we are well balanced with our budget, or even in a small advantage. We do not have a deficit that needs to be covered by a loan. If we compare ourselves with Latvia, it must be said that the Latvian budget is in deficit with its current expenditure. The reason for this, according to many, is that the tax hole in Latvia is very much larger than in Estonia. The VAT hole in Latvia alone is higher than the defence costs of Estonia and Latvia. In Estonia, the VAT hole has fallen most rapidly throughout Europe in recent years: in 2014 alone, the VAT hole fell by 100 million euros. So if taxes are properly collected, if taxpayers and tax administrations work together well, then there is no need to live for the future. If we look at investment targets and if we compare investment as a percentage of GDP, we have no reason to be ashamed of any neighbour. On the contrary: Estonia invests significantly more as a percentage of GDP or as a percentage of the budget than our neighbours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-14_U11	Thank you. I will finish answering the first question.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-14_U12	The author of the second question is Raivo Põldaru. The question is addressed to Minister of Enterprise Liisa Oviir and the topic is finding new markets for Estonian agricultural production. Please, Raivo Põldaru!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-14_U13	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. Congratulations on the passing of the first year of ministering and on this issue. You've been abroad a lot this year. What kind of job-winners can you report on this anniversary?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-14_U14	Thank you, of course, for your congratulations. Thank you very much. Finding new markets for agricultural production in Estonia is, of course, the responsibility of the Ministry of Rural Affairs, according to the division of labour within the government. In the search for export markets in our field of activity, we are not focusing on finding markets for extra-agricultural products, but we are certainly not ruling them out. The export development programme "Made in Estonia 3.0" has been in place since 2008 and defines target markets regardless of the sector. They are divided into three parts: firstly, the neighbouring countries, which are primarily Latvia, Lithuania and Finland, and secondly, the Hanseatic countries, which, in addition to the Nordic countries, are three major markets, namely Germany, France, England, and thirdly, the more distant markets, namely China, Japan, India, the USA and Brazil. In all these directions, we work on various contact trips, state visits, mosses. We also provide training for companies to find export markets as well as to operate in export markets, as well as to develop their export plans. I believe that our export-oriented activities have been on average successful. The number of exporters has increased significantly. However, export volumes have not shown the growth we expect, which is why we have initiated a review of these target markets to determine whether they are even the most adequate in the current economic environment.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-14_U15	Raivo Põldaru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-14_U16	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. I still didn't hear anything specific. Can you name any useful opportunities for the Estonian state as a result of your work? This list, which was currently sounded, simply reflected activities. But what exactly has been achieved as a result of your work? Was there a market open? Did any of the companies find a place to sell the goods because of you? I expect you to be specific.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-14_U17	Once again, however, it would make sense to ask the Minister for Rural Affairs about agricultural products. I can give an example of various companies, including those related to the food industry. Last week, a company named Chaga signed a supply contract in Singapore. We basically have these winnings to show each month: export of wooden houses to China, etc. But it is very difficult to say that this is a victory for the work of a minister. If I have also been present at the conclusion of the agreement, I will still say that it is, above all, a job win for these companies. At the same time, it is also a job win for a country that has been able to open up some markets in a large number of markets with some kind of protection. And it's also a victory for a lot of people. So I can't say that this particular Chaga deal last week is kind of like an extra job win. However, when I was invited, they probably recognize my role in this. As far as agriculture is concerned, our work is not directly focused on agriculture, rather I look at exports more generally. One job win, which will certainly affect our agriculture, is that we have sent an export and investment representative to Singapore for the next two years. Account should be taken of the fact that Singapore itself means a market of 5.5 million, that it is surrounded by Indonesia and Malaysia are very large markets. They are also very clearly growing markets: the economy in this region has grown by an average of 5 to 7% per year. I believe that this is one of the winnings that you are looking for, and this will probably lead to quite good results in developing our exports in the future.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-14_U18	Jaak Madison, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-14_U19	Thank you, Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu. Good Minister, my congratulations on the year! I've heard words of praise about your work from here and there. The lives of many entrepreneurs have become easier. I'm glad to hear that. You argued that the Ministry of Rural Affairs was primarily engaged in the export of agricultural holdings. This is absolutely right, but there is little cooperation, little communication between the two ministries, little support for each other. Do you think there is anything lacking in cooperation with the Ministry of Rural Affairs and the Minister for Rural Affairs? Would it require more attention? Farms, especially the dairy sector, are currently hit very hard in the Estonian economy. We also have a former Minister of Enterprise in this Chamber, whose office freed up a very large Japanese market for export. It was very signicant. Either your ministry or the Ministry of Rural Affairs should pay more attention to greater cooperation.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-14_U20	Thank you for your congratulations and your good words. I think this cooperation is actually pretty good. I am pleased to say that the dairy sector in particular, but the agricultural sector at all, trusts both ministries, communicates with us. A round table is to be convened under the leadership of the agricultural sector and in cooperation with the Ministry of Rural Affairs, where we want to discuss precisely the export problems of the dairy sector. This also shows, in fact, that both the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications and the Ministry of Rural Affairs have very good and effective cooperation with the sector. Both partners can only be thanked for this.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-14_U21	I will stop answering that question.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-14_U22	The next question is the payment of excise money to Prime Minister Taavi Clothe to Latvia. Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-14_U23	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! The first introductory question is how you have assessed this excise policy, which you defended as a cluster bill that became infamous here just over a year ago and then implemented as a law. After all, it is no secret that alcohol producers believe that 15 to 20 million excise duties and VAT will be lost. That's what the fuel dealers say. Even if umbrella organisations in these areas may overestimate this amount, there is no way to say that there is no problem. Estonian money is simply moving to Latvia. What adjustments are you making or are you planning to make in the field of excise duty?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-14_U24	Thank you. Let's face the facts together. Alcohol producers have been able to generate a very large amount of media noise, and for this they must certainly be commended. They have managed to give the impression that the cheap price of a bottle of vodka is a human right. Despite all this, excise duties have actually been very well received. Let's face the facts. Eight months in total, all excise duties have been collected 11% more than at the same time of the previous year. Compared to the 2016 budget, we are in surplus with EUR 19 million as of August. When budgeting, the forecasts were much more modest than they were actually collected. Alcohol excise has been received in eight months by 14.6% more than a year ago. Compared to this year's budget, we are in surplus with an alcohol duty of EUR 7 million alone. The budget forecast has already taken into account that consumption is decreasing, so we can say that excise policy clearly serves its purpose. If you are interested in motor fuel, this excise duty will be 14% higher than in eight months of last year, and we will be ahead of EUR 8 million for the budget. I would encourage all Members of Parliament in their debates to draw more on real facts, to draw on the real numbers that the Tax and Customs Board makes available to us all. We should not go along with the lobby messages of alcohol producers and become their voicepiece. Of course, they have their own interests. Let us think, however, of the state's position, not only in the context of budget receipts, but also of whether it is not the right way to promote public health that people consume less alcohol and tobacco. According to my memory, when making the coalition agreement, the Free Party was also in favour of raising both excise duties on alcohol and tobacco in Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-14_U25	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-14_U26	Thank you. Mr. Prime Minister! I think you're wrong in quite a number of ways. I did not really ask how much excise duty would be collected, but how much it would be lost in connection with this race. When it comes to public health, when it is bought a lot in Latvia, unfortunately, it also consumes more. So that's what I think you're going to have to do with this health problem. But my second question is that heavy fuel oil excise is much lower than diesel. The motivation to mix it with diesel and to cheat in this way is pretty big. When will the government deal with this problem, and how will it be resolved?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-14_U27	Thank you. With this fuel oil issue, the Minister of Finance has also come to the government and received positive feedback. When exactly is he going to make this change, you have to ask him. I believe that this is an issue that needs to be addressed in precisely the context that the final price of diesel should reflect a similar taxation of these components. I didn't exactly know where you were going when you said I was wrong in many ways. I've read you the facts I've been given at the Tax and Customs Board. If you say that the data of the Tax and Customs Board is incorrect, it gives you the obligation to prove that these are lies, and also to say what the correct numbers are. You assume I'm wrong, I think not. If we look at the data of the Institute of Economics, they unambiguously reflect that both in previous years and this year there is a decrease in alcohol consumption and that consumption is not only correlated with the quantity of alcohol purchased from Estonia. Consumption analyses take into account both the fact that a large part of the alcohol produced in Estonia or the alcohol sold in Estonia moves to Finland and the fact that the small part is significantly smaller than the one that moves from Estonia to Finland is imported from Latvia. In view of all this, the Conjuncture Institute considers total alcohol consumption to be on a declining trend. This has been a clear objective of excise policy. I think that an excise policy in which the consumption of a harmful product, be it alcohol or tobacco, is attempted to reduce step by step is, in itself, correct, and in very many ways. This also reduces the pressure on the cost of the health insurance fund, we know that a very large proportion of serious diseases are directly linked to excessive alcohol consumption and smoking.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-14_U28	I'm sorry, Andres Herkel, but since there are eight registered questioners today, we agreed at first that every person who asked could ask one more question to each of the respondents. Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-14_U29	Thank you, Honourable Chairman. Honorable Prime Minister! Your reference to the monthly coalition negotiations reminded me of the fact that, at that time, you promised to communicate with your Finnish and Latvian counterparts on excise duty issues at the same table. Could you briefly report on how this communication has succeeded and what we know about the future of the excise policy in neighbouring countries?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-14_U30	Thank you. Indeed, I have repeatedly been in contact with both Finland and Latvia's previous Prime Minister, as well as with the current Prime Minister in both countries. We have also talked about excise policy. In Latvia, excise increases have so far been considerably more modest than in Estonia. For my part, I have given as much advice as it is polite to advise other countries so that Latvia's excise policy can go hand in hand with ours. We'll see. The budget for next year is still in work in Latvia. When we look at these cross-border movements, I suggest that you read today's newspapers, both a editorial from the Estonian Express and an article about Postimees. They describe very nicely and very soberly how favorable it is to actually go to Latvia to buy alcohol. I also suggest that we look at the fact that, for some reason, the price difference between Estonia and Latvia is much greater than the difference between excise duties. If we take, for example, the price of a half-litre bottle of wine without taxes, then in Estonia it is more than 20%, i.e. about 2.3 euros more expensive than in Latvia, where it costs 1.85 euros without taxes. Consequently, the question is also that Latvian merchants have found the opportunity to sell the goods at a lower margin or have been able to supply themselves more favourably. In any event, a very significant part of this price difference is in fact not related to excise duty or VAT at all, but is due to other factors. More specifically, part of the taxes that apply to alcohol are higher in Latvia. For example, VAT is known to be 21% in Latvia and 20% in Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-14_U31	Thank you. I will stop answering that question.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-14_U32	The next question is from Mikhail Korb to Minister of Enterprise Liisa Oviir on export of dairy products. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-14_U33	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. I would like to continue from the same place where colleagues stopped and ask about the export of dairy products in Estonia. Why are we asking you this? The former Minister of Business made it very clear to us that his ministry was also responsible for increasing the export of dairy products, and he also took quite a number of steps to this end and achieved good results as reflected in certain transactions. I am also asking specifically what your achievements in increasing exports of dairy products are and what are the prospects in this area.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-14_U34	Thank you. I very much welcome the work of Minister of Enterprise Anne Sulling. This was very much support for the dairy sector in this very difficult situation. However, if this was not clear before, I repeat that I certainly do not rule out the fact that the Minister of Enterprise is, among other things, engaged in facilitating the export of dairy products. But the function of the Minister of Enterprise is to achieve overall export growth, it covers many areas. Specific agricultural products are dealt with by the Ministry of Rural Affairs. And there is an agreement in the government's work programme that the same sector will not receive different grants from several sides. At the same time, the signature of milk protocols with China will remain in the recent past, which means that the Chinese market is also open to Estonia. China is the largest consumer of dairy products. We have very high hopes in this respect, and thanks to this step, we can also see a significantly greater interest in this market in the dairy sector. Both this year and the new year, a number of contact trips and joint events at trade fairs are planned at the request of the sector, namely in China. So we are looking more and more towards Asia, and I believe that the Chinese market could largely replace the lost Russian market.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-14_U35	Mikhail Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-14_U36	Thank you for your answer. For my part, I would point out that we have well understood that the Ministry of Rural Affairs is working to ensure that this industry is competitive and offers competitive prices. I would like to know from you how our milk production is being promoted. This message, which you have now passed on, is a very positive one when it comes to concluding an agreement with China. Can you tell me a little more about this? I'm interested in the deadlines and the volumes we're talking about.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-14_U37	Thank you. I did refer to a transnational agreement simply opening up the market. Specific contracts between businesses are already the work of entrepreneurs. The state can support entrepreneurs in this particular work, and that is what we have done. We have done so by organising short export trainings, where we provide exporters with the necessary know-hows, at the moment the programme for upgrading the qualifications of export managers is being launched. We also organise contact trips already mentioned, participation in food fairs, these things are all in the works, and they will help us find new contacts and possible contractual partners for the exporters. However, it is up to the companies to conclude the contracts in concrete terms. What else has the country come to help with? In China, too, we have an export adviser, or person, who knows this market and is also willing to help businesses in the process of concluding contracts. This whole arch is covered, we're there all the time, but the main player is the company that has to achieve the result. The same is true for Japan. The company must comply with the standards set by the country of destination with its products. In this respect, the Estonian state, I think, has done everything in the direction of China that is possible. Transnational relations have been particularly developed since 2014 and what has been achieved in two years is a pretty good result for such a large country. Now these are the smaller-scale activities with which we support our businesses.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-14_U38	Thank you. Excuse me, Mikhail Korb, every basic questioner has the opportunity to ask a very specific question today. I will stop answering that question.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-14_U39	The next questioner is Jüri Adams. This is about Prime Minister Taavi Rõivas, and it is about which drafts for strengthening democracy are coming to the Riigikogu. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-14_U40	Mr. Prime Minister! The Free Party came from the Riigikogu partly because we criticised the various aspects of the Estonian political system, which we consider incomplete or false. Recently, I came across quite a long, 40-page material prepared by the Ministry of Justice from this field called 'Political System Analysis'. Here the introduction suggests that there are several points in your government's programme from the same area. My question is: could there be any draft clarification or amendment of the political system from the government on the basis of this analysis? What can we expect in this area in the near future?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-14_U41	Thank you. For starters, things are pretty good with democracy in Estonia. But that doesn't mean you don't have to strive for even better. As you well remember, a year and a half ago, when we created a government alliance, we agreed on a series of activities, some of which have already been carried out. For example, the fact that young people at least 16 years of age can also participate in local elections, as well as the possibility for members of the Riigikogu to participate in the work of local government. We have written these tasks together with deadlines into the work plan of the Government of the Republic, namely from 4.31 and 4.39 to 4.39. And since we're also doing the quarterly report, we have a nice record of what stage these undertakings are and who exactly is responsible. In accordance with good practice, the government has proposed to amend the relevant drafts in Parliament's committees and then in plenary on those matters which require a decision by Parliament and concern the organisation of Parliament's work. The government itself will not interfere in these matters. But really, you were right to point out that we have a few things at work that are government or ministerial tasks. One point on the work plan has been submitted to the Cabinet by the Minister of Justice to my knowledge for discussion. But the state of affairs of the cabinet is that September has been booked in the lion's section to discuss the state budget, and we also have extraordinary cabinet sessions. When the budget for the government gets done in September, we will be working on all the other issues. So a little patience, these things will definitely come to a discussion in the government.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-14_U42	George Adams, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-14_U43	Mr. Prime Minister! The main difference between our positions is that I think things are very bad with the Estonian political system. I have so understood the officials of the Ministry of Justice that they would be prepared to start work in these areas if they were ordered to deal with it. Maybe you're so nice and you're ordering the Minister of Justice to get this job going.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-14_U44	As has been said, this arrangement has actually been made through the government's work plan. It's a perfectly adequate arrangement. It is now up to the Minister to bring them before the government, and the government will discuss them according to the order of their duties. Indeed, we have a lot of things that we have done at once. There are a lot of things to decide every week. Once again, in September, the lion spends most of his time on the budget, so it has been in all years. Therefore, the following issues can be addressed at the earliest in October. As far as your assessment of Estonia's democracy and parliamentary order is concerned, I think it is very well enough that the majority of the opinion of the Estonian people is represented in the parliament of the Republic of Estonia. A very small number of people voted in favour of parties or individual candidates who were ultimately not represented in Parliament. I think that the fact that there are six political parties in Parliament is also a sign of the strength of the parliamentary state and certainly not of weakness. If there are any weaknesses in our political system, it is the failure of the President-elect in Parliament, as the President of the Republic pointed out. Maybe it's a rock in our joint cabbage garden. Here, too, we need to think about whether the parties should think of themselves as a lock from the end to the end and be prepared to support only one candidate, or whether all parties should have room to find compromises instead of voting completely empty. It's worth thinking about.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-14_U45	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-14_U46	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! When you dealt with one of the previous questions, you asked me what you were wrong about, but I could no longer answer. I am telling you that you are quite consistently wrong in the fact that you are not quite answering the question that has been asked, but talking about something else. This is probably also because you and our understanding of the democratic package is quite different. Jüri Adams shoved me against the elbow here and said that please tell the Prime Minister that Mr Adams invites him to the debate on the issues of Estonian democracy. These perceptions are obviously different. I therefore ask whether you accept this invitation. And as far as this Ministry of Justice document is concerned, is it now the custom of this government to produce empty documents that your party's group does not want to take as direction in the Riigikogu in any way, and what is it that just dies like that?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-14_U47	Thank you. If you want a very precise answer, which is the state of play of these proposals for strengthening parliamentary democracy, I am prepared to send you an extract from the work plan and the implementation of the work plan in writing. There's no secret, it's a completely public document. I'd rather not spend any of your other colleagues' time here reading this public document on this board. As far as debates are concerned, as far as possible, you can still take part in debates, but I think this Question Time is also a debate format. In any case, I remain with myself that Estonia's democracy is very strong. Various international comparisons have also shown this. By the way, if we look at how Estonia has gone in the last few years, it can be said that Estonia improved its position in the calculation of open government in comparison to 2014 more than all other OECD countries. One might say that there was a significant shift in the new government's arrival. If I remember correctly, Estonia improved its place by 22 places among 33 people. Show me the index that says we've evolved even faster! So we don't have to put our country down at all. We have free elections, we have every resident's right and opportunity to have a say. We have one of the most free media in the world. We're at the absolute forefront. We have a free parliamentary debate. By the way, also such a small detail that we are completely accustomed to in Estonia: the Prime Minister is at least once a week and actually several times more available to all journalists who wish, and answer any question, without any precensorship. This, too, is, in my opinion, a sign of democracy, and I intend to abide by this practice as long as I have this profession.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-14_U48	Thank you. We will stop dealing with the strengthening of democracy.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-14_U49	Let's move on to healthcare funding. The questioner is Marika Tuus-Laul, answers Prime Minister Taavi Rõivas. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-14_U50	Mr Prime Minister! The financing of health care is quite acutely on the agenda. I am interested in the longer term perspective of this funding, not in the current situation and in the current debt. From eight to ten years ago, Praxis argued that our health care was not sustainable as such. The National Audit Office and the World Health Organisation have also paid attention to this. The demographic situation is such that our population is ageing, little children are born. In addition, health care is constantly becoming more expensive, with inflation in this area higher than in other areas. We don't come out with our money, we have to get more healthcare money from somewhere, or we have to get some of the expenses out of the medical money line. This was confirmed by the WHO. In your hands, the Reform Party has been holding this ministerial portfolio for a long time, Mr Kruuse, Mr Pevkur, you yourself, why has this problem not been addressed before? And are you currently supporting the proposals of the Health Insurance Fund?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-14_U51	Thank you. First of all, as has become good practice, there were some factual errors in your question, including the indication that the number of children has fallen. On the contrary, the latest data from August this year showed that 195 children were born in Estonia more than last year. The wrong assumptions are one of the problems why the Health Insurance Fund has gone so far in the first half of this year. I am saying that it will not be possible to look far into the future until we understand where the big mistakes are. If even half a year cannot be foreseen by the Health Insurance Fund and misses so much with a forecast, it can be expected how large the amplitudes will arise between these forecasts and the reality in a ten-year perspective. Let me give you a few examples. Very much has been said about the fact that demographic trends are negative in the long view, and there is indeed a long view. But there's something going on in one year that people suddenly get so old in one year that they need a lot more service than that, it probably doesn't make sense. And the fact that in one year, half a year, you need to spend 30 million more now, because the demographic process has been something that has not been demonstrated in previous years, probably doesn't sound like it. In my opinion, it is extremely strange that, when making this year's budget, the Health Insurance Fund forecast that the need for both outpatient and inpatient treatment in Estonia will decrease this year. Where did they get such a prognosis? I don't understand it. If the demographic situation deteriorates, the need for treatment should increase, not the other way around, but a decrease is predicted. Also, despite the fact that we actually have an increase in wages of 6% per year, the Health Insurance Fund has predicted that this year's sickness benefit money will be 2% less than last year. Doesn't make any sense either. So we still have to achieve first order not to make such major prediction errors, which I dare to call big logic errors...
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-14_U52	Thank you, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-14_U53	If wages increase by 6%, show the logic that sickness benefits cost 2% less.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-14_U54	Marika Tuus-Laul, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-14_U55	Thank you. You do understand demographics in your own way. If more children are born today, the results will only support us in 20 years' time. So there's nothing to talk about. But the question is what is the situation in health care right now. You know that. We can no longer do without additional resources. We can't squeeze in there where there's nothing to squeeze in. Yesterday, various rankings were published again in the newspapers. We are the first in the ranking with the Czech Republic, which shows that we spend the least money on health care. Estonia can no longer save; our health care is already so cost effective. Yesterday, it turned out in the Commission that the Minister for Finance did not support the proposals to raise money from elsewhere and was going back on the path of increasing ownership. The Chairman of the Social Affairs Committee, Aivar Kokk, also said here that we should still look at the visits and bed rates. The Minister of Finance has said so. It has also been considered that there may be a need to reduce the number of treatment cases. Please tell me where we're gonna get that extra money! The queues are already very long and often people are not queued at all.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-14_U56	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind you that there is one minute to ask and two minutes for the Minister to answer. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-14_U57	Thank you very much. I very much believe that, from a far-reaching perspective, we should have the opportunity to find additional health benefits. But before we can talk about a lot of extra money for the Health Insurance Fund, we need to clean up the room. I do not believe that when we are responsible for the use of taxpayers' money, we want to give more money to an institution that manages so broad a line. Every institution, be it a school, be it the Chancellery of the Riigikogu, be it a hospital, must manage within a given budget, because taxpayers' money is used. The rule is that taxpayers' money must be able to read more carefully than their own personal money. If someone gets the budget allocated by Parliament, not by the government, and goes over it with several tens of million and says that the ups did not even notice, I do not think that this can be good management. By the way, the Health Insurance Fund has not crossed the border only in those parts of the job where it is very wrong and very illogically predicted. The cost of overspending is very high in many areas, starting with labour costs and ending with IT costs. Development costs and other operating costs are also very high. So this is a cross-cutting line that has been spent more than the budget has foreseen. Such management, no matter how sensitive the budget is or no matter how sensitive the area is, cannot simply be tolerated. Taxpayer's money must be used prudently in all areas. That's the rule.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-14_U58	Thank you. Sorry, Marika Tuus-Laul! Today, each of the main questioners will be able to ask one further question. Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-14_U59	Thank you, manager. Prime Minister! I am asking about the budgetary balance. The loan does not directly affect the budgetary balance, but the costs associated with the loan do affect it. There's no reason to say otherwise. But that's it. My question is about the Health Insurance Fund and the Unemployment Insurance Fund. Why is the state budget balanced with the money of the sickness fund and the unemployment fund? The unemployment fund is known to have a reserve of over EUR 600 million, which is essentially money that has left the economy. This could boost the Estonian economy. Isn't that public deception? Why is the sickness fund and unemployment fund money used to balance the budget?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-14_U60	Thank you. You are right that the loan itself does not create a deficit. Deficiencies arise when the loan covers expenditure. The general rule, however, is that there's not much point in borrowing into the side of your stockings just like that. Even if the interest cost seems very low, there must be a plan to start with this money. That's one. Secondly, the argument that the health insurance fund's reserves keep the state budget in balance is not true. Let's not mess up the budget and reserves! Yeah, well, the Health Insurance Fund has reserves to cover future deficits. Today, in the first half of 2016 alone, we have reached a situation where about one third of these reserves are to be spent in six months. This is a very serious problem. The budget of the Health Insurance Fund, as such, is also in deficit, judging by the limit that Parliament has promised the Health Insurance Fund. So the Health Insurance Fund is going to bet the national budget's aggregate picture with a minus, not a plus, and that's even if we're going to bet on this number. This 33 million, which has caused a great deal of controversy here, and I think, for a reason, is an additional minus, and this puts the other costs of the state budget under very strong pressure. In general, in the government, we are discussing important investments by a million euros, sometimes even by a few hundred thousand euros, significant costs. Kalev Stadium, for example, needs about seven million euros in three years. Now we've created 33 million minus at the Health Insurance Fund in six months. So I believe that the financial management of the sickness fund needs to be substantially improved. I mean, one state-funded institution can manage with an open bill, I can't afford it.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-14_U61	Thank you. I will stop answering that question.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-14_U62	Let's keep going. The seventh question is Krista Arult to the Minister of Entrepreneurship, Liisa Oviir, on developments in the business environment.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-14_U63	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Minister! Your area of responsibility is diverse, very passionate and, at the same time, very attractive. I recalled your words at the press conference on 19 May that it is important for the development of the business environment to deal with exports, product development, it is important that our businesses are bolder and more risky, and that industry should be digitised. What is the level of digitalisation of the Estonian industry compared to its neighbours, and what and how can the state contribute here?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-14_U64	Thank you. Yes, it is true that all of this is in my portfolio. Exports are very important. Obviously, exports are most important for a country the size of Estonia. However, exports are very clear in terms of industry, two thirds of our exports are precisely industrial production. From there, too, this particular interest in dealing with industry. There has been no industrial policy in re-independence in Estonia, the industrial situation has not been observed or mapped, and that is what we are currently dealing with. The initial Industrial Policy Strategy Paper has been completed and is waiting for a meeting of the Cabinet to be held to discuss it together. There's a mapped-out situation where we are now and set directions for the future. One of the most important objectives is the digitisation of industry, which is in fact the dominant direction around the world. In this respect, Germany has set an example with its strategy 'Industrie 4.0'. We want to go in the same direction. I believe we are among the strong centres now, but there are many opportunities for development. Given that we have labour shortages rather than unemployment, digitisation and automation can be a very good solution. We have come up with the appropriate measures. We have also requested money from Norway to support digitalisation by the state. And there are other measures since the implementation of the OSA system and cooperation with universities in the development of science. The National Start-up Estonia programme is focused on finding a good balance between start-ups and our industry. So the industry is clearly the focus of this autumn.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-14_U65	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-14_U66	Thank you. We also have a growth strategy for Estonian entrepreneurship until 2020. There are many metrics and indicators, and all of them should show how our business environment is getting better and better. At the same time, as a country, we have a clear course of action, the Prime Minister has also stressed, in characterising this research and development, that we are no longer the land of cheap labour. However, in order for all these indicators and indicators to confirm its progress, we need substantial foreign investment in R &amp; D. In 2016, has there also been substantial investment in the Estonian economy, including entrepreneurship, in R &amp; D and innovation?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-14_U67	Thank you. Yeah, these meters are very different. In the case of industry, the most important objective is perhaps to reach an 80% European average value added in the manufacturing industry by 2020. At present, it is still around 69%. We have based this objective on the development of all these measures. As far as investments are concerned, the answer depends on whether you were thinking primarily of private investment or public investment. In the private sector, these investments are being made quite constantly. But there are also quite a number of investments that are on hold, particularly because the environment for investment is currently a bit sensitive and waiting across Europe. It's Brexi's part of it. What are we gonna do for this? Much depends on this month's negotiations, but now the hopes are high that next year we will be able to launch for the first time a support measure by the state of the big investor, which is designed to bring greater industrial investments to Estonia. The most important thing for this measure is that it is expected to be not labour-intensive but capital-intensive. Hopefully, this will allow for high added value and the jobs created will have a higher wage than the average wage. So the country has taken a very clear direction that we are going to help to bring these investments into Estonia. This, in my opinion, is also extremely important because all our closest neighbours are doing the same. I am very pleased that the interest in this future measure is already very high. A number of companies have asked us specific questions about this. I think we have a pretty long bench to actually choose from.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-14_U68	Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-14_U69	Honourable President! Honorable Minister! In order to develop the business environment, the government has on several occasions promised to simplify the accountability of businesses. It is permissible to simplify accounting, to make reporting obligations dependent on the size of the company's turnover and similar. How far is all this going to go? What results have already been achieved?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-14_U70	Thank you. There are quite a few projects at work that I am very happy to talk about. One of the very important aspects of the work of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications is the development of user-friendly integrated digital solutions, which facilitates, in particular, work in smaller companies with much less administrative resources. A report 3.0 project has also been launched in cooperation with the Tax and Customs Board, which allows automatic data transfer and exempts the company from collecting data. The objective is that from 2020 onwards, the company will no longer have to submit the tax return itself once it has authorised it and if it meets certain conditions. As a result, a lot of time resources should be released. The most important, however, is the zero bureaucracy project, which has been developed in cooperation with four ministers. First, information was collected from the market or sectors on the bureaucratic habits of ministries and officials that could be removed. We received several hundred proposals, 208 of which have already been approved, or they will go to work. We can either reduce or eliminate certain reporting obligations so that companies can carry out their basic function, or entrepreneurship. Currently, 80% of all proposals have been accepted. Of course, this whole period, which is actually going to redefine this environment, is a little longer. It takes time to simplify these things, but the initial harvest is done, the course is set, and I believe that this will bring quite a relief to our companies.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-14_U71	Thank you. I apologise to my colleague, Jaanus Karilaid, for not being able to ask his question. But thank you to all the questioners! Thank you to the ministers. Question Time is over.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-14_U72	Good afternoon, honourable Riigikogu. We will begin the session of the 4th plenary session of the Riigikogu on Wednesday 1st working week. First of all, there is the possibility of transferring drafts and enquiries. Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-14_U73	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the Central Party Group, I am handing over the draft law amending the Social Tax Act, the Income Tax Act and other laws. The draft cluster law with the same name was handed over to the Riigikogu last year by the Government of the Republic. It was adopted as a law, and seven existing laws were amended at the same time. Among other things, this point was adopted on the basis of which the following year...
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-14_U74	Colleagues, attention!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-14_U75	... social tax by half a percentage point and the following year by a percentage point. Our proposal is to cancel these reductions next year and the year after, and so the amendment that we have proposed would have a positive impact on the draft. The reduction in the social tax rate from 2017 would remove EUR 33.8 million from the budget next year, with an impact of EUR 86 million for the next year. The reduction in income due to the reduction in the social tax rate would have been compensated for by the other incomes of the state budget, but we know that the health insurance fund needs other support anyway, because the health insurance fund had a budget for the last two years and is also in deficit both this year and next year. It should be borne in mind that, while social tax will not be reduced by half a percentage when approving our draft, this reduction has not even been approved by the Estonian Taxpayers' Association, who is of the opinion that the reduction in social tax to this extent does not give employers enough effect to create new jobs or carry out structural reforms in the economy. The Union also shares the view of economic operators who find it embarrassing to obtain a half-per cent tax reduction, leading to an increase in excise duties on fuel and an increase in the VAT rate for accommodation establishments. These steps will damage the Estonian economy and make many people's livelihood worse, so that the half-per cent reduction in social tax needed to compensate will lose its effect. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-14_U76	Monika Haukanõmm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-14_U77	Thank you, Mr President. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! I have the honour to question the Minister for Social Protection, Margus Tsahkna, on behalf of eight members of the Free Party Group, regarding the organisation of the work of Valkla Home and the security of the community. The largest institution in Estonia offering special care is the state-owned AS Hoolekandeteenused, which also provides the service at Valkla Kodu. Valkla Kodu is the only institution in Estonia that offers special care to adults with special psychiatric needs on a 24-hour basis, by court decree. They deal with those in the care of those who are dangerous to themselves or others. For years, Valkla Home has had problems with how to ensure that dangerous customers remain in the premises and premises of the institution. Unfortunately, since 2013, the Valkla community has been living in a climate of fear and insecurity quite constantly, because the wards who escaped the race have startled and attacked people and also abused foreign property. That is why we want to know what the state, together with AS, has done to ensure that the customers stay where they need to be, what the state envisages the future of Valkla Home and where it would be best to provide the necessary services to these people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-14_U78	On behalf of the Board of the Riigikogu, I have adopted one bill and one inquiry. The Management Board shall process them in accordance with the Home and Working Procedures Act. Ladies and gentlemen, presence check. 82 members of the Riigikogu registered as present, missing 19.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-14_U79	Let's go to today's agenda. There is one item on the agenda: First reading of the draft law 258 on the amendment of the matrimonial property register law initiated by the Government of the Republic and the related amendment of other laws. Minister of Justice Urmas Reinsalu, please waitress!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-14_U80	Honorable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Good people's representation! Allow me to wish you a beautiful start to the parliamentary season. This law is intended to provide additional legal protection in certain activities and property relations, as well as to remove bureaucratic burdens. So the goals are very commendable. The matrimonial property register is a register in which the spouses' matrimonial property rights are entered in the matrimonial property agreement and, in the cases provided for by law, other property rights are entered. The matrimonial property register shall be kept electronically from April of the previous year and all registration cards shall be publicly available electronically. The purpose of this disclosure is to enable third parties to obtain information on the property relationships between spouses and the rights and obligations arising therefrom. The current situation is that the assistant judges make entries in the register on the basis of a notarial statement of the spouses or, in the cases provided for by law, on the basis of a notification by a civil status officer or notary. There is a problem that communications are transmitted to the Real Estate Department by unsafe channels. In general, our judicial system is electronic, allowing documents to be forwarded to the court in the course of legal proceedings through a public e-file and making the courts' work more efficient. However, notifications concerning entries in the matrimonial property register shall be sent by e-mail. It's not a safe solution. Since both notaries and civil status officers have information systems in place to record both marriages and matrimonial property agreements, the draft aims to enable notaries and civil status officers to start transmitting data and documents by means of information systems when creating the necessary services. In addition to the security issue, the procedures for marriage and the resulting property relationships are fragmented according to the current regulation. The competence to carry out the various stages of the procedure has been divided between judges' assistants, notaries and civil status officers. In essence, the entire marriage procedure takes place in a single institution, but entries in the matrimonial property register relating to marriage are made by the Real Estate Department of the Court on the basis of the information provided. This is accompanied by a serious problem of double processing of data and thus a double workload. In particular, when the appointment of a judge's assistant is made, it is necessary to verify in essence the exact data already verified by the notary or civil status officer. In addition to this problem of double work, the issue of the regularity and timeliness of data arises because, when it comes to a double system, the data will inevitably be delayed in the register, depending not only on the civil status officer's activities but also on the proceedings in the real estate department. Therefore, the aim of the draft is to prevent double processing of data, to ensure secure data exchange between registers and to improve the efficiency of working processes. This legislation transfers the competence to enter in the matrimonial property register from assistant judges to civil status officers and notaries. After the changes have been made, civil status officials and notaries can start to transfer data directly to the matrimonial property register via the Population Register and e-notary. Since according to the current regulation, the entries in the matrimonial property register are made by the judge's assistants working in the Real Estate Department of the Tartu County Court, it is logical that the management of the bill is included in the plan to give the registration also to the Real Estate Department of the Tartu County Court. Upon transfer of the title, the real estate department loses a direct link to the matrimonial property register, so the government took the view that it would be unreasonable if the real estate department of Tartu County Court remained the keeper of the register. With the aim of reducing the state's costs of maintaining the registers, the whole of the matrimonial property register and the role of the controller will be transferred to the Notary Chamber in the future. This draft provides for the amendment of several laws, for example, that if a state fee was previously charged for certain activities, then a notary fee would be charged in the future. This also requires the amendment of the State Fees Act. The relevant drafts have been submitted to Parliament as a whole. The Government's request is to enforce this law, not in general terms, but in such a way as to allow the necessary technical changes to be made, including the reconstruction of information systems. The law is intended to enter into force on 1 March 2018. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-14_U81	Thank you, Minister. You have questions too. Thomas Vitsu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-14_U82	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. In the view of the Notaries' Chamber, in addition to the matrimonial property agreement of the spouses, the property rights included in the partnership agreement of the partners should also be entered in the register. It follows that the Notari Koda is of the opinion that, regardless of whether or not implementing legislation on the Law on Partnerships has been adopted in the Riigikogu, these transactions should be entered in the register. The real estate department of the Tartu County Court is currently preventing this, but after the amendment of the law, this obstacle disappears. Do you intend to resolve all matters relating to the implementing legislation of the Cohabitation Act in the same way in the future?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-14_U83	No, I'm not. The Real Estate Department of Tartu County Court behaves impeccablely, acting in accordance with the meaning and provision of the law in force. This must be the guiding principle of the whole legal system: to respect existing law, to implement the will of the legislator. As regards the property relationships arising from the partnership agreement and other relationships between persons, which have now been regulated by some 30 couples, this is the relationship between persons. Relations with public authorities, including the way in which public authorities deal with the consequences of cohabitation contracts and the rights of these people in the sphere of subjective public rights, have been chosen by the legislator within the previous Parliament to regulate the implementing acts of the Cohabitation Act. I don't think that legal technique was impeccable. Moreover, this was, in my opinion, a step to increase legal confusion and uncertainty. At present, however, matters relating to the Cohabitation Act are not regulated in any way, and what the notaries will do in the future will still be determined by law and acts adopted on the basis thereof. The latter are guided by the provision and meaning of the current law.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-14_U84	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-14_U85	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good minister! I have two questions. When we spoke to you about the fine rates, I made this observation that when we talk about the financial year, it will be read from January to December. So you wanted to make changes from 1 March and now you want to make them from 1 March 2018. Instead of state fees, you have to pay the notaries' fee. Why are you still using the same scheme, even though you promised to consider it? It would be logical to take into account the various changes in national budget receipts from the financial year to the financial year. And the second question is that the Real Estate Department is now going to lose all the registration transactions. If the divorce results in the division of property, they must address the Chamber of Notaries. What consideration was given to the fact that the real estate department did not have the option of clicking on a couple in the event of divorce?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-14_U86	Thank you. This logic is based on the fact that, as I pointed out, these operations are currently sprayed between different institutions. And the choice was made in favour of keeping this register, these operations being given notary jurisdiction. The central institution responsible for this is the House of Notaries. The fact is that there are other options ahead, including with regard to administrative reform. The majority of civil status officials are known to be officials of rural governments, except in the city of Tallinn, where this competence has been conferred on the officials of the city administration by an administrative contract. In the future, depending on the choices made by the national regional administration, it will be up to us to decide how these things will be organised. There is a debate in the government on how the competence to perform civil status procedures is shared, and no final views have been expressed. My own inner understanding, when I look at the general direction of state reform, is this. Estonia is small on its scale. Our people are large in spirit, but unfortunately not in numbers. This means that it is reasonable to assign public tasks which the State does not necessarily have to perform to other public tasks which would do so as a free professional activity. I myself would consider two options in the future: whether to expand the possibility that local authorities will do this work on the basis of administrative contracts ♪ in the city of Tallinn this is the case and, in fact, it will be manageable, there have been no disruptions, as far as I know, or to hand over to the notaries the civil status procedures of the current civil status office that are currently being carried out by the officials of the county administration. But it's a question of great choice for the future. Now, why from March 1st. Indeed, this change is about who will benefit from these operations. Previously it was a state fee, then it will be replaced by a notary fee. The whole notary fee in philosophy is that the notary gets bread on the table for the operations he does. When we gave up the state fee, we analysed whether notaries could, figuratively speaking, be overpaid if they could charge for these operations. In general, this whole package of operations currently accounts for 3 to 5% of the workload of judicial assistance, and it can be said that in essence, the state fee is paid to carry out this work. I don't see any additional revenue for notaries or country in the hole. In financial terms, these changes do not have such a major economic impact that problems could arise in the adoption of the state budget. The logic of 1 March comes from a purely operational perspective. We wanted to make the change as soon as possible, but to give time for the transition to the new system. When the parliamentary procedure reaches the conviction of the Riigikogu, I am sure that the Committee on Legal Affairs will also invite people from the Chamber of Notaries and the Information Systems Centre of the State, who should be the institution implementing the information system, in order to be able to do it earlier or vice versa, there is a concern that implementation will be too quick and will not be completed before 1 January 2019, both roads will certainly be acceptable. If you choose the first day of the calendar year, then certain psychological symmetricalness is undoubtedly in play. Perhaps we should also consider that on 1 January this year, a whole patchahkam law came into force, many of which did not actually have a direct relation to the budget, but some symmetry exists. New year, new life, new obligations, new rights.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-14_U87	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-14_U88	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good minister! New year, new life, new opportunities. Saving is the purpose of this matter, as well as avoiding insecurity. However, if the citizen now has to pay EUR 3.2 for the printout, then the printout of the document will be paid by the notary EUR 6.35 plus VAT, digitally endorsed the same document EUR 4.8 plus VAT. That means more than half the cost to the citizen. You say that this increase is not high, this action is rarely needed and the change only affects some target groups. When are these printouts still needed, and what are the target groups that need it? And do you think that this rise will be significant for the citizen if more than half the current price is to be paid?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-14_U89	Thank you. It's a matter of property. The matrimonial property register reveals the property relationship between a husband and a wife who have entered into a permanent marriage relationship. If an asset relationship is chosen upon marriage, the new law will not change anything for individuals. In the meantime, the money that will be paid for the state fee will be paid for the notary operation. Entry in the register is more expensive for a person only if the document in the register, the printout of its data or digitally certified copies are requested and if the matrimonial property agreement or the identity of the property relationship is changed in the matrimonial property register. If individuals simply want to receive information, it can be obtained free of charge via an online request. If the institutions of the Estonian state require data on the matrimonial property relationship of a person, I mean here, for example, when people whose property is divorced and who want to sell a house or apartment in the name of one of their spouses, the notary will, of course, identify these data through the registers. People don't have to print out documents and take papers with them. Those who have common property, or common property, are guided by the general principle that a husband and wife are both in good and evil and have common property, and the marital register does not affect. This affects those who have chosen property separation, the set-off of asset growth and the matrimonial property agreement when they are married. Such entries have been made in the course of the year, we have selected 2300 for the reference year 2014. In the case of these people, the question might arise as to whether they would like a paper document, for example on sentimental matters, as a document reflecting the relationship of assets, can be considered sentimental. I would point out that we have the principle of publishing these entries: what is recorded in the register, it is true, it reflects the real relationship. Some paper document reflects the real relationship only at some point in time and people have to pay the general fee for issuing a notary document. If we exclude documents that require notarial proof from the Estonian state, written copies may be needed first and foremost when it comes to the citizens of other countries. The impact analysis so far has shown that 38% of the persons who got married in 2014, i.e. in the reference year, did not consider it necessary to require written transcripts. So the lion's share of the married have not developed this need. I repeat once again: if the Estonian authorities wish to establish the state of the asset relationship or if this is a need for the person himself, this can be done by means of a free electronic query. People may need a written document during their lives. As you pointed out, indeed, it will be more expensive in the future. We considered it, too. This is, of course, a matter of consideration and I think that the Committee on Legal Affairs can also discuss it. We used the price list of copies issued by notaries. However, when designing the notary fees, it has been attempted to take into account the actual cost of one or the other operation. Well, it's a little dependent on the organisation of work at the notary's office and more. We have been guided by the objective that the remuneration of the operations carried out by the notary should compensate for the costs they entail. This is also the case for these documents. There would probably be a problem if issuing documents on matrimonial property were twice as cheap as issuing other documents, although all the work, the procedure, the printout is exactly the same. In that case, it should certainly be possible to justify the motive for this difference. But the general logic of replacing the state fee with the notary fee was that the remuneration would be cost-neutral.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-14_U90	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-14_U91	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, You mentioned on several occasions that information systems need to be organized, improved and improved. Is there an assessment of the amount of funding needed to improve the information systems? And is this activity completely transferred to the National Information Systems Centre?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-14_U92	Thank you. Yes, we have summed up the costs of various IT options. As a first step, it is also necessary to carry out audits of the system of security measures and then to provide for the reconstruction of these systems. The aim is to ensure security. These costs are stated in the various paragraphs of the explanatory memorandum and should be carried out by the National Information Systems Centre. The State would cover these costs, they are already foreseen. I have to admit, I might ask if we're going to make an empty fight. Perhaps it would be possible to avoid this expense. Why do you need this register anyway? Finally, it may be said that this register is not needed at all. But if we want to provide certainty to the couple in property relations, as well as to third parties in transactions, it is certainly not reasonable that these data are simply exchanged by e-mail and that they arrive with a time shift. So this expense has to be done anyway, there's no way out of it. And if the expenditure has to be made and it coincides with the aim of making the system more efficient, it makes sense to take these steps together. That's what we've been up to.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-14_U93	Viktor Vassilyev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-14_U94	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! When the Cohabitation Act was passed, it was known that it was an empty envelope with no content and that a whole bunch of implementing acts had to be adopted. Now, if we're going to weld the necessary regulations on it, reorganize something, make certain changes to one piece of legislation or another, we're going to chop that tail a hundred times. As you can see, there are not many people in the Chamber today, too, with the conscience of many, and even the mind may be reluctant to discuss these issues at all. Wouldn't it be easier to collect all these necessary regulations and do everything at once? It would be easier, and then it would be about one side and society in a peace house. Can't you do that, or do you basically just don't like cluster laws?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-14_U95	Thank you. You associate this law with expectations that can't really be found in it. This law concerns matrimonial property regimes and related transactions. The question is who is keeping the register. The institution that makes these entries will, of course, do so by law. This is about proof of the matrimonial property regime. Now the question of the problem of living together. As a result of the legislator's will, the State has granted the persons the subjective right to enter into contracts between themselves. According to the analysis carried out by the Ministry of Justice, this subjective right existed in the amount of 99% under the Law of Obligations Act even before the Cohabitation Act entered into force. Therefore, persons are entitled to enter into such contracts. The way in which this contractual relationship gives rise to subjective rights in the sphere of public authority, including in the field of register entries, was not considered necessary by the legislator. Once again, I stress that this is not a formal or material implementing act, it is ideological choices. These choices have not been considered necessary to regulate the current composition of the Riigikogu in one direction or another. Moreover, the legislator has constructed a variety of alternative proposals, from the repeal of the Cohabitation Act to the full implementation of the Cohabitation Act in a similar way to a marriage relationship. There are still many combinations between them. However, it is certain that this draft legislation, which we are talking about at the moment, is not to do with it and is not to do with it.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-14_U96	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-14_U97	Good manager! Good minister! As I understand it, on the one hand, the butter on the bread of notaries gets thicker at the expense of the citizen, but the goal was to save the state's expenses. There is a lot of figures in the explanatory memorandum, I read that savings will be EUR 32480, but at the same time, for example, the development of the matrimonial property register will require EUR 43200 and the personal identification search system will require EUR 55000. I calculated that a total of EUR 130000 had to be spent either at the Ministry of the Interior or at the Ministry of Justice. Explain to me, make the tree and red out where the savings are! How much does the country save by giving this task to the notaries? And how much really does the state have to spend?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-14_U98	Thank you. As I said, the main saving is that common sense wins. It is not rational to perform double tasks in the sphere of public authority, and we are removing the second layer from the double performance of one task. As I said, above all, we are talking about the workload and the workload of the judges' assistants is estimated to be 3 to 5%. And ex-time and manpower costs are the biggest. As I also said, these one-off reorganisations of the information system that are needed to make the matrimonial property register more secure should also be carried out if the same system remains so that the register is kept by the assistant judge. As regards the assistance of judges, the plan proposed and decided by Andres Anvelt led to a rather extensive reform of the judicial assistance of the previous government, resulting in a halving of the composition of the assistance of judges. In addition, a step was taken to move part of the centralised model to Tallinn, also for regional policy reasons, to other regions across Estonia. To a large extent, this allowed employees who remained in office to receive a significantly higher remuneration. In general, I think it was the right reform.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-14_U99	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-14_U100	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, I would ask you for a brief comment that the explanatory memorandum states that the access to the matrimonial property register so far was excessively public. Anyone who was interested in a neighbor's couple was able to satisfy his curiosity. Does this innovation, which makes the matrimonial property register more difficult to access, better protect privacy? What's the situation?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-14_U101	Thank you. Indeed, the purpose of this draft is to provide legal certainty to third parties in the case of operations where, among other things, a strict burden of proof is essential. As regards the level of disclosure, the general rule is that it must still be guaranteed to third parties where their interest is justified. In that case, there must be transparency. In this principle, we have not made corrections. It is clear that debt-law relations are mostly a legitimate interest in debt-law relations, but people always have their own sentiment of curiosity because of curiosity no one can escape in their lives. Perhaps curiosity and a sense of humor are important traits of being human.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-14_U102	Thank you, Minister. Members of the Riigikogu are no longer curious about your subject. No further questions. On behalf of the Commission, I would like to ask Külliki Hatter, Member of the Committee on Legal Affairs of the Speaker's Board, as a rapporteur.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-14_U103	Good vice chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, The Committee on Legal Affairs discussed this draft on 14 June. I do not have much to add to the content, the Minister gave me a completely exhaustive overview. The following was decided by consensus: to propose that the draft be placed on the agenda of the plenary on 15 September today is 14 September; on the proposal of the Bureau, we moved this day forward, to appoint Mr Külliki Kübarsepp as rapporteur, to propose that the first reading be closed and to set the deadline for amendments at 4 p.m. on 29 September. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-14_U104	Thank you. Dear waitress, there are no questions for you. Ladies and gentlemen, the proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of the draft 258. I will set the deadline for the submission of the 258 amendments, including 28 September at 4 p.m. and not 29 September, because it came forward by one day on the agenda. So September 28th at 4:00. The debate on today's agenda item is closed, the session is closed. Thank you very much. Closure of the sitting at 2.39 p.m.
