ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-22_U1	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. We will begin the session of the third plenary session of the Riigikogu on Tuesday of the 9th working week. Now is the opportunity to hand over drafts and enquiries. There is no wish for surrender. Then, ladies and gentlemen, we'll do a presence check. 70 members of the Riigikogu registered as present, missing 31.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-22_U2	Let's go to today's agenda. The first item is the third reading of the draft law amending the Law on maritime safety initiated by the Government of the Republic. Do the political groups want to open negotiations? There's no call. The commission's proposal is to put the draft to a final vote of 128, and we are going to the final vote. Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on the draft law amending the Law on maritime safety initiated by the Government of the Republic 128. Please take a stand and vote. 70 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the draft, 6 against and no abstentions. The law has been passed.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-22_U3	Let's move on to today's second item, which is the second reading of the draft law amending the Law on the Rules of Procedure and Homes of the Riigikogu, initiated by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. I would like to ask Kalle Laaneti, President of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, to act as rapporteur.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-22_U4	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Constitutional Commission discussed this draft law on Tuesday 15 March. I will give you an overview of what took place during the second reading debate. First, the advisor explained to us that the deadline for receiving amendments... Maybe the hall could be quieter. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] Thank you. By the deadline for receiving amendments, proposals were submitted by the Estonian Centre Party Group, the Estonian Free Party Group, the Group of the Estonian Conservative People's Party and the Member of the Riigikogu Külmiki Kübarsepp. In addition, Liia Hänni, Head of the Working Party on the Opening of Law of the AVP Round Table, wrote to the Commission, stressing that recording Commission meetings is important and recordings should be kept. He also noted that the minutes of the Commission's meeting should be more comprehensive. The chairman explained that Liia Hänni's proposals were already largely written in the draft and that a reply had already been sent to Liia Hänn. The Commission examined the proposed amendments and also decided to propose one amendment concerning the involvement of stakeholders. I am now going through the amendments quickly, as we discussed them successively in the Commission. Firstly, the representative of the Estonian Centre Party Group presented his group's proposal to the Commission, which is in the table of amendments under Amendment 3. What is its contents? The representative of the political group explained that as the part regulating the sound recordings of the Riigikogu committees has not been included in the draft, the Group of the Estonian Centre Party decided to make an amendment to this effect. The sound recording is an additional tool for drawing up the protocol, which in any case guarantees the accuracy of the protocol. Sound recordings should be preserved until the end of the same composition of the Riigikogu and subsequently handed them over to the Riigikogu to ensure historical memory of the activities of all committees. Meetings of all committees should be recorded. Meetings of committees shall not be recorded when the Commission deals with state secrets, classified external information or information referred to in § 35 (1) of the Public Information Act. The Commission noted that the principle of the draft was to prescribe what the minutes of the Commission's sitting should contain. It is up to each Commission to decide how to draw up a proper protocol. In order to ensure that the protocol complies with the law, it is possible to use supporting materials, which may include sound recordings. The chairman of the committee said that 11 permanent committees are currently recording three committees, two partially recording and two from three special committees recording their meetings. The decision of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs was not to take this amendment into account, in favour of it, was 5 and against 6 parliamentarians, and there were no abstentions. The following was the amendment tabled by the Estonian Free Party Group concerning the preservation of documents, drafts and the supporting materials used for drawing up them, which is proposal No 4 in the table of the amendments. In principle, in the Commission, it was found that in real life it is very difficult to distinguish which materials must be stored and which are not. For example, if a member of the Riigikogu makes notes on a piece of paper or just scratches something, should it be kept in the archives? The Commission expressed the view that, in the interests of history, recordings of Commission meetings should in particular be kept. The recording later allows us to find out what the tonality of the disputes at the sittings was and how passionate the debate was held. It was suggested that day-to-day material could be classified for a certain time. At the same time, it was found that although it is very good to preserve the recordings of the meetings of the Commission in the interests of history, it is almost impossible to find consensus in this regard in the Riigikogu and the draft text would not be passed as a law. It is therefore more reasonable to proceed with the draft in such a way as to lay down certain requirements for the minutes of the Commission's sitting. The bill would be adopted as a law. Otherwise, the current bad situation, which does not make any substantive minutes and does not have the obligation to record the hearing, would remain valid. The Commission decided not to accept the amendment. The proposal was supported by 3 members of the Commission, 6 against and 2 abstentions. Külliki Kübarsepp, a member of the Riigikogu, introduced the amendment he tabled, which is in Table 1. What's the contents? His proposal relates to the experience of the work of the Committee on Legal Affairs, which recently had a lively debate on whether the Commission's decisions were correctly reflected in the minutes. The Commission often fails to discuss the length of the reasonable period during which the parties concerned can review the minutes. The person speaking at the meeting of the Commission must be able to verify whether his or her views have been correctly reflected in the minutes. It would be right for the committees to record their meetings and for these recordings to make sure that the minutes correspond to those spoken at the hearing. The Commission should have the power to agree itself on the reasonable period of time within which the members of the Commission can verify the adequacy of the minutes. This should remain a matter of internal organisation for the Commission. The Commission noted that it had been discussed during the draft procedure that the Protocol should be accessible to all members of the Commission before it is signed or made public. If the Commission has a recording of the sitting, it shall be capable of verifying the accuracy of the minutes if any questions arise. The record shall no longer be required after the Protocol has been signed and published. The author of the amendment pointed out that if there was a question about the accuracy of the recording of procedural decisions, the problem was that they would normally have to be submitted to the Riigikogu's board on Thursday and the members of the committee would not have time to examine them. However, in the absence of a recording, it is not possible to verify whether the procedural decisions are correctly recorded in the minutes when disputes arise. The Commission expressed the view that, as the draft states that the results of the vote will be recorded in the minutes, there can no longer be any dispute over procedural decisions. The Commission noted that the draft does not prohibit the recording of its meetings in the future, leaving it up to each committee to decide which supporting material to draw up a comprehensive protocol. It was also said that, as far as the coordination of the minutes of the Commission sitting with the members of the Commission is concerned, it is very difficult to lay down this procedure in the law, because the working practices of the committees are very different. So this, too, should remain a matter of internal organisation of the Commission. The Commission decided not to accept the amendment, with 5 votes for and 6 against, with no abstentions. The representative of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia presented his group's amendments, the first of which concerns the representation of political groups in committees, which is proposal No 5 in the table of the amendments. The representative of the political group explained that smaller groups would not be able to send their representatives to all committees, so they might not have their own members in several important committees. Membership in committees could be freer and not so much regulated. Members of the Constitutional Committee stated that members of the Riigikogu can actually participate in the work of any committee and listen to sessions, but they do not have the right to vote. Yesterday was a beautiful example: Artur Talvik attended a meeting of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs to listen to what Minister Arto Aas says about administrative reform. At the same time, it was said that the committees do not always take a favourable view of an external member of the Riigikogu or an official of a political group coming to the hearing. A representative of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia noted that their right to vote in committee sessions is important for them. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs expressed the opinion that political groups with fewer members than permanent committees would not be able to be present at the same time in several committees, as the committees would hold their meetings at the same time. In addition, the political groups now have the opportunity to relocate members of their group to the committees by expressing their wish to the Bureau. The Commission decided not to accept the amendment, with 5 members in favour of the amendment, 6 against and no abstentions. The next amendment tabled by the EERE Group concerns the recording of the session and is in Table 6 below. The author's representative pointed out that, in principle, the debate on the recording of sittings had already been held by the Commission and that views had been expressed. We went straight to the vote and the Commission decided not to accept the amendment. The proposal had 5 votes against by 6 members of the Commission, with no abstentions. The third amendment by the Group of the Estonian Conservative People's Party concerns the submission of questions in the Riigikogu's plenary session and is in table proposal No 7. The author's representative explained that the proposal is intended to provide that a member of the Riigikogu may submit up to five oral questions at first reading of the draft in plenary. At present, up to two questions can be asked and may not be able to get the answers you want. It is also not possible to obtain additional information. The committee noted that there was once a practice in the Riigikogu where two oral questions and an arbitrary number of written questions could be asked. These written questions were asked enormously and, in the end, the Minister was not able to answer even the oral questions. It was found that increasing the number of questions did not lead to more meaningful answers, but rather to more formal responses. The Commission decided not to take account of the amendment, with 3 in favour of the proposal, with 7 abstentions. The fourth amendment tabled by the Group of the Estonian Conservative People's Party also concerns the submission of questions in the Riigikogu's plenary session and is in the table proposal No 8. The content of this proposal is that a member of the Riigikogu may submit up to five oral questions at second reading of the draft in plenary. The Commission also decided not to accept this amendment. The proposal was supported by 2 members of the Commission, 7 against and 1 abstention. The fifth amendment by the Group of the Estonian Conservative People's Party also concerns the submission of questions in the Riigikogu's plenary session and this is in the table proposal No 9. It is intended to provide that a member of the Riigikogu may submit up to five oral questions in the proceedings concerning the appointment or dismissal of officials in plenary or the formation of foreign delegations. The Commission decided not to accept the amendment. The proposal was supported by 2 members of the Commission, with 7 abstentions. The sixth amendment tabled by the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia concerns questions made by members of the Riigikogu and is in table proposal No 10. The author's representative explained that the amendment is due to the fact that there is often a situation in which inquiries are rejected, but the reasons given by the President of the Riigikogu are not sufficient. The Chairman of the Riigikogu should rather be the communicator of enquiries, not the censor, and the members of the Riigikogu are the most important means of democratic control, for which such a restriction is not correct. The Commission's decision was also to disregard this amendment. There were 4 Commission members in favour of the proposal, 6 against and no abstentions. The committee noted that the amendments tabled by the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia are intended to amend the law of the Riigikogu's Rules of Procedure and Rules of Procedure in much more depth than proposed in the draft. This is actually necessary, but for the time being, we could stay within the areas covered by the draft. However, if the law on the Rules of Procedure and Homes of the Riigikogu were to be amended more, we could stick to what was agreed at the meeting held on 9 February of this year on the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. This agreement was, in substance, the following. On 10 February, the Chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs wrote a letter to all members of the Riigikogu asking what they think about whether the Law on Home and Rules of Procedure should be amended and, if so, how. We were expecting answers by 15 March, and the only group that tabled amendments was the Free Party Group. The amendment initiated by the Commission was such that stakeholders who would be involved in the preparatory phase of the draft and wish to participate in the committee debate could do so. The text would be this: 'The Commission will involve the relevant stakeholders involved in the preparation of the draft and wish to participate in the debate on the draft. 'It was also pointed out in the Commission that inclusion does not necessarily automatically mean that interest groups have to come to the Commission's meeting, but can also take place in many other ways. However, it was found that the draft explanatory memorandum could specify who the stakeholders to be involved by the Commission would be. They were found to be primarily interest groups accompanied by the Ministry during the preparation phase of the draft. The idea is that if there is a need of substance, the interest groups will also be invited to the meetings of the Commission. The amendment was voted in favour by 5 members of the Commission, 3 against and 2 abstentions. What was decided? It was decided to propose that the draft be placed on the agenda of the plenary session on 22 March (consensual decision) and that the second reading be closed. Six members of the Commission were in favour, one against and three abstentions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-22_U5	Thank you. Good waitress, there are some questions for you. Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-22_U6	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! Since 2004, when the protocols of the Riigikogu committees became very laconical as some of the accidents at work, many committees have acted in a way that basically makes two protocols: one that goes to the website and is laconical, and the other, the so-called shadow protocol, to the rapporteur of the memorandum draft. It was probably also used by you at the moment to mediate so thoroughly what happened in the Commission. Sometimes it's not done so thoroughly for the verbatim. My question is: what is the fate and status of these so-called shadow protocols or memos? Where are they stored, whether they are stored at all, and what is the potential interest of archives in these documents?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-22_U7	You quite rightly mentioned that this is actually ancillary material and, according to my information, this aid was not the object of the archive's interest. When we are talking about the aid, the use and preservation of it will be decided by the Commission after the negotiations between us on what is being done with it. I would stress that the purpose of this bill is to clarify what the protocol must contain. A protocol of archive value, historical value, must be sufficiently comprehensive and personalised so that it is possible to understand what decision has been made and how it has been achieved. Until now, as you have pointed out, they have not been formulated in this form.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-22_U8	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-22_U9	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! As regards the recordings, there has been a great deal of discussion about whether we do not want to erase the very important elements of history. It was strange that when I came to defend the Commission's proposal, it was over that we agreed not to use the word'record' in this bill at all. I do not recall that, after the first reading, it has been pointed out that please do not put forward proposals that include the word'recording'. Where did this agreement come from, and what are the main arguments?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-22_U10	An agreement was reached on the preparation of the draft, as the word'recording' has caused a great deal of confusion and misunderstanding in society in recent times. It is believed that the members of the Riigikogu, the Riigikogu committees, want to hide something from the public, and that the draft is as clear as possible, understandable as possible outside this Chamber, then we are talking about the material and protocol.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-22_U11	Mark Soosaar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-22_U12	Dear waitress, Indeed, the recording today is such a scattered concept that it should probably be translated into future use of either the word'speaker' or something like that. But my question is about the documentation of the Riigikogu, including the protocols. Very often we see compound sentences that sometimes contain slogans, and if the commas are not correctly placed, then we can no longer understand at all, for example, what kind of base is said to be attached to. Shouldn't there be rules on protocols and documentation at all? For example, all protocols must be drafted in simple sentences.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-22_U13	I agree, and this is definitely a challenge for the office.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-22_U14	Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-22_U15	Thank you, dear Deputy Speaker. Ladies and gentlemen, You mentioned in your report that our amendments are very thorough and substantive. I admit that whether there may be more people in one committee is a very fundamental and major change, which may be difficult to do. But I don't understand why we shouldn't increase the number of questions that we're about to have. It is also a substantive change, indeed, but a very simple change that would promote a parliamentary debate and give the opposition the opportunity to play its role better in controlling the executive power. You also said yourself that these changes may be necessary, but you have to come back to them later. What's the logic? Why don't we do it now?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-22_U16	Logic is very simple: it does not coincide with the purpose of this draft. I mentioned to you a letter from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, in which we asked all members of the Riigikogu whether it was necessary to amend the Law on the Rules of Procedure and the Rules of Procedure of the Riigikogu and, if necessary, how. I also said that the only group from which a response came and who tabled proposals was the Free Party Group. This issue should be discussed more widely, in greater depth, and to try to reach compromises.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-22_U17	George Adams, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-22_U18	Mr. Waitress! Liia Hänni, Minister of the Government of Mart Laar and later in the Riigikogu, the Chairman of the Constitutional Committee or at least the Vice-Chairman on several occasions, sent a letter to the Committee on Constitutional Affairs regarding this draft and received a reply from you. Could you, please, present to the House what his problem was and what you answered?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-22_U19	Yes, I can. Ms Hänni had four proposals in principle: to record the meetings of all committees, restricting public access only on the basis of § 35 (1) of the Public Information Act; to supplement § 39 of the Riigikogu Law on Home and Working Procedures so that the minutes of the committee's sitting can be seen in addition to so far; to develop good practice lobby rules for the involvement of non-governmental partners and to ensure access to the declarations of interests of members of the Riigikogu on the Riigikogu website in order to increase transparency and openness of the work of the Riigikogu. I'm not going to read this letter for a long time, about the recordings we've talked about before, and we're going to talk about it today. As regards the Commission's minutes, the purpose of this draft is to clarify the minutes in order to indicate the reasoning, the views of the members of the Commission and the results of the roll-call vote. However, increasing transparency and openness in the work of the Riigikogu is the same amendment that was tabled by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. As far as declarations of interests of members of the Riigikogu are concerned, we have just adopted a new version of the Anti-Corruption Act.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-22_U20	Arthur Talvik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-22_U21	Good President! Good waitress! For me, however, the question remains as to how long there is a long protocol or a comprehensive protocol, as you put it here on the remote. Is this a so-called clean protocol? I understand that personalized positions are coming in there. What are the limits of this protocol? It's crazy.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-22_U22	It's very difficult to say what's long and what's short, it's so subjective. The reasoning put forward must include all the views expressed by the members of the committee. For some drafts, the debate may be extremely short and for some extremely long. The idea is that the views of the Members of the Commission must be reflected in the minutes so that they can see what their positions are and the result of the vote in the same way.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-22_U23	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-22_U24	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! I suggest that in the future, at first reading, we announce what should be avoided when making amendments. Otherwise, it may be stupid or weird: you are working, but a positive result is not possible. But I will continue with the question of Talvik. The fourth point of the bill states that the views of the speaker will be referred to. Did you also discuss the criteria for this referral? Is this a verbatim or an overview? I think the length of the protocol depends on it. Is it me, or is the third turn of the verb used? In itself, however, it is positive that we are moving towards longer and more meaningful protocols.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-22_U25	As a comment to the first part of your question, I assure you that we cannot prescribe to a member of the Riigikogu what amendments he may propose. It's everyone's free will. However, as far as the content of the minutes is concerned, what exactly is it going to look like, we would still leave this to each committee in principle. We should point out in law the basic aspects that must be taken into account so that the protocol clearly reflects the reasoning and the vote. The Commission must be free to decide exactly how to do this.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-22_U26	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! Did the Commission also ask the National Archives for an opinion on the archive value of sound recordings? In the previous composition of the Riigikogu, this topic was raised, but it was entangled behind the vague status of these recordings. However, the state architect Priit Pirsko then sent a letter to the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, where he said, among other things: 'Considering the public interest in the transparency of the organisation of the work of the Riigikogu, I think it would be reasonable to include the current recordings in the Parliament's document management system and to decide on their value in the National Archives. ' Is it done?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-22_U27	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-22_U28	Firstly, not all committees currently record their meetings. This has been the free hand of the committees. And the scope of this bill is protocol. In this sense, the situation is different from that of the previous term when this draft was discussed.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-22_U29	Monika Haukanõmm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-22_U30	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, The second amendment introduces the idea of involving stakeholders, which in itself is very welcome. I consider it extremely important that interest groups are increasingly involved in decision-making. The question is more about how much stakeholders' views are taken into account. We often hear them complaining that we were involved, we were heard, but it felt more like a bird. How is it still planned to take into account the opinions that have been heard when involving stakeholders? What are the plans?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-22_U31	This is exactly the same as the amendments proposed by the members of the Riigikogu. Individuals and interest groups have come and come up with all kinds of amendments and initial amendments. That is how it will continue to be. However, we cannot prescribe that we must take account, for example, of the amendments proposed by this category and not of those proposed by the other.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-22_U32	Aadu Black, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-22_U33	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! There is one very good rule in the archives that needs to be thought not only culturally and historically, but also country-manly. And that puts a difficult problem before us: you have to consider how expensive one thing or another is. That is the most important factor. I'd like to remember and know more, but you always have to ask for the price. The National Archives has now completed an autonomous electronic archiving module, which no longer asks for bread, and which does not have to be turned away from the cock, and the document is archived, including the sound recording. In a situation where this expenditure has already been made and the National Archives are willing to accept phonograms, could it still take another step towards taking account of this humanitarian objective, because it no longer requires much money?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-22_U34	Mr. Professor, I understand absolutely your concern as a historian. The fact that the National Archives have spent their time is one side of the case. The other side is that in order for all the committees of the Riigikogu to have recordings that meet certain conditions, we should make investments. And this amount is indicatively EUR 350000.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-22_U35	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-22_U36	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! But would it not, in principle, be more appropriate if all the meetings of the Commission were recorded? All the more so as now there are all the possibilities available to hold them, to archive them in the National Archives. Why do we still not want to do this?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-22_U37	I think that, above all, it is entangled that we should analyse how much interest there is, how much the recording costs and what it will bring in practice. If we now bring the factors on the table and start discussing it again, by the end of the day we will arrive at the fact that not all the committees want to record. The question of whether a minimum investment of EUR 350000 is appropriate is also very important. That is how these decisions must be made.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-22_U38	Thank you, dear waitress. No further questions for you. Do colleagues want to open negotiations? George Adams, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-22_U39	Mr President! Perhaps the concrete outcome of this draft is not so important. What is more important is that we have raised the question of whether the material that is born in the work of the Riigikogu will be archived in the first place and how we believe that archives should be organised in the first place. I wrote down Mr. Laanet's report, or it was a statement from the answers that the aid material was not the object of the archive's interest. I was wondering who the archive was. Who has ever asked what their object of interest is, and who can decide that? Personally, I have visited the archives of the Riigikogu to see the material about the work of the VII Riigikogu. This formation worked before the electronic age, before the era of digitalization, and all these materials are beautifully in boxes. As far as I can tell, at least this archive has never said don't bring us any papers. They'll take it all without checking what they're given. However, I also do not know that there would have been any attempt to put pressure on some committee to bring us more of the remaining papers. However, the general problem seems to be that there is no archiving of the work of the Riigikogu during the electronic era. This has been postponed to some indefinite time, and the assumption is that all things that are on the Riigikogu server will remain there in themselves, without any special work. And it is also not clear to me what the relationship between the archivals born in the Chancellery of the Riigikogu and the archivals born from the Riigikogu is, either they are subject to the same rules or they have different rules or how. The Free Party Group sent its advisor to speak with the Riigikogu Archives. It seemed that the archive couldn't see a problem at all if they were given tapes. In the case of the birds, of course, it is a question of their preservation, but they are happy to accept all that is given to them. I do not know how to proceed with this question. The question of archiving the work of the Riigikogu is, at this point, a forgotten question; no one has dealt with it. I understand that the current composition and previous compositions of the Riigikogu have not dealt with this either. Well, it should be done. As far as the archives are concerned, what their wishes are or what their obstacles are, we could either ask directly the executives of the archives or the minister. However, I am not sure that this is the best method. Perhaps at first, the political groups and the body of elders or the board of directors would agree and why not ask them to have a comprehensive vision within a few months of how the results of the work of the Riigikogu committees and political groups will arrive in the archives. If it requires any new staff or money, it should be dealt with. But, in my opinion, it is a little irresponsible, if to put it mildly, to go ahead with the current situation, after all, there is no basically conscious archiving work going on.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-22_U40	Thank you. Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-22_U41	Mr President! Honourable representatives of the people! It's quite reasonable that we are dealing with this topic here. Although the Free Party Group has a great many complaints about the repressive nuances of our Rules of Procedure Act, we consider it essential to extend this issue to documents of interest to archives, if possible, from the point of view of history. First of all, however, the positive thing about this bill is that we are correcting one of the errors concerning the drafting of the protocols of committees that arose 12 years ago in the Riigikogu's Rules of Procedure and Rules of Procedure. To understand what happened back then, I'm talking a little bit about history. In the context of Estonia's entry into the European Union, it was necessary to transform the European Affairs Commission into a permanent European Union Affairs Commission. The Riigikogu was quite basically presented with a draft amending its Rules of Procedure, which, in its initial version, also provided for a more thorough change in the working schedule. Mr Marko Mihkelson, then Chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, made a presentation on behalf of the initiators, and Mr Rein Lang, on behalf of the committee. Looking fresh at the discussions at the time, I came to the conclusion that the grand hall of the Riigikogu nuanced that, among other things, the protocols of the Riigikogu committees were being napped, did not notice very much. I would like to compliment Eiki Nestor, who knew to ask Marko Mihkelson about this at the time, but in my opinion the waitress did not even understand the question being raised, thinking that it was the protocols of the Committee on European Union Affairs. There is, of course, a very large difference between the specifics of the committees, which sessions can be recorded and recorded in detail, and which protocols can and cannot be put up in public. It is clear that the Committee on National Defence, the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the Committee on European Union Affairs, not to mention the special committee on the supervision of security authorities, are issues that are often covered by state secrets and have to be handled differently. However, as far as the ordinary committees are concerned, I still do not understand why these protocols became laconical. In fact, because of this, we have lost a very large piece of the history of the Riigikogu. That was what prompted my question of what would happen to the aids used by the waitresses in this speech chair. If we don't keep them, we're gonna make a very big mistake. As far as recordings and other aids used in hearings are concerned, just as long as this does not cause too much trouble, they should be kept. There is indeed a need to consult specialists on a more specific value of archives. I must say that the Board of the Riigikogu has also been extremely inconsistent in this area. From the previous composition, I remember a case where I don't think they wanted to release a recording to an investigative body and then the journalists started asking about it. It ended with a major institutional dispute, the outcome of which was not predictable. In the meantime, however, regulation became very open again, but we give it all up and to everyone who asks. However, we could consider this issue more thoroughly and retain the possibility of storing recordings and other supporting materials, even in the form proposed by the Free Party: the draft documents, the supporting materials used for their preparation and the materials prepared for discussion and consultation will be kept on paper or detachment and are intended for internal use. I would like to ask for support for this amendment, particularly from the Socialists and the IRL, who were more in favour of openness in the previous composition. And I also propose that the second reading of the bill be interrupted.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-22_U42	Thank you. Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-22_U43	President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, I was an alternate at the meeting where the subject was discussed and supported very clearly and unambiguously recording and recording. This may be for emotional reasons in a sense, because I am a historian and I wonder how rich we would be if we had the recordings of the Senate of Old Rome, for example, if we could hear the tone of Caesar or Cicero or any of those celebrities whose names we know from history books. Did they have any skirmishes? How did the auditorium react? This is an invaluable value and the current technological tools give us the opportunity to preserve this invaluable value for future generations. We therefore agree with the group that the meetings of the committees should be recorded and recorded. There are, of course, certain questions that arise here. In my opinion, lack of money is never a problem in the Republic of Estonia. We can see how money is put in the chimney with Estonian Air, with all kinds of other Airs, as warm air, as cold air. So frankly, I do not think that this is an insurmountable cost for the Republic of Estonia, given the historical, emotional and also legal value that the recordings represent. Yes, there is also a problem here with the very sensitive material of certain committees, but it is possible to establish time limits for secrecy and other conditions for secrecy. Time limits may be extended. We know that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is constantly secreting reports, memos, etc. and, if necessary, prolonging the time limits for secrecy. This is all a technical problem, and I don't see that this could be an obstacle in any way. The format we are going to use cannot be an obstacle either. Nor can there be a justification for abandoning the preservation that we are in the record. We have a recent experience from the Committee on Legal Affairs, where different parties understood the glow of the protocol completely differently and have not reached an agreement between themselves until today, which is the correct understanding. The recording would resolve such misunderstandings and therefore once again: recording would be justified. Finally. I've come to watch a couple of TV shows, such as the American Reconnaissance Collectors. It is still amazing what time does with things, and our words include things. Things that were so common in the 1950s that they were taken to a dump are of great emotional, cultural and material value today. In exactly the same way, in ten, twenty, one hundred and two hundred years, what we have talked about will be of great value and, if it has not been preserved, this value will be lost. I call on all those who say that, but we'll have to start doing a new bill, think about it. Respectables, our work here is to draft and adopt laws that are not culls. Unfortunately, we very often see that there has been a breach in this Chamber, especially from the hands of the previous composition. We support the proposal of the Free Party to interrupt the second reading because we think it is possible to make a better draft. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-22_U44	Thank you. Mart Nutt, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-22_U45	Mr President! Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! Unfortunately, there has been quite a bit of confusion about this draft. This is regrettable in itself, because the aim of this draft is, in fact, very correct. But I want to address a few aspects of what will happen if we do not adopt this draft. What is happening is that the current situation remains: we do not have proper protocols, we continue as we have so far, and there are no recordings. In short, in my opinion, it is better that we adopt this bill as a law as it is possible. And take into account that it requires a majority of its component members. If we adopt it in the form that the Commission has now presented this second-reading text, we will have proper protocols. But really, there's no recording obligation. I'm a historian too. And, of course, I am of the opinion that the more material remains for the future, the better. I don't have the least against the recordings. It is very nice that we decide that the recordings will be part of the Commission's work and will be kept in agreement as long as we consider it necessary. There can certainly be nothing against that. But I think if, in the current situation where recordings are treated so differently, we start voting on the option of keeping the recordings inside, we will not get that 51 votes. In this case, the situation arises that this draft law will not be adopted. So I am taking a completely pragmatic approach to this issue. We will adopt this law in the form that we can agree on, and we will come back to the subject of the recordings if we consider it necessary! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-22_U46	Thank you. March Sults, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-22_U47	Mr. President! Colleagues! As a young member of the Riigikogu and reading the verbatim reports of my first presentations, I didn't understand what I was talking about. I mean, the text was kind of like it was. It was as if the stenogram was in place, but there were no quotes, there was no emotion in place. If you compare the recording of the sitting of the Riigikogu and the verbatim, you will get the point exactly what was actually said from the remote. That is why I am asking you to stop reading this bill. The recording and the minutes of the committee sitting together convey emotion and the actual content. The Estonian language is a great language, but the human body language, emotions, skirmishes, irritation and all other human nuances are not reflected in the protocol. And Mart said earlier that the protocols weren't complete. Where is the instruction taken that the minutes of the meeting be written in incomplete minutes? This is a total failure of the chairman of the meeting! The protocol must be complete. But unfortunately, that is not the protocol. So I would ask for support for the proposal to interrupt the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-22_U48	Thank you. Eiki Nestor, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-22_U49	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Riigikogu! I will say a few words on behalf of the Board of the Riigikogu, as this draft was requested by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs to initiate the Board of the Riigikogu. Mart Nutt, with whom we have been here since the VII Riigikogu, actually spoke briefly about what I wanted to say. In the previous Riigikogu, the saga of protocols and recordings was not completed, and in these circumstances the public availability of the work of Riigikogu committees is based only on cooperation between the board and the committees. In fact, we see that this cooperation may not always be successful, and that is why this bill is in any case better than the law that is currently in force. The second thing I want to say is that it takes 51 votes to change this law. I mentioned these two facts solely because, although this law that was not adopted in the previous collection was more sympathetic to me, I also appreciate the work that the current Committee on Constitutional Affairs has done. A little of the recordings we're probably coming back to. First of all, dear colleague Märt Sults, I must grieve you: there is a decision of the state archives on the recordings that are being made, and it concerns what I am talking about here and what you are saying. Since a verbatim record is being prepared, it is the decision of the State Archives that they do not need these recordings. So sad as it may be, your speech in this form doesn't have an archive value and mine, as well as others'. However, the future of this entire bill, which we are debating today, has to do with how comprehensive the protocols will be in the future. If they are, as Arthur Talvik correctly noted, essentially purified protocols, then everything is there. Until 2004, no one resented that the protocols of the Riigikogu committees were incomprehensible. Everyone understood how some law was born, who said what. The biggest problem now, ladies and gentlemen, with these self-initiative recordings, is that no one understands who is talking. What is said, understood, but spoken, cannot be understood in any way. So the value of what was born in the meantime is a story of its own. The Chancellery of the Riigikogu is working on this. But as regards the need to discuss the archives of the Riigikogu, of course we will. Thank you, Jüri Adams, for this proposal.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-22_U50	Thank you. There is no further wish for negotiations. There have been a number of amendments to the draft, and we will examine them. The first amendment tabled by Mr Külliki's Hatter. The position of the lead committee: not to be taken into account. Please, Andres Herkel!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-22_U51	Thank you. The Free Party Group is asking for this proposal to be voted on.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-22_U52	Ladies and gentlemen, I will vote on the first amendment tabled by Külliki Kübarsepp. This has not been taken into account by the Steering Committee. Please take a stand and vote. 25 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, 53 against and no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. The second amendment tabled by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. The position of the lead committee: take full account. The third amendment tabled by the Estonian Central Party Group. The position of the lead committee: not to be taken into account. Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-22_U53	Thank you. Please vote on the amendment tabled by the Estonian Centre Party Group.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-22_U54	We will vote on this proposal. I shall put to the vote the third amendment tabled by the Group of the Estonian Centre Party. The position of the lead committee: not to be taken into account. Please take a stand and vote. 30 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the proposal, 48 against and no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. The fourth amendment tabled by the Group of the Estonian Free Party. The position of the lead committee: not to be taken into account. Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-22_U55	Thank you, Mr President. Since both Mr Nutt and Mr Nestor said that there can be nothing against the preservation of aid materials, we are asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-22_U56	We will vote on this proposal. I shall put to the vote the fourth amendment tabled by the Group of the Estonian Free Party. The position of the lead committee: not to be taken into account. Please take a stand and vote. 13 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the proposal, 46 against and no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. Fifth amendment tabled by the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia. The position of the lead committee: not to be taken into account. Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-22_U57	Thank you, Mr President. The Conservative People's Party Group is asking for a vote on this.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-22_U58	We'll vote on it. I shall put to the vote the fifth amendment tabled by the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia. The position of the lead committee: not to be taken into account. Please take a stand and vote. 13 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the proposal, 48 against and no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. The sixth amendment tabled by the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia. This has not been taken into account by the Steering Committee. Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-22_U59	Thank you. Our group is asking for a vote on this proposal, although it has already been voted three times in principle.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-22_U60	Let's get to the vote. I shall put to the vote the sixth amendment tabled by the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia. The position of the lead committee: not to be taken into account. Please take a stand and vote. 30 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the proposal, 48 against and no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. The seventh amendment tabled by the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia. The position of the lead committee: not to be taken into account. Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-22_U61	Thank you. We would also like to vote on this proposal.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-22_U62	We'll vote on it. I shall put to the vote the seventh amendment tabled by the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia. The position of the lead committee: not to be taken into account. Please take a stand and vote. 14 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the proposal, 48 against and no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. The eighth amendment tabled by the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia. The position of the lead committee: not to be taken into account. Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-22_U63	Thank you. We are also asking for this proposal to be voted on.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-22_U64	Let's get to the vote. I shall put to the vote the eighth amendment tabled by the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia. The position of the lead committee: not to be taken into account. Please take a stand and vote. 16 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, 47 against and no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. The ninth amendment tabled by the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia. The position of the lead committee: not to be taken into account. Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-22_U65	Thank you very much. We are asking for this amendment to be voted on.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-22_U66	Let's vote! I shall put to the vote the ninth amendment tabled by the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia. The position of the lead committee: not to be taken into account. Please take a stand and vote. 15 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, 47 against and 0 abstentions. The proposal was not supported. And the last, tenth amendment tabled by the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia. The position of the lead committee: not to be taken into account. Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-22_U67	Thank you. This is a very expensive amendment for us. I ask you to vote on this.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-22_U68	Let us put this expensive amendment to the vote. I shall put to the vote the tenth amendment tabled by the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia. The position of the lead committee: not to be taken into account. Please take a stand and vote. 21 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the proposal, 48 against and 2 abstentions. The proposal was not supported. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the second reading of draft 175. However, as the Group of the Estonian Free Party has proposed to interrupt the second reading of draft 175, we are going to the vote on this proposal. Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on the proposal by the Group of the Estonian Free Party to interrupt the second reading of the draft 175. Please take a stand and vote. 30 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the proposal, 48 against and no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. The second reading of Bill 175 is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-22_U69	Ladies and gentlemen, We are going to the third item on today's agenda: Second reading of the draft law amending the Act on the election of the Riigikogu and other laws initiated by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. The rapporteur is Martin Kukk, member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-22_U70	Good chairman of the sitting! Ladies and gentlemen, The number of the draft is 160 and the draft was discussed in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. Let me briefly remind you, as an introduction, what are the objectives of this draft and what it will change. Firstly, we will change the way in which the elections are organised at county level; in future, the elections will be organised by the election leaders at county level. In essence, the elections are currently being held by county secretaries and there is no practical need for a separate county electoral body. According to the draft, the county election manager will be a county secretary, but the state electoral service may also be appointed as a separate county electoral director on a proposal from the county secretary. I would like to remind you that with this draft we are creating a state electoral service, which is a professional electoral preparatory body in the Estonian country. Secondly, the organisation of electronic voting will be entrusted to the national electoral service. According to the current law, an electronic voting committee has been set up as a 'expert committee', each member of which carries out specific tasks in the organisation of the voting. These experts are brought together by the electoral service of the state, involving specialists from the Chancellery of the Riigikogu or from outside it if necessary. Thirdly, as a result of the assignment of the functions of the Regional Election Commissions to the Regional Election Manager, the procedure for examining complaints will also change. Instead of the current three-step appeal procedure, the draft provides for a two-step procedure. This means that the electoral appeals will first be examined by the Republic Election Commission. Decisions of the Riigikogu Election Committee can still be challenged by the Supreme Court. In addition, the bill provides for the right of the electorate to submit a free-form declaration of shortcomings in the organisation of elections. A statement of deficiencies is intended as an alternative to a complaint, which allows a person to turn to the election organizer in a simplified manner to solve the problem and to obtain a solution quickly, i.e. before the end of the vote. The application shall be submitted to the national electoral service, which shall arrange for it to be answered. Fifthly, the Riigikogu Election Commission is ending the regulations. The regulations were primarily intended to guide the electoral organisers and such a legislative format is not suitable for guidance, especially given that the main implementing members of the regulations are district committees whose members have mostly no experience in the use of the legislation. In the future, the National Election Service will draw up guidelines for the electoral organisers, which will allow guidance to be given in a less formal, readable and illustrated form. By means of regulations, the Election Commission of the Republic has also specified some aspects of the elections which were not directly regulated by the law. For example, the law provided that the Election Commission of the Republic would establish observer status. If necessary, the law has been amended accordingly, for example by adding the principles of election observation or by establishing the form of ballot paper by decision of the Election Commission of the Republic. And sixthly, as the share of electronic voting in elections is so high that 30% of voters vote electronically, the draft provides for the appointment of one additional person with IT background as a member of the Republic Election Commission. Thus, according to the draft, one of the members of the Riigikogu Election Committee is the auditor of the information systems appointed by the Board of Auditors, instead of the representative of the Chancellery of the Riigikogu. Now, briefly, what happened at the Commission meeting. The Commission meeting was held on Tuesday 8 March, beginning at 14 a.m. The Commission's advisor explained that the draft passed the first reading on 17 February and that the deadline for submitting amendments was 3 March 2016. On the draft, 145 amendments were received from the Estonian Centre Party Group, six amendments from the Conservative People's Party Group and three amendments from the Estonian Free Party Group. In addition, the councillors of the Constitutional Commission and the Office of the Riigikogu have prepared eight other proposals resulting from the comments made by the Ministry of Justice in its opinion of 20 January 2016. They were proposed by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs as formal amendments. The Councillor noted that a letter was sent to the Commission on 2 March by the Ministry of the Interior, which also made one amendment, which was also tabled by the Commission as an amendment. The representative of the Ministry of the Interior who arrived explained that their proposal was due to the fact that the Ministry of the Interior was responsible for drawing up electoral lists and that electoral records were kept in the population register. Until now, voters are kept on the basis of population register data and, in addition, on the basis of data contained in electoral decrees. These regulations shall be drawn up in the form of a separate document to be submitted to the controller of the population register, the Ministry of the Interior and the Election Commission of the Republic. The data contained in the regulation is, in turn, transferred manually to the population register for the calculation of voters and, for other purposes, also to the electoral information system. The Ministry of the Interior is planning to update the population register software precisely as far as electoral records are concerned. A map application is planned to be set up in the population register, which will allow local authorities to set the border of the department more easily in future to organise the elections. We asked the Commission whether there were funds in the budget for this. The representative of the Ministry of Internal Affairs confirmed that the state budget has money for this and that the IT solution can be implemented. The Commission's advisor explained, among other things, that he had drawn up a draft table of amendments which, on the basis of § 102 (2) of the Riigikogu Law on the Rules of Procedure and the Rules of Procedure of the Riigikogu, combined amendments which were the same as the author and which were essentially related to each other. Part of the 145 amendments of the Estonian Centre Party Group has been merged, and as a result of the merger, table 40 contains the joint proposal of the Estonian Centre Party Group. The proposals put forward by the Estonian Free Party Group are also essentially related and are presented in the draft table of amendments as one amendment. The committee was interested in how the procedure for merging amendments pursuant to § 102 (2) of the Rules of Procedure Act of the Riigikogu was specified in more detail. The President of the Riigikogu Election Committee, who is also the Deputy Director of the Chancellery of the Riigikogu, explained that § 102 (2) of the Riigikogu Law on Rules of Procedure provides that amendments, the author of which is the same and which are essentially related, are to be included in the list of amendments as a single proposal. The point of this section is that a single proposal can be combined with proposals that, although presented separately, have room for consideration as to whether or not they can be combined with something. This provision does not directly require the consent of the proposers; the Commission itself must decide whether or not to merge the amendments. The representative of the Estonian Centre Party Group asked for a separate vote on the proposals of the Estonian Centre Party Group, in the form that the Group has submitted them to the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. The Commission discussed the request and decided on the amendments tabled by the Estonian Centre Party Group and the amendments tabled by the Estonian Free Party Group in a unified form. In addition, the Commission decided to submit nine amendments itself, including the aforementioned proposal of the Ministry of the Interior. And after voting separately on the amendments tabled by the Estonian Centre Party Group, the Commission decided, on the basis of § 102 (2) of the Parliament's Rules of Procedure and Rules of Procedure Act, to merge the proposals submitted by the Estonian Centre Party Group in substance and voted through the joint proposals, which are also included in the tables. As far as I know, they can be obtained from the back of the hall. If anyone wishes to read these amendments separately or to ask for and discuss them, they should be available on paper. I am not going to read these amendments one by one. Now, what were the procedural decisions? The Commission first decided to put the draft on the agenda for the plenary session by 15 March, which was decided by consensus. It was an initial decision before we decided to put him on the agenda today. The Commission also decided to propose the termination of the second reading. There were 5 members in favour, 2 against, no abstentions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-22_U71	Thank you. Dear waitress, there are many questions for you. Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-22_U72	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, Paragraph 17 (2) states that the election manager can issue oral and written orders which are required to be executed. Paragraph 3 of the same section provides that a written order shall enter into force as soon as it is signed. This raises the question of when the oral arrangement will come into effect. That's one. Secondly, if both are mandatory, there is no bureaucracy for one, you said what needs to be done, and that is it, in the case of the other, start signing the order. What do you need it for anyway? Perhaps the oral order would be limited: the election manager will call, tell you what to do, and do as necessary. Explain the situation a little bit!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-22_U73	The purpose of this draft is to turn the current collegiate body for the conduct of elections into an active body. Those who carry out the activities are members of the operating body and those who supervise are members of the separate supervisory body. These functions are essentially separated. As far as your question about the work of the operating body is concerned, the oral order is also an order and will enter into force as soon as it is given. The Law sets out both ways in which an arrangement can be made. The written order is simply described separately.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-22_U74	Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-22_U75	Thank you. Good colleague! The person has the right to apply to the electoral service or the Riigikogu Election Committee, but I think that mainly problems arise in the polling stations. I think it makes more sense that if anyone sees any violation at the polling station, they'll get a response from the county electoral commission. Is that logic, or are you against it?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-22_U76	In your mind, logic is entirely there. As I said when I referred to the draft explanatory memorandum, a separate format will be created to allow a complaint to be lodged before the election results are announced in the Commission. This format will be established according to the draft and will mean that it will be possible to report more operationally possible infringements or misfires. The assumption is that the electoral commission will resolve these complaints immediately before the election results are announced.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-22_U77	Erki Savisaar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-22_U78	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! The draft must set up an electronic voting system for the national electoral service no later than 13 days before the election day. Do you not think that the electronic voting programme should be ready at least one year before the elections so that it can be viewed and tested publicly in order to find the bottlenecks of the system?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-22_U79	I'm not going down this slippery road here to describe the professional work done by professionals in the field. However, the draft states that, as the proportion of electronic elections has increased, a member of the Audit Committee of the Electoral Commission, with a separate certificate, will be in the future. Certainly, specialists can ensure that the system is secure, but at the same time accessible and verifiable, I mean that it is accessible and verifiable to observers.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-22_U80	March Sults, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-22_U81	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good waitress! With the previous draft, we kind of took away the historical memory so that future generations would not know who destroyed the Republic of Estonia. Now they want to change the already unconvincing e-choice system. Is there a desire to dispel responsibility so that results can be better designed and set in the desired direction of architecture?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-22_U82	I'm confused about your question, so I'm not going to go into a very thorough response. But I suggest you read the decision made by the Supreme Court on 1 September 2005, which confirms that e-elections are secure, based on the principle of democracy and are necessary in order to facilitate access to elections. I suggest you read this Supreme Court decision.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-22_U83	Thomas Vitsu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-22_U84	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good waitress! I like that you have provided in the draft for the right to submit a form-free application to persons whose subjective rights have not been violated. In the draft, you say that applications may also be submitted orally to the national electoral service. Does this mean that an oral application may also be submitted by telephone to the Election Commission of the Republic within a certain period of time?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-22_U85	Yes, a good questioner, it is true that it is also possible to submit this application by telephone. That's what's meant for the sake of operationality. If anyone notices any violation of the electoral situation at the time of the elections, they will be able to make an operational announcement and the electoral commission will be obliged to process the application.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-22_U86	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! One such general question. The OSCE ODIHR monitors the elections of the Estonian Riigikogu in connection with electronic elections. The final expert opinion has been drawn up since the last elections. The emphasis is on electronic elections and the use of administrative resources, and a number of recommendations have been made. My question is to what extent the draft takes these recommendations into account. Can they be completed in the 'work' process and has the Commission paid attention to this report?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-22_U87	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-22_U88	You are certainly a much more experienced election observer than I am, and therefore I would also be happy to listen to your proposals, which you personally have not tabled on this draft. But the Free Party has done so. I expect the proposals you have read in these reports to be included in the proposals of the Free Party.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-22_U89	Viktor Vassilyev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-22_U90	Thank you. Good waitress! According to this draft, the Head of the National Election Service is appointed by the Director of the Chancellery of the Riigikogu. Why was it decided to give this right to the director of the Chancellery of the Riigikogu and not to the chairman of the Riigikogu Election Committee, which would make more sense? The Director of the Chancellery of the Riigikogu deals with our expenses, elections should still be dealt with by the Riigikogu Election Committee.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-22_U91	I may have answered that question at the time of last reading, but how many times will it never hurt? Since the electoral service works on the premises of the Chancellery of the Riigikogu and is essentially part of the office, it makes sense that the director of the Chancellery of the Riigikogu has this task. At the same time, I stress that the electoral commission, which is the supervisory body, has the right to make a contribution to the appointment of this candidate in the sense that the Director of the Chancellery of the Riigikogu must coordinate the candidate with him.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-22_U92	Siret Eagle, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-22_U93	Thank you, Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu. Good waitress! In your draft, you mention the importance of electronic voting in elections: 30% of voters voted electronically in the 2015 elections of the Riigikogu. However, how do you justify that in the last elections to the Riigikogu, the most popular choice by electronic means was among people over 50 years of age? At the same time, international studies confirm that older people have difficulty using computers in Estonia. How do you justify this situation?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-22_U94	First of all, I want to sort out one thing. It's not my bill, it's our bill, it's all our bill. The electoral panel, which was set up by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs a long time ago, is also made up of a representative of your party. It includes representatives of all parliamentary parties and has all been able to contribute to the drafting. As far as your specific question about electronic elections is concerned, I would not go down to arguing with you about international studies, because you did not refer to any specific research and I do not have the results of any research here either. However, I would like to stress that the use of computers in Estonia is also common among older people, and I am very proud of it. The use of a computer is not exceptional for old people either. And I believe the more comfortable the election procedure is for a person, young or old, the better.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-22_U95	Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-22_U96	Thank you, Honourable Chairman. Respectable waitress! Last week, I asked Mr Laanet when a draft amendment to the electoral law initiated by the Free Party could arrive in this large hall, which has also been called the draft open lists. He replied to me that this would come when the working group you led, to which you referred just now, was completed by the inter-group or cross-group working group. The draft we are currently working on is the first result of your work. How do you plan to continue in your working group at what pace and on what schedule? When would the rest of the bill come to this hall?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-22_U97	It's a lot of work. Next, it is planned to discuss the electoral rights of prisoners with the Ministry of Justice. I believe that, once this issue has received some kind of legislative initiative in the same way or otherwise, we can go to a possible amendment of electoral laws.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-22_U98	Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-22_U99	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, Article 17 (2) again, but now paragraph 5. The county election manager may remove a member of the district committee who has violated the order of the election manager from the function of the district committee. After all, there may be a situation where the majority of the members of the Commission turn out to be non-executive. Then most of them, or all of the members of the Commission, will be removed, and on election day, some part of the city will be deprived of the electoral commission at all, and before they find and deliver substitutes, the election process will stand. How can we act in such a situation?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-22_U100	Such hypothetical situations may arise in one case or another. This may not be about elections, it may concern any area. I would exclude this nuance from the discussion of the text of the law, as this possibility will certainly be considered in the application of the provision. Hypothetically, all kinds of situations can be described, for example, that at one point the Riigikogu alternate members will run out of lists, etc. I believe that our authorities, the staff of the electoral service and the organisers of future elections are good enough professionals to be able to prevent such situations. The text of the law is not practical for the whole of life, for example, that the sun rises from the east and sets to write down.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-22_U101	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-22_U102	Thank you, manager. Dear waitress, My question concerns the secrecy of the e-vote. I think that questionable secrecy is one of the reasons why no country in Europe has come with the e-vote. How is it guaranteed that by giving an e-voting vote, the voter will not stand by the person outside for his or her interests, who will influence the e-voting person to vote for a particular person or political association? How is the secrecy of the vote guaranteed, that no one is influencing it from the side of the election?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-22_U103	A person identifies himself with an ID card. E-vote is a secure procedure that requires identification of a person. I recommend that you read the Supreme Court ruling since 2005. It contains a comprehensive description of what has been discussed in connection with the electronic elections. You can also read all possible considerations about electronic selection. In summary, the Supreme Court concluded that e-voting, e-elections are a necessary procedure, as this makes the selection procedure considerably easier for a person.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-22_U104	Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-22_U105	Thank you. Mr President, I would like to introduce you to the draft. My question is who will manage the electoral information system in the future. Until now, this was dealt with by the Republic Election Committee and the relevant officials of the State Chancellery. Will it be dealt with in the future by the national electoral service? And does this bill solve the problem that the electoral information system has so far been the weakest link in the publication of election results? After all, it closed both the elections in 2011 and 2015 in the Riigikogu, which led to the confusion that arose, to whom exactly the mandates are distributed and who has been elected by name.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-22_U106	First of all, I specify that the staff of the Chancellery of the Riigikogu managed this system so far, not the State Chancellery. The State Chancellery has so far not been in contact with the administration of the Election Information System. But from now on, yes, it is true that the national electoral services will manage it. The way in which electricity production will take place in the future during the elections or what a specific IT solution looks like, I do not know how to answer you because I am not a person in this field. But I very much hope that, since this draft will give the electoral commission competence, on the one hand, and, on the other hand, that a separate professional body will be set up which will be responsible for the conduct of the elections, the situation will always be better.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-22_U107	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-22_U108	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! When you answered one of the previous questions, you said about the fact that other questions that have fallen out of this draft or that you have not supported as amendments will be taken when the issue of the right to vote of prisoners is resolved. Ironically, then, we might ask whether the open lists will have to wait several decades. After all, solving the issue of the right to vote for prisoners has been standing and entangled for a very long time. Have there been any signs of consensus in the coalition in regulating this problem? They couldn't be found in the previous composition.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-22_U109	I wouldn't put those two things on the scale of whichever is more important and which is less important. But this issue certainly deserves to be discussed. However, the beginnings of one's mind are in the coalition on all sorts of issues, and they exist on this subject as well; this must be acknowledged. But is there a real consensus at last? I very much hope that the Free Party will also have a role to play in this process, and we will see together in the near future whether or not we can agree on this.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-22_U110	Olga Ivanova, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-22_U111	Thank you. Honourable waitress! I have a question about making a complaint. Why are you eliminating the possibility of complaining to the polling committee and thus making the procedure more difficult for the electorate? Don't you trust a local electoral commission? Why does it have to be made more difficult for the electorate?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-22_U112	On the contrary, it will be made much more operational for the electorate. Today, for example, there is a demand for days during which the answer will be given. From now on, the voters will receive operational answers to their simple observations. Secondly, since the system is such that there is currently a theoretical possibility of appeal against the electoral commission, the decision of the electoral committee will continue to be an opportunity to appeal to the Supreme Court. In essence, the resolution of electoral complaints becomes more operational for the electorate, not more complicated. I would also like to stress that the advantage of county level has been the principle of proximity to information, and this will continue to apply even if the Republic Election Commission in the future resolves these complaints as a first instance. In any case, the people who conduct the elections on the ground will be involved in the resolution of the complaint. They know best what could have happened. So even though, formally, one step is reduced, local organisers are, in any case, involved in the resolution.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-22_U113	Heimar Lenk, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-22_U114	Thank you. Honourable performer! You said that in the case of electronic elections, everyone will identify themselves with an ID card. It's right and it makes sense. But in the last election, I'm telling you by memory, there were probably even several hundred over 100 years of age who chose electronically. The oldest was 104 years old. Perhaps you'll explain how over 100 years old and 104 years old, for example, identify themselves with an I.D. card? If we read some very old people's jubilee interviews in the paper, we'll find out that the first thing they complain about is that they see badly. How do they still identify themselves in hundreds of 100 years of age?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-22_U115	Thank you. First of all, I ask you to call me a waitress, not a performer. But this is, of course, your choice. Secondly, if I were you, I wouldn't underestimate the elderly and their abilities. If I were you, I wouldn't think so bad of them that if you were older, you wouldn't be able to start the computer operating system or enter the ID card into the reader. Believe me, older people are quite clever, quite resourceful, they go along with the innovations. By the way, pensions are also withdrawn if you didn't know, mostly from an ATM, not from a post office.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-22_U116	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-22_U117	Thank you, manager. The rapporteur from the Commission. I'm asking again about the security of the e-elections. In my opinion, it is the same thing from a confidential point of view as allowing someone to sit next to the electoral booth on election day. Actually, it doesn't make any difference. I'm sure you'll admit it if you think it through. However, as long as there is no guarantee that a person will make his own decision, I do not understand this great enthusiasm for e-elections. Why is it that no country in Europe has come along with our e-election system? Do they have a different understanding of the computer system or of how to ease people's lives? What is the main reason?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-22_U118	As far as I know, several European countries are very excited about Estonia's e-governance solutions. And I'm asking you in return, if you log in to your Internet bank and make transfers there, whether it's safe or not. I tend to think it's safe. You're in charge of your money, you're transferring where you want it. It's the same as dialing. You sign in with your ID card, make your own choices. If someone does this for you, it's a crime, whether the other person is in the same room or not.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-22_U119	Dmitri Dmitriev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-22_U120	Thank you, Honourable Vice President. Dear waitress, Following the entry into force of the Act, elections will be held in the county by an election manager, either a county secretary or a person appointed by the Head of State Election Service on the proposal of the Secretary of State. The next phase of the administrative-territorial reform is probably the determination of the role and fate of rural governments. What will happen to the county electoral director if the country governments are abolished in the form they are now?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-22_U121	If you're writing the law, you're gonna have to rely on some kind of tech situation that's in place. So far, it has not been agreed whether the county governments will disappear and whether the country secretaries will continue. We based the draft on the legal space in force, where there are county governments and where there are country secretaries. If, for any reason, there should be a different situation in the future, we can clarify this law. As they say, the world around us is changing all the time, and you have to go along with it. So if anything changes, we change the law.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-22_U122	Heimar Lenk, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-22_U123	Thank you. Honourable speaker! I have this question for you: how do our elections coincide with the Constitution, which clearly states that we will have elections on the first Sunday of March over four years. But we have pre-elections, we have e-elections, how do you put these things together?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-22_U124	These disputes, too, have actually been settled, I suggest you look at these solutions. The elections are constitutional, even if they include e-elections and pre-elections. I am deeply convinced of that. If you have doubts about this, there is a separate procedure by which it can be questioned, and perhaps the independent judicial system will once again provide the answer that it has already repeatedly given.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-22_U125	Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-22_U126	Thank you, Mr. Vice Speaker. Good waitress! I listened here to your opinion that older people should not be underestimated in the ID vote. No doubt we will not underestimate. I'd rather ask why you underestimate younger people. Because in the last elections, there were more people of retirement age in e-votes than there were under 25. I wonder if they can't handle electronics. But I actually have a question about rejecting the amendments. How is it still compatible with the constitution that the pre-election period is so long for us? After all, our constitution says quite clearly that elections are on a particular day.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-22_U127	This is in accordance with the Constitution. Period. But as far as the younger voter is concerned, I think that here we all have a role to play, regardless of political affiliation, in order to make the governance of the state important to them. I think that as time goes on, the greater the turnout will be among the younger ones. It was only some time ago that we approved the right to vote in local elections under the age of 18 in the Riigikogu, so it is possible to participate in the elections from the age of 16. I think this, too, is one way that young people can start talking more directly about the things they live in.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-22_U128	Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-22_U129	Thank you, Honourable Chairman. Respectable waitress! I am basically an advocate of e-elections, but since the beginning of this electoral procedure, it has been incomprehensible to me why it is permitted to change its decision in electronic elections in an endless number of times. One change could be understandable with a finger or something like that, but why is it necessary that you may change your decision even a hundred times?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-22_U130	I say my personal opinion, I wasn't in the process of deciding on the architecture of the electoral law. But if, for one reason or another, you change your mind at the end of the e-elections, you will have the opportunity to make your decision on election day instead. I think that's one of the reasons why this opportunity has been left. However, more specifically, it is possible to read on this subject in this same decision of the Court of Justice in 2005, and I suggest that you read it in more detail.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-22_U131	Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-22_U132	Thank you. Dear waitress, Reading the text of the bill gives the impression that two systems are being discussed here. One of them is the electoral information system, where the results of the elections are entered. Secondly, it is said that the national electoral service is obliged to audit the electronic voting system. I understand that these are two systems, and only electronic voting is audited. What was the reason why it was found that the electoral information system that adopted the results of the departments and the results of the electronic voting was excluded from auditing? What is the use of checking votes and counting when the numbers of the result can be combined in another information system by someone unknown? When we recall the previous elections, we have had a case where it was found that the candidate did not receive 100% votes, but 106% votes, and this difference was explained in particular by an error in the unaudited election information system in the calculation of the percentage.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-22_U133	There is certainly no record in the bill that nothing is unaudited or uncontrolled. I think that if the power of the electoral commission is increased so that one of its members is a certified representative of the Auditor Assembly, it will certainly be a thorough review of both the electronic and non-electronic electoral systems, all of which must be controlled and audited. All matters must be as correct as possible in the future.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-22_U134	Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-22_U135	Thank you. As far as the change of voice is concerned, I believe that the principle of the uniformity of elections has been violated. You can't make me go to the urn and say that ups, I changed my mind, give me my note back, I'll make another choice. But in the case of an e-voice, it's an option. In my opinion, this is not in line with the principle of uniformity in the elections. However, I actually have a question about the e-vote. We are currently in the law that e-voices will be read at 7 p.m. on election day, while the elections will last until 8 p.m. We proposed that e-voices be read only when the selection at the urns is complete. For some reason, it has not found support. Why is it necessary for e-voices to be read an hour before the vote ends?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-22_U136	Because the results will be made public as early as possible. But they won't be notified until all the election procedures are complete. There is much public interest behind this regulation, nothing more. However, I repeat, the results of the election will only be made public once all procedures have been completed.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-22_U137	Erki Savisaar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-22_U138	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, In the last elections to the Riigikogu, e-voters were unable to change their decision at the station on election day. There were a number of cases where people went to the station and were told that you had already voted, even though they themselves claimed otherwise. But that's it. My question is, will this possibility of re-vote come back now?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-22_U139	I will read to you the position of the Supreme Court ruling on the possibility for the voter to change his vote during the pre-vote: 'The option of changing the vote electronically during the pre-vote gives an important additional guarantee of compliance with the principle of the freedom of the elections and the secrecy of voting by electronic means. A voter who has been illegally affected or followed in electronic voting can restore the freedom of election and the secrecy of voting by re-voting electronically or by means of a sampled paper. In addition to the possibility of expost correction of the vote given under influence, a preventive function is also important for over-voting. If the voter using the electronic means of voting has a legally guaranteed opportunity to change the vote by electronic means, the motivation for unlawful influence will be reduced. Apart from the possibility of changing the electronic voice, there are no other, equally effective measures to ensure the freedom of elections and the secrecy of voting in an uncontrolled voting environment. Punitive measures have a preventive meaning, but subsequent punishment does not help to eliminate the violation of electoral freedom and the secrecy of voting, as opposed to the use of the possibility of changing the electronic voice. " This is an important principle that has been based on and will continue to be used in the future.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-22_U140	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-22_U141	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, All these explanations are very beautiful, but I am interested in this first and foremost in you talking about the auditing of electronic voting and its auditability, who are these auditors. Who appoints these auditors and who controls these auditors in turn?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-22_U142	First of all, it is the electoral committee that supervises the conduct of the elections. The selection panel shall be extended by means of a certified auditor submitted by the Audit Board. Its role is to carry out an audit on the operating machine, or electoral service. And if you're asking who's supervising the Republic Election Commission, it's pretty well written in the law, too. Those institutions which present the members of the Election Commission are supervising the Election Commission. These people are not directly accountable, but they have been submitted by independent institutions, whose interests include having independent transparent elections in Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-22_U143	Thank you, dear waitress. No further questions for you. Do colleagues want to open negotiations? Looks like it is. Anneli Ott, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-22_U144	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The draft introduces a number of important changes to the electoral system, such as the transition of the current tasks of the electronic voting committee to the national electoral service and the complete abolition of the county electoral committees. One major innovation will also be the processing of complaints. If complaints have so far been resolved in a three-step procedure, one step will be reduced once the law enters into force. In the future, a person whose right to vote has been violated in elections will be able to lodge a complaint only with the Riigikogu Election Committee or the Supreme Court. Unfortunately, such an amendment cannot be accepted, as it significantly limits people's right of appeal. Voters whose personal rights have been violated in elections could, however, also have the possibility to lodge a complaint at the county level, as well as to the Riigikogu Election Committee and also to the Supreme Court. I do not believe that legislative changes that reduce voters' rights can in any way be regarded as positive. In the present case, the initiator could have left the current system intact or rather broadened the scope for complaining. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-22_U145	Thank you. Oudekki Loone, please! Five plus three minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-22_U146	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, We are discussing today a change in the basis of the functioning of our country. The law that regulates how Parliament is elected is, after the constitution, the most important law for our democracy. It sets out how the will of the people will be given a concrete form in the form of concrete decision-makers and decision-making. I hope that we will take all the changes that we are talking about here today as seriously as we are discussing the amendments to our constitution. Elections must be uniform, fair and transparent. Unfortunately, this bill is a major violation of these principles. In particular, it reduces transparency. As has been mentioned during the debate, there are e-elections inside, which are in principle not transparent. We cannot verify whether the person voted himself, we cannot observe e-voting and be sure that all people were free to make their decision that they were not paid to vote that way. The citizen, however, cannot fully control what the computer program leading the e-elections is doing. The government just says, "Trust us, we are your government!" You know, that's authoritarian logic. Democratic governments do not demand faith, democratic governments expect their people to question and say: please come check, come see, come watch what we are doing. The waitress mentioned earlier that you trust the bank. You know, I don't. At the bank, I risk that the banking systems might not be safe. But in the bank, I'd only lose money. At the elections, I lose the freedom to decide for myself what our country must be, and that is what I do not want to risk. This bill, when it becomes a law, will further destroy our lack of transparency and give more opportunities to all those who might want to manipulate our democratic system. The guarantee of integrity and transparency of elections is the institution that conducts the elections. In Estonia, this is the Republic Election Commission. There are basically two ways to guarantee the integrity and transparency of such an institution. It can be guaranteed in this way that the Commission is independent, independent from the existing political power, or that it is political, but all political forces, all political actors, have a place in it and an equal say. Estonia has so far chosen the path of an independent electoral committee and this solution has served us very well so far. Now they want to change it. They say there's so much technical work, it can't be done. It is said that we make a separate institution and submit it to the Chancellery of the Riigikogu. You know, maybe there is so much technical work, maybe more professionals need to be found to organise the elections, but that doesn't give rise to the abolition of the Republic Election Commission and the creation of a separate institution. By the way, it doesn't deal with the extra bureaucracy that has developed in the meantime. The establishment of the electoral service is intended to give the entire election order to the institution which is subordinate to the Chancellery of the Riigikogu, which is made up of the director of the Chancellery of the Riigikogu. But we all know that the Director of the Chancellery of the Riigikogu has been appointed by the Executive Board of the Riigikogu. And we all know that the coalition has a majority there. This violates the principle of transparency. It gives people the signal that the current power is holding the elections. It requires a person to believe in your government, because your government will never lie to you, your government will protect you. This will make our country less democratic. It doesn't give a person a chance to doubt it. This reduces democracy's own defence mechanisms by giving more opportunities to those who might wish to place Estonia under the iron front once. At the moment, the draft aims to give the current authority the power to determine how the elections will be conducted. Ladies and gentlemen, I very much hope that 2016 will not go down in history as a year from which the fall in democracy in Estonia and the end of the second republic will be considered. I hope that we will have the determination to defend freedom, to defend the plurality of opinions, even if it means a requirement that we must restrict our power. By the way, especially then. We are only free if we guarantee that those who are completely different from us, completely different from us, enjoy the same rights as ourselves. We give up the idea of redrafting the electoral law, defending democracy in our country! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-22_U147	Siret Eagle, please! Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-22_U148	Good chairman of the sitting! Ladies and gentlemen, The fundamental principle of the functioning of a democratic state is that elections must be fair, transparent and free. The confidence of the people must be based on the firm belief that the voter's decision will not be changed both in voting and in counting votes. The electoral law is generally amended in two cases in the Riigikogu. Firstly, the desire to increase the credibility of the elections in the eyes of the people, or to manipulate voters' votes. Since 2001, Estonia has created a myth about e-elections that are fair, transparent and technologically secure. On 13 June 2001, Märt Rask, a reformist party, presented the best description of the sales. I quote: 'I think that, in three years' time, online voting will be widespread in Europe. If Estonia wants to take one step with the rest of the world in the field of information technology, then a legal basis must now be established, followed by technical solutions and Estonia would be a successful land for e-elections. Secondly, studies show that the possibility of voting online brings more people to the ballot boxes, in particular the younger people, and this increases the turnout, as well as the possibility of better identifying the actual will of the electorate. Thirdly, online voting is an alternative to, and will remain, the usual method of voting through paper ballots in the polling district, as long as there is a need for it in society. Technical solutions to secure the network and ensure voting secrecy are in fact already in place in the world. " That's what Märt Rask said in 2001. Why do I call Märt Rask's speech a myth? Because all the reasons he raised at the time for Estonia's introduction of e-elections have proved to be unfounded. To put it simply, the e-election system used in Estonia has not been regarded by any country, either in Europe or in the rest of the world, as good and safe to take over. It's been more than three years since Märt Rask said it, but nobody thinks it's safe enough to use it. If we look at the turnout, the increase in voting activity in the Riigikogu elections has been marginal, it has been 5% through those years when e-elections have been in use. And the proportion of young people aged 18 to 34 has not increased. On the contrary, the proportion of young people in elections has decreased. In addition, international experts and observers have also been of the opinion that electronic elections have not actually brought more voters in Estonia. If Märt Rask called voting online secure in 2001, experts estimate that any capable computer interested person will be able to create bad software that could change or lose an electronic voice in our current e-election system so that the voter does not know about it. By the way, the security of the e-election system used in Estonia has been described by world hackers as very primitive. They have said that this system could only be used to select a class elder at school. We, however, use it to select the Riigikogu and local governments. Why are we playing with our democracy? Why do we let democracy be manipulated in Estonia? All the arguments put forward in 2001 justifying the introduction of e-elections have proved to be a bluff over time. The arguments for e-elections initiated by the Reform Party, defended by Märt Rask at the time, have proved to be a bluff. We can say that the e-choice used in Estonia is unsafe and opaque. Unfortunately, the precepts made by international experts have only been whistled. In developed democracies, no one would imagine that a voter could choose to be drunk or under the influence of a drug, for example, or that an agitator could go home to the voter, figuratively speaking from the voter to the stand, to influence or pressure him to vote for a certain candidate. Unfortunately, this is possible in Estonia. All it takes is an ID card and a laptop. If the aim of the e-elections is to facilitate the purchase of votes, then we have certainly achieved this goal here in Estonia. Enabling this is undoubtedly a threat to democracy in Estonia. Therefore, good members of the Riigikogu, please sign the e-elections out of the electoral law! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-22_U149	Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-22_U150	Thank you, Mr President. Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-22_U151	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-22_U152	I will start at the end of this period, i.e. there is no time left for the Group of the Estonian Centre Party to propose to interrupt the second reading of the draft law amending the Riigikogu Election Act and other laws. I'm handing over this proposal. Now to this bill. Why are we talking so much about electronic voting? At the time it was accepted, the direction was clear. You have some amount that grows by 10% all the time, by 20%, by almost 30%, the kind of votes that cannot be verified. How did they vote? How did they make a decision? How did the voices really divide? This makes power in the country, as they say, consistent. The same wins all the time, and there's nothing to do with it. But there's one problem, and coalition parties can't miss it. This problem is the capital. This is Tallinn. How to get over the Centre Party in Tallinn? It's really hard to do that when you have a fair election. But why not, it can go on as it does with the bill. It's a sin, of course. But I am now telling you, ladies and gentlemen, how the power of the Centre Party will be overthrown in Tallinn. In order to win, it is necessary that your supporters come more, the better, the better, and the supporters of competitors should not be voted on. Or it may be necessary to create conditions that make it somewhat more difficult for them to vote than for your supporters. There will be a person called the election manager, and it will be the responsibility of that election leader to issue mandatory oral and written instructions for execution to the district commission. The same election leader can pay attention to the law or the county election manager's orders! A member of a committee that has failed to act shall be removed from the duties of the departmental committee. I asked here, when this debate was who wished, it listened to the question of whether there could be a situation in which not one member of the station committee would be removed, but all of them. The answer was that it's unlikely that such a thing could happen, but it's going to be regulated somehow. The same is true of this additional regulation once in the case of electronic voting. I see it all this way: in order to win the political parties of the government coalition in Tallinn, it is necessary that voting in those regions where there is clearly great support from the Centre Party be difficult. We imagine that there is an expected schedule of more voters coming to one or another polling district in Lasnamägi. These times are generally known. I myself have once tried the work of the Election Commission, and I know that at some point there will be very few people, then there will be mass, then there will be recess, and there will be another end. These times need to be ruled out and it is enough that four, five or six polling stations become the target of the attack. So, what about the attack? There's gonna be some punks coming up real quick, so nobody can do anything, sticking a party election ad on the walls, which is forbidden. It's forbidden! Where the election takes place, where the route to the polling station is to the box, there must be no such posters or other electoral material. I mean, there's been a violation of the law. The election manager gets a phone call about breaking the law, breaking the rules there, there, there and there. He instructs the clear that, he is the election leader, he is responsible for ensuring that all of these deficiencies are eliminated. And who's gonna stop him from doing that? No one says no, because there are so many shortcomings. There's only one way, but there's a lot more of them. I'm not gonna burden you with them, but this particular case just allows you to close down the station for an hour or two to remedy the flaws. It is understandable that people who have come to vote at the time, for the second time since they have been told that, for technical reasons, voting is impossible, but in another place, in another polling station they will not be able to vote, spit and go away. It is only enough to defend the law to make drastic changes in the proportion of votes cast. It's not out of the question. I asked my questions. There are other opportunities, as I said, and there are many. We understand that this law will be used against the Centre Party. Can you say that the Riigikogu Election Act does not satisfy anyone in the current version? Am I not talking about electronic voting - is our electoral system working badly? Are there any serious reproaches? No, it's not! For a quarter of a century it has worked and worked very well, yet it has been changed. Nothing in nature just happens. Everything has a purpose. And when we understand that this will happen and that in the future we will use ever darker tricks to overcome our political competitors, we propose that we stop reading this bill and once again discuss all these possibilities. For example, we could write down here before the second reading that the election manager is not able to shut down the polling station for any reason, except, for example, for a terrorist attack. It's possible to write these things into this bill. I support the cut-off proposal and I hope that you will also support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-22_U153	March Sults, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-22_U154	Good President! Ladies and gentlemen, I wrote a few keywords here. Mr Kukk compared banks and bank transactions and e-voting. I remind you of the time when a person could get paid in cash or by transfer, from an ATM or a bank. The transition to the plastic card was easy, very easy: cash was no longer paid, and that was it. I'm talking about schoolteachers. I don't know if it was any different in other areas, but it was just that one day your salary was on a plastic card, whether you wanted it or not. The protest was really bad, but it didn't work out. I have written down such keywords about our e-state: e-school was hacked, repeatedly hacked; e-identity was repeatedly hacked, criminal cases initiated. I made a public letter about the minimum wage of a day-care provider and asked for it to be digitally signed. For God's sake, I don't disparage kindergarten teachers right now, but I immediately received a letter saying, Märt, I'm sorry, but can we send in a PDF file, we're having trouble writing electronic signatures. They were about my age, a little younger and a little older, and they had trouble writing digital signatures! We've got a terrible hurrah and a pink manna here, but that's a lie. It's factually proven. Are the banks safe? There won't be any blocks left when another bank server has crashed because it's been hacked. It's not news to anyone, because it's always on the agenda. Nobody's paying any attention to that. Banks are closed, and then there's some kind of Telia server down, and the Internet connection is constantly disrupted. No one is paying attention to this, it is not necessary. It's köki-möki! It's a hard-on for us to have e-diseases. Large enthusiasts quickly and quickly began to cloud their e-sick stories because it is an eternal preservation. The authorities that wanted medical records, access to your sensitive data, were about to emerge. So you're naked as a carrot. So very risky stuff. For what do some authority or some character need to know Jüri or Jaan or Juhan's medical history and his entire life course? Let's keep going. I am not throwing a stone into Mr. Ammas' cabbage garden, but Mr. Ammas recently said that in Bundestag Germany, there is a vote with cards: a red, yellow and green cardboard label. One of the world's oldest democracies and German precision, but they vote with a cardboard card. In my opinion, it is a direct indication that the most accurate way is to physically show your mind: either you say yes or you are not impartial. And the person, not the machine, counts the voices, the information doesn't run anywhere on the server where the power went out, or doesn't know what it could turn things around. There's an ancient saying that what's made of man can be screwed up. If a man has made a lock on some kind of safe, then surely there is a person who can unlock it. Whoever created the program has certainly created a back door for this program. So let's not keep hoping that we have very decent and law-abiding people. Everyone, unfortunately, has a price. If you want an example, I suggest we try how good and safe this e-thing is. Please make an e-referendum on the Cohabitation Act! One more minute, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-22_U155	One more minute, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-22_U156	Let's see if a paper-published mindset that everyone knows coincides with an e-referendum mindset. That way, you'll know if it's going to suffer criticism or if it doesn't. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-22_U157	Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-22_U158	I'm asking for more time!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-22_U159	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-22_U160	Dear Speaker! Ladies and gentlemen, With this bill, I have mixed feelings. On the one hand, we're conservatives, but we don't mind making things better. This means that we are not fundamentally opposed to making the electoral system more economical. We are not fundamentally opposed to the use of electronics in elections either, but there have been very serious doubts about credibility and credibility, which will make us sound the alarm bells. What did we draw attention to in our suggestions for improvement? We are, of course, very sorry that the Government Union did not support these proposals in the Commission, but firstly we pointed out that the election time has been stretched too long. The Constitution clearly states that elections to the Riigikogu will take place on the first Sunday of March. In fact, the elections are already running as well as a month earlier and we do not understand how it can be argued that the Constitution is being followed. At the same time, I note again that we are not fundamentally opposed to the possibility of voting in the primary elections outside of home, but that time must be much more limited. A very, very serious problem in our view is the lack of uniformity in the elections. It was already here in the round of questions and answers that it is possible to withdraw and change the e-voice several times, but you cannot go to the dialling hole on election day and say that ups, I had a new idea, give my note back, I will vote again. It's just not possible! If one method of election can be done the same way and the other, then the uniformity of the elections is not guaranteed. Not to mention that the uniformity of the elections is not guaranteed by the fact that when you vote in the ballot booth, you are alone, but when you vote with an ID card, no one checks whether you voted yourself, whether you voted alone, whether your election decision was secret or not secret. As long as it is not possible to ensure that even in e-voting a person is alone, we will see a very serious problem of lack of uniformity. And we also see a serious problem that people may be affected by e-voting. Of course, the biggest issue in the e-vote is its lack of controllability. This was also repeatedly pointed out by previous speakers. It really doesn't satisfy us to be told to trust us. We trust, but we want to control. And if there is no control, or if the control is one for which we do not understand whether it is actually a check or not a check, if this check is not independent and verifiable, then there is actually no checkability. Quite simply, this means that the credibility of the election results is in question. And if the election results are unreliable, the whole political system will be in crisis. We do not have the certainty that the power that can be done is legitimate, i.e. according to the will of the people. These are very serious problems that this draft could have improved, but the opportunity to correct them has been missed. I would also like to point out that, when we talk about individual circumstances, perhaps this picture does not look so black, but if we put certain aspects together, the question arises as to whether there are too many coincidences. The first aspect is that the system has repeatedly collapsed in the reading of e-voices and then, after falling, there have been surprising results. The second aspect is that the results of the e-vote will be destroyed very quickly. The third important aspect is that the outcome of the e-vote will be established one hour before the end of the vote. Why it is necessary, there is no explanation. The fourth aspect is that it is not possible to ensure that someone else's identity card is not delivered in the e-vote now. We know the cases that the police have, say, very lukewarmly investigated or failed to investigate at all. For example, when one person in a retirement home helps a lot of people to vote. We know that there is practice in the retirement home, that both ID cards and their codes are collected from the carers, so that they can be used for various running operations. We also know that the Reform Party has pushed through the reduction of the electoral age and is talking about how young people are now going to choose on a massive scale. All these things together create a situation for us where e-votes are not credible, reliable and verifiable. And that's a very serious problem. Basically, because of these problems, we cannot say that we are satisfied with this bill. The opportunity to make elections more credible, more credible has been missed here. In fact, the gap between power and the people, which we already have, is even wider. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-22_U161	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-22_U162	Mr. Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, This draft does not change the electoral system as such, it changes the principles of election administration. I am not quite sure that these changes are absolutely necessary. At the same time, I do not think that this is about suffocating the mechanisms for defending democracy, or that even if some things are going to go by now, it is aware. Basically, I believe that electronic elections have so far been secure in Estonia, but this security is something that must always be guaranteed. The requirements relating to the threat of attacks must rise at all times and must be kept up to date in this respect. I was a little surprised by the response of the Commission representative, which was something that the OSCE ODIHR recommendations should be addressed by the Free Party. It is as if the Free Party has taken the position of the Reform Party in the country. Maybe this will happen someday, but I guess we all have to deal with these recommendations right now. So far, it is not said that, after the new electronic elections, steps have been taken to clean up the system, to improve verification and to increase confidence, albeit convincing. However, what makes me most inquisitive about this draft is the idea that the lead core of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, which is supposed to be Mr Laanet and Mr Kuke, that the solution to all other issues must stand as if it were some kind of barrier and that we will not deal with anything else before. Later, we will proceed with the electoral rights of the prisoners, and then we will not know if we will. But there are more questions. They also concern local elections, which are about to arrive. This is probably the result of the fact that all three opposition groups decided to extend this range of topics and tabled amendments to their draft agenda. In the case of the Centre Party, the biggest concern is probably e-elections, the EKRE is sequencing it and also raises the issue of the publication of ratings, and the Free Party is once again, unknown for many times, proposing amendments recommending the introduction of so-called open lists for the allocation of compensation mandates. We would not have done so if the Committee on Constitutional Affairs had not kept our draft, which has passed the first reading, in a desk drawer for nearly a year. If there were no artificial obstacle, we would only be dealing with the issue of election administration, or we would conclude that this draft is rather a substitute. But after all that the people's assembly has highlighted in Estonian society, it is about the loss of the reputation of politics in the public sphere and the alienation at all, I would suggest that coalition parties be much less closed to themselves on issues concerning electoral laws and discuss these issues with representatives of the entire political spectrum. And in the broader range of issues in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, I think that trust in the political community cannot be restored without resolving the issue of party funding so that there is no overeating as we are seeing today. And the same issue of so-called open lists should be resolved in such a way as to enable candidates who have more support, who will receive more votes, both in the Riigikogu elections and in local elections in Tallinn. It is also necessary to decide on the removal of the so-called decoy ducks, which we will see on the agenda with the draft of our next Free Party. As long as these problems have not been resolved, this seemingly technical draft will also lead to distrust rather, and this is regrettable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-22_U163	George Adams, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-22_U164	Mr President! My speech is more or less in the same tone as Andres Herkel's and partly overlapping with its content. You can talk about this bill like that, but it's not all that important. Whether the technical organisation of elections in one country is identical or slightly different in detail is a matter of purpose in many ways and can be changed over time. I take the initiators with great sympathy. I do not hope to confirm that if they take the job from the current electoral system, things will not get any worse. The hope is that they will at least remain the same or even become better. But it doesn't really matter either. Throughout the millennia, hundreds of different combinations have been used in all places where people have decided on some sort of election issues, how exactly is done. What is paradoxical is that we are dealing here with such a draft of itself, of course, but it is not even secondary, but it is a third-rate one. The troubles of our electoral system should be known to everyone. The biggest problem is that some of Estonia's lists of candidates are totally blocked, partly disproportionately difficult to set up. Secondly, by exploiting or abusing their power, the majority of the decision-makers in the Riigikogu have decided to grant themselves the support of the people's pocket of money in order to carry out unequal elections. By doing so, they have de facto established unequal situations in elections. Now, we can also speak with the previous speakers here, but it is important, honourable representatives of the people, that we also come to the discussion of these important problems within this Riigikogu. If, in the next and the next elections, all these things continue in the same way as a democracy cartoon, what is important is how technically simple or practical or reliable the mechanism for clearing out ballot boxes and counting notes is. It doesn't matter.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-22_U165	Honourable Riigikogu, I will close the negotiations. We should now start reviewing the amendments, but before we do, we need to take a position on the proposal by the Group of the Social Democratic Party to extend the working time of the sitting today to 14 or until the agenda is exhausted. That is what we must vote on. Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on the proposal of the Social Democratic Party Group to extend the working time of today's sitting until the agenda is exhausted, but no longer than 14 o'clock. Please take a stand and vote. 48 members of the Riigikogu were in favour of the proposal, against 32. The proposal was not supported. Let us begin the examination of the amendments. The first amendment tabled by the Group of the Centre Party, which has been rejected by the Steering Committee. Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-22_U166	Thank you. I ask for the first amendment to be voted, and before the vote, I ask for a ten-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-22_U167	Break ten minutes. We'll proceed at 12:51 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-22_U168	I shall put to the vote Amendment 1, tabled by the Central Party Group, which has been disregarded by the Commission. Please take a stand and vote. The proposal is supported by 24 members of the Riigikogu, 47 against, with 2 abstentions. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 2, by the Central Party Group, has not been taken into account. Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-22_U169	Thank you. I ask for the second amendment to be voted on, and before the vote, I ask for a ten-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-22_U170	Thank you. I'll see you tomorrow. The sitting is adjourned. Closure of the sitting at 12.53 p.m.
