ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-19_U1	Good fellows, honourable Riigikogu, good morning! We will start the 15th working week Thursday session of the 3rd plenary session of the Riigikogu. First of all, I would like to ask those members of the Riigikogu who wish to hand over the drafts or inquiries to the Riigikogu. Please, Mikhail Korb!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-19_U2	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the members of the Central Party Group, I would like to report an inquiry to Mr Kristen Michal, Minister for Economic Affairs and Infrastructure. The inquiry concerns gas appliance accidents that we have seen in different parts of Estonia during the year. There have been more in Tallinn, Northern Tallinn, but some cases have also been in Narva. The circumstances are very confusing, mostly children who suffer from air poisoning. The situation of the equipment is different. Some of them have been checked and it has become clear that everything should be okay, but things are definitely not okay when children are suffering. We would like to discuss this issue with the Minister, and we would like to examine how the facts are being clarified and what he believes should be done to prevent such cases, or at least their risk, being kept to a minimum. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-19_U3	There doesn't seem to be any more calls. On behalf of the Executive Board of the Riigikogu, I have accepted an inquiry. According to our Home and Rules of Procedure Act, the Bureau will decide on its further procedure. Now the messages. Today, after the end of the sitting, a meeting of the Broadband Support Group will be held in the Chamber. The caller is Andres Metsoja. Anyone interested in the broadband network and its development is very welcome. We're gonna do a presence check. 83 members of the Riigikogu registered as present, missing 18.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-19_U4	Let us begin the processing of today's agenda items. The first item is the first reading of the draft law amending the Basic School and Upper Secondary Schools Act and the Vocational Training Institution Act 207, initiated by the Estonian Centre Party Group. I would like to present a speech chair for a member of the Riigikogu, Mailis Reps!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-19_U5	Good morning, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-19_U6	Good waitress, I'm sorry! Good fellows, I'm asking for silence in the hall! There's too much noise in the hall. Let us honor the waitress and honor those who wish to listen! There's a noise coming from every line right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-19_U7	The words "free school food" are probably no longer foreign to any Estonian person. In Estonia, the school food tradition has lasted for more than ten years. This tradition was laid down as early as the beginning of the 2000s, namely in 2002. It was at that time that the idea was pushed into motion that we could gradually start offering free school lunch in comprehensive school, upper secondary school and vocational school. Initially, the application of this scheme to comprehensive school is 1/4. In the following years, other grades of comprehensive school, vocational training institutions and now also upper secondary school were added. Today, with sadness, I have to say that the funding for school lunch has fallen into the way of time. In particular, the support provided to local authorities for school lunch has been 78 cents per child for the last five years. With this kind of money, it is difficult to cover the food costs of primary school and comprehensive school children, but the student of upper secondary school and vocational school will certainly not get full of it. Here it is quite appropriate to mention the increase in food prices in recent years. Compared to January 2010, food prices have increased by almost 22.2% by February 2016. At the same time, the support for school lunch has only increased by 4%. Unfortunately, the figures confirm quite firmly that the current support for school lunch does not allow children to have a full and healthy lunch. Local authorities have also said in the negotiations that the support for school lunch, given that the upper secondary school is now also included, should be much higher. Young people, especially young men, clearly need a higher portion, and food costs are higher than 78 cents. At the moment, the solution is that most local authorities pay for the missing part themselves.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-19_U8	Good waitress, I'm sorry! Dear colleagues, since the President cannot manage to chair the sitting, it is his job to ensure order and silence in this Chamber so that the waitress can speak and respect those who wish to listen to the sitting, please help the President! Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-19_U9	So, we were talking about young men. At the moment, the solution is that most local authorities themselves pay for the missing part, but it is certainly not a long-term or sustainable solution, that state support remains at the same level and that local authorities are paying more and more. The obligation to pay the school lunch allowance was taken by the state about ten years ago. At the time, it was never said that local governments, or even parents, would have to pay for the state's promise. So free school lunch, especially in view of its purpose, should still be guaranteed by the State in a larger section, at least the share of food costs. Unfortunately, there are many children in Estonia who only eat their only warm food at school. As of 2014, 20% of children lived in relative poverty and 9% lived in absolute poverty in Estonia. These figures are quite frightening, and all the more reason for us to make sure that this one meal is as wholesome and healthy as possible. There is another important advantage in offering school lunch, namely food habits. Often, parents are away from home for a long time, and children come to school without breakfast, so that they have their first meal and often the only warm food a day. At best, the family eats together at night, but unfortunately, there are all kinds of dinners. So the first important aspect is that children get a warm, high-quality and varied diet, which is naturally guaranteed for everyone. It is also appropriate to mention the programmes through which we have been able to make our children eat more widely: the dairy programme, the vegetable programme, and so on. At school lunch, the issue of universal and targeted support seems to be eternal. There has been a great deal of discussion about this both in the Committee on Culture and in this large Chamber. Why, then, was it decided at the time to provide a school lunch for everyone and not on a need-based basis? First of all, there was no distinction, one can say, between classwork, who went to school night classes and who went to a buffet in front of the school cafeteria. It is universal support that provides our children with a uniform diet, regardless of family background and food habits. By now, it's become ours. A lot of people put on this idea, and it can be said that if we're used to going from other parts of the world looking for good systems, then the free school lunch system is something that we're just going to study and study. It is all the more sad to say that the government is neglecting it. Why, then, has the state frozen the school lunch grant? Here you can make a clear comparison with teachers' salary increases. Although everyone understands that teachers' pay must be a priority, and officially it is, we see figures in the country's budget strategy, which are astonishing. If or just yesterday, the 2% increase per year was discussed, how will such an increase reach 120% of the average wage in Estonia? So it is possible to say that we are already talking several times about this remote control of our school children who need a full and healthy warm school lunch. The draft provides for an increase in the allowance for school lunch to one euro per child. If you count children in general education and vocational education, there would be an extra cost of 5.9 million in the budget, which is not insurmountable if you want to. Since the draft would only enter into force from 2017, its impact on the state budget can be taken into account in the budget for next year, and that is why I am here today on this draft. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-19_U10	Thank you, good waitress. You have questions too. March Sults, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-19_U11	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good waitress! You said the percentages before, Mailis. But how many students do they have in units, whose only meal a day is school food? Can you tell me how many students there are? It's like a percentage doesn't say anything to the people.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-19_U12	If taken on a school basis, unfortunately, it is quite different from region to region. I believe that all members of the Riigikogu go to their electoral areas, the factions have a good tradition of going to counties. At least at the meetings that the representatives of the Centre Party Group have had in schools, I hope that there have been others, in addition to textbooks, teachers and the curriculum, there are often issues of school catering. It has to be said that during the last five years, breakfast has been widely offered, and the reason is precisely what I have pointed out here that children often come home in the morning without eating. Since school days are long, school lunch has been offered in the second half of the day, and in the morning children can have either morning porridge or some school sweet tea with bread and bread. If school food is the only meal of the day for 20% of children, as I pointed out here, then you could say that if, for example, 100 children attend school, there are 20 children. In fact, it turns out that this is not the case. One might say that every other child is very interested in such an additional meal. Local government arrangements have been very, very different here. Especially in smaller municipalities, the opportunity to eat this "long-day meal" is often free of charge for children who are expecting a school bus. The rest of the cost of school meals in Tallinn has indeed been borne by the local government itself, not by parents. Schools have been quite creative here, with a lot of opportunities. I dare say there is, unfortunately, a difference between regions here too, but maybe one in three children would be one who doesn't eat this warm food, to be ashamed of it. When we switched to the universal provision of school food, the reputation of the school cafeteria clearly improved and the demandingness of parents, teachers and school directors in the direction of the school canteen increased. So it's all been a two-way process. I dare say that educational people do not view it as a social issue, but as a perfectly normal part of a school day. Just as recreational activities are part of the school, choir management, technical circles are step by step more coming to school, so school food is one part of the school day.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-19_U13	Please, speak courtesy! Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-19_U14	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, I'd rather ask you to wake up the coalition side in this hall, they're probably too sleepy right now. But there might be an idea on this. We are now inviting NATO soldiers from the entire brigade to our country, after which they will arrive at divisions, as the generals say. And their reception costs are to be borne by our country until the end, including meals. Why don't we propose that the cost of a soldier's lunch equal the cost of school lunches? If it's not too bad to pay for a foreign soldier's meal, maybe we could give the baby something more. What do you think?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-19_U15	Thank you, good questioner! These comparisons have been quite interesting in the various configurations of the Riigikogu. I remember a comparison from the previous composition, where we discussed at length what the Tartu prison portion is and what the school food portion is. I hope, however, that no one needs to be awakened on this issue. If we look at the decision of the previous government to extend the provision of school food to upper secondary school, it shows that, fortunately, it is understood that school food is not such a 'need-to-need' thing, a question for people with lower incomes. It is not a matter for one party; it is not a question for one city or another; it is certainly not a matter for one target group. As I said, it is widely understood that this is a part of our education and a perfectly normal thing. In our time, we took the example of the Nordic countries, namely Finland. We went there quite thoroughly to learn about these experiences, and they are not ashamed to say that school food is part of their education. But when it comes to the soldier's rations of food, there's a reference moment here. I deliberately outlined the upper secondary school level in the introductory section. There is no difference in the age of gymnasium boys and future soldiers, and in the case of soldiers, we are very careful to make sure that the portion corresponds to the weight. However, 78 cents for the young gymnast's portion is probably not enough. So we must work together here. But it's a pleasure to say that the Ministry of Social Affairs, I'm sorry, I don't know which part of the Ministry of Social Affairs does the model menus and very closely monitors the distribution of food costs and calories. They also point out that it no longer covers the cost of food. So we'll probably step by step to the fact that food rations match the weight of young people.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-19_U16	Olga Ivanova, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-19_U17	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Honourable waitress! Let me get this straight. Now this problem is being resolved differently in local governments. Some larger local governments pay extra for school meals themselves, while some municipalities pay for their parents. What is the amount paid to this 78 cent, and is it also different from region to region?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-19_U18	Thank you. Good questioner, if I may, I will answer briefly because last night and this morning have been quite long, a few hours ago we were just here in the Riigikogu Hall. If we look back at how the cost of food accounting went in the past, I'm about to arrive at your questioning, then every local government told the Ministry of Education what the school food costs were at the time. The variation in Estonian kroons was such that the most expensive were slightly more than 10 kroons and the smallest were around 5 kroons. The difference was that part of the local authorities had been tendered, there were companies sometimes and therefore the school lunch costs were the highest. In other municipalities, for example, the wages of the chef, electricity consumption and other such things were included in general costs and only food costs were taken into account. As a result, after a long discussion, the coalition agreed that we would calculate the average, just as the local authorities wanted, and that would be the notional school lunch cost. The Ministry of Social Affairs drew up a model menu and averaged 8 kroons and 50 cents. At the moment, the situation is that this amount again varies slightly as a result of whether the company is used, whether the school canteen has its own cook or not. But in general, based on the data that local authorities have pointed out in the annual negotiations between municipalities and the state, it can be said that the increase is 100%, i.e. about 78 cents is paid by the state and the second 78 cent is added by the local government. In places where the supplement is paid by the parent, it varies from 50 cents a day to 1 euro per child. There are also such municipalities, but fortunately there are not many.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-19_U19	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-19_U20	Good manager! Good waitress! I don't understand why this 78 cent dance is going on and why the coalition doesn't want to pay more than 78 cents for a school lunch. Could it possibly be the desire to keep the children healthy? A light hunger doesn't make you drowsy, on the contrary, it makes you enterprising.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-19_U21	Thank you, good questioner! However, I am of the opinion that there is no one in this Chamber who would like our children to be hungry. I am quite convinced that this is a matter of priorities. As the rise in child benefits came from the coalition as a result of very difficult agreements and compromises, it is likely that the increase in the cost of school lunch would simply no longer fit in. I do not rule out that the current Riigikogu will come back to this issue, I am afraid not with this bill, but perhaps with the next, the next or the next draft, we will reach the point where the cost of eating school lunch will be one euro. It's such a symbolic amount. In fact, local authorities are already asking for a higher amount in the negotiations with the country.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-19_U22	Siim Kisler, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-19_U23	Thank you. Good waitress! You're pointing out that local governments are paying this 78 cents per student an important part to cope with. How has this problem been solved in state-owned schools? State upper secondary schools, vocational training institutions, how do they have to cope?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-19_U24	Thank you. That's a good question. First of all, as far as professional schools are concerned, this is a so-called economic cost arrangement. In reality, it has been arranged in such a way that, in all vocational schools that I know, I assume that this is the case for everyone at the moment, there is an electronic reader. As vocational schools have a duty to go through very long traineeships, the matter is very simply resolved. On those days when students are internships, they don't have a school lunch book. In general, internships are known in advance, which is why the canteen has managed it effectively. The remaining days shall be divided in such a way that the average school lunch price is slightly above EUR 1. That's just how it's solved. Of course, with regard to economic costs, one euro is a net food cost. You can eat for one euro for free, but if someone wants a couple of extra bags, you have to pay for it and it's on the electronic reader. They either pay in advance or at the end of the month, it's a matter of order. As regards state secondary schools, the Minister's reply has repeatedly sounded in this Chamber that it has been organised and that the costs are covered. I'm sure we all go to state gymnasiums, so we can ask you that in detail. More information than the Minister's words I don't have at the moment.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-19_U25	Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-19_U26	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, It seems to me that we have been discussing this issue in this Chamber for so long that those children who started in first class when the allowance for school lunch was 0.78 euros will, in the meantime, be graduating from upper secondary school, but we are still talking about this. Every time they ask where to get the money. Do you have any suggestions where you can get that money if you really need to solve this question?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-19_U27	Thank you, good questioner! Surely this is not just about school food. We need very clearly extra money for education. On the one hand, I agree, but on the other, I also have a different opinion in the debate on the possibility of raising the pay of teachers in education, for example, or of developing the school environment only with internal resources. Perhaps, to put it simply, we'll close four schools, and then the next two schools will do very well. Life has shown that such restructuring does not bring much cash flow. The closure of schools is often only associated with additional costs, as the local government retains the school buildings. They are still heated, maintained and usually renamed as an educational centre, a centre of generations or some other such. So direct savings of money, as has been tried to show society, will certainly not result. You asked where the money came from. The first and simplest answer is that we are talking so early about the 2017 budget because, knowing how the budget will be drawn up, this money can be included in some summer-end forecasts and developments in case of interest. The money comes from taxes. Whether the tax system needs to be restructured is a longer debate. The Centre Party has repeatedly proposed here and, fortunately, this debate is very lively in the air in society. This morning, too, I listened with interest to one radio channel and another how, again and again, the topic that if the share of personal income tax is exactly what it is, is it optimal? Is our social tax system optimal? Why don't we have a business tax? So we have to have these discussions, and the talk that the Reform Party has tried to sell to society, that there is no point in discussing taxes at all, is now no longer valid. Payments must definitely be discussed. Most importantly, the first thing is to agree together that education is the engine that drives our economy forward. Money can come when our economy becomes smarter, more efficient, better and better, and investments are coming here that can help us grow our economy. Estonia is proud of the wisdom and wisdom of its people, so surely we have the capacity to grow our economy and overcome the present frozen state.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-19_U28	Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-19_U29	Honourable President! Respectable waitress! In the practice of our Riigikogu, unfortunately, there is often a situation where the opposition's draft does not fit at all and the coalition's draft on the same subject fits very well. I recall, for example, how the Centre Party defended the bill here in order to eliminate the special advantage for health and sports costs that it did not meet. Now the Minister of Culture is marching victoriously on the same subject before the government and before the Riigikogu. Have you not managed to negotiate with representatives of the coalition, perhaps especially with social democrats, that they themselves submit a similar draft on school food? It would certainly find general understanding and appreciation.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-19_U30	Thank you, good questioner! Since both you and my aim is to make better progress in the field of education, our young people and children, I would have no problem if the bill had another number, in case the current bill number did not match. I mean, that would be great. If we are thinking of parliamentary practice, it was actually common, 6 to 7 years ago, that the draft was left in the process, that the government then started its own draft and that the drafts were merged. The current practice is rather that the draft will be voted out and then the Government of the Republic will submit its draft. Whatever the future is, as long as the goal is met. The Social Democrats have always supported school food, and the decision to provide school food in upper secondary school also came from the previous government. Will it ever be resolved that this amount will increase? Sure. It is simply a question of whether it will increase in focus on school food or whether it will solve the whole issue of the local government's income base and whether it will tell the municipality that it is not good, to feed it yourself, or to solve it in a more general way, through the tax system. In any case, as part of the financial autonomy of the local government, catering for children both in kindergarten and in school will inevitably come, as this is something that local people want and expect. Whether it is absolutely free of charge for the parent or whether it is self-interest, just as there is group pay in kindergarten, it is all a matter of debate and debate. But I am absolutely convinced that in one coalition or another, this will work.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-19_U31	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-19_U32	Thank you. I know the head of government is in the Nordic direction. How do people behave in the Nordic countries, how do they feed their children? For example, do you have free school food in Finland?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-19_U33	Thank you, good questioner! I boldly mentioned Finland, but I will mention it again. Finland set an example for us in the late 1990s and early 2000s, when this issue was very strong, and still sets an example for us in terms of food management. Even now, when they meet Finnish colleagues, school leaders are discussing catering issues. The reason is that several schools have started to develop menus step by step, taking into account children's allergies and nutritional characteristics. In other schools, this is a new issue, and we certainly have a lesson to learn about it from Scandinavia. In addition to general catering arrangements, therefore, individual approaches and special needs are taken into account. If we still considered such special desires to be somewhat capricious behavior, it is now understood that for some children it can be just life-threatening if they eat certain foods. So on this point, we also have to learn about catering arrangements from the Nordic countries. As far as financing is concerned, I recall that the reason why we started to have such a glowing topic in society at the end of the 1990s was precisely because Finns introduced school food at a time when they themselves were very poor. They said in the 1950s that through school, through the education system, they keep children safe and in a good environment. Why, then, can this not continue to set an example for us?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-19_U34	Good waitress, thank you! No further questions. I now ask for a presentation of Yoko Alender, member of the Cultural Committee of the Riigikogu Chair!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-19_U35	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Committee on Culture discussed the draft on 9 May. Indrek Kilk, lawyer of the Ministry of Education, who presented the views of the Government of the Republic, was invited to the meeting of the Commission. As the initiator of the bill, Mailis Reps explained that the rise in food prices has made it difficult for school caterers to offer a nutritious and healthy warm lunch with 78 cents of state support. The aim of the draft is to set a minimum allowance for school lunch, which would be EUR 1 per student per day of study. As representative of the Ministry of Education, Indrek Kilk presented the decision of the Government on 5 May not to support the draft. The proposed draft cannot achieve the objective set by the author and the design proposed in the draft is not a legally appropriate way to increase the allowance for school lunch. In other words, the principle is not being overturned by the government, but simply by the way in which the law is drawn up is not the right way to achieve the objective. Then there was a debate. Member of the Commission Krista Aru asked about the setting of a minimum subsidy rate for school lunch in a fixed amount. Mailis Reps replied that a different approach could also be considered during the procedure of the draft, such as adding a coefficient of cost of living or other solutions. Procedural decisions were taken by the Commission at that same meeting on 9 May. The proposal to terminate the first reading was not supported by 5 votes against and 4 members of the Commission were in favour. The Commission's proposal is therefore to reject the draft at first reading. In consensus, the Committee on Culture decided to refer the draft to first reading by 17 May today is already 19 May, because in the meantime amendments were made and the Commission was appointed rapporteur here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-19_U36	Thank you, good waitress, there are questions for you. Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-19_U37	Thank you. Dear waitress, I have heard that this draft does not allow the desired objective to be achieved. The aim is to increase the long frozen 78-cent contribution to EUR 1 so that the food portion of the food can be covered. Do you have the same approach as the Prime Minister yesterday, who said that if there is a difference between the price of 10 cents of fuel liters in Estonia and Latvia, it is not significant, it is almost non-existent? Do you also think that 22 cents isn't helping anything? It's almost a quarter. What do you mean, putting up an increase in the price of money from the budget doesn't help improve the quality of school lunch?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-19_U38	Thank you, good questioner! Your practice as legislator is considerably longer than mine, and you are certainly well aware that we are not in the habit of writing numerical sizes into law in this way, but should be proposed in the process of processing the state budget. Therefore, no comment can be made on the comments made by Taavi Kõivas from yesterday's meeting of the Committee on Culture.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-19_U39	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-19_U40	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! According to the new rules, what happened in the Commission should be public. Please state the names of the five people who voted against this bill and the proposal that school food be free of charge.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-19_U41	Thank you, good questioner! You point out that the minutes of the committees are really becoming more public. Personally, I consider this to be a very good development. Krista Aru, Aadu Black, Mailis Reps and Märt Sults voted in favour of the proposal. Kalle Muuli, Viktoria Ladynskaja, Laine Randjärv, Heidy Purga and Yoko Alender voted against the proposal, and Mihkel Raud was absent from the committee meeting.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-19_U42	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-19_U43	Good manager! Good waitress! We have now learned that you also believe that the country does not need to pay more than 78 cents of school lunches for children. You said that the government is not opposed in principle, but the way the target is being pursued is wrong. What, then, is the right way for children to receive school food from the state for more than 78 cents?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-19_U44	Thank you. I would ask a good colleague not to put words in my mouth that I have not said. But in answer to your question, the right way, one option would be to do it in the budgetary procedure. We will return to this soon after the summer vacation and then you will be able to present your proposals. However, if we ask for my personal position and talk about the subject that we have raised during this composition, both in the Committee on Culture and in this large Chamber, as a matter of national importance, when dealing with education and its financing, then the general direction could be that if we are able to implement administrative reform despite the opposition's obstructions and our local authorities become stronger, we can also give them greater responsibility for paying education support. This gives the local government the opportunity to deliver so that more money can be channelled to school food, for example, by doing other things more efficiently. This approach has been supported by representatives of both the National Audit Office and the Ministry of Education. This debate is still at an early stage, but I hope that within this membership we will still be able to take concrete steps.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-19_U45	Monika Haukanõmm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-19_U46	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, My question came from your answer to Kadri Samson. You said something about not putting numerical sizes into the law. Here I have to say, it's a little misleading. We are just dealing with the Family Benefits Act, where the representative of the Ministry of Social Affairs said that this is a major improvement if we put specific amounts in the law: 50 euros, 100 euros, etc. In fact, it could be either way, we already have a practice of one way or another. My specific question, however, is as follows. Paragraph 42 (4) of the Act currently in force states that the allowance for school lunch per student and the arrangements for distribution of school lunch allowance are established by the Government of the Republic. You admitted that the Government of the Republic does not object in principle. So is the Government of the Republic planning to introduce it?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-19_U47	Thank you. Unfortunately, as a representative of the Committee on Culture, I cannot speak here on behalf of the Government of the Republic, but you will, of course, be able to put the same question to the members of the Government of the Republic.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-19_U48	Laine Randjärv, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-19_U49	Thank you. I was moved to ask a question or quite rightly a reply or comment in the context of asking rather demagogic questions, I would even say that by tearing out the context, who was in favour and who was against. As a representative of the Commission, can you describe a bit more broadly the Commission's general attitude and indeed the search for solutions? During the future discussion of the Education Code, a solution could be considered to provide the municipality with a "educational component' so that it can take care of children attending the municipal school in any way, whether it is related to food or activities of interest, especially learning.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-19_U50	Thank you. A very good and substantive question. My experience in the Committee on Culture, where I have now been for a little over a year, is indeed that there is substantial work being done there. I would say that most of us agree very much. I think that, in terms of education and culture, none of us have any agenda, but we are clearly working towards a common goal. I think that this debate, too, was very substantive, and all the members of the Commission considered it important that children receive good eating habits and healthy food, and that there must also be resources for this. But setting such a 'digit minimum', which should then probably be changed every year as the cost of living changes, is indeed ineffective from the point of view of legislation. We have dealt with the financing of all education in a more comprehensive way in the Commission, and I think this is a very sensible direction that we have taken. However, as I said before, we are still facing discussions and major decisions.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-19_U51	Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-19_U52	Thank you. Dear waitress, I have this practical question. You probably know a lot about the catering business. Is 78 cents enough money to offer lunch?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-19_U53	Thank you for your question. I think that who I know or who I do not know is obviously irrelevant, and the Committee on Culture certainly did not discuss it at its meeting. But my personal experience, if you ask me now, tells me that 78 cents is really hard to deal with right now. I therefore also think that the way in which local authorities have contributed, as the initiator of the draft has explained, is, of course, grateful. Personally, I think it is right that they have contributed and stood up for our children and their healthy food.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-19_U54	Monika Haukanõmm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-19_U55	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! Let me ask you a little addition to my previous question. The Minister of Education and Science is a member of your party. I believe that you have certainly discussed among yourselves in the group whether the government is planning to increase this amount. The subject is really important and perhaps you have drawn the Minister of Education and Research's attention to this. What do you think, or what do you know how this thing goes?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-19_U56	Thank you for your question. Indeed, personally, I can assure you that, in the group, in the Committee on Culture and in the talks with the Minister for Education, we have talked a lot about what I have now mentioned here several times: a general review of the principles of financing education and an increase in the responsibility and trust of local authorities. I think we'll continue with this plan. Specialists of the Ministry of Education and the National Audit Office have also confirmed that precise labelling and very clear targeting of subsidies by the government with such minimum rates and limits can act as a short-term measure, but in general this does not lead to a target. Personally, I am still in favour of increasing the decision-making power of the local government.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-19_U57	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-19_U58	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Ladies and gentlemen, I am listening to this debate here, and I am very, very surprised that you really do not understand that these are children, our own children. Is it really a pity for a few dozen cents for each child? We now have 40,000 50,000 children living in extreme poverty, who are about to run out of school year and who are receiving warm food again, perhaps only in September. We have money for Greece, we have money for Turkey, we have money for crisis funds for foreign banks. Do you really not consider Estonian children important?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-19_U59	Thank you. I am truly sorry that we have members in this Chamber of the Riigikogu who take advantage of the weakest in order to paint monsters on the walls and talk about something other than the content of the matter.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-19_U60	No further questions. Do the representatives of the political groups wish to open negotiations? They do. I'm opening negotiations. Please ask Andres Ammas, representative of the Estonian Free Party, for the speech chair of the Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-19_U61	Honourable President! Respectable members of the Riigikogu! I would like to thank my group, which allowed me to come here and speak on behalf of the group, even though we had not agreed on this before. I want to talk about two things, ladies and gentlemen. I very much liked today's waitress Malis' reminder of the previous practice of the Riigikogu. I think that the practice that Mailis reminded us all of, where the coalition did not simply run over the opposition's drafts as a roller or vote them out of the dull process, was more solid and dignified than what is happening now. This practice, which leaves the bill in the drawer, cannot be accepted in any way, but it is a more polite practice than what is happening now. That is why, firstly, I have a request and an invitation to all members of the Riigikogu: please do not vote this draft out of the procedure! Secondly, I would like to remind you that our activities in this Chamber are repeated as if they were along a spiral. Exactly a year ago, we discussed Bill No 1, which dealt with the exact same problem of school food. The Commission's waitress was second then, with Kalle Muuli on the floor. Questions and answers were quite similar. And then the explanation of the Commission's rejection was as follows: this is not the way to solve this problem, but if there is a budgetary procedure, well we are all in favour of school food, we will then give extra money to school food and everything will be fine. We have been through a budgetary procedure in the meantime, dear colleagues. Well, then, through this budget, we did not increase the support for school lunch in any way, and the government did not propose this. Why should I now believe that this time the government will behave differently in the autumn? If we do not want to be the Pharisees here, but we want our words and deeds to come together, then, honourable coalition ambassadors, demand from the government that more attention be paid and more money allocated to school food in the budget for the coming year!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-19_U62	Thank you. No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. The commission has proposed to reject the draft 207 at first reading. Let us begin the preparation of this vote. Dear colleagues, I would like to put to the vote the draft proposal of the lead committee 207 to be rejected at first reading. Please take a stand and vote. [[The excitement in the hall. Let's hear it.]] Good fellows! With the result of 38 and against 38, the proposal of the commission was not supported. [[Excellent shouts in the hall. Let's hear it.]] I'm asking for silence in the hall! I set the deadline for submitting amendments, which is 2 June at 5.15 p.m. The first reading is closed and the first item is on the agenda. Good fellows, today's session is closed. I thank you and wish you the strength of our work! Closure of the sitting at 10.49 a.m.
