ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-16_U1	Good morning, honourable Riigikogu. I fully understand your excitement.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-16_U2	Happy Members of the Riigikogu! Due to the end of the mandate of Riigikogu member Mihkel Rau due to his resignation, Toomas Jürgenstein will be a member of the Riigikogu today. Please, Toomas Jürgenstein, take the oath of office in the Riigikogu Chair!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-16_U3	Honourable Riigikogu! By taking up my duties as a member of the Riigikogu in the composition of Riigikogu XIII, I swear to remain faithful to the Republic of Estonia and its constitutional order. [[Let's hear it.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-16_U4	The speech chair of the Riigikogu, Märt Sultsi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-16_U5	Honorable Chairman!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-16_U6	Let's welcome the Chairman.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-16_U7	Hello! Honourable colleagues! Since today is basically the end of the season, it is quite appropriate to make an inquiry into the end of another season. The season is also over in schools and great state exams are also over. The question is to the Minister of Education and Science, Jürgen Ligil, about how useful state examinations are. How much does the state spend on taking state examinations, how effective they are and whether they have been measured? According to what model have the mathematics, Estonian language and foreign language as the subjects of the state examination been chosen for schools? What formula has put in place the preferred situation of in-depth schools that provide in-depth training in mathematics and foreign languages, and how can they be compared with others? Will students be treated equally in the education system and in the educational network? Does everyone have equal access to educational stamps and the mysteries of the world of science? It doesn't seem that way. An inquiry comes about all of this. Inquiry there is also a question that has been worded in this way: has the possibility been considered and how has the possibility of replacing state exams with school exams, as it once was? And if a student wants to take a state exam, he will order this exam from the Ministry of Education and pay for it from his own pocket. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-16_U8	Riigikogu speech chair Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-16_U9	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable representatives of the people! We had a rather strange and passionate discussion here yesterday with the Minister of Enterprise, who presented the draft Estonian Flag Act to the Riigikogu. In many, this bill is a challenge. This creates uncertainty in entrepreneurs, because why we are taking such purely symbolic and somewhat potential steps in a situation where business policy and environment are bad in Estonia. We are pleased to note that the honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu, Mr Ratas, looking at our future work in this morning's radio interview, stressed that the focus of business policy could be more acute than it has been so far. We come here to help the Minister of Enterprise and, on behalf of the seven members of the Free Party, we present an inquiry into the execution of a number of points set out in the Coalition Agreement. They concern Estonia's industrial policy, reducing the administrative burden on small businesses, simplifying the taxation of micro-enterprises, as well as the unemployment status of the members of the company's management board. There are painful problems in this area that have been highlighted in the coalition agreement, but unfortunately we have not seen any progress. We are giving the Minister for Enterprise the opportunity to come to enlighten us on these issues and to explain ourselves immediately at the beginning of the autumn season. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-16_U10	Please speak to the Riigikogu at Külliiki Hatter!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-16_U11	Good vice chairman! Good ambassadors! On behalf of seven members of the Free Party, I have the honour to address an inquiry to Minister for Economic Affairs and Infrastructure Kristen Michal. Recently, the services of public undertakings in rural areas have been again increasingly talked about. We are talking about both Omniva and the Regional Offices of the Road Administration. The question of whether the state has analysed the situation in essence is often left, especially in small-scale situations where one of our major problems is peripheralisation. Have there been any ministerial, inter-agency discussions and commissioned analyses? What role do public authorities play in rural areas? Does it have any emotional effect, whether a person's sense of security depends on it, and what are the possible consequences if service agencies are closed down in rural areas? That's what we want to know. Of course, we also want to know what results have been achieved when such round tables and discussions have taken place, and what impacts have been taken into account in relation to administrative reform. It could be said in advance that we will also have a reform of the state. These are serious issues that I invite the entire Riigikogu to actively discuss. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-16_U12	I would like the Riigikogu's speech chair to Mikhail Stalnukhin!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-16_U13	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, I will submit to the procedure of the Riigikogu the draft law amending the Electricity Market Act, the Law of Property Act and the Construction Code. It will be registered on behalf of six members of the Riigikogu: Mikhail Stalnukhin, Andres Metsoja, Andres Ammas, Kristjan Kõljalg, Henn Põlluaas and Tanel Talve. All the political groups of the Riigikogu are therefore represented. The draft law started with one of the National Audit Office's audit reports and was prepared thanks to several meetings and roundtables that have taken place in recent months. The purpose of the draft is reflected in one sentence of the explanatory memorandum: 'Fast internet access must be available in Estonia throughout the territory of the country to all homes, businesses and institutions. 'I would like to thank everyone involved in the drafting of this draft, above all the special committee staff. I also note that this is the subject of Mr Metsoja, who is also the rapporteur on this issue, in the special committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-16_U14	Artur Talvik, speech chair of the Riigikogu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-16_U15	Good President! Ladies and gentlemen, For years, the 'ammuu' of Estonian cows has been mayor and this is because Estonian cows are the first to reach the richest five in Europe. They got there by way of the milking of the per cow, but they've still got there. In the last year, the 'ammuu' of Estonian cows has been minor. This is because, although the milking has remained at the same level, the price paid for milk to be drained has been seven cents less than the cost per litre throughout the year. Consequently, as we all understand, the Estonian dairy industry is in crisis. Therefore, the Free Party Group proposes to make Estonian cows' ammuu a major again. To this end, we have drawn up a draft decision of the Riigikogu, which proposes that the Government of the Republic initiate as a matter of urgency the Act amending the 2016 State Budget Act, which decides to pay emergency aid to the dairy and pigmeat sector in serious difficulties in the current year for a total amount of 8.3 million euros. In short, most of this amount goes to dairying and a small part to cute Estonian pigs. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-16_U16	Ken-Marti Vaheri, speech chair of the Riigikogu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-16_U17	Mr President of the Riigikogu. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! I will hand over the report on the activities of the special committee between 11 May 2015 and 13 June 2016 on behalf of the special committee on the supervision of the security authorities of the Riigikogu. On 11 May 2015, i.e. two months after Parliament's approval, a special committee met for the first time. The review has been prepared on the basis of the Commission's main tasks and functions, in particular parliamentary control. In order to fulfil this task, the Special Commission has also started regular inspections in the security authorities for the first time this year. Secondly, discussions on the budgets of the security authorities. Thirdly, legal discussions and hearings on regular ministerial reports. Fourthly, monitoring the activities of the government and intelligence and security authorities. Fifthly, giving an opinion on the appointment of the heads of security authorities, as well as the handling of complaints and applications. The special committee met 34 times, there were two sittings on leave and one special sitting. Our special committee will monitor the compliance of the activities of the security authorities with the Constitution and other laws. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-16_U18	Good fellows! There's no more calls. On behalf of the Executive Board of the Riigikogu, I have adopted two drafts, three inquiries and one report. According to the Riigikogu's Home and Rules of Procedure Act, the Management Board of the Riigikogu decides on their further processing. Let's move on to the messages. Today, at the end of the plenary session, the founding meeting of the LEADER Support Group, convened by Anneli Ott, will take place in this Chamber. Secondly, the founding meeting of the Estonian Greek parliamentary group, the convener Deniss Borodich. Now, let's do the presence check, please! 89 members of the Riigikogu registered as present, missing 12.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-16_U19	We are going to deal with today's agenda items. The first item is the third reading of the draft Act 247 amending the Law on Conformity of Products, initiated by the Committee on Economic Affairs. Do the representatives of the political groups wish to open negotiations? You don't want to open negotiations. We are going to prepare the final vote. I will put a draft of 247 to the final vote. Please take a stand and vote. With the result of 89 members of the Riigikogu, there is no one against and 1 impartially has been adopted as 247 laws of the draft Act amending the Law on Conformity of Products, initiated by the Economic Commission. The first item is addressed.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-16_U20	Let us move on to the second item on the agenda, which is the third reading of the draft law amending the Environmental Charges Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. Do the representatives of the political groups wish to open negotiations? You don't want to open negotiations. We are going to prepare the final vote. I will put draft 233 to the final vote. Please take a stand and vote. With the result of 86 members of the Riigikogu, no one is opposed and 3 abstentions have been adopted as 233 laws of the draft Act amending the Environmental Charges Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. The second item is addressed.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-16_U21	Let us move on to the third item on the agenda, which is the third reading of draft law amending the Water Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic, 243. I'm opening negotiations. I ask for the speech chair of the Riigikogu, representative of the Social Democratic Party Group Ivari Padari!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-16_U22	Ladies and gentlemen, If a colleague here before the remote says that we have good milking in dairy farming, but the milkings are bad, then with the third reading of this bill, we'll do something nice. On this point, we can all, now that we have a summer sitting time, say that we have done something positive. A solution will be found in the dispute that has been up since 2004, since the Water Act was first passed and grazing by water bodies was banned. While in December 2015, we adopted a new version of the Water Act, according to which part of the grazing by water bodies, especially on the seashore, is permitted, the issue remained unresolved in the case of inland waters. This is quite a problem, which concerns at least 20% of the utilised agricultural area and a good number of farmers, i.e. farms. I think the number of companies of different sizes is between 3000 and 4000. I am very pleased that in a sensible spirit of cooperation and compromise, agricultural organisations, the Ministry of the Environment and the Committee on the Environment have now reached a situation where grazing along all water bodies is allowed with certain clear restrictions. This is a very important step forward and one positive thing to take with us in the summer. The issue of manure management remains. We have agreed that if we can agree on the subject of grazing with today's vote, it will be up to autumn to discuss all that concerns the manure industry. Here we have not yet reached a compromise between the Committee on Rural Affairs, the Committee on the Environment and the Ministry of the Environment. I will say in advance that we will return to the Water Act in the autumn and then try to find better solutions in the manure sector. I would like to thank all those who have contributed to this sensible and nice compromise. One interesting aspect here is that this time both environmental organisations and producers stood on one side of the front line. I have not seen very many debates where environmentalists and producers were on the same side and the national administration and politicians on the other side. From this hall, I would like to thank Mr Mälberg, who has helped to bring this matter to an end, and certainly also the Chairman of the Committee on the Environment, Mr Rainer Vakra. Thank you very much and have a nice summer for everyone!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-16_U23	Thank you. There's no more calls. I will close the negotiations and start preparing the final vote on the draft 243. I will put draft 243 to the final vote. Please take a stand and vote. With the result of 89 and one abstention, the draft law amending the Water Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic, has been adopted as 243 laws. The third item is addressed.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-16_U24	Let us move on to the fourth item on the agenda, which is the third reading of the draft law on the organisation of the energy economy, initiated by the Government of the Republic, 162. Do you want to open negotiations? There's no call. We are going to prepare the final vote. I will put a draft of 162 to the final vote. Please take a stand and vote. With the result of 68 members of the Riigikogu, there is no one against and 2 abstentions have been adopted as 162 laws of the draft Act on the organisation of the energy economy initiated by the Government of the Republic. The fourth item is addressed.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-16_U25	We will move on to the fifth item, which is the first reading of the Riigikogu's decision to appoint a member of the Riigikogu Estonian National Broadcasting Council 263. I am pleased to ask Laine Randjärv, Chairman of the Cultural Committee of the Riigikogu Chair!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-16_U26	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, do not leave yet! This is a very important draft decision. There will also be a vote here. So, draft decision No 263. On 9 June 2016, the Riigikogu Committee on Culture initiated the Riigikogu's decision to appoint a new member to the Estonian National Broadcasting Council on the ground that the current member, Mihkel Raud, made...
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-16_U27	Good waitress, I'm sorry! Dear colleagues, please respect the waitress, please respect those who wish to listen, and certainly also the Estonian National Broadcasting!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-16_U28	Thank you very much. So, Mihkel Raud, on his own request, asked for resignation as a member of the supervisory board. And since the Riigikogu has an obligation to appoint a new member within a month, the Committee on Culture initiated this draft decision. We initiated this on 9 June with a proposal to put the draft on the agenda of the last working week of the third session of the Riigikogu. The rapporteur was appointed here. On 14 June, the Social Democratic Party of the Riigikogu proposed the appointment of Andres Anvelt, a member of the National Broadcasting Council as a new member of the Riigikogu. The Committee on Culture will therefore submit a draft decision to the first reading as amended. Mr Anvelt has given his written consent to the appointment to the Council and has confirmed that there are no legal contradictions in his appointment to that seat. At its meeting on 14 June, the Committee on Culture decided, by consensus, to submit the draft to the first reading as amended and, after completion of the first reading, to conclude the final vote on the draft. I would ask you to support this bill.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-16_U29	Thank you, good waitress. You have questions. Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-16_U30	Honourable President! Respectable waitress! I take this opportunity to ask you for your opinion on the audit recently published and also publicly discussed by the National Audit Office, which, among other things, specifically addressed the system and way in which members of the National Broadcasting Council were appointed. Please comment a little on your position and that of the Committee on Culture on the audit conclusions.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-16_U31	Thank you for your question. For the sake of the Steinogram, I note, just in case, that this issue was not addressed in these sittings, but indeed it has been discussed in an earlier sitting. The same question was addressed to the Committee on Culture of the Riigikogu and asked whether it was appropriate, let us say, to appoint representatives of political parties in this form. The Committee on Culture found that, as it is currently stated in the Estonian Public Broadcasting Act, we have no reason to behave differently than it is in the law.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-16_U32	Good waitress, thank you! No further questions. Do the representatives of the political groups wish to open negotiations? You don't want to open negotiations. No amendments could be tabled to this draft. The Governing Commission's proposal is to put the draft to a final vote of 263. Let us begin the preparation of the final vote. I will put draft 263 to the final vote. Please take a stand and vote. With the result of 66 members of the Riigikogu, there is no one against and 8 abstentions have been adopted as 263 decisions on the draft decision of the Riigikogu "Appointing a Member of the Riigikogu of the Estonian National Broadcasting Council." The fifth item is addressed.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-16_U33	Let's move on to item six. We begin the first reading of the draft law amending the Law on the Home and Working Procedures of the Riigikogu, initiated by the Group of the Estonian Free Party. Please present the speech chair of the Riigikogu by Andres Herkel, member of the Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-16_U34	Mr President! Honourable representatives of the people! I think it's a rather short bill in its own right to end our first semester this year like a cherry for a cake. This is all about the part of the Riigikogu's Home and Rules of Procedure Act, how the protocols of committees should have been drawn up and how to store these materials, which has been here for quite a long time during this semester. As an introduction, I would remind you that a serious correction was indeed made by the Riigikogu a few months ago. This is that the minutes of committee meetings must be informative and comprehensive. By the way, I myself checked this morning how the debate on this draft was reflected in the meeting of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, which took place on 7 June. Indeed, all views are personalised and thoroughly highlighted. They shall be presented by the chairman of the committee. It wasn't so great that it wasn't possible to get that protocol out of the EMS this morning with the first swing. But that's it. In the wind of deepening the minutes, very many members of the Riigikogu and the political groups also raised the question of what will become of the recordings of all the aids used by the committees in preparing the drafts, their fate and status. I am pleased to refer to the position of the President of the Riigikogu, who took the floor when we discussed this matter and said about the need to discuss the archives of the Riigikogu, of course we will. Unfortunately, Mart Nutt, both of whom are now outside the hall, pointed out somehow that the amendments relating to the preservation of the recordings cannot be supported because the part of the draft law concerning the extension of the protocols may not be supported by the Riigikogu. We were very surprised at that, because we support such an approach, that there are comprehensive protocols and that records are preserved for historical purposes. It seemed to me that the opposition as a whole had such an opinion. Departure from this matter seemed somewhat opportunistic, with all due respect for the people who expressed that idea. In the meantime, the Estonian Conservative People's Party also came up with a draft, the content of which was, if I remember correctly, that recordings should be made mandatory at all. Here perhaps it was not quite taken into account that some committees are subject to state secrecy, and we generally have a practice that Riigikogu committees do things a little differently when recording sessions. But in principle it was also a remarkable initiative that could have gone on rather than rejecting the draft at first reading. The faction of the Free Party in this draft law is quite precisely based on the amendment that we tabled on the draft previously under discussion. Its content is to include § 1581 (3) of the Rules of Procedure and Homes Act of the Riigikogu, which says very simply: 'The drafts of documents, the supporting materials used for their preparation and the materials prepared for discussion and consultation are stored on paper or detachment and are intended for internal use. ' We believe that this is a minimal change in order for the Riigikogu to have the opportunity to set its archives in a reasonable manner and to ensure that, once the recordings have been made, they will be preserved. Among other things, paper materials that have either been used by the committee responsible for handling the draft or any analysis submitted by members of the Riigikogu, but which are not posted on the Riigikogu website alongside opinions from elsewhere, could also be preserved. Yes, there were questions here about where there is a limit to what to store when I am in the Commission, for example, and I scribbling something to the edge of the draft, whether it needs to be preserved. I think that this is often left to the Members of the Commission themselves, but some reasonable opportunity should be created here. It is one of our unfinished work and a regrettable stain in the Riigikogu's six-rounds that we do not take care of the meetings of our committees, of the logic of the formation of our positions for history. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-16_U35	Good waitress, thank you! You have at least one question. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-16_U36	Good manager! Good waitress! The third paragraph states that the supporting materials to be used and the materials prepared for discussion and consultation are stored on paper or detachment, but it does not say that they are recorded. Or are the recordings somewhere else?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-16_U37	Thank you. I think that the detacher fully covers this concept, which concerns both recordings and some electronically presented material. Somehow, I am not going to assess whether it was reasonable or not, that if we were dealing with the previous amendment to the Riigikogu's Law on Home and Working Procedures here, for some strange reason, the Constitutional Committee (the chairman of the committee will later be able to clarify this) took the view that the word'recording' would not be used. When we presented the amendment, we found sound wording in every way, and this amendment has now been passed on one by one, also as a separate draft law. 'Irish carrier' definitely includes the term'recording'.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-16_U38	Good waitress, thank you! No further questions. I now ask Kalle Laaneti, Chairman of the Constitutional Committee, to present the Chair of the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-16_U39	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, This draft was discussed by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs on 7 June 2016. Jüri Adams, Andre Sepp, Andres Anvelt, Anneli Ott, Jaak Madison, Mart Nutt, Martin Kukk, Mikhail Stalnukhin, Peeter Ernits, Siim Kiisler and the speaker took part in the debate. Of course, the councillors were also present. Jüri Adams, Member of the Commission, introduced the draft and explained that the draft initiated by the Group of the Estonian Free Party concerns the public and preservation of the draft documents drawn up by the Chancellery of the Riigikogu, the supporting materials used to prepare them and the materials prepared for discussion and consultation. This issue that needs to be resolved in the Riigikogu's Home and Working Procedures Act should be discussed in the Riigikogu's plenary as a separate draft. Member of the Commission Siim Kiisler asked that if a memo was drawn up in the Riigikogu Group, it would be public according to the draft. Jüri Adams replied that he was not quite sure what was called the document at the Chancellery of the Riigikogu. The concept of 'document' has a different content to that of the Chancellery of the Riigikogu. The general ideology is that if the work of the Riigikogu is preserved by any of the things that somehow describe the work, they should be collected and transferred to the archives. If there is a memo drawn up by an advisor, it should also be given to the archives. Mart Nutt, Member of the Commission, found that he was not bothered by the recording of the meetings of the Riigikogu Committee and, according to the current procedure, the committees themselves decide how to proceed with these recordings. However, if you begin to foresee the maintenance of the recordings at the level of the law, it will be returned to the dispute that has already been held. It is likely that the budget should then provide money to preserve these materials. In addition, there is a dispute about the status of and access to the recordings of Commission meetings. Rather, we could allow some time for the current practice of making thorough minutes of sittings and then decide whether something needs to be changed. Member of the Commission Mikhail Stalnukhin noted that since the draft had not been decided on by the Estonian Centre Party Group, he was neutral in the vote. President Kalle Laanet proposed to refer the draft to first reading by 16 June 2016 and to reject it. Kalle Laane, Mart Nutt, Andres Anvelt, Siim Kiisler, Martin Kukk and Andre Sepp voted in favour of the proposal. Peter Ernits, Jaak Madison and Jüri Adams opposed. Mr Stalnukhin abstained. The president also proposed the appointment of Mr Kalle Laane, the chairman of the committee, as rapporteur for the draft. Kalle Laane, Mart Nutt, Mikhail Stalnukhin, Andres Anvelt, Peeter Ernits, Jaak Madison, Siim Kiisler, Jüri Adams, Martin Kukk and Andre Sepp voted in favour of the proposal. There were no respondents, no abstentions. It was therefore decided to propose that the draft be put on the plenary agenda on 16 June 2016 (by 6, 3 votes against, 1 abstention), that the draft be rejected at first reading (by 6, 3 against, 1 abstention) and that Mr Kalle Laane, Chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, be appointed rapporteur (consensually). Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-16_U40	Thank you. Good waitress, there are some questions for you. Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-16_U41	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable Chairman of the Commission! I am surprised by the alleged need to invest in maintaining the recordings, as you mentioned in passing. I looked at the debate on the previous draft, where you mentioned EUR 350000 when you answered one question. In my opinion, these recordings have been maintained here as a force and maintained at least until the end of the formations, if not any longer, and this has not required any particular investment. In our view, this does not lead to the need for substantial additional money. Please explain this aspect.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-16_U42	First of all, in the interests of the verbatim report, I can say that this issue was not discussed at the Commission meeting. However, in coming back to the discussion of the earlier Home and Working Procedures Act, the figures I mentioned at the time had been presented by the Chancellery of the Riigikogu, I did not invent them myself. Based on that information, I gave you these numbers.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-16_U43	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-16_U44	Good manager! Good waitress! I'm asking for what I know anyway, for the sake of the verbatim. In my opinion, the recordings or pseudonyms that Mr Herkel has pointed out here should still be preserved in order to get to the bottom of the matter. You've been saying we'll see what happens after a while. But when you read these current protocols, it can be said that indeed, something is better than before, but the whole context and what's on the recordings, you can't actually get out of these recent protocols. There's been one step forward, but nothing's gotten much better. Why are you fighting the tapes so seriously?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-16_U45	Thank you. We have dealt with this issue at Commission meetings and also in the large Chamber. This thing has a lot of nuances. But just yesterday, I signed a request addressed to all the political groups to make a s. a by 10 October, proposals to the Committee on Constitutional Affairs on how and what could be amended by the Home and Working Procedures Act. The idea is to have a wider debate, to unravel home and work arrangements, to look at it on the basis of proposals from the political groups and to find solutions. Today, we have been spinning around a single question for a long time, but the wider picture has not yet been looked at.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-16_U46	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-16_U47	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, Chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs! I am also asking clearly and specifically, which is why we do not want to retain the important documents that will provide the prospective researcher with material so that he can write about the current work of the Riigikogu. The National Archives are willing to accept them and see no financial problem here either.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-16_U48	Thank you, good questioner! I can refer again to previous discussions; we have discussed this issue several times in this Chamber. It's not that simple, we're gonna decide today either way. As it emerges from the Commission's discussions and by referring to Mart Nut's opinion, new questions arise: in what form and to whom would these recordings be public, who would decide this, etc.? This issue is much wider. I very much hope that everything that concerns historians and the reflection of our history will have a single answer and a solution when the wider discussions on the whole of the house and the rules of procedure come up.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-16_U49	Aadu Black, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-16_U50	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! There have been several references to archives that, of course, do not quite hold true. The point is that purely technical archiving is not a problem. I'm talking about automated recording modules. It's kind of like a railroad, that once the railroad is built, there's no point in saying that we don't use railroads, save or at least ride a horse next to it. But there's another side to it. The other side is that if all the documents that have been produced were kept, the mother would already cover Estonia with a rather thick layer of paper. You gotta throw something away. The archivists decide: the valuable must be preserved, the garbage thrown away. So that's just the point of attitude. Indeed, those documents which are empty, where there is no content, must not be kept. From this point of view, from the point of view of information, do we not consider the work materials of the Riigikogu commission to be first or secondary, but classify them somewhere in that third grade? In the case of third-rate funds, the kitchen side is indeed thrown away.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-16_U51	Thank you. I understand the historian was very professional in asking this question, but it is very difficult for me to answer as a former policeman. I agree that for future generations, it really is necessary to retain materials that help to understand why such decisions were made at some point and how these decisions were made. The next question, however, is the same thing that, since we have an enormous amount of information, who is the person who decides exactly what to store, which rules, which locker corner or window table should be what and how much to have. Yeah, in the same way, it seems very easy to make a decision. On the other hand, as with many laws, this side of the application is extremely complicated. I don't know what the right decision would be.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-16_U52	Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-16_U53	Honourable Chairman, Honourable waitress! Thanks to the competence of my benchmate, I have learned that many of the problems raised in the committee hearing on the basis of your report are already governed by the archival law. Has there been any discussion at the meetings of the Commission about the issue of the Archives Act?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-16_U54	I can report what happened at the meeting of our committee on 7 June, and there we did not talk about this.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-16_U55	Mark Soosaar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-16_U56	Dear waitress, It gets exciting, and it gets philosophical. I've once talked about using UN film archive material for one of my films, which has never been used just because they've been considered a cull. Lennart Meri has said very nicely that the timing of the most accurate picture can be achieved by taking one cubic metre of garbage without sorting. At the same time, we see how some municipalities are recorded, but they are recorded selectively. I have proposed only the voting decisions to be recorded, not all the aids. What is your personal opinion, are we even able to sort the heritage we are producing now, and is everything we write or record on paper an inheritance?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-16_U57	Thank you. After all, it is common to judge whether something is an inheritance or not. I don't think anyone can look forward so thoroughly right now to say whether one or the other piece of paper has historical value or archive value. This is, in my opinion, a very difficult choice of how, what and how to preserve. I repeat, I cannot tell you, I personally do not have one position here, but there are certain things that need to be preserved in the interests of history.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-16_U58	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-16_U59	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Laane! I have a slightly broader question. In fact, the need to open the Riigikogu's Home and Rules of Procedure Act for amendments was also discussed at a meeting of the senior members of the group. It remained so that it would be dealt with by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. When will you convene this task force and what schedule will it work so that we can achieve a reasonable result on matters that need to be changed in our home and working procedures during its membership?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-16_U60	Thank you, good questioner! Actually, I already answered that question, but I'll answer it one more time. Yesterday I signed a letter to all the political groups in which I asked the political groups again for proposals, not in the EMS, but on paper. Congratulations, of course, to the Free Party Group, which only responded to my previous letter with its proposals. The content of my letter to the political groups yesterday was a request to be submitted by 10 October. a proposals that should be amended and amended in the Home and Working Procedures Act. Once these proposals have arrived, we can decide exactly how we will proceed.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-16_U61	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-16_U62	Thank you. In time, the EKRE proposed to record what was said at the committee meeting and to store the recordings. The archives are ready for this. It doesn't cost much. The materials containing state secrets must, of course, be released through some kind of sieve, just as they do in the case of paper-based protocols. I've read those protocols that are already under new law. I'm sorry, but the protocols that asked questions were these, and they, and the whole story, aren't any material that could be used in the future to study history or whatever. However, I have not yet heard any valid reason why the recordings should not be kept. Is the Coalition really afraid that your words will remain visible or audible in the future?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-16_U63	Thank you. I dare say that any additional action will also entail additional costs. It cannot be argued that if there is more to be done, there will be no cost. Yes, it does. That's one. Secondly, if I read the same protocol that I have before me and the content of which I have also forwarded to you, it is very clear what happened in the Commission. When I read this protocol, I understand what was going on in there. I cannot say anything about the protocols of the other committees now, because I have not read them so thoroughly. In my opinion, however, we have taken a major step forward in the fact that the decision-making process has become clearer, the protocols have been subject to general requirements. When the proposals come, we can move forward with the next discussions.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-16_U64	Madis Milling, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-16_U65	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! I've seen a number of meetings in my life that deal with the very necessary things, but as soon as the camera appears in the room, the show begins. What is your view: could recordings have an impact on the committee's substantive work in the direction of disadvantage, because then it is not so much the case that is being dealt with, but that it is being performed?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-16_U66	Thank you for your question. I think this is a very personal behavior. Each person can sense why and how he sends his messages. Personally, I have set my own behaviour by asking constructive questions and trying to give such answers so that all Estonian people can get acquainted with them and I should not be ashamed of them.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-16_U67	Thank you, good waitress. Looks like there's no more questions. Do the representatives of the political groups wish to negotiate? They want me to open negotiations. Please ask Jüri Adams, representative of the Group of the Estonian Free Party, to the speech chair of the Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-16_U68	Thank you, Mr President. I think I'm gonna need some extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-16_U69	Yes, please, eight minutes now!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-16_U70	The fact that we have recently started to make different, longer protocols is probably the most important change in the work of this Riigikogu. The fact that we are not satisfied with some of the protocols is a problem in itself. I, too, do not like the minutes of the debate on the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, which was presented on this agenda. I think there are a number of things left out of it that I don't have time to talk about right now, including, for example, the jesting style used there. However, I think it is rather my own mistake that I have not worked on this protocol and have not asked for these things to be recorded. In the meantime, there have been 13 years in which the Riigikogu worked as if with full steam, but for these 13 years there are no Commission protocols for which the reader can learn what actually happened in that committee. So when it was proposed to put aside secondary issues in the preparation of this fundamental decision and to achieve that the protocols are long and proper, I was the one who was in favour of it. According to that agreement, the Free Party Group then tabled this draft. I'm not quite sure our billing form was the best. But the point was not to deal with the issue of what all the departments of the Chancellery of the Riigikogu do with their own papers, what they archive and not, but the question was only what goes into the archives of the remaining materials of the Riigikogu commission. When the question arose about two years ago that it was necessary to start dealing with the history of the VII Riigikogu law enforcement commission, I went to the Riigikogu archives and looked at what was left of the things of that time. I felt tremendous happiness when I saw that it had reached the last piece of all the papers that had some meaning and remained on the table until the end of the committee sessions. There were letters from citizens, there were notes from some members of the Commission, there were also newspaper clippings and many other such things. If you compare what has survived since then, of course, I am not sure whether the affairs of all the committees of the Riigikogu have survived in the same way, and what is left behind by the prospective investigator is like a night and a day. So the principle of this draft is still that, in a reasonable way, the materials concerned should be kept to a maximum. For some reason, however, the government coalition has a fundamental political agreement that this path will not be followed. I don't know why this decision has been made exactly like this. I do not know whether, as seems to be the custom in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, there was a draft of the government coalition before this committee meeting, where it was decided how to best counter the issue raised by the annoying opposition. That's not clear to me right now. A good colleague, Mart Nutt, comforted me at least by the fact that it has just been agreed to make long protocols so that we should not go any further. But we will probably go ahead with this question. I will also take this opportunity to talk about how to proceed with the work of amending the Rules of Procedure. Look, you all know that a problem can go on in a way where it is more or less foreseen that there will be no result, and there are other reasonable ways where there is hope that some kind of result might come. The Chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has now chosen this method of asking the political groups for an opinion. Then it turns out that the political groups are either unable to give an opinion or that the opinion is too fundamental, and, in conclusion, we say that there is therefore no problem. In my opinion, this is a deliberate attempt to circumvent the problem. Once again, I would argue that there is work to be done on the Rules of Procedure. The amendments to the Rules of Procedure are not a different wording of a particular place, but concern systemic problems. This is due to a number of errors that were probably made as early as 2002 and which should be corrected. Are the groups even able to provide exhaustive answers to such letters? I do not think so, because in most political groups there is no person who has dealt specifically with this area and who would be in possession of the problems of the Rules of Procedure as a whole. There are a large number of people in political groups who are in the Riigikogu for the first time and for whom the methods or shortcomings of the Rules of Procedure or tricks currently seem to be the only one possible. This is not the way forward. If the Free Party even gives a very thorough answer, I do not believe that it is possible to obtain the same answer from all the other groups. Progress would still be to create a working group focusing on the relevant specialists or the problem. It is not by delaying the process of dealing with the shortcomings of the Rules of Procedure into a far-reaching future, and doing nothing better, it will not make it any better for us or for the next Riigikogu formations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-16_U71	Thank you. No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. It is likely that the initiators of the draft will be determined to conclude the first reading, but the lead committee has proposed to reject the 221 draft at first reading. Controversial proposals, so let us begin the preparation of the vote. I shall put to the vote the draft proposal of the lead committee to reject it at first reading. Please take a stand and vote. With the result of 49 votes against, 21 abstentions, 221 have been rejected at first reading and are excluded from the procedure. The sixth item is addressed. Good fellows! Allow me to thank you for the work you have done during the 2016 spring session. I wish you good action to improve the lives of Estonian and Estonian residents this summer. The sitting is adjourned. [[Let's hear it.]] Closure of the sitting at 11.06.
