ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-09_U1	Good afternoon. Have a good week at work. First of all, there is the handing over of drafts and enquiries. Thomas Stone Mountain, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-09_U2	Very honourable President of the Riigikogu! Prime Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, I have the opportunity to hand over, on behalf of the Committee on Economic Affairs, the draft law amending the Law on the Implementation of the Construction Code and the Planning Act, initiated by the Committee on Economic Affairs. This is a somewhat urgent draft, which is also an explanation of the reason why this draft was initiated by the Committee on Economic Affairs. The contents of the draft act relate in particular to the deadline for the transition of certificates of competency to compulsory status. According to the current legislation, persons involved in, for example, design, construction project expertise, construction studies and other fields of activity must hold a certificate of competency from 1 July 2016. In fact, however, we have some areas of activity where today only 20% of those registered in the economic activity register have a certificate of competency. That means that if we don't extend the deadline, there will be a proper vacuum. In so doing, I welcome those who have done very well in their work. For example, the Association of Estonian Architects does not need an extension of this deadline, as they have been successful enough in issuing certificates of competency. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-09_U3	Raivo Põldaru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-09_U4	Dear Chairman, Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the members of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia, I have an inquiry to the Minister of the Interior, Hanno Pevkur. The inquiry is motivated by the fact that the Police and Border Guard Board has initiated proceedings against a taxi driver who carried people through the Uber app. It is a violation of the law because it is illegal to provide passenger transport services without a licence. According to the Public Transport Act, paid passenger transport services may only be carried out if there are documents and licences prescribed by law. In this regard, we have three questions for the Minister.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-09_U5	On behalf of the Government of the Republic, Heili Tõnisson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-09_U6	Mr. Chairman! Good Riigikogu! The Government of the Republic is launching two draft laws today. First, the draft law amending the Victim Assistance Act. In the Riigikogu, the Government of the Republic is represented by the Minister of Social Protection Margus Tsahkna when the bill is being processed. Secondly, the draft law on electronic identification and trust services for e-transactions. Kristen Michal, Minister of Economic Affairs and Infrastructure, will represent the Government of the Republic in the proceedings of this bill in the Riigikogu. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-09_U7	The Executive Board shall act in accordance with the provisions of the Home and Rules of Procedure Act with three drafts and one inquiry. Now, please, let's do the presence check! There are 90 members of the Riigikogu, missing 11. Now, from the agenda. The specifications are as follows: Inquiry No 201 for today's seventh item, the Rural Minister, Urmas Kruus, withdrew the questioners, so this item is not on today's agenda. The Constitutional Committee has proposed to remove the third item from the Tuesday agenda of this week, the draft law amending the Act on the Status of Members of the Riigikogu and the Law on the Organisation of Local Government 181. However, the Committee on Legal Affairs has proposed to remove the fourth item from the Tuesday agenda of this week, the draft law amending the Penal Code 220. Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-09_U8	Thank you, Mr. Speaker. I would first like to draw the House's attention to the fact that the sixth item on the Tuesday agenda is there in breach of our Rules of Procedure. It should have been a plenary debate in the seventh week, but it is now the eighth week. The Chairman of the Committee on Legal Affairs has previously managed to ensure that he has not organised his work properly, but the management board of the Riigikogu has now gone along with it. If we make a law here and do not comply with it ourselves, how can we demand citizens to comply with the laws we have made? Secondly, we protest against the change in the agenda and want to vote on it.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-09_U9	Is there a protest against all three changes? Does Kruus have to show up, even though he can't answer an inquiry that's been withdrawn?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-09_U10	Once the inquiry has been withdrawn, there's nothing to protest about. I mean, Tuesday's changes.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-09_U11	Got it. But the Commission's wish has been sacred so far, and if the Commission does not have time to bring things into the Chamber, it can be taken into account that these discussions will not be held. But I will then put the agenda to the vote with this addition, that the seventh item on the agenda is cancelled today, Question 201. Please take a stand and vote. The draft agenda was adopted by 70 votes to 7, with 5 abstentions. The agenda is confirmed.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-09_U12	Honourable Riigikogu! Our agenda first includes an inquiry to Prime Minister Taavi Rõivas by Mart Helme, Martin Helme, Jaak Madison, Raivo Põldaru and Arno Silla, members of the Riigikogu. Mart Helme, please! One moment, Mart Helme, Aivar Kokal is a procedural question.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-09_U13	Good manager! I have a question, how did you put the agenda to the vote? Did you put it to the vote with all the points on Tuesday?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-09_U14	Yes! Because if anyone protests against it, they stay on the agenda. Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-09_U15	President-in-Office of the Council. Mr. Prime Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, We have submitted an inquiry to Prime Minister Taavi Rõivas regarding the fact that a good number of people have left Estonia in the last decade. Since this movement is not one-way, so that people only leave, but the movement is two-way, some people come back, we have an interest in how the government has planned its policies in this area. In this regard, we have four questions to answer. I will ask the questions here in short, these are the following. What has the country done to ensure that there are significantly more returnees to Estonia? Does the country have social benefits for returnees? How is the country going to help these people through some kind of service and benefits? Would it be possible to organise language courses or other programmes for young people, second generation returnees, to help them integrate better into Estonian society? Let us now give the Prime Minister the opportunity to answer the questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-09_U16	The inquiry is answered by Prime Minister Taavi Kõivas. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-09_U17	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! I will respond to the request made on 23 March for assistance to my countrymen returning from abroad. The first question: 'What has the state done to ensure that there are significantly more returnees to Estonia, their country of origin, and to provide national assistance to returnees in a situation where immigrants receive important help from the Estonian state? " It is true that more and more people want to come to Estonia, including, above all, return. According to a report sent by Statistics Estonia last week, the number of people moving to Estonia in 2015 exceeded the number of people leaving Estonia, and we know that about two thirds of the immigrants to Estonia have returned to Estonia, according to Statistics Estonia. Over the past year, according to the data specified by Statistics Estonia, more than 15,000 people settled in Estonia; 13,000 people left here; the balance of migration was estimated by Statistics Estonia at 2410 people. I asked Statistics Estonia about the balance of Estonian citizens. According to Statistics Estonia, about two thirds of the people coming to Estonia are Estonian citizens, or returnees, but they promised to provide more accurate data at the end of this month, namely on 23 May. Hopefully, then, we will also find out what the status of return migration is. If Estonian citizens decide when they are young or why not go abroad to study, work, broaden their horizons, it may not always be negative. Many people who have gone abroad to study or seek career opportunities have reached the absolute peak of the world while away from Estonia, doing things that could not be done if they lived in only one country. I believe that all of us in this Chamber can give a number of examples of how Estonians have honored Estonia when working abroad. Returning to Estonia is, of course, a personal decision of every person, and the right environment for many will be decisive for children to move to a kindergarten place for each child, so that young people can participate in sports and recreational activities. We have a plan to create an interest support scheme from 2017. It is also planned to support local authorities from the European Union's Structural Funds in creating kindergarten places, establishing light traffic routes, developing urban spaces, so that the environment in which families come is really as good as possible. Prosperity and a sustained increase in income will, of course, be ensured primarily by economic growth, and the state must create a supportive environment for this, whether by reducing labour taxes, cutting red tape, or also by contributing to productivity, export and investment. Of course, it is particularly important to maintain the knowledge and communication of the mother tongue with Estonia while living abroad. A large part of the work in this direction is carried out on the basis of a programme of fellow nationalists, which organises advice on returnees before and after return, organises adaptation training, supports the cultural activities of external Estonians and also provides return grants. The average support last year was 649 euros per person. In addition, regular trainings are held for people working abroad, teachers of Estonian language and culture, as well as summer language and culture camps. In addition, part of the funding is provided for study places that provide education in the Estonian language abroad. The second question: 'Does the country have any social benefits for returnees (for the time being, according to us, they have only included returnees from the territory of the former Soviet Union)? " For a returnee to his home country, it is essential that he has a job and a place to live here so that his children can have a kindergarten and a school. Return support and counselling services are available to returnees through the National Companions Programme. Social benefits are also paid to Estonian citizens and to people of Estonian nationality, their spouses, children and parents when their income is below the rate of national pension. Returnees are entitled to social benefits under the same conditions as permanent residents, such as family benefits, income support, and national pensions. If a person who has worked in the European Union or in Iceland, Liechtenstein, Norway or Switzerland comes back to Estonia, the time worked abroad, i.e. periods of insurance are added together, will also be taken into account when determining the Estonian pension. Estonia also has such bilateral social security agreements with Australia, Russia, Moldova, Ukraine and Canada. The third question: "How does the state plan to help these people through services and benefits such as a suitable job, place of residence, kindergarten and schooling, as well as implementing adaptation programmes and language training where appropriate? " And the fourth question: Would it be possible to organise free language courses or programmes for young second generation returnees to help them integrate better into Estonian society? ' I will answer these two questions at once. As for all children living in Estonia, the local government must also provide a kindergarten and school place for the children of returnees. Returnees also have the opportunity to participate in the adaptation programme of new immigrants, which provides an overview of the principles of the functioning of the Estonian state, society, culture and people, the rights and obligations of residents, as well as of employment, entrepreneurship and learning opportunities. In addition, the adaptation programme includes basic Estonian language education (A1) within 80 academic hours. These materials are also accessible to all people who are not considered to be new immigrants. From the Ministry of Education and Research, I have been assured that schools where children of returnees who do not have the experience of studying in Estonia and who need additional education in the Estonian language will receive a language grant of 400 euros per student, if necessary. In addition, the adaptation of the returnee student is also supported by support mechanisms for the education system for students, programmes for non-formal learning and recreational activities, open youth centres, Foundation Innove, Pathfinder, network of career and education support centres, etc. Many Estonian schools abroad have the opportunity to use the basic Estonian language e-learning course "Keeleklikk" with which 40,000 students study Estonian. The course is free of charge for everyone and can be studied on the basis of English and Russian. Through the "World School" online environment, Estonian young people living abroad can study according to the 5th, 6, 7, 8th and 9th grade Estonian language and literature programme on the basis of the Estonian national curriculum, as well as courses in mathematics, land knowledge and Estonian history. This is an e-elementary school based on the Estonian national curriculum, where 125 students are studying in 22 countries this year. In the future, courses will be developed throughout the comprehensive school. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-09_U18	Questions for the Prime Minister. Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-09_U19	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Mr. Prime Minister! You mentioned that some who went abroad have achieved very significant results in their field of study there. At the same time, we are very much told that we have a shortage of skilled labour and that we should bring in people from third countries. The current migration crisis also sees an opportunity to do so. In your opinion, however, would it not be more appropriate if we created information points or any organizational cells that would help bring back our own people, and these people would achieve significant results here with us?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-09_U20	In a situation where we no longer have an iron curtain, there is a free choice for every person in which he wants to live. We cannot and probably should not restrict the freedom of movement of people at national level. However, as a country, we can say that all those Estonian people who wish to return to Estonia are, of course, welcome. For our part, we will do everything we can to ensure that their adaptation is as smooth as possible. I have highlighted a number of aspects that people have considered most important when talking to me. In general, it can be said that return issues are mostly not linked to social benefits, but rather to how the children of returnees can cope in Estonian schools, whether we have sufficient capacity to help them adapt. There are also examples of people who have put their children back in Estonia at our international school or Tallinn European School, which provides education on the basis of an international curriculum. We want to increase this reception from a perspective. The Ministry of Education and Research has come up with a plan to obtain new real estate for the European School so that it can take around 600 students instead of the current ca couple hundred students. This would be an important relief both for foreigners who want their children to receive international education in Estonia and for those in Estonia whose children have long studied according to an international programme and wish to continue education according to the same curriculum after their return. So there are plenty of things that we do to enable the people of Estonia to return. And, as has been said, the preliminary assessment by Statistics Estonia confirms that the number of returnees has increased significantly. While people's emigration accelerated during the economic crisis, the return of people has accelerated to the same point. I'm sure there's a certain trend here.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-09_U21	Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-09_U22	Thank you, Mr. Speaker. Prime Minister! We don't have the Iron Curtain, and indeed none of us want it, and no one holds people or brings them back by force. That is why we are asking what are these motivations or what are the measures that we can use to lure our people back. If, for example, we are talking here about tobacco excise or other measures, you agree that the government has levers to influence people's behaviour. These measures, which you have read here, are not special measures. They apply to all people, including those who have not gone abroad Estonians, but people who have come from some random part of the world. When you said everyone was welcome, it didn't sound very convincing. Am I, however, right to understand that, in fact, the current government does not have any special measures, nor does it have any plans to draw up any sort of incentive package?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-09_U23	It seems to me that you did not listen too carefully to what I listed when I answered the questions. I also mentioned some very specific support in education, for example, when additional language training is needed, as well as support for returning home. There are also specific quite precisely targeted subsidies. However, I would not overestimate any support. Having actively interacted with a large number of Estonians living abroad, including those who have returned, I have not heard that for anyone the main issue would have been social support. Rather, the Estonian state is expected to treat them equally with all other Estonian people, and that is, of course, what we are doing. All grants, which are for others, also extend to them. This is certainly particularly important for families with children. However, in almost all cases, questions have been asked about educational opportunities and childcare facilities for families with children. I also gave a number of concrete examples, such as the extension of the study opportunities of the Tallinn European School, which is particularly relevant to families whose children have studied according to international methodology. Estonia has also applied the international IB learning methodology over the last few years. This is one form of international upper secondary school education, where the curriculum is the same in all countries where this education is obtained. So there are quite a lot of very specific activities in which the country contributes and which most directly concern returnees. I also consider it important that the state supports the teaching of the Estonian language and, more generally, the pro-Estonian activities. One example is the activity of Estonian Houses in different places, etc. I think that initiatives that are very active in many parts of the world are very important. The fact that some people in Estonia live outside Estonia is, in my opinion, quite natural today. It is up to us to keep in touch with these people and give them a signal that they are important to us even when they have chosen another country as their home.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-09_U24	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-09_U25	Thank you. It is quite clear that most people, if we are not talking about learners, but others, have still left Estonia because of their sense of security and lack of work. These measures, which you have listed, are all great, but clearly they are lacking. Emigration continues and people's return has not compensated for this departure. At the same time, we are talking about the need to bring in migrant workers, the need to reduce the minimum wage for migrant workers. Should we not focus on our own people and give them additional support, additional programmes? I have also spoken to many who have come back or are planning to come. They claim that they do not actually find support in Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-09_U26	Thank you. I suggest you give them a list of what I've read to you here many times. And, among other things, assure them that all these subsidies that apply to the people of Estonia who live permanently in Estonia are also valid for all the people of Estonia who return. Some returnees may find that during the last few years, for example, children's benefits, especially if there are three or more children in the family, have grown to a level that is completely comparable to that of the Nordic countries. Some discover that in Estonia incomes have grown much faster than in the Nordic countries, etc., etc. This claim that emigration will continue is, in conclusion, not true. I have just stressed in my introductory speech that, according to Statistics Estonia, the balance on migration was clearly positive last year. Of course, there will continue to be people who decide to go abroad to study or work in an international company or diplomacy or an international organisation. However, if you look at the overall picture, the overall picture of 2015 showed that there were ultimately more returnees. Accurate data, as has been said, will be coming in the second half of this month, but the preliminary assessment by Statistics Estonia is that the migration balance was positive last year. Now for the causes of migration. I very much recommend that you look at a thorough migration survey conducted every three years with the involvement of the Ministry of Social Affairs. The first such study took place in 2010, the second in 2013 and this year the third study should come. What did the comparison of the two years reveal? Showed that when many people moved away from Estonia at the top of the economic crisis in 2010, because Estonia was not able to find a viable job due to very high unemployment and falling wages, the situation was much better in 2013. There were already signs of an acceleration of return migration, as well as the fact that those who left Estonia in 2013 and just before, were no longer forced to leave, but were their free choice. They wanted to go abroad to study or pursue a career. I dare to assume, also on the basis of this very preliminary information from Statistics Estonia, which I have to use, that the 2016 survey shows even more and more that more and more have been returned and that the reason for leaving Estonia is that there is no viable job in Estonia. I believe you also know the fact that recorded unemployment fell to 4.7% in Estonia as a whole last week. There are very few countries across Europe where unemployment would be even lower. In some areas of Estonia, it is true, there is still unemployment, but there are also regions, such as Harjumaa, where there is already talk of labour shortages. So finding viable jobs in Estonia as a whole is much less a problem than it was in 2010, for example, when we talked about more than 100,000 unemployment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-09_U27	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-09_U28	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! Indeed, young people in Estonia have taken the opportunity to study abroad. They have thus received the best education in some very good universities. And, as it is all over the world, they are also captured in the countries where they have studied. Has the Scientific and Development Council discussed the problem of how these smart, educated, successful young people can be brought back to Estonia? I know that two new scholarships have been launched in the Estonian Research Council, but this problem is a little wider. Has the Scientific and Development Council discussed this?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-09_U29	In the Scientific and Development Council, we have discussed this topic on the other hand, namely that as the number of foreign students has grown rapidly in Estonian universities too, how to get these foreign students to consider staying in Estonia. These are people who have received a very good education, we believe that very good education is given at Estonian universities, who have experienced in Estonia, who have lived in Estonia for several years, so they are expected to like it here. We have been thinking about how to achieve that more of them would live in Estonia. Of course, coming to work in Estonia depends most on the jobs that are created in the Estonian economy. In order for us to have more and more new jobs that create high added value, quite a number of things are needed. We need an attractive economic environment, but we also need a positive attitude of society towards multinationals. We know that very many high-wage jobs are created precisely in multinational companies. I have visited a lot of companies in Estonia that employ people from more than 30 countries, some even more than 50 countries. And it is very important that the general attitude in society is also conducive to such very international companies, that these indisputable specialists in their field of work come to Estonia, including many Estonians, who feel welcome in Estonia. Such people should not have major adaptation problems in Estonia; they should not feel like a foreign body here because they are from some other country. But I would also like to make this small marginal remark that in some cases, if an Estonian person remains working abroad after graduating, it may be even more useful for him, his family and the Estonian state. In today's world, geographical location is increasingly an ambivalent concept. There are plenty of people who have several residences, who live in several countries, and who can generate a great deal of income for Estonia even if their permanent residence is London, for example. I have repeatedly mentioned examples of Estonian entrepreneurs, and I can also name specific names if you want to, who have studied at top universities in the world, lived in London or Silicon Valley, for example, and as a result has created dozens of jobs in Estonia, or even hundreds of jobs in some cases. We take the founders of Transferwise, who sort of moved away from Estonia and could say that the balance of migration is less than two people because they live in London. At the same time, we know that they have created about 300 jobs in Estonia, including people of different nationalities. So a very positive example, and I cannot say to the founders of Transferwise, for example, that they must necessarily be in Estonia for 12 months a year. They are Estonian patriots even if they live in London most of the time, for example.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-09_U30	Uno Kaskpeit, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-09_U31	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Mr. Prime Minister! You were talking about statistics here. I suggest you look at these statistics from an age perspective. I tend to think that there are most people who have reached retirement age and come home to enjoy it. But I don't understand what you're talking about. The President has once called out a slogan 'Talents home! '. But as I understand it, the government hasn't planned any projects or programs that talent would really want to come home. All you're saying is that all people are equal, that everyone has the same benefits, but that's not the point.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-09_U32	I believe that both of us will be much better informed of the details when the Statistical Office provides its detailed data to the full extent, in terms of nationality, age and others. They've promised to do what I said on May 23rd. After that, we can already analyse together what exactly are the reasons why people have returned to Estonia with increasing enthusiasm. As for whether all talent should be present at home, I have at least two feelings about it. Of course, we are pleased when many talented people live in Estonia. There's no question about that. At the same time, we know that many top-ranking composers, conductor, ballerina, musician, scientist, have reached the top of the world because he has made an international career. He has not limited himself to just one location, but has worked on the conductor's example with orchestras from all over the world. I believe that everyone in this hall can give more than ten examples of people in Estonia who, because they have lived in very different parts of the world, have made an international career. Their efforts have been crowned by progress that cannot be achieved if they live in only one country. I am also proud of them when they have decided to live away from Estonia for some time or more permanently. For me, every person in Estonia is important exactly where he wants to be.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-09_U33	Arno Bridge, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-09_U34	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Prime Minister! You have very well pointed out the things that are guaranteed to the contractor, and I am thinking of a variety of measures. But I raise the question this way: shouldn't our government also think about improving the country's overall economic situation in order to develop some motivations for employers so that they too are more interested in bringing our own people back? We know that a lot of people say they don't have enough staff. Indeed, it is not enough, but at the same time employers have not shown much initiative to bring people back. It would be a shared responsibility for all of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-09_U35	You can still come back on your own. In today's society to bring someone back, I think your tongue must have slipped by accident. Estonian employers do this by creating new jobs from year to year. Wages have grown rapidly year after year. Yes, we are not yet comparable to the Nordic countries in terms of our wage levels, and we should not consider it any less important to try to reach the standard of living in the Nordic countries. While comparing living standards and looking at what an average earner can afford in Estonia and in some Western European countries, the difference in living standards or living standards has significantly decreased. It's not that high up any more. It must always be taken into account that people who are numerically paid more when living abroad may sometimes be forced to live in more modest conditions. In many places with very high wages, housing costs are also very high. It has been pointed out a lot that the gap with the outside world has been significantly reduced, and many can afford a better standard of living in Estonia thanks to a rewarding job, if it were possible in many foreign countries.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-09_U36	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-09_U37	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Prime Minister! I am pleased to hear that people have started to come back, but I would like to hear in this context an analysis of how much this has to do with the decline in the Finnish economy. I think it's a pretty big part. Do you also have any figures on how much this return has now increased and what predictions might be?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-09_U38	As has been said, the Statistical Office is in the process of specifying very extensive data. I believe that it is reasonable for us to wait for these updated data; it will then be possible to draw far-reaching conclusions from it. I'm allowed to have this data at the end of this month, and after that, we can all see exactly what these reasons are. However, I would like to emphasise once again that research is being carried out where people are being asked for reasons for both immigration and emigration. More detailed conclusions can be drawn from their surface. The year 2016 should be the year of the survey once again in the case of this field of survey. I have not specifically checked the date of the study, but I hope that it will indeed be done this year. We will then already be able to draw the first clear time series with more than a few points on the basis of the data from the 2010, 2013 and 2016 surveys and draw reliable conclusions on this basis.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-09_U39	Thank you, Prime Minister Taavi Kõivas. The members of the Riigikogu have no further questions. I'm opening negotiations. Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-09_U40	President-in-Office of the Council. Prime Minister, thank you very much for your answers. Ladies and gentlemen, there are not many of us here, but still! Latvians have such a little joke: why is it better to live in Estonia than in Latvia? The answer is, because Finland is closer. I think it hits the head pretty good. On one occasion, I ran into Chancellor Rainer of the State Department, Germany, on the street. It's been years, but I remember telling him, "Dear Rainer, we have a problem. People are starting to run away from Estonia. " He completely denied it and said that it was a Latvian and Lithuanian problem; we do not have that problem. To date, we know that at least 100000 people have left Estonia. The Prime Minister may have delighted us with the information that last year's balance of migration was positive by a few thousand people, and we too look forward to the results of this study in order to find out what was behind it. Our visual observation, and I can assure you that the members of our group and our entire party are quite well informed about life in Estonia, says that returnees are largely victims of the economic downturn, especially in Finland. Some, however, are people who have already earned their pension in Finland and are now coming back to Estonia, because there is still a more domestic environment for them. Such are the conclusions of visual observation. How true that is is, indeed, soon will come to light. The Prime Minister also delighted us with the many success stories of people who have gone abroad to other countries. This is, of course, very nice and this is not news for us. We know that Estonians have been very tragedy and well-managed and successful even in difficult times after World War II. And the people who were evicted from the Soviet Union or expelled from the Soviet Union were, as a general rule, quite successful. But I would warn you that such cases can be very deceptive. We're talking about lonely people, they're stories of conductors and composers that can be read on the fingers of a couple of hands. But the fact remains that there are still at least a hundred thousand leavers. How successful have these people been? How big is their homesickness? We know that MEPs are even paid homesickness, and I don't think it's paid to our migrant workers. Indeed, it is not just about money. The Prime Minister is right, I completely agree with him. It is not just a question of money and it is not just a question of social guarantees; it is also a question of attitude. Let me give you an example that certainly isn't worth a full generalisation, but maybe a little bit. Two of my six children live abroad. One is in Belgium and one is in Finland. I'm talking about this Finnish boy, because he's been trained here by us. The state of Estonia made these expenses in order to become a doctor. And now this doctor is working in Finland. He'll get as much pay as you, Mr. Prime Minister, by the way. And he has a very large number of such social guarantees, which we do not even have in charge of major hospitals, top surgeons and other top specialists in this field. He's a regular family doctor there. He's got two sisters, one working on paperwork, the other dealing with all kinds of syringes, drugs, and the like. No family doctor here has this luxury. So it is also a question of people's dignity, treatment and quality of life in another sense. I mean the quality of life in the sense that people do not exhaust themselves to the end. Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-09_U41	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-09_U42	These are the thoughts that arose when you listened to your answers. I am, in itself, very grateful to you for your answers, and I think that the whole group is grateful. What was the real motive for this whole question? The real motive was not to close our eyes to the real problems. So we don't close our eyes like Mr. Saks did six, seven or eight years ago when I met him. We have people coming back, and these are very diverse people. The same boy who is currently working in Finland came back to Estonia with me from Moscow, where I worked. He had studied for four years at an English-language school and his adaptation and the transition to Estonian-language programs was not very easy. So there are a lot of very serious problems here that definitely need to be dealt with constructively. You can't close your eyes and say everything's fine. No, we do not live in the best of all conceivable universes; we live in the most ordinary universe, where, unfortunately, there are still shortcomings, which sometimes require fine-tuning. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-09_U43	The members of the Riigikogu have no more requests to speak, so I will stop dealing with this item.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-09_U44	Members of the Riigikogu Jaanus Karilaid, Erki Savisaar, Jaak Madison, Martin Helme, Mart Helme, Henn Põlluaas, Arno Sild, Raivo Põldaru, Martin Repinski, Kersti Sarapuu, Viktor Vassilyev, Valeri Korb, Siret Kotka, Olga Ivanova and Märt Sults have submitted the following question. On behalf of the heirs, Jaanus Karilaid, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-09_U45	Ladies and gentlemen, On 5 April, 15 MEPs submitted an inquiry from both the EKRE and the Centre Party to Prime Minister Taavi Rõivas. We ask about the compatibility of e-elections with the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia. We also know that there are a number of organisations in civil society, in addition to those responsible, who consider this problem to be acute and have not yet received clear direct answers. The Constitution of the Republic of Estonia states that elections are general, uniform and direct, and voting is secret. The success story of e-elections has been discussed for over ten years. It has been said how the whole world roars with enthusiasm and sets an example for us, but for some reason we have not been set an example. The e-vote is a much less transparent procedure than a paper vote. All the procedures of the paper vote can be seen, infringements can be easily and convincingly detected, and there is no such certainty in the case of e-elections. In this regard, we have four questions and we expect answers from the Prime Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-09_U46	The inquiry is answered by Prime Minister Taavi Kõivas. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-09_U47	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! I will respond to the inquiry submitted on 5 April regarding the compliance of e-elections with the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia. The first question: 'How do you assess the constitutional requirement that elections must be uniform, general and direct? How can only physically go to the voting booth alone and be uniform with an ID card at home or at work compared to voting? ' Chancellor of Justice Indrek Teder, at the session of the Riigikogu on 13 June 2011, responded to the question of a similar content submitted by the MPs that e-voting is essentially no different from voting in the voting booth. It is simply an opportunity for the voters to choose which technical solution to use to express their will. The second question: 'Why are the votes in the voting booth kept longer than the votes given by the ID card through the computer? Isn't that the unequal treatment of voters and why e-voices must be destroyed in an accelerated fashion? ' The statement in the question is not true. Both paper ballots and e-voices are preserved in a uniform manner according to the law: one month from the election day. At the end of this period, they shall not be destroyed until final decisions have been taken on the complaints lodged. The destruction of paper ballots is organised by the Regional Election Commissions and e-votes are destroyed by an electronic voting committee. Each committee shall decide the exact time of its destruction. The third question: 'How can high security risks in the online environment ensure that the constitutional requirement is secured by secrecy of voting? ' E-voting has been organised since 2005 and security measures have also been constantly improved. According to the reports of the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe, or the OSCE, elections in Estonia comply with OSCE principles and international standards on democratic elections, including the requirement of secrecy. The security risks of the Internet environment will be mitigated by technological and procedural measures, as will the e-vote. For example, during the voting phase, the secrecy of voting is ensured by the encryption of votes. During the vote-reading phase, the secrecy of voting shall be ensured by organisational measures and the presence of observers, including the presence of external auditors. So far, there have not been any risks that could not have been mitigated in a way and at a level that would leave open the real-life-life, I emphasise, the real, non-depreciable, small or purely theoretical possibility of doubting the secrecy of voting on the Internet or the fulfilment of other requirements. The technical and organisational arrangements for e-voting have been constantly developed and further developed in the light of technological developments, changing risk assessments, or new risks, or enhanced by existing recommendations of the OSCE Office for Democratic Institutions and Human Rights, under the leadership of the Election Commission of the Republic of the electoral process. For example, adding the functionality of voice control confirmed the already high level of security in people's eyes. The overall confidence in e-elections has been very high: 70% of the people entitled to vote either trust or fully trust the e-election system. This, together with the ever-increasing percentage of participants in e-voting, also shows that there has been no reason to doubt that either secrecy or other requirements have been met. We have already used the possibility of voting online nine times, without incidents. Question 4: 'Please provide examples of international practice that have taken an example of e-elections in Estonia and applied this method of voting? ' Estonia is unique in the world in terms of the existence and spread of such a strong national digital identity, in the form of an ID card and mobile ID. Thanks to this, we have also been able to put voting in the online environment in the elections. Other countries do not, as a rule, have the right technological basis for this. This is why Estonia's similar system is not directly implemented elsewhere, but several countries have been constantly interested in it and have even carried out in-depth analyses. Voting online has already been implemented through other solutions for many years in Norway and Switzerland, but it only creates the identification methods applicable to individual elections each time. In addition, trials have been limited in technology and scope, for example in Great Britain, the Netherlands, Spain and recently in the presidential pre-election round in the United States. International interest in Estonia's experience is constant, not only at the national level, but also at the level of the private sector. In 2014, an e-election competence centre was established in Estonia, led by Cybernetica AS in cooperation with Smartmatic, an international company offering e-voting solutions, which makes extensive use of the solutions and knowledge of the creators of the Estonian e-election system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-09_U48	Questions. Heimar Lenk, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-09_U49	Thank you. Prime Minister! Here's the question. Perhaps you could analyze it a little, or discuss how it happened that in recent elections very active e-choice people were in age class 80+? For example, 94-year-olds were busy voting with ID-cards on modern computers. How could this happen? That's another thing. What is the reason for the fact that the popularity of the Reform Party before the elections is usually much lower than the result of the e-elections, and after the elections the popularity of the Reform Party is again less than at the moment when it was possible to vote with an ID card? There are a lot of unanswered questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-09_U50	All unanswered questions must be answered. Certainly voting in elections is a much more accurate expression of the will of the people than any sociological inquiry. By the way, you may also know that sociological surveys often use the internet, but some formats use both internet and face-to-face interviews. It is clear that elections as a statistical population survey are significantly more accurate than any sample modelled election situation. That's one. Secondly, you asked why 80-year-olds and older people are using the internet in elections. In fact, the majority of e-voters have been office workers in previous years; they have been the main e-voting agents. But as time goes on, the more the profile of e-choices has expanded and indeed, in very different age groups, there are people who prefer e-voting. I've done this before, and I can give my grandfather an example today. He's 81 years old and uses a lot of computer programs more skillfully than many people two or three times his age. This strongly disproves the claim that people's learning ability is significantly retarded at the age of 45. It's just not true. Examples of older people using computers can bring a great deal, including those who regularly visit the Haaberst Social Centre. As an elder in the district, I regularly communicated with the elderly in Haaberst. I remember that already 12 years ago, a lot of people learned to use a computer that was quite old, including an ID card, and they did it perfectly. That is how we should view it. Perhaps in old age, e-elections are more convenient, especially for people who live far away from the polling station. It is not very convenient for the elderly to make a journey from home to the polling district and it is good to be able to vote using a computer. I believe that this is, in any case, a sensible choice for many.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-09_U51	Marika Tuus-Laul, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-09_U52	Thank you. Good minister! These 90+ voters must also have quite new computers, up to a maximum of five years old. I don't think they change computers that often at that age. You said that the elections were completely the same, whether it was an e-vote or a paper vote. We know that the e-vote lasts seven days, in the same department you can usually vote one day, no primary elections are also. How is the e-vote even viewed by election observers? I'd like to know. If I go to the station, my identity will be checked and I will be given a note, but in the case of an e-vote, we don't know who put someone's ID card on the computer.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-09_U53	Thank you. I repeat, I would refrain from tagging like you just did. I know people who are more than 80 years old, including those who are approaching 90, who not only actively use computers but who work actively every day. There are, and there are, a lot of these examples, and there are many people coming together for Estonia. Some of them are quite well-known. There are also people involved in politics. I believe you will find someone you know who is very active and very old. We should not take the view that when a person has reached retirement age, he should under no circumstances be a computer user or should have a more modern computer than five years old. That's one. Secondly, what is the organisation of e-elections and how exactly is the observation going to take place? When the e-election system was established in 2000, the same logic was taken into account in its own right as in its choice by letter. To put it simply, there is an outer envelope that says who chose it, and inside it is a conditional one that we are now talking about the IT world, and I am trying to make it more understandable for you, a smaller envelope that says who was voted for. Those envelopes which were chosen and voted for at the time of the election shall be separated when the votes are counted from each other and shall never be able to be reunited. As long as the election lasts, no one can see who the man chose from, but the envelopes are together. If a person chooses to re-select, then this envelope is simply replaced, and so it can be done infinitely many times. This is also why the possibility of re-election was created at all because no one could be influenced. This influence is pointless because you know that a person can choose again right away, and because of that you cannot be sure that the very voice you gave was the last one. These envelopes are also kept together until the end of the elections, so that people can go and choose in a traditional way if they wish. If this option is over, the vote will begin. To read the votes, these envelopes are separated, as has been said, cannot be brought back together, and then there are two stacks. There's a stack of envelopes where you can find out who went to pick, and the other envelopes show who got votes. It's as simple as that. The selection committee, or also the auditors, shall ensure that the entire procedure is carried out in accordance with the prescribed software solution and the rules of procedure, and shall all be conducted strictly with the secrecy of the elections, etc. This can also be imagined very successfully in the cyber world. I believe that using this envelope metaphor made this subject a little clearer for you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-09_U54	Jaanus Karilaid, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-09_U55	Thank you to the manager. Good Prime Minister! However, I would warn you that excessive IT optimism may be a security risk. We both know very well that the Pentagon has also been broken in. To say that IT is secure is actually cheating on people. There are various political stories about the fact that the Reform Party has received many 85-year-old votes. One is that care services have long been in the hands of the Reform Party and have therefore had access to the identity cards of elderly people living in nursing homes. But there are other political stories. I'd like to know more about that. When a person goes into the booth, he's alone with his voice, no one's affecting him, but at home or at work, he may have a lot of influence. How, then, are our elections uniform? Try to explain this logically.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-09_U56	This uniformity within the meaning of the Constitution is certainly the most competent person to explain to the Chancellor of Justice. Unlike the Prime Minister, the Chancellor of Justice has precisely this competence to assess the constitutionality of something. And if the Chancellor of Justice expresses this very strongly, I believe it is also an important signal for you. I am very interested in what is the basis of the statement that the Reform Party has disproportionately received the votes of people at the age of 85+. Certainly, the Reform Party has supporters of all ages, but the statement that there are particularly many voters in favour of us among 85 years of age and older cannot be adequate, either because you do not have any chance to see who voted for whom. Therefore, you do not know who the 85-year-olds and parents have voted for. I don't know either. We can only rely on sociological surveys and say something else, as you did, in my opinion, inappropriate. You may find it interesting to know that AS Hoolekandeteenused is not the leader of reform parties. It is managed by Maarjo Mändmaa, which, to my knowledge, is not a member of any party, or even if it is, I have no doubt that it is somehow politically inclined to run this company. That's one. Secondly, you may also find it interesting to know that AS Hoolekandeteenused is not predominantly a very elderly person. There's a lot of people out there with special needs. So your so-called relationship with 85+-age voters and welfare services went a little wrong, let's say so. Now, is IT usage a risk? Yes, of course. The more technology there are, the more risks associated with cyber security. But these risks should not scare us away from using technology. Rather, we should be aware of these risks and also know what possible countermeasures are. I had the honour and opportunity to be at the very beginning of the e-elections, and it was almost five years before the e-elections were first held. Before that, this process was invented, then a legislative space was planned and then a final technical solution was reached. From the beginning, I remember it very accurately, it is meant to be what the dangers of this system could be. This is one of the reasons why e-elections are better than a normal election day. Cyber attacks, as you well know, can be identified. And if they're detected, they can be blocked. But suppose, indeed in some way, this is very unlikely, but in theory, however, the possibility of e-elections is hit by a cyber attack and e-elections happen something that has not been anticipated. Then it will be possible for the state to cancel the e-elections and say that all those who chose e-election will please come to the ballot boxes on Sunday when it is a traditional election day. As you know, nothing like this has happened since 2005, but in any case we must be prepared for it. I therefore think that, in the case of technology, awareness of risks and the introduction of possible measures is certainly more sensible than panicking over risks and denying progress or trying to reverse it.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-09_U57	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-09_U58	Thank you, manager. Prime Minister! No one can have anything against Progress. For me, the most disturbing thing about e-elections is that it is not possible to control the will of the people who are being assisted in voting, whether it is using an ID card or other. To claim that someone can control it and that a person will be able to go to the polling station later to re-selected, I don't think it's a criminal. Being a citizen of a country also requires certain obligations to the state and elections are one of the obligations. And this obligation could be fulfilled at the polling station. The voting periods have been extended to a very long time, and today it is possible to take election to shopping centres and everywhere else. Why should e-voting be preferred? E-voting could be the last straw: one day just before the end of the elections, everyone will be given the opportunity to vote. It doesn't give us a chance to manipulate. I am not against the e-vote in itself, but I have a feeling that the obligation to the state should be met in a different way.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-09_U59	I believe your attitude is worthy of all due respect. Very many people think that election day is something that cannot be missed under any circumstances. They put on Sunday clothes and sometimes go to choose with their family, proud of this opportunity, proud of democracy and their country. I think it is worthy of all respect, and two thirds of the people of Estonia do exactly that by going to the polling station. Only one third are those who have decided to choose e-choice, because it is more convenient this way. I believe that we also accept that people in Estonia living away from Estonia, diplomats working in other countries, foreign students and others, should have the opportunity to vote comfortably, as well as older people or people of any age living far away from the larger centre and polling station. We both live in a place with you or, in fact, I have to admit that I do not know where you live permanently, but I can talk about my experience, I live in Tallinn, where there is no major logistical problem going to the polling district. It doesn't make much difference to the townspeople, but rural people can have a pretty noticeable difference in comfort. I do not agree that the state prefers e-elections in any way. E-elections are an equal opportunity to vote with other options. I think it may be said that, for example, registering my place of residence is an undertaking in which I put on a tie, go to the district government, give me papers solemnly on behalf of myself, my wife and child, and let you know that this is my new home address. This is also the way we can approach, and so do many people. But for me, who I really, really have to admit, the schedule is relatively tight, it's very convenient that the residents' register can change the residence data so that I don't leave my office or from behind my home desk that I use a computer, an ID card, a mobile ID. There are quite a lot of people who do not always want to go in when dealing with a country and put on a tie specifically for it, and for them the provision of e-services is certainly very welcome. e-services also make a significant contribution to saving both people's time and public resources. The more people use e-channels, the less we need to use human resources. We come from the election to tax returns for a moment. I think you still remember how much manpower had to be used to keep open offices where people manually filled out their tax returns on several A4 pages. There were large queues in the office, at least in Tartu, where I filled out my first tax return. A whole lot of people had to input the data into the computer after that, and it all took months. At the moment, everything happens by electronic means, and it's hard to find someone who would say it's kind of uncomfortable. There will always be those who are still trying to do the paperwork, but in general I think that, as you said nicely, basically, there is no objection. There's no point in arguing basically. If the e-vote is an additional option, we accept that this is a very important opportunity for many.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-09_U60	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-09_U61	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Prime Minister! After all, the content of this inquiry is the questionable compatibility of regulation with the Constitution. In fact, I have a question for the questioners, why the hell would they ask the Prime Minister and not the Chancellor of Justice? But you have already noted that the Chancellor of Justice has responded to an analogous inquiry in 2011. That's my question. Since the history of this problem is quite long, why don't you give an overview of what e-election disputes there have been in Estonia? As I recall in 2005, the debate on this issue was quite delicate, and it also led to conclusions. So, what did it end up with? And I will also ask the adjacent ones what the conclusions of the ODIHR observatory missions have been.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-09_U62	To be honest, those who prepare to answer the question also wrote a sentence in this text that this is not a matter within the competence of the Prime Minister, you should ask the Chancellor of Justice. I myself drew down this line with my own hand, did not want to seem disrespectful to Members. But, indeed, you are right to stress that this question can be answered primarily by the Chancellor of Justice, when the emphasis is on the strict constitutionality. However, since there were also questions about other things, how exactly does this arrangement apply, etc., then, since I myself have been at the beginning of the e-election process, I am happy to answer. I must admit that I do not have all the information on the constitutional assessment, but I assure you that there has been no information available to me that the compatibility of e-elections with the Constitution has been seriously questioned. Rather, it has always been concluded that e-elections are well in line with the Estonian constitution. The OSCE ODIHR assessments you mentioned are also positive. I called it that once, but one of the topics mentioned in their recommendations was the addition of a voice control function, which gives people more security. And it's been implemented. As far as I know, no official observer organisation has any serious complaints. Each of us actually believes that Estonia is trustworthy as an e-state just as we trust e-state services in the tax administration or in e-health, it is also worth trusting in e-elections. At the same time, for all e-services, I think it is very right to pay attention to risks as well. Technology is always linked to certain risks, always needs to be able to prepare for them, and there must always be a very precise plan to prevent them first and foremost, but if any risk materialises, how to act. All of this has been monitored as much as possible in Estonia's e-governance.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-09_U63	Siret Eagle, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-09_U64	Thank you, good manager. Good Prime Minister! The Internet is spread by viruses and other malware. Antivirus can't always be effective, and antivirus is usually able to identify the viruses that are known. However, if a new virus appears, this virus will successfully pass through the infected computer to perform its malicious task. And that's how the virus can vote for some people. Do you not think that this threatens Estonian democracy?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-09_U65	I don't think it's because you can't vote for a human being. The identification requires either a SIM card or an ID card in the form of a physical chip, plus a PIN code. And even in the case of computer contamination, it is very difficult, if not impossible, to imagine that the virus grabs an ID card, puts it on the computer and then somewhere from the outside, by the way, there is no information inside the computer, the PIN is in the hands of a person, taking the PIN code and entering it. It is very difficult to imagine such a thing, and that is why identification with an ID card and a mobile ID is much safer than using a password card, which, unfortunately, many people use. My recommendation to all people is definitely to use antivirus software on their computer. At the same time, there are some computer types where viruses are very rare. Take, for example, different tablets. Also, well, you can't say that without real viruses, but still far less risky are Apple-type computers. But in any case, it makes sense to use an anti-malware program on all computers, and it is always worth making sure that software updates are made correctly, including anti-malware updates. The newer the software versions people use, the safer it may be that no malware will infect them. It is also important to know that there has been no sign that anyone even tried, even less so that someone in the e-elections managed to get some kind of virus to vote for someone somehow. And there are no known cases where anyone could have abused an ID card or a mobile ID. It was claimed here that there can be no guarantee that some people will not voluntarily hand over their ID-cards with PIN codes to anyone else. Well, that's what I advise people not to do under any circumstances. By giving away an ID card with PINs, a person not only grants his or her right to use the services of the state on the Internet, but also gives access to his or her bank account and many other things. I don't think anyone's so naive that they volunteer to give away all their identity and property.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-09_U66	Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-09_U67	Thank you, Mr. Speaker. Prime Minister! You have repeatedly stressed here that the main issue of convenience in e-elections is that of convenience. In my opinion, the main issue is safety. If we are talking about whether e-elections are verifiable, we know that there are actually only two or three people in Estonia who can see in the server where the votes are collapsed. In other words, almost no one in Estonia can verify whether the voice that has gone out matches the voice that will eventually be written. That means we have to believe these two or three people, and we have to believe you. But we don't think we want to control it. It is not a question of believing, it is a question of who will have the power in Estonia after the elections, who will be checking the wallet, who will start to create the right to one, to another or to a third, who will be in charge of the Port of Tallinn and so on. We have to believe this is all fair, but we can't control it. I ask you: which, in your opinion, is more important, either comfort or the security of the elections?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-09_U68	There is no doubt that the security of elections is an essential prerequisite for all electoral methods. However, this does not mean that elections cannot be made more comfortable for people in order for more people to be able to vote. I have already given an example that many people are travelling or living away from Estonia on election day, and they must also have the opportunity to participate in democracy. If, by the way, EKRE questions the competence of the electoral commission, the electoral commission is a completely independent body, then this is a very brutal accusation. I hope you think very carefully when you say it. After all, this also calls into question whether your own mandate as a member of the Riigikogu is quite legitimate or whether it came from somewhere God knows where. I believe in the Election Commission. I believe that the Commission has made every effort to ensure that both traditional elections on paper and e-elections are as secure as possible. And I am convinced that every person sitting in this Chamber has received his mandate in the right way, that everyone's votes have been correctly counted. Moreover, I dare say that digital identification is actually safer than the signature on the paper. I'm looking at the signature of Martin Helme in question here, and I'm telling you the truth, I don't know who wrote it here. I have to admit with great shame that I do not know if it is at least similar to your real signature, but since several of your group friends and your friends from the Centre Party have signed here, I assume that this signature is really yours. But I don't have absolute certainty, I can only rely on your assurance. However, I trust you on this matter. If it was signed digitally, it would be much safer. A encrypted note would show that the signatory is indeed Martin Helme with this and this social security number, and I would see from a second that you have signed it. Sighting the time stamp from a second may in some cases be critical. When submitting an inquiry to the Prime Minister, it does not matter whether you signed it on 4 or 5 May, it does not have any legal meaning. However, this may be very important for some contracts. In conclusion, I would point out that in some cases digital signatures are more secure, including for the "counterpart" to whom a statement is addressed. If there was your digital signature here, I could be more sure that it was really yours. I am now relying on you to confirm that this is your signature, and I trust you on this matter.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-09_U69	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-09_U70	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Prime Minister! I'd say this conversation's gonna get pretty fun around here. Maybe you're also a fingerprint specialist. Can you read the fingerprints, or are you wondering if the fingerprints are really qualified as evidence? You might also doubt that maybe Martin gave me his PIN and his card and I signed it or Arno Bridge signed it. What Martin asked for was very clear. We want to check it out. We want to know who it is who controls the voters, and that is a critical issue. If you question our legitimate presence in this hall, we may question your legitimate presence in the house of Stenbock. It's as simple as that. We want all of this to be checked so that we do not have any doubts about you and you do not have any doubts about us. But my question was completely different. My question was that I, as a non-lawist, cannot understand how to call it uniform when a mother goes to the polling station with a child and the child has to stay outside the cab, because the cab needs to be alone, but if the same mother does her vote behind the computer and the children are around, the husband is right next door...
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-09_U71	Thank you. That was a question now.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-09_U72	I would like to stress that I have not called into question the presence of either you or your colleague Martin Helme in Parliament in any way. On the contrary, I said I believed in the Election Commission. I believe that the electoral committee has correctly counted all the votes and that every person who formally voted for you has indeed voted for you. Rather, Martin Helme questioned whether the votes were correctly counted and how such a result came. Now, I would like to stress once again that the organisation of the elections in Estonia is the responsibility of the Election Commission of the Republic of Estonia. I believe you know a lot of members of the electoral commission. You will have the opportunity, both as a Member of Parliament and as a political group, to turn to the Election Commission and ask them for a detailed overview of who, when and how exactly the electoral procedures will be audited, how this will take place in a polling station in Õismäe in some schoolhouse, how this will happen in the case of e-voices. You can organise a tour of the building belonging to the estate of the Chancellery of the Riigikogu and you can learn the subject yourself. I can only assure you that there is no reason to question either e-elections or digital signatures or electronic identification. This is a very high level of technical solutions and the best example that e-election security is very high is that over the entire ten years that e-elections have been used, no attempts to influence or manipulate e-elections have ever been identified.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-09_U73	Oudekki Loone, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-09_U74	Thank you. Dear waitress, E-elections are not observable. We basically don't know if a person chose. We cannot know whether a person chose freely and whether the vote-reading process was correct because it cannot be monitored. We do not have a control mechanism that would provide every citizen with the information he wants, where he can review what is going on and whether everything is fair. E-elections, as you have said many times from this remote control, actually demand that a citizen simply believes in his country without being able to follow the process. Does it not seem to you that with e-elections, Estonia has taken a step away from rational, enlightened democracy towards an authoritarian, religious state?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-09_U75	I'm sure it doesn't. On the contrary, Estonia has introduced technology tools so that we can have more democratic opportunities. Thanks to the use of e-solutions, the state is much closer to its citizens than it would otherwise be. Moreover, thanks to e-solutions, all citizens are exactly close to their country. It does not matter whether a person lives in the centre of Tallinn or in a farm on a forest line, using e-solutions it is possible to access the services in the same way. You claim that e-elections cannot be viewed or that you specifically are unable to understand how digital solutions work. It is very difficult for me to reject this in a different way than to say that you should go and meet the members of the electoral committee. If you don't believe me, let them explain how e-elections work. You were not in the Chamber when I explained to your colleague Marika Tuus-Laul what principle the e-election system was structured. You can contact Tanel Tammet, he is the person who sketched the original e-election logic on paper. It was precisely on paper because he had to do it at that time, in 2000, explaining to people who were not very technological, and he was able to do it very well, convincingly. The IT awareness of all Estonian people has certainly increased considerably by now. We are much better able to imagine how software works, how secrecy can be ensured, how people can be identified. If you really are in a serious interest, go to the Election Commission, you will be explained in detail how this procedure works. But you can also read the verbatim or study the video footage, I tried to explain this complex digital thing to your colleague, Marika Tuus-Laul, in an example of envelopes.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-09_U76	Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-09_U77	Thank you. Mr Prime Minister! I've read votes many times on the county government commission. And I can assure you that there really are entire consiliums, if necessary. But I think there was a big debate last Thursday where we talked about the development of the Internet in Estonia. We once talked about tiger jumping and that we were the leaders in this area, but it has now turned out that the Internet is better abroad than we are and we are still behind them. That's what the people who were standing on the remote were saying. My question is that if we lag behind a little bit, why does our election philosophy not coincide with those of Norway, Germany or other countries that have given up e-elections?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-09_U78	First, let's make a few distinctions. One thing is the Internet environment, the Internet infra, and the other is the e-government solutions. I am not able to give any example from around the world where e-governance solutions are at a higher level and more used than in Estonia. And that's not just my argument. I have visited more than ten top universities in the world this year, such as Harward, Duke and George Washington. I've been to Tokyo in Japan. There are a lot of examples. Nowhere has it been possible to give examples that another country has more developed in this area than Estonia. So with our e-governance solutions, we have indeed been very innovative, and so much so because digital identification, digital signature is so active in Estonia. In many countries, this system exists, but it is simply not used. Now from the Internet environment. I believe you indicated that Internet speeds in some areas of Estonia are slower than in other countries where population density is higher. Indeed, I have seen this measurement, too. There are two factors. Firstly, mobile operators have promised to cover the entire territory of Estonia with a very fast 4G internet already in the near future. This is mainly a private investment. The state, however, has contributed to the basic highways, to the construction of luminous cables, and now we have agreed in the country's budgetary strategy that the state will not only continue to build the core network, i.e. the trunk connections of such light cables, but also put it under its shoulders to ensure that not only the internet, but also electricity and road connections reach every person along this last kilometre or mile, as is called. All over Estonia, the Internet must be available. If you take mobile phones, you can generally say that there are very few areas where you would not be able to access the Internet at a decent rate in Estonia via mobile phones. I mean, in international terms, a very fast internet. But it is clear that mobile phones do not always replace fixed connections, so we also need to move forward with their last mile allowances.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-09_U79	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-09_U80	Thank you, good manager. Good Prime Minister! Why don't you come up and talk in clear Estonian for a second? Mr Helme asked the question, but he did not receive an answer. Now I'm asking you differently. Mr. Prime Minister, if you and I were to try to push into the booth, the police would take at least one of us, or both of us. However, if you and I went to a retirement home and called the 90-100-year-olds there, maybe the 105-year-old sissy-tates in the big hall and started conducting e-elections there, that wouldn't happen. Explain how these two acts are uniform and secret, as our constitution requires?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-09_U81	I am absolutely certain that if you organised such an advance at the retirement home that you would vote for people, your actions would most likely have legal consequences. If I remember correctly, your party, you probably didn't have a member of this party yet, perhaps in a slightly different form. Marika Tuus protested that it was done in a slightly different form, but still something similar has been tried by your party. In particular, tents were erected where you offered an e-choice service, and this received a legal assessment. This legal assessment was deplorable and said that it was not in line with the principles of e-choice. I believe that the strongest guarantee is that people do not voluntarily give away their identity. It's not a question of giving up a voice when a person gives someone else their ID and PIN codes. That's how a person gives away all his identity. And the people of Estonia know what an ID-card is for 16 years, and they know very well that the ID-card with the PINs will not be handed to anyone else, because it puts a lot of things at risk. And people don't volunteer to do that. So I advise you and your party not to organise such events in retirement homes. I'm sure you're doing a pretty bad job if you're gonna do something like this.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-09_U82	Jaak Madison.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-09_U83	Prime Minister! I have two urgent questions. There is a case of the Riigikogu elections where the votes of Viktoria Ladynskaja and Sven Sester were counted three times, because the question was in one vote with more votes and fewer votes. Three times it was possible to count the votes on paper. Here's the question: how many times is it possible to count the votes of the e-elections? Who is carrying out this check, who and how many people have access to this data? Who's got access to control? Secondly, for what reasons have our neighbouring countries, which have developed relatively quickly with us in the IT field, such as Latvia, Lithuania and Finland, not considered the transition to e-elections? Why is Estonia a lone wolf in the world and only trusts the e-choice system completely?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-09_U84	First of all, all such detailed arrangements, how many people in the room and how they carry out their work, please submit them to the Election Commission. The election committee is not under the authority of the government, it does not report to the Prime Minister. Rather, as a Member of Parliament, you will be able to question them. Take advantage of this opportunity! The election process is not run by the government, but by the electoral committee, which is, as has been said, independent of the government. Now from the experience of other countries. E-elections have been considered elsewhere. Finland recently took over the concept of the Estonian X-Road System. In Finland, the name X-tee is worshipluväylä. Tomorrow, we will sign a memorandum with the Prime Minister of Finland, which will lay the foundations for even more active IT cooperation. Also in Lithuania, the organisation of e-elections is considered very seriously. If I'm not mistaken, it's officially planned by either the leading party or the entire government. So let's live and see. This, of course, assumes that it is also necessary to use national identification tools, just as we have an ID card and a mobile ID. This has so far become an obstacle for many countries that have not gone beyond this idea. As far as e-voice reading is concerned, I believe that you can perfectly understand yourself that electronically, when a particular choice has to be made, I believe that you know how the e-choice procedure works, it is much, much easier to detect human error. Actually, there's a lot less chance of a mistake. If the person's eye can be mistaken on a ballot paper, I don't know, for example, one or seven distinctions, if it's written with a very confusing handwriting, then a click must be made on the computer and you can see who you are voting for. And if you click on that you agree, you can't have this kind of one-and-a-seven mix-ups on the countback. It is therefore much easier to count votes in e-elections than in paper votes. Indeed, as the case of Ladynskaja and Sester eloquently proved, there may be different interpretations that are humanly understandable, but that can be very weighty for individual people. And by specific people, I mean not only Victoria Ladynskaya and Sven Sester, but also all their voters.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-09_U85	Viktor Vassilyev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-09_U86	Thank you, Mr President. Good Prime Minister! You guys were like this great campaign where the Central Party was picking up digital signatures in the tents. I don't remember exactly what the signatures were collected against or by, but the people's attitude was extremely positive. And especially without going into it, they even agreed to run around the corner into Swedbank's office to get their passwords and codes with the envelopes, because they didn't have any codes before. And that's what they voted for. So these things are perfectly possible in the campaign process. Of course, the Centre Party has never been, as you suspected, in retirement homes to put computer bullshit in front of old folks. My question is this: doesn't it make a difference if a person goes to the station to tip-kill and vote there or if he uses a computer for a Facebook campaign or a computer game? Is it not, however, the difference between attitudes?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-09_U87	I believe that what kind of tool a person uses must be a free choice for everyone. As we know, 32% of Estonians decided to use e-elections in the parliamentary elections in 2015; everyone else chose in a traditional way, including a very small number of people voted by letter. As for those, as you said, fun experiments with people's digital signatures, which you organised in front of the shops, I would remind you that this thing was quite specifically closed down, saying that it was not quite legitimate, and asked to stop these fun experiments. And I am pleased that, at least, I have not received information in recent years that the Centre Party has continued to do so. All in all, it's for the best.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-09_U88	Raivo Põldaru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-09_U89	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Prime Minister! You've been pressing the procedure the whole time and leading us to the electoral commission. However, you have still not answered the questions concerning the control of what is happening inside the machines that are happening on the servers. Who is watching this and how and how many people are doing this control? I very much doubt that the Electoral Commission is dealing with these issues. That is what we are questioning. This is probably why other countries have not introduced e-elections, that they are uncontrolled procedures.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-09_U90	If you take the computer and use it, it's understandable that everything that's going on after your double click is not going to finish. Maybe you don't have to. However, I can assure you from my knowledge that there is generally nothing mysterious going on inside the servers. There are processors that make very many mathematical operations very quickly. There's hard drives, and in the newer days, there's a different kind of technology, so let's say there's media. There is also a cache that is used during the start-up of various processes. So hard drives are a hard drive. Inside the servers you can also find a motherboard whose task is simply to connect different components to make this whole thing work. In addition, the operating system and necessary software are installed on the servers, and there is nothing mysterious in itself, nothing unprecedented or unheard of. How exactly can these procedures be monitored, it takes more time to explain it, and I suggest you ask them directly from the people who have created this software or manage it every day. But the general principle of how it works, I explained to your colleague, Marika Tuus-Laul, in an example of envelopes. I hope that explanation was understandable. Yes, it was, of course, imaginary, but I believe the imagery made it a little easier for people who don't come into contact with the life of computers every day.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-09_U91	Thank you, Prime Minister. Members of the Riigikogu currently have no further questions. I'm opening negotiations. On behalf of the heirs Siret Eagle, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-09_U92	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, When it comes to e-elections and their security, our constitution says very specifically and unambiguously that elections are general, uniform and direct, and voting is secret. But when you look at our e-elections, they're not really like that. I actually want to share with you some thoughts about what the Prime Minister was either consciously talking about in a distorted way or what he just doesn't know exactly. Firstly, e-elections cannot be legally tested. In other words, it is not possible to know whether the e-election system is safe or not. I've been in contact with both hackers and IT scientists in other parts of the world. They say very clearly that the Estonian e-election system is only suitable for the election of a class elder and no more, because its level of security is so low. Unfortunately, they cannot prove it in any way, because they say that they are not the people who would be prepared to be illegally hacked and then punished. I think that the Government of the Republic of Estonia does not really dare to declare that all hackers around the world come to try how safe our system is. The Prime Minister also told me about the ID card. The ID card is only an identification tool. It doesn't have any aspect of security at all. What's actually happening on our computer is quite manipulative. Before, I raised the issue of viruses. There's a chance that at some point the virus will just take over and vote for a person, so a person doesn't know. It's a reality, it can really happen. E-elections are not actually used anywhere else in Europe. When we are talking about Finland, Finland actually tried and took the decision that they did not want it because they saw that there were very many elements of insecurity. When we are talking about Germany, in Germany, the Supreme Court ruled that e-elections are not secure enough and will not be introduced. When we talk about Norway, the good friends you are in this hall, Norway went even further in developing its system than is the Estonian e-election system. And they still found it not safe enough. So think about it yourself, if Russia is interested in our e-election system, then you can draw your own conclusions as to why they are actually interested in it. One of my good acquaintances from America, whom I occasionally communicate with, this is the IT scientist Barbara Simons, has said that those forces who adopt e-elections in the United States will be democrats or Republicans to the end of all time. And since the Reform Party was to a large extent the initiator who introduced the e-elections, I think the Reform Party will win the elections as long as we have the e-elections. They can simply exploit the insecurity of this system for their own good. This is unfortunately a reality. So if we still want fair elections and Estonia to be a democratic state, we should ban e-elections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-09_U93	Marika Tuus-Laul, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-09_U94	Thank you. Jaanus Karilaid, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-09_U95	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-09_U96	I say, good Prime Minister, how is this uniform? One more thing. If I go to the polling station and try to influence someone with a poster or a snack, it's forbidden. But when I vote during the e-elections, banners always run from left to right or across the screen, jump from here and there. I ask: good Prime Minister, how are elections uniform, as our constitution demands? In short, I'm confused, I don't understand. And as a member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, I would really like you to respond directly sometime, Mr Prime Minister, how the elections are uniform. I'm not talking about secrecy right now. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-09_U97	Good ambassadors! Good Prime Minister! When the e-vote was legalised in its time, one of the main objectives of its creators was that more young people should be chosen. As we can see, it is quite the case that over 60-year-old e-voters were well above twice the age of 24 in the last elections. For example, among the 24-year-olds, 11740 people used e-votes in the last elections, while the 60-year-olds had 31100 e-votings. While there were 151 e-choices among the 18-year-olds, there were 162 90-year-olds and older e-voters. Clearly, these old people were helped by someone they trusted with their ID card. We'll take the same operations in nursing homes. They give their ID and passwords, and the manager or someone else votes for these people. I have an acquaintance who went to a nursing home on the day of the election, and I'm not going to name where my two sisters are looking. Those sisters said they could both vote and everyone else they were with. 'How come you didn't get it this time, in the last election? ' asked a friend of mine. 'This time, a young gentleman came and helped us. 'Whose side did you vote for? '''We gave Andrus to Ansip. ' But Andrus Ansip didn't apply, he was in Europe. It's a reality case, it's not a fiction. Indeed, there are many questions and they have already been discussed. If I go to the polls to vote, they'll check my records, see if I'm on the list. I'm getting a ballot paper, and it's clear. But in the e-vote, no one will check whether the ID-card user is also the owner. There are also cases where an old person is called at home and assistance is offered for e-votes. How, then, is such a vote secret? In fact, we don't know how those voices move in seven days. They are pulled from the server every day around where they go and who controls it? For example, a journalist is not allowed to access servers. And why in e-elections can a person be re-elected, not in ordinary voting? Why are these voices being destroyed so quickly, and can observers even observe e-elections? You can't really! We know how huge the vote was in the authorities in the last elections. First was the Ministry of the Interior, second was Elion, third was the Tax and Customs Board, then Swedbank, Eesti Energia, Ministry of Finance, etc. I mean, these people gave a voice from the work computer, and Chancellor Ülle Madise approved it being done this way. It is quite clear that these people voted in favour of their minister there. Perhaps they were also told that if you do not vote for one or the other, others will come to power and you will lose your job. In fact, e-elections are in direct contradiction with the Constitution, because it does not say anything about e-elections. The Constitution states that regular elections to the Riigikogu will take place on the first Sunday of March in the fourth year following the previous year of the Riigikogu elections. It has also repeatedly been proven by IT specialists that e-elections are not tamperproof. Today, we do not yet have the technology and technology at our disposal to make e-elections secure forgery. A few years ago, hackers in Washington managed to hack into the online voting system by replacing only a few symbols and right in front of the professionals, no one noticed it. The hackers had control over all the votes, and they changed the election results considerably. So the Prime Minister didn't convince me today. There was a lot of talk, there was a lot of talk, but I thought the arguments were weak and, in part, very childish. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-09_U98	Thank you. Colleagues Heimar Lenk, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-09_U99	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, who are we in this Chamber and who are we sitting in our rooms? I would also like to express some of the thoughts I have had about e-elections in Estonia during the years when this procedure has been in place and when it has been used. What's my impression? If you look in history today, someone in this Chamber asked why this question is being put to the Prime Minister, it turns out that our prime minister is one of the authors of the e-election system. Then, when Märt Rask was Minister of Justice, Taavi Rõivas worked in that ministry with Ülle Madis, the current Chancellor of Justice. The young man and the girl were given the task of developing an e-election system. Because already at that time, the Reform Party realised that whoever gets hold of the e-election system could be in power for many, many years. I would say that I have the impression that what is involved in e-elections is one of the biggest lies that have been discovered in 25 years of the existence of the re-independence of the Republic of Estonia. I also have this feeling that, in decades' time, one of the current young men, the representative of the EKKRE, claims here that there are two or three men who are going to work at the central server and who know exactly these things before they die, and he confesses how the e-elections went to the Republic of Estonia in those years. To be specific, look at our constitution. It is clearly stated that the Riigikogu elections take place every four years in the Republic of Estonia on the first Sunday of March. And the point. Neither the ordinary primary elections, nor the e-elections, are we in the Constitution at all. But neither the Prime Minister, nor the President of the Riigikogu, nor the Chancellor of Justice, make a number out of it, let it go on, as long as we are in power. If we are now going to look at what has happened, why everything has been like this, I would say that the power of one of the great parties, the squirrel party, or the Reform Party, in Estonia has been embodied in it. And as one of the founders of the re-independence republic, Edgar Savisaar, has said as long as there are e-elections, so long the Estonian Reform Party will have the power. There were a lot of questions to ask here today, but still things aren't clear. Okay, if we have in law that hard drive material must be destroyed within a month, then we are men and we will do, Prime Minister and Riigikogu, around this law! The hard drives take so little space, we put them on the shelves, and we calmly examine, in the presence of experts, after all the material on them. Let's see if the right figures were made public. One of the previous speakers said very rightly that what we are talking about here is the viruses we are talking about breaking and entering when everything is decided at the last stage precisely by the main server, where there are three or four boys with so-called pats. And indeed, it is. Then the results will be done. If our prime minister got an election ♪ I don't remember how much he got, but let's say he got 3400 votes, then a kid with a ponytail won't have a problem pressing the button and writing down 5340 votes. It's just one move. You can't do that on paper, you can count them many times and in the presence of several people. Anything's possible with an e-choice. That is the case, if we continue to do so, then we must accept the perpetuated power of the Reform Party in the Republic of Estonia. We can talk about what we want here, but the authors of the e-elections are, of course, rejecting it. And they're gonna take advantage of that statement that you don't understand the system that Ülle Madis and I did anyway. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-09_U100	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-09_U101	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, Prime Minister! I didn't become an e-election fan, but e-elections, of course, provide an additional opportunity. Personally, I don't know much about the computer, and my belief in the computer is what it is. But I have faith in a democratic state, electoral order and civic duties. We should not brag about having more and more people hitchhiking on a computer. This is not a civic commitment and it does not deepen democracy in the country. Choosing is not an ordinary procedure where I make one click of a mouse and have fulfilled my civic duty. Since the electoral period has been made very long, I think that all people will be able to go to the polling district, to think intently about who to vote for, and to make their decision. E-elections could be used in extreme circumstances. I am proposing not to completely reset the e-elections, but to give the e-vote one day instead of seven days. Then there would be no room for the manipulations that Marika and others were talking about, all these possible joint votes in the working group and so on. This vote would take place one day and would be an additional opportunity for all those who did not have the opportunity to go to the polling station. That's how everyone should be happy. It is also an additional opportunity for people who are away from Estonia for some reason. Let's give them a chance to take part in the election. But you don't have to have seven days to do that. One day would be enough. In one day, why don't you go over the servers so everyone can't vote? Why should there be seven days? If anyone can explain this to me, I'd be happy to listen. Why should there not be an e-vote one day and there should be an additional opportunity, i.e. this straw, so that everyone can participate in the democratic process? Why does it have to last seven days? This is not a routine selection, in which we put on clean clothes and go to the polling station to fulfil our civic duty. This election must not be carried out by us coming from some kind of company, under the influence of a drink, and by God knows what we wear and in what condition we click on it and fulfil our civic duty. I don't think it's democratic. My proposal is that we give e-choice time for one day instead of seven days. Maybe I'll start believing in e-elections, too. I don't know the computer, and I don't know what's going on in it. But I know what's happening around us every day.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-09_U102	Thank you. Oudekki Loone, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-09_U103	Ladies and gentlemen, Prime Minister. E-elections are still unobservable. E-elections are not transparent. We cannot check whether the person voted himself, we cannot check whether everyone was free to make their decision, whether someone was paid for a certain vote. We do not know whether a person voted alone or whether there was a group vote somewhere that is not democratic. We can't control what the computer program leading the e-elections is doing either. In some parts, this is not possible at all, and in some parts we do not have the knowledge to do so. But everyone must participate in democracy, not just those people who have a higher education in IT. If you noticed, my question in this regard was answered by the Prime Minister, so, well, if you don't believe me, maybe you could talk to another expert. You know, the question is not that I consider Mr. Prime Minister a completely unreliable and stupid person. No, you don't. The question is, I don't want to talk to an expert. I want facts like any other Estonian citizen. I want every Estonian citizen to be able to follow every step of the voting process so that he can be sure that the election was not done. The government tells people to believe us, we're the government! We have good specialists, come on, we'll tell you how good we are and how great we are! I suspect that this is not a democratic government, because the democratic government tells the citizen: you have to doubt, come and control! The democratic government would order hackers to attack the system to find out where the weaknesses lie. Our government doesn't do that and tells us that computers are the kind of thing with processors inside. That's not an argument. Rather, it seems to me that the current government wants the system to be opaque and that people are not active, does not control every fact, every step that the government takes. Our government wants people to trust experts blindly. You know, if a person is blindly trusting experts, especially when it comes to such a thing as the possible transfer of power, we have experts in our hands, we have some kind of narrow elite to whom no one has given a mandate, but who is self-proclaimed. Then we will no longer have a nation, then we will no longer be a democratic state. That's why I find e-elections very dangerous. This is a step away from Estonia, which we once fought for. This is not a country where everyone is equal and free. Let's finish this and pick it so that everyone can watch people who are chosen by the people, not experts who want it very badly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-09_U104	Thank you. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-09_U105	Good manager! Good Prime Minister and few colleagues in the Chamber! I was not going to come here, but according to the Rules of Procedure of the Riigikogu, only one question can be asked by the Prime Minister, and the Prime Minister can always use the old trick that I have learned here, that he simply does not answer the question. I asked him if there was a difference: if the two of us went to the booth, the police would take one of us or both away, but if the two of us went to the office of the director of the retirement home or the hall and we started e-voting, nothing would happen. But I asked this because a good colleague, Mart Helme, asked the same question before, and the Prime Minister did not answer him. So much of the style that I have seen so much here: Ministers and other high dignitaries calmly and brutally fail to answer the questions that have been put to them. That's one. Second. I'm going to tell you three episodes of life about me. The first episode was on the market of one of Tallinn's suburbs. I had coffee there this morning when an old lady came to me and started talking to me. We were talking about the e-elections, and he described to me how some young master came to him during the primary election and said, "Maybe, ma'am, why don't we step into the cafeteria and do this thing?" Ma'am, the old teacher said he wasn't going. But later he spoke to his colleagues, including the old teachers, two of whom had agreed. They were assisted by a young girl and a young man. They went to the cafeteria, gave me their ID and told me who they wanted to vote for. And when my conversational partner asked if they were watching who actually pressed that button, they said they didn't. Another example. During the election campaign, three different people came to me in front of a shopping centre, and I am not going to name the city, but it is three different people on different days in Tartu and Jõgeva County, who asked me if I knew how the elections would be held in a nursing home in their neighborhood. And they told me the details. The first visitor was a cook lady, and after her, a few other people confirmed that this was a public secret, always coming from this circuit to them as one of the ambassadors, and this is not an ambassador to the Centre Party. So this was another case. And the third case. Some time ago, I was with a delegation from the Riigikogu in Germany, where we also met with the Bundestag Digital Commission. There was lunch, and there were a dozen German colleagues on the other side of the table. Of course, we were talking about e-elections as well. And all those members of the Bundestag said that we wouldn't go so risky. Later, I also spoke with the other members of the committees, and almost everyone thought that they would not be dealing with this kind of business. Germany, however, is the largest country in Europe. Finally, I would like to say that I still do not understand, Prime Minister, how e-elections are secret and uniform, as our constitution demands. I repeat the word 'one-size-fits-all'. If the two of us, the good prime minister, tried to get in the booth, the police would take one of us away, but if we call the office of the director of the old folks' home into the nice sissy, or anybody, and we do this quickly, nothing will happen. How are they uniform? How is it consistent that if I go into the booth and I go to the urn after the note, but moments later I realize that I wrote the wrong number in the box and I want to take it back, I won't be allowed to do it, but if I e-voting, I can change it later, but how do I want to do it? Today, I will vote this way, tomorrow, the third day after tomorrow. Can I have a few more minutes?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-09_U106	Thank you. Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-09_U107	President-in-Office of the Council. Good Prime Minister! You know, in America, there's a saying that elections are always faked, except that counterfeiting must remain within the limits of credibility. If we look at what has been happening since we introduced e-elections, our election results are more or less within the limits of credibility, as the sociological polls have shown. There have been no big surprises, everyone gets more or less that percentage, as polls have predicted. Some get a little more. Unfortunately, the Prime Minister did not go into the questions, and therefore we did not get very many answers. I want to tell him one thing. If he thinks we're stupid and doesn't know what a computer is, and we don't know what a server is, and we don't know what a virus is, and we don't know what programming is, he's wrong. Although I am a little over 45 years old, I am still able to learn. During the time since the elections, our party has been working quite hard to familiarise itself with all the technical details of the e-elections. And by the way, we've also figured out how each of us can control where his voice, his wife's voice, his son's voice, his daughter's voice, his friend's voice, his neighbor's voice came out. We've made that clear. Just as we've made it clear how the reshaping of votes works. That, too, we know very precisely. We have also made it clear how servers can be misplaced. So it's not like a tree grows to heaven. My mother loved to say that no tree would grow to heaven. Nor does the tree grow to heaven, which certainly abuses the election procedure for certain limps or gaps. And we don't want anything special here. The questions and answers that have already lasted for over an hour in this Chamber focused on one very simple thing: our desire for e-elections to be transparent and verifiable from start to finish. So that Jaak Madison, who may have asked for the fifth time about the same controllability, could be certain and that his mother could be sure that the vote he gave went to his son, but not to Taavi Kõivas or Andres Herkel, for example, who also very much supports e-elections. That's the whole question. We have not been able to confirm that the government is prepared to push the electoral procedure in the direction of making the possibility of scrutiny available to all voters, political parties and any social interest groups from the start to the end. So we are forced to continue our action in the direction that, on the next election day, which is already in the autumn, when the local elections are taking place, we can literally control everything by force. Because we've made it clear to ourselves how this control is possible. We're taking so many people that it's not possible to say that this or the other was an isolated incident, it doesn't change things. Examples of how some 90-year-old is a very good computer user were all individual cases. We can give examples from Võrumaa. Our representatives have received a number of complaints that ID cards and their codes are in the manager's hands in nursing homes. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-09_U108	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-09_U109	The residents of the home, the 80- to 90-year-olds, have little to lose from their privacy. Their money's ticking into a nursing home anyway. They have no fear that their entire identity will be stolen with their money. Life is not as simple as certain propaganda schemes draw. Life is in some ways very harsh and pragmatic. Having nursed many old men and helped them to spend the last days of their lives humanly, I know how little these people are interested in who gets their vote and who will eventually rule. These people have very basic needs and policy is not one of them. We should not be blue-eyed in this sense and guess, we do not have political sentiments or biased forces just about whatever word we use to take advantage of situations like this. There are! But once again: we have made the matter clear to ourselves from the tree and red, and we do not intend to accept that abuses in this area are possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-09_U110	Thank you. Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-09_U111	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! Prime Minister! To be honest with you, nothing has changed in 11 years. Looking also at this hall and the attitudes that prevail here, it has to be said that in 2005 it was exactly the same. The People's Union and the Centre Party criticised the e-elections and other parties gave it a green light. Looks like it's more or less like that now. I'm a long way from saying that e-elections are 100 percent secure. There is no election with paper ballots either. We see this in many parts of the world, where strange manipulations are being made in the counting of votes. Like the vote on paper, it is certainly possible to do so electronically. There have been attempts to control electronic voice using electronic devices. I'm not the best specialist to assess how perfect these opportunities are. It is claimed that e-voices cannot be fully controlled, but Mart Helme would like to be told that no one's mother or other relative can control the person to whom he gave his vote, whether or not he disoriented, from the urn. No election committee is gonna let you put your hand in the urn to find a note. So the problems are likely to exist in both ways of choosing. In fact, I think this is the second question that was made on this subject. The first was for the Minister of Justice, if I remember correctly, a few months ago, and I guess there'll be more. It has made me wonder why this excellent innovation in Estonia has still not been found in the so-called old European countries. I think these reasons are not technical. Technically, we have probably managed e-elections more or less as well as possible, but the hesitations are rather linked to maintaining traditions and perhaps also to the possibility that such a method of voting in a generally conservative society raises doubts, against which the criticism of e-elections also leads to other distrusts that have been taken to the ground in society. It becomes such a self-generated conspiracy theory that our voices have been stolen and this system is not fair. This could be relatively dangerous to the political system. In this sense, it is up to all of us to do everything in our power to restore confidence. Now the question of constitutionality. I recall what happened in 2005 when the e-choice option was introduced into the Local Government Election Act. Then it happened twice that President Rüütel did not declare the law. When it went to the Riigikogu on the first round, a small change was made. The President's criticism was directed at the fact that, as it is possible to change the e-voice in contrast to the vote on paper, the principle of the uniformity of elections is not respected. As I recall, there was such an amendment that the opportunity was taken to change the e-voice on election day. But even after that, the president didn't declare the law. The dispute about constitutionality reached a logical result, i.e. it was discussed in the Constitutional Review College of the Supreme Court. The latter considered that there was no contradiction with the principle of constitutionality and election uniformity. In this sense, it seems to me that the question of compliance with the Constitution is not so important. These technical control issues are much more important. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-09_U112	Thank you. No more calls. Would the Prime Minister like a word? No, I don't. We're done answering today's second question.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-09_U113	Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to give the Prime Minister a little credit. I would like to congratulate him on drawing this adviser's comment from that text, and yet he came here before Parliament. In my opinion, it is, in any case, worth recognising that he did not go along with such bureaucratic negativism. The second person I would like to acknowledge is Andres Herkel, president of the Free Party, who heartbreakingly worried about Taavi Rõivas, that he still has to answer that question. I would remind my good colleague Herkel that neither you nor I will decide whether an inquiry will be passed on to the addressee, but the Parliament's Bureau will examine whether it is in accordance with the law or not. In this case, it was found that an inquiry was in accordance with the law, all the more so since Taavi Kõivas has really been unselfishly promoting e-elections. At the same time, I would like to warn the Prime Minister if he really wants to be a prime minister for the whole of Estonia. There are a number of issues that have led to the division of society: these are refugee issues, are the cohabitation law and are e-elections. If you want to be a good prime minister, you should be able to unite society. You should try to compromise with the opposition on such important issues as refugees, the cohabitation law or e-elections. Mr Tarmo Tamm proposed a compromise on e-elections. As Prime Minister, you could take it and go on from there, then the division of society would be much less. You know as well as I do that every move on the Internet leaves a trail behind every move! This trail is only 10 years later, 20 years later, 50 years later. And you're still saying it's safe to dial online. What if it's not? If, in 10 years' time, it turns out it isn't, are we saying that our earlier decisions are not legitimate? Are we saying that we have stolen democracy for 10 or 15 years, that we have stolen power? That is why Germans, Americans and Norwegians, for example, will not join this hurrah-optimism. They understand that this is a threat to democracy. You're taking that risk for power, to be in power. It does not serve the interests of democracy, transparency and development. I recommend seeking a compromise with the opposition in order not to divide society further and to reduce the problems that may arise in the future. I hope, Prime Minister, that you will come to the remote once again after this long debate today and propose a compromise on your part. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-09_U114	Thank you. March Sults, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-09_U115	Honourable Vice President! Colleagues! Prime Minister! What I say as an aggrieved school father is that election as such, the election of my authorities, the election of my rulers, the election of my ambassadors, is a very sacred process. The person who goes to choose needs to know what he's doing and why he's doing it. But that means complying with certain procedural rules. Schools must explain and justify why elections are the main pillar of a democratic society and how they must vote. It's extra trouble. Of course, it is very difficult to explain that some sort of aboriginal is an awfully good ambassador. Of course, it is very difficult to explain that a person with primary education is a very good fellowship. Of course, it is very difficult to explain that some drunk is a very good ambassador, that some criminal and thief is a very good ambassador. Of course it's hard to explain! But the computer doesn't ask for it! If you're going to vote the way it is in other parts of the world, it's a sacred event. Going to choose their rulers by letting the paperwork into the urn. Everything is as it should be. And then a person wonders where he crosses. At least he'll read the names and see who he crosses behind. I mean, a person must be prepared for this, and anyone who wants him to be elected must have spent hours of work, emotional energy, and what is there to deny, including money, and not only money, so that he can influence people so that they can write his number on the ballots. You don't need it in the e-elections. E-choosing is a threesome, just let's do it, we can or we can't get anything. As a rule, you get something, and you're chosen. But for example, young people who went to choose for the first time don't know what they did. We just pulled a farce, pressed a button or something! No emotions, no senses. No back to the chest that I chose, I know what I'm doing. It's all easy on the computer. But as a school papa, I say that children must be raised from the beginning as patriots of their country, and the patriot of the country chooses on paper. And he'll be happy if he gets to choose. I don't want to draw any parallels, but once in a distant red past, the one who went to pick the first one got a flower. What's our gift? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-09_U116	Let's move on to today's third question. This is an inquiry submitted by the members of the Riigikogu, Krista Aru, Külliki Kübarsep, Monika Haukanõmme, Artur Talvik, Ain Lutsep, Andres Herkel and Andres Ammas about the implementation of the 2015-20 Ida-Viru County Action Plan. The inquiry has been submitted to Prime Minister Taavi Kõivas. On behalf of the heirs, please speak to Krista Aru!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-09_U117	Mr President! Prime Minister! Good few people in this hall, but many definitely in their work offices! On behalf of seven members of the Group of the Estonian Free Party, we have submitted an inquiry into the implementation of the 2015-2020 Ida-Viru County Action Plan. The government has, as we know, adopted two action plans with the right words and major necessary tasks. One is South-East Estonia, the other is East-Viru County. The Ida-Viru County Action Plan also has a proper implementation plan, with numbers in several rows of the implementation plan. All this implementation plan, based on the action plan, sets very large and correct tasks, but we also know that real life in East Viru County and also in South-East Estonia is making its own adjustments to the plans. The purpose of our inquiry is to get concrete answers to five questions: what about the Narva Church, how the reconstruction of the Narva Castle is progressing, how industrial parks are in place and, of course, Auvere is not over or around. These five questions have been put to us, and I would ask the Prime Minister kindly to answer them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-09_U118	Thank you. Please answer the question to Prime Minister Taavi Kõivas!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-09_U119	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! I'll answer your questions. The first question: 'What really has the government done over the past year to improve the reputation of Ida-Viru County and its largest city, Narva, in the eyes of both local people and the rest of Estonia? What steps have been taken or are planned to increase the state's presence in Narva? ' Ida-Virumaa has been the subject of high government attention for much longer than this last year. To give examples of recent developments, in early March the government meeting took place in Ida-Virumaa, during which ministers were given a thorough overview of the issues concerning the region. At the meeting of the Cabinet, solutions were offered to alleviate the situation. Of course, it should be emphasised here that other counties, such as South-East Estonia or Läänemaa, where unemployment is also higher than Estonia's average, require the same attention. In addition to the activities planned in the Ida-Virumaa Action Plan implementation plan and the activities of the unemployment fund, the government has taken a number of decisions that contribute to the development of Ida-Virumaa. For example, allowing wood chips to be burned for the purpose of exporting renewable energy will help to create around 2 000 new jobs, especially in Ida-Virumaa. This is the expert's assessment. Decisions have also been made to build industrial parks at an early pace and to pay job creation support to Ida-Virumaa. The employer will be reimbursed 50% of the employees' salary until the end of 2017, if at least 20 unemployed are employed at the same time. During the field trial, the government decided to request funds from the European Globalisation Adjustment Fund to finance re-training, further training, career guidance, entrepreneurship and business creation activities in Ida-Virumaa. During the last year, the infrastructure of Jõhvi logistics and business park has been completed for funds directed at different ministries. Narva Victoria's bastion moves and visitation center have been completed. Last summer, a renewed Narva border point and passenger terminal were opened, the internship base of the Estonian Academy of Defence was launched and a Rapid Border Intervention Unit of the Eastern Prefecture was set up. On 1 September 2015, the state gymnasium began its activities in Jõhvi. In the field of transport, EUR 6 million has been allocated from the Cohesion Fund to the City of Narva for the reconstruction of the line of heavy goods vehicles leading to the border crossing point. 1.4 million euros have been allocated for the reconstruction of the railway and bus station in the city of Narva. In January of this year, we approved the establishment of Narva's new theatre centre on the basis of the Foundation Vaba Lava and approved an additional financial allocation of EUR 250000 each year for the period 2017 to 2025. On 16 February 2016, a TV studio for Estonian Public Broadcasting was opened in Narva, in which 240000 euros were invested in 2015. These are just a few examples of recent activities and grants. In order to increase the state's presence, the Ministry of Finance has, in preparation for the reform of government administration, an analysis of the location of state-paid jobs in rural areas, resulting in the completion of the relevant action plan by autumn. At this field meeting, or before the dinner, where we met with seven or eight experts, each of whom gave an overview of the development of Ida-Viru, one of the topics was the experience of the Ministry of Justice's administration of the country's jobs in Ida-Virumaa. It is known that the management of the prisons sector has been completely transferred to Ida-Virumaa. And this experience, to summarise very briefly, is in any case positive and is in favour of using the same practice in other institutions. The second question: 'For the Church of Narva Alexander, the government has approved an action plan for the debt cancellation of nearly half a million euros, but the church building has still gone under the auction hammer. Why isn't the government following the action plan? ' The implementation plan of the Ida-Virumaa Action Plan refers to the support of the Narva Alexander Church of SA in fulfilling the credit commitments undertaken to restore the church. The Ministry of Culture, as one of the founders of the foundation for the restoration of the church, has supported the repayment of the loan to the bank and will continue to support it next year. The Congregation's creditors have no complaints about the Church of Narva, but about the congregation of Alexander of EELK Narva, who also owns the building of Alexander's church. Further steps towards the continuation of the foundation depend on who acquires the church, but the plans for the future have already become public, according to which the Ministry of the Interior, in cooperation with the Lutheran Church, will try to find a reasonable solution so that this church can be in public use in the future, for example as a concert building. Whether this is possible depends quite a bit on the good will of the creditors, but the first signs are that the situation is promising. We also cooperate actively with the Estonian Evangelical Lutheran Church. Question 3: "How have Ida-Virumaa Industrial Areas SA and privately owned industrial parks been implemented by EAS in the Narva region? ' From the European Regional Development Fund, the development of industrial areas in Ida-Viru County has been supported by slightly more than EUR 9 million, including this foundation with EUR 3 million. During this period, i.e. the 2014+ period, the foundation has already been allocated EUR 300000, plus a further EUR 700000 by decision of the government in March. In the Narva logistics and industrial park of Ida-Virumaa Industrial Areas Foundation, two production companies and two logistics centres have started as of May 2016, offering a total of 600 jobs in achieving full capacity. There are 278 jobs already there, and a new recruitment is currently underway. A new factory will also be built, which will be completed by the end of the year. The contracts have been concluded with 12 companies and cover 20 out of 32 plots. Reservations have been made and a protocol of intent has been drawn up for six more plots. As of May, 40 million additional private investments have already been involved in specific foundation projects and this year the construction of the second stage of the park is planned. A further 39 plots have been planned. In addition, a business incubator operates at the foundation, through which more than 250 jobs have been created in Estonia, most of them in Ida-Virumaa. The infrastructure of Jõhvi logistics and business park has been completed and the contracts have been concluded with three companies for the deployment of four plots. In addition, there are preliminary contracts for six other plots and a total of 24 plots are planned there. The foundation also develops industrial parks in Kiviõli and Kohtla-Järve; they are expected to reach the construction phase during this year. Question 4: How has the aquaculture park project for the Auvere power plant progressed to make the best use of the plant's residual heat and create additional hundreds of jobs for the people of Narva? ' Estonian University of Life Sciences carried out a survey last year to map areas suitable for the expansion of aquaculture in the Estonian coastal sea and on land. The study revealed the most promising areas for the development of aquaculture, including possible future scenarios for the development of aquaculture in the cooling water channels of the Auvere thermal power plant. In Estonia's circumstances, this would provide a unique opportunity to grow fish throughout the year. Consultations have started on the development of the Auvere aquaculture park for cooperation between Vaivara rural municipality, already before the foundation, Eesti Energia, County University and Ida-Viru County Government. The Ministry of Rural Affairs is prepared to support investments in improving the infrastructure needed for aquaculture through the EMFF, with a total allocation of around EUR 5.8 million for such activities. Question 5: "How far has it been and what specific activities have been carried out in relation to points 2.2.2 (development of Narva fortress) and 2.2.4 (renovation and revival of Narva Town Hall and its surroundings) of the Ida-Viru County Action Plan? ' As I have already noted, last December, with the support of the Estonian-Latvian-Russian cross-border cooperation programme, Victoria's bastion moves and visit centre were completed. The total grant was EUR 3,1 million. The Ministry of Culture has allocated EUR 100000 for the construction project of the Convention Building in Narva Castle and about EUR 70000 for the organisation of the Narva Castle architectural competition. The project to develop Narva's fortress and bastions has been added to the list of large-scale projects in Estonia and Russia's cross-border cooperation programme in 2014-2020. The restoration of Narva's security is planned in the framework of a measure to strengthen the competitiveness of the Structural Funds regions for the same period. For this purpose, the Narva Museum of SA has submitted an application to EAS for a grant of EUR 3,5 million and a decision is made by midsummer day on who exactly receives the grant. In order to renovate and reinvigorate Narva Town Hall and its surroundings, the City of Narva has submitted a project proposal with a grant volume of EUR 4.9 million under the Narva Region Sustainable Development Action Plan, which is still in the process of being approved. The draft action plan contains the project on the main list. Once the Action Plan is approved, it is possible to submit a funding application to the EAS. The draft Sustainable Development Action Plan for the Narva region includes the construction of the Narva Stockholm site, which requires EUR 3.7 million, as well as the reconstruction of the pedestrian bridge connecting Narva Old Town and the fortress. The last job will require 1.3 million euros. The possibilities for financing reserve projects depend on whether the projects on the main list will be implemented in full. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-09_U120	Thank you, Prime Minister. You have questions too. Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-09_U121	Thank you, Honourable Chairman. Honorable Prime Minister! I would like you to specify what, more specifically, the state and Lutheran Church have agreed on the Narva Alexander Church. The archbishop has launched a rather massive collection of donations, but his letter to the congregations does not reveal how many donations the Lutheran Church itself should receive to place the rest. Do you have any gentlemen's agreement that when the church meets half, the state will add, for example, half or some other proportions? Is this decision that the state even supports the buying-out of Alexander's church your decision as Prime Minister or Minister of Culture or the Government of the Republic? Please provide as detailed information as possible.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-09_U122	The government has not made this decision, but the Minister of the Interior, at my request, is negotiating with creditors in order to find a reasonable solution. In my opinion, this requires mutual concessions. It is too early to say exactly what the purchase amount will be when an agreement is reached on the purchase. But yes, we have discussed the matter with Archbishop Urmas Viilma and reached a common understanding that it could be financed by the Lutheran Church and the state in chaos. But once again: the final decision, of course, must be made by the competent actors, but at least at the level of senior management, we have the willingness to cooperate. It has already been suggested here that the state must now become the owner of the church. That's the attitude of the public. In my opinion, however, it makes sense to find a public use for this church building rather than to leave it at the mercy of the wind. In itself, it would be conceivable to use this very large and dignified sacral building as a concert hall, for example, which is undoubtedly needed in a city the size of Narva. Whether this plan materialises is a little early to say, but at least there is the good will of both the state and the Lutheran Church to proceed with it. I hope that the creditors will also have this goodwill. As I said, the first signs give hope here, I rely on the information provided by the Minister of the Interior, who has been in contact with creditors, that a smart solution is not impossible.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-09_U123	Ain Lutsepp, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-09_U124	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Prime Minister! My question concerns the international art residency. What stage of development is the establishment of an international art residency mentioned in the operational programme?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-09_U125	I have to admit that this has been discussed with the Minister of Culture lately, but I'm sure you'll get much more detailed information than you ask the Minister of Culture, Indrek Saare, directly about it. It was one of those issues that was raised at the dinner before the government meeting, but I wouldn't answer just in case, based on my memory. I would rather pass the question on to Indrek Island and ask him to provide you with information on this matter.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-09_U126	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-09_U127	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! Narva and Jõhvi, as well as Kohtla-Järve, have a lot to talk about in the implementation plan and also in the action plan. My question, however, concerns the shores of Peipsi, where there are very beautiful pine forests and other areas. There is, I assume, a very general sentence in the implementation plan to develop tourism in the region, but is there any more concrete package of assistance or action plans available for this region?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-09_U128	I can say it is, but I can't get very precise, because not all the decisions have been made in the details. This is the same as the competitiveness measure for the regions already mentioned, as well as cross-border cooperation measures in which municipalities have applied for aid for various projects, which are also related to tourism. There are very interesting projects. In fact, this area extends to Jõgevamaa, and the whole edge of Peipsi can be considered as a wider whole. We have talked about this with the Minister for Public Administration, Arto Asa, who manages regional programmes. Indeed, there are very interesting plans, and the sums that the country has to use thanks to European Union funds are large enough. Of course, when implementing all these programmes, it is always important whether one or the other specific idea has already been prioritised in the overall or regional development agenda. These things, of course, have to be taken into account. It is also clear that we do not make decisions on objects at government level, rather they are made on expert committees. This whole process is curated by Arto Aas. His order will ultimately sign the decisions.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-09_U129	Oudekki Loone, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-09_U130	Thank you. Mr. Prime Minister! This development plan states that, on the one hand, the county has a very high potential for development, which is also due to the location of the border between the European Union and Russia. There are many sectors where this county could be leading. On the other hand, it is said that in Ida-Viru County it is particularly important that the state's presence is well known. My question is what steps have been taken or what concrete plans will be taken to increase employment in both the public and private sectors. And which public authorities will be transferred to Ida-Virumaa in the near future?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-09_U131	That's actually what I said. Inquiries had very specific questions about this. As far as the public sector is concerned, we are still planning to review the audit of the Ministry of Finance this spring, where concrete proposals are made that state institutions can be directed to different counties, not only to Ida-Virumaa, but also elsewhere. So far, the state has delegated the entire state administration of one very fundamental area, i.e. prisons, to Ida-Virumaa, or rather, it is managed from Ida-Virumaa. But, as I said, the readiness is also for expansion. I also gave an example of an internship base and rapid border response. In the case of private companies, I will repeat again, in addition to investments in industrial parks, which I listed in very detail, the government has also created grants under the employment programme. If a private company employs at least 20 unemployed people in Ida-Viru County, it receives a relatively generous salary allowance. Half of the salary of the person to be employed is prepared to be paid by the state. It is, as I said, very much support. In addition, there are, of course, earlier agreements on the mitigation of national oil shale sector charges. It has a total impact of around EUR 65 million, which is also a very significant relief for the entire region.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-09_U132	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-09_U133	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good Prime Minister! The Ida-Viru Action Plan also provides for so-called "spiritual activities." For example, the creation of the worship of the monastery of Kuremäe is foreseen. Can you tell us how this is done with the support of the country, the European Union or anyone else? And what time horizon can we talk about? When could this road be completed?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-09_U134	First of all, the measures by which the unemployment fund can help the people of Ida-Virumaa are in fact very different. I have read a few examples for which we are applying for money from the Globalisation Fund, which is a separate euro money pot outside the envelope of the Estonian state, when explaining using the euro slang. In addition, the unemployment fund itself has a pretty decent toolbox from which you can choose the most suitable solution for each person. But the wage subsidy measure is such an additional measure and has been tried once in Estonia during the crisis. At the time, it proved to be very successful. I must admit that when Minister Pevkur, who was the Minister of Social Affairs during the crisis, came up with this idea, I, as chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, was rather skeptical. However, in retrospect, as Minister for Social Affairs, I had the opportunity to count and evaluate the results of these chicks, and it has to be said that it was actually very successful and even a very effective measure, although at first sight it seemed to be too generous. Why is it meant for larger employers? It's very simple. We want large investments and large investors to come to Ida-Viru County. If they are considering creating an entity in Ida-Virumaa or in another county or not in Estonia at all, this would be an additional argument to direct the money precisely to Ida-Virumaa. Why we do not want the same support for every small and micro-enterprises, that logic is also simple. Suppose there are already operators on the ground who have long been active on the market. If we start to set up companies in the same sector on a massive scale by means of incentives that compete directly on the same market, whether it be a small catering company or a barbershop or a flower shop, then we are putting those companies that have been operating in Ida-Viru County for perhaps 10 to 20 years. And we certainly don't want that. We certainly do not want to squander the competitive situation with public subsidies. As far as 20 workers are concerned, at least 20 people must be employed from the unemployed. This means that the actual number of new jobs is likely to be even higher. We know that there are many large companies that are currently seriously considering creating hundreds of jobs in Ida-Viru County. I believe that it is precisely this measure that will help to encourage them and, in their case, there will be no risk that they will compete too painfully with any existing company or that it would otherwise be unfair to any existing company.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-09_U135	Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-09_U136	Thank you. Mr Prime Minister! It's quite nice that such big money, investment programs are connected to Ida-Viru County. But statistics are statistics and the latest information is that more than 12% of jobs are missing. It's a reality. Let's hope it changes someday, but I guess it'll have to wait a long time. But my question is about the kind of sphere where preparation is being done. Let's say people get a new invitation, education. What about future vocational schools in Narva, Sillamäe and Jõhvi?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-09_U137	First of all, a little nuance, but still an example that things are getting better. Last week the rate of registered unemployment decreased by 135 people in Ida-Virumaa and for the first time in a long time, the share of registered unemployed fell again below 12%. But I admit that it is close to 12%, namely 11.9% is still a much higher figure than the Estonian average. In Estonia as a whole, unemployment has been recorded at 4.7%, so there is more than twice the difference. However, it is positive that 135 people received more work last week than they became unemployed. So you can already see some progress. After all, the new support schemes have not yet largely been implemented; they are all still coming. But they're already in the start-up phase, so hopefully they start up fast. As far as vocational schools are concerned, the plan is to continue education in all these locations, but to join forces and lead schools as a whole. I've been to Jõhvi Vocational School. The courses there are and the quality of the teaching was impressive. It's a very decent school. I have not visited vocational schools in Narva and Sillamäe myself lately, but I believe that they also provide a decent level of education. And that level must be maintained. The Ministry of Education and the government, however, have a plan to combine the strengths of these schools in order to create synergies between the three schools. In all places, however, education continues to be provided, which is essentially administrative.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-09_U138	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-09_U139	Thank you, good manager. Good Prime Minister! The plan was to ask something else, but I have read today's recommendations from the Confederation of Employers to the government, and I will take this opportunity to ask you directly as head of government. To alleviate the shortage of qualified workers, these people could be moved from home. The Confederation of Employers asks how you feel about exempting transport costs from the special preferential tax so that unemployment can be reduced by more than 135 people?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-09_U140	Thank you. Employers' recommendations are much in the same direction as the government thinks. But the government has gone much further. Not only have we exempted workers' transport costs from the special preferential tax, but if people are unemployed and want to go to work in another county, the unemployment fund will actually pay them a subsidy. There are specific rules under which this mobility allowance is paid. There are two choices in themselves. We know that entrepreneurs in Viljandi County have been recruiting workers with city leaders in Ida-Viru County. Unlike Ida-Virumaa, there is a huge shortage of labour in Viljandi County. The unemployment rate in Viljandi County is below the average recorded unemployment rate in Estonia, 4% only, which essentially means full employment. There are now two options: either to invite people from one county to another, or another, which I think is worth considering, that companies in some counties where the labour force is more difficult will lead to some of the jobs, some of the production in a region where it is easier to obtain skilled labour. Then these people can live in an environment where they're used to living, just jobs come to them. Either way, it's possible. In principle, the state is prepared to accelerate both processes. When we see there's a market failure somewhere, we're ready to put on our shoulders to get things moving faster. I do not think that the support of the state is objectionable in such a case. We must, of course, make sure that we do not violate the competitive situation, but in principle this readiness exists and there are opportunities for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-09_U141	Thank you. As this is quite a series of euro measures, the final decisions of which have not yet been taken, it is not appropriate for me to say in a very specific way that the financing of this project is guaranteed. These decisions are mostly made by officials of the Ministry of Finance. However, we can make sure that if this information is already available at the Ministry of Finance, I ask that it be sent to you as well. Then you will get a fortress in the year, the amount and the means to finance this particular piece of tea. I think that's how you get the most accurate information.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-09_U142	Thank you. Prime Minister! No further questions for you. Let's open the negotiations. My colleague Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-09_U143	Mr President! Prime Minister! Good people in the hall and still in their work offices! Estonia is small enough that every region of Estonia could find a suitable development for it, which would give it opportunities for industrial development, entrepreneurship and tourism. The fact that we are talking about Ida-Virumaa today is also largely due to the fact that Ida-Virumaa is a region rich in nature, people and entrepreneurship. I dare confirm it because I myself have come from the forests of Alutaguse, seen a bear, lived with miners. Unfortunately, I can also say with certainty that we have not been able to make very good use of the tolerant and startling people who live in Ida-Viru County these days. In 1919, when the Republic of Estonia did not yet have the right state, the Constituent Assembly discussed what the Republic of Estonia could be. They talked about Virumaa as one of the richest regions. And it was also said that in order for Virumaa to work for the whole of Estonia, to work in a good, creative and creative way, this region must be viewed as a source of wealth. The wealth was oil shale and its oil industry, wealth was people there. Looking now at this very nice action plan and implementation plan, where there are many correct words and also the right thoughts, I feel that we are lacking in assessing the entire region as a great potential, as a great opportunity for Estonia as a whole. With all these natural riches, all these people, we only see Ida-Virumaa as a problem, and that has been the case for years. If we approach with openness and a sense of vision everything that exists there, we will find a very good application for all the industry there, for business, for agriculture, and for people. We cannot make an action plan, an implementation plan, leaving out, for example, the whole Peipsi border and not assessing this county as one major whole and a great opportunity. We must have the will to do so, but also the courage to look open. All school curricula and entrepreneurship could be meaningful and linked to one of these major goals. Just like it was in 1920. When the Prime Minister was Jaan Tõnisson, he assured Estonia in a very clear and loud voice: 'Virumaa is one of the security places of the Republic of Estonia, but also a guarantee of new development. ' Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-09_U144	Thank you. There is no further wish for negotiations. Would the Prime Minister like a word? No, I don't. We have also stopped answering the third question.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-09_U145	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-09_U146	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! With my question, I want to focus on this measure, so that at least 20 people registered unemployed in Ida-Virus are paid quite a lot of support. It is certainly a measure adopted in the best of intentions, but I would still like to go into the details. Why has such a measure been chosen? How has the stability of jobs created been ensured in this way, and is this measure not too inclined towards larger companies? This will not help small businesses, and small businesses will not have the opportunity to employ 20 people at once.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-09_U147	Let's keep going. Today's fourth question is an inquiry by members of the Riigikogu, Olga Ivanova, Martin Repinski, Rein Ratas, Enn Eesmaa, Dmitri Dmitriev, Oudekki Loone, Valeri Korbi, Mikhail Stalnukhin, Kersti Sarapuu, Mikhail Korbi, Märt Sultsi, Marika Tuus-Lauli, Mailis Repsi, Erki Savisaare, Anneli Oti, Viktor Vassilyev, Siret Kotka, Peeter Ernitsa and Jaanus Kariladi about state rental housing. The inquiry has been submitted to Minister of Enterprise Liisa Oviir. On behalf of the inquisitors, please, the Oudekki Loone.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-09_U148	Ladies and gentlemen, There are many people in society who do not want to be personally involved in the burden of debt. The reasons may be because people simply cannot afford a home or because they cannot afford to live on expensive rental premises. Officially, about 10% of people live on rental premises in Estonia. On the other hand, in other European countries, 40% to 70% of people live on rental premises, and many also because publicly supported rentals are a large-scale sector in many Western European countries. The rental premises supported by the public sector are one third cheaper than average market prices and also allow for a long-term fixed-price rental contract so that the person can be sure that his or her home is always his or her home. Such a system gives people a flexible opportunity to change their place of residence if jobs are found in another city, for example if many jobs are unexpectedly created in Ida-Virumaa. Today, it is very difficult for young families and families with many children to get rental housing. It is also difficult for young families to apply for housing loans from credit institutions, as the conditions that banks offer them are too much for young people. This problem would be solved by the creation of public rental housing and could certainly be dealt with by the state. The creation of public rental premises was provided for in the 'Estonian Housing Development Plan 2008 to 2013', but it did not become a reality. The chapter of the Coalition Agreement, which regulates peripheralisation, also states in point 5.5 that the Coalition has a plan to clean up and push up the rental housing market and develop a rental housing programme. That is why we would like to ask some questions. What is the state of play of public rental housing and when are the first public rental housing expected? As of 1 March 2016, 1289 young families applied for a dwelling from Tallinn. What is the demand in other regions and where do these public rentals come first? Where is the border drawn on who is entitled to a public rental dwelling? Do these rental dwellings come to separate houses or are they created in ordinary apartment buildings, so it is not immediately clear whether the tenant rents the dwelling from the state or from a private owner? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-09_U149	Thank you. I ask for an inquiry to be answered by Minister of Enterprise Liisa Oviir!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-09_U150	Good evening. I am happy to stand here with you again, all the more so as I can talk about an issue that matters to me and the government. I also felt clear support from the author of the question. But using the possibility that we are talking about this here, and since the question referred to the connection with peripheralization and its avoidance as one of the country's priorities and important tasks, I start by reading to you a letter I received last Friday from the Ruhnu Municipality Government. It was sent to the Minister of Enterprise as an application. I'm going to read the first two paragraphs of this. They sound like this: 'We feel a great interest in the start-up nationwide rental housing programme, which supports the construction of rental homes from public funds. The 60 permanent residents of Ruhnu are known to have a primary school, three local government agencies, state-owned companies. Given the budgetary possibilities of the small municipality of Ruhnu, it has become a major problem in the area of the island, both the employment of qualified educators and specialists from other specialties in Ruhnu. The absurd solution is to use cottages as apartments during the winter period, which must be freed when the summer people arrive. " In the last week and a half, I have received quite a lot of oral and written appeals on the subject raised or raised again. I am pleased to see that the interest in public rental homes is very high. But I am saddened by some statements that focus exclusively on Tallinn, Tartu or the surrounding areas, when it is said that the private market solves all problems. It doesn't solve in a lot of places. It would be nice if real estate developers went to Ruhnu to help them build rental homes for them. I'm going to the questions now. I was asked four questions, read them, and answer one by one. The first question: " What is the state of play for public rental housing now? When are the first public rental apartments expected in Estonia? ' The programme of public rental homes is set out in the programme of action of the Government of the Republic. The country's budget strategy is set at EUR 2.5 million for the first year of 2017 to 2020 and at EUR 5 million per year thereafter. We have come to the conclusion that we have completed an accurate study by developing this programme. We intend to meet with the parties next week, then we will present the results of the study as well as the initial measures and negotiate the terms of the action with the parties. Then, at the end of the summer at the latest, I would like to go to the government with a specific measure and get it approved by the government. At the beginning of 2017, the action will open up as a pilot programme or project. The first part of it takes place in Ida-Virumaa, which has already been confirmed in the government's action plan. But given the strategic importance of the region and its problems, one pilot project will also come to South-East Estonia. The second question: 'The city of Tallinn is applying for rental of a dwelling as of 1 March 2016 for 1289 young families. What is the demand in other regions and where are the plans, in particular, to build public rentals? ' The programme is planned to be launched in a number of attraction centres at different levels, which are attractive both as a place of work and as a place of residence. As I have already said, one of the pilot projects will definitely come to Ida-Virumaa, which is also included in the Government of the Republic's Ida-Virumaa action plan. The second priority area for this measure is South East Estonia. More specifically, the demand for public-sector rental housing funds is apparent in calls for proposals, in cooperation with local authorities. It is the municipality that knows the needs of the region best. Since these dwellings are managed and maintained by the local government, the readiness of the municipality is particularly important. Due to global trends and urbanisation, the need for rental housing in attraction centres is clearly in a growing trend. We have therefore also analysed methods and measures that would help mobilise private investment and boost public-private cooperation in establishing a rental housing fund, ensuring the availability of high-quality and energy-efficient housing in line with demand. Today, man is no longer ready to go anywhere. If he chooses a new place to live or work, it is very important for him to have a decent environment there. Feedback from private stakeholders has shown that it is important to review the law on rental as set out in the Action Plans of other ministries when implementing public-private cooperation projects. The third question: 'Where is the limit to who is entitled to receive public rental housing from the state? ' The target groups are formed primarily on a need-based basis. The results of the studies show that young people in need of rental space, professionals entering the labour and housing markets, as well as households with children, as well as older people who are in need of housing and who may need additional support services. However, the primary objective of the programme is to improve the availability of housing, especially in households with lower incomes. The creation of a niche for publicly supported rental homes is necessary because there are no fully developed, high-quality and modern rental homes in Estonia that meet the expectations of mobile workers and are accessible to households with lower incomes. Very many people find it difficult to enter the housing market, often because of the economic situation, but also because the choice of housing in different regions is poor and the quality of the housing fund is, to put it mildly, mediocre. People's ways of life have changed; they no longer have such a strong desire to have housing; rather, they are increasingly willing to rent housing. This is the same trend that is already quite common in Western Europe. We must create prerequisites for the housing market to adapt to human needs. Question 4: "Is public rental housing provided for in really separate houses or public rental housing created in ordinary apartment buildings where it is not known whether the tenant rents the dwelling from the state or from a private owner? 'The public-supported rental housing programme aims in particular at creating comprehensive solutions that are high-quality and energy-saving and allow for cost savings. In individual houses, mediocre-quality apartments that are not built with energy savings in mind do not guarantee the availability of suitable dwellings. In order to ensure better access to high-quality and modern housing, the concept of rental homes has been built up in the same way as in other European countries, so that there are complete rental homes that meet the expectations of all target groups, young professionals, families with children, as well as older people. As already mentioned, it must be possible to provide support services where necessary. In the longer term, the focus is primarily on the well-organized and managed rental sector. At present, there is no systematics and organisation in the rent market, which has evolved since privatisation, which would help the parties to manage the processes and manage the situation. The offer of rental housing across Estonia is very chaotic in terms of both the density of the offer and the quality of the apartments offered. In order to address the problem, measures need to be introduced to ensure the choice of real-life forms of housing that meet the needs of the mobile population throughout Estonia. We are moving in the direction that we are still offering a comprehensive solution in the form of a house, not a single apartment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-09_U151	Thank you, Minister. You have questions. Erki Savisaar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-09_U152	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, Interest in such apartments is really very high. The Centre Party has been talking about this for more than ten years. It is therefore extremely pleasant that the government is finally going to deal with this. A separate question, however, is where to build these apartments. They are still mainly needed in those regions where there are many jobs. You yourself mentioned Ruhnu, the Prime Minister mentioned Viljandi a moment ago. There are more of these places all over Estonia. However, I have not heard that there is a shortage of apartments in Ida-Virumaa. How do you decide where these apartments will be built?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-09_U153	Thank you. These regions will be selected in cooperation with local authorities, depending on their applications. Then, in cooperation, we will make a choice by looking very clearly at the criteria why one or the other municipality is applying for a specific measure. Ida-Viru County is very difficult to generalise as a region because it is relatively large and its rental housing fund is very diverse. But I can tell you that I have spoken to the director of Narva College, Kristina Kallas, who has said that the lack of modern rental homes is one of the things that hinders the development of Narva College. So in those regions where we need more jobs, real living opportunities must be offered to create labour mobility.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-09_U154	Martin Repinski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-09_U155	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear Minister, My question is about rental housing in Ida-Virumaa. I read about the plan so they could be there from next year. Did you make this plan based on the fact that new apartments would necessarily be built in Ida-Virumaa, or was the idea, for example, to complete the construction of houses that were already under construction in Soviet times and to put these houses into use?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-09_U156	Thank you. If the building has not been completed, but at such a stage that it can be done today and achieve this energy efficiency, which is one of our very important goals, and the local government can own this building, why not? Of course!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-09_U157	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-09_U158	Thank you, manager. Madam Minister! The direction is right, but whether the solutions are always the right ones, we'll see about that later. For example, it has been said here that there are many jobs in Viljandi, but there are no apartments. It's basically a dead end. People in Ida-Virumaa would be willing to move to Viljandi to start a new life and find work there. This system could be more flexible. But does the Ministry have statistics on the number of empty dwellings in Estonia? What's gonna happen to them? Seeing how many people move away, it is clear that this problem needs a solution. Is it meant to be what's going to happen to these empty houses?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-09_U159	Thank you. This system is certainly very flexible. This delimitation has taken place to the extent that it is recorded in the Ida-Viru County Action Plan that a pilot project will come to Ida-Virumaa. But we want to do several pilot projects. It is still a question of local governments that are applying for this pilot project. A year later, a common measure will open up, with even more opportunities to apply. So surely our aim is to make the system as flexible as possible, precisely to meet the housing needs. What is important is that we make these dwellings exactly where they are needed, but we cannot start building single rental dwellings in one building or another. This does not guarantee the objectives of this measure. Exactly how much free housing we do not have, because these areas are in the hands of private owners and often private owners move back. For example, the last month's information was that the number of immigrants has increased. So the movement is going in two directions and the apartments are being re-used. But there are, of course, dwellings that are no longer used. If they are dangerous in terms of the environment or have a negative effect on the eye, it is the responsibility of the local government to respond to it. We also offer dismantling measures that have been used very successfully by several local authorities. One example could be Valga, where several unbuilt or unused buildings have been broken down precisely in order to achieve the safety and attractive appearance of the living environment.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-09_U160	Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-09_U161	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. I listened to you, and I remembered that when you drove from Kohtla-Järve to Narva and passed Sillamäe Vocational School, there was a dorm a few years ago, which was a nine-storey house, now it's a six-storey. I'll check the bill. The State used EUR 290000 only because there was no interest in these premises. Are we gonna do all the next dorms the same way they did Sillamäe Vocational School?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-09_U162	Thank you. Unfortunately, I am not fully familiar with the ownership of Sillamäe Vocational School dormitory, who owns it, how it was built and managed. I can tell you we're definitely not gonna do that. In this project, the most important thing is that the State provides support in a certain way, either as a direct grant, as a credit or as a guarantee, or as a means of allocating land. The responsibility, however, remains with the local government, which must ensure that it is a viable and self-effective allocation of funds. There's no need for profit, but it has to be self-rewarding. I expect that we have learned enough from unreasonable use cases and that every local government wants to take advantage of this opportunity. They come to apply only if they really have a desire and a need and they can ensure that it is a well-used resource.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-09_U163	Oudekki Loone, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-09_U164	Thank you. Thank you for that review. You have pointed out several times that this must be done in cooperation with local authorities and that these houses and apartments will remain managed by local governments. Could you explain in more detail what the long-term burden on local authorities will be, including financial, for the maintenance of these apartments? Is it not really a national project, but a hybrid of some form of ownership of the state and local government?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-09_U165	Thank you. Ideally, there are three parties: state, local government and developer. But the responsibility lies primarily with the local government. It is the task of the state to look at the big picture that is developing in the direction and where there are some problems. In the most detailed way, however, the municipality knows the situation, problems and needs of the region itself. It is very important to understand that the state comes to the aid, but it is the local government that has to provide residence for its inhabitants and who has to ensure that the housing fund is sustainable. As a result, it is possible for the State to say its word when initiating the measure and distributing the grant of the measure, but the final focus is on the local government and it will remain there.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-09_U166	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-09_U167	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good minister! It's really a little loose in here. If you say that the local government is running, does it have a commitment to self-financing and how much is it? Is it guaranteed that the built surface would not fall into the hands of one of the administrators such as Riigi Kinnisvara AS, so that the profitability is ultimately close to zero and coping is certainly not what was expected, as life has shown? Is it the responsibility of the State to create modern rental premises or to help solve the problems of the rental market? That is, in my opinion, a philosophical question. Since you foresee only EUR 5 million per year, what is the price of the average, in your definition of modern-day rental apartment building? If you start building from scratch, it'll build two of them for 5 million, otherwise it'll be a little loose, because this amount seems to be too small.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-09_U168	Thank you. As has been said here before, the need for such rental homes has been recognised quite a long time ago. The Estonian Housing Development Plan for 2008-2013 set a target of up to 6000 publicly supported rental apartments. Since then the recession began, it remained unfulfilled. But when you say that this is a place of decision-making or consideration, whether the state should deal with the rental market at all, I say that the state does not have to deal with it directly. However, given that Estonia is also a social rule of law according to the Constitution (§ 10), I think it is very important that the state supports its people where a particular person is unable to cope. I started with Ruhnu's example. There's the problem that they can't get a school teacher because they don't have a place to put the teacher in. It's pretty clear, too, that if you're going to live somewhere, you're not interested in buying a place for yourself right now, if it's on sale. Often a person doesn't even have this ability, but another thing is that you want to get to know the place first. So I think it is very important that we have a modern, high-quality and energy-efficient rental housing fund that is publicly supported, so that the rental space is also available to those whose income is not very high, and that it is also ensured in places where there is a market failure where it has not been wound up by the private market. It's really, really important. This is what matters precisely for those groups that I have pointed out and which are revealed in the study of the target groups. Firstly, students who often lack the capacity to obtain housing after graduation can only live with their parents. If this option is not available, it is very difficult to find a place to live. This limits their ability to accept one or the other job. Similarly, households aged 21 to 35 without children and with children aged 21 to 55 are quite mobile; they would be ready to move to another place to carry out certain work assignments, but they cannot do so because housing is not available there. While only 10% of people now live in a rental dwelling, 46% were willing to consider going to another settlement to work if they did not have a job in their home and have a modern rental dwelling at a reasonable price in their new place. This, too, shows that society is ready for certain changes, namely that housing does not necessarily have to be owned, but can also be rented. A study of the need for rental premises was also carried out among seniors and revealed that older people are ready to move to the rental space. The main problem is the complexity of the housing exchange procedure, but also the fact that contracts are rather short-term and do not guarantee long-term guaranteed prices and long-term chances of living in this apartment. The rental home, however, should not be a temporary home but a long-term home. This is the security that is very important for those people who are the main target group.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-09_U169	Heimar Lenk, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-09_U170	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. I'm glad to hear you want to continue the great work of Edgar Savisaar. He has already built 5,000 rental apartments in Tallinn. The country has taken up this matter a couple of times, your predecessor, Urvel Palo, did not do this work, and I'm afraid you, too, will be left out because the Reform Party would hardly want to see such a program, because you are insane about the rental market, as Äripäev wrote. But I have a specific question, too. You mentioned that one such project should come to Southeast Estonia. Why don't you call it a place? Võru, Valga and Põlva are full of empty apartments, rental ads are full of leaves to the brim. Which city do you intend to build these rental homes in?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-09_U171	Thank you. First of all, if Ruhnu says they can't hire a human being because there's nowhere to put him, then we're not talking about market trash because there's a market failure. There are quite a number of places where this market failure exists. Secondly, no specific location has been confirmed in South-East Estonia, as Ida-Viru is also described as a county, there is no specific city or settlement. There have been many interested parties in Southeast Estonia, including the mayor of Valga. In my understanding, one of the important problems there is that if the experience is two or three inhabitants and the rest of the apartments are empty, there is no one to rent them out because these apartments have been amortised and cannot pay their heating bills. These problems are very diverse. The majority of our rental housing fund has been built in the early 1990s. By now, these dwellings are both physically and morally ageing and no longer offer the opportunities that a person expects if he or she wanted to move to work across Estonia, for example. Moreover, the problem with such dwellings is that if, for example, there are not enough heat payers, heating will be turned off in the middle of winter. This is why the whole building must be owned by one: to ensure that such problems do not arise. [[The cavalry.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-09_U172	Mikhail Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-09_U173	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. This discussion has already been held several and several times in this Chamber. I had a similar conversation with the Prime Minister when Urve Palo was still a minister and carried out the tasks that you are currently performing. At that time, the Prime Minister had one opinion that the state was not going to build municipal houses. Were you able to convince the Prime Minister, and now he has a different position? One more small question: which city will the second project you plan for Ida-Virumaa?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-09_U174	Thank you. I'll start at the back. I mentioned that a pilot project has been approved for Ida-Viru County. There is no precise location to which it comes, which depends on negotiations with local authorities. But it's in the action plan that they have the so-called prerogative. As far as the Prime Minister's position on these issues is concerned, it must be said that these are not municipal apartments that we are talking about. But the position of the Prime Minister, when I have spoken to him about it, has been supportive. Similarly, the money allocated and the real opportunity to launch this programme have been given. Politics, as you know very well, is the art of compromise. For social democrats, state-supported rental homes are one of the priorities alongside support for children and families at all. It has been one of the compromises. I believe that this is a compromise that will slow down peripheralisation and give households with lower incomes a certain level of security.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-09_U175	Marika Tuus-Laul, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-09_U176	Thank you. The re-independant Estonia will soon be a quarter of a hundred years old, but these state-owned rental apartments are only spoken of. Tallinn builds itself, because very few people have a thing for this expensive rental market, which we are still told about. Why do you think the Estonian state started to run only this so-called ownership-based form scheme in its own time? Why were tenants viewed as derogatory, not to mention forced tenants? We know that Europe and America have very thick rental laws, contrary to what we have. Why would they do that? Now, if there's anything they want to do, why so late?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-09_U177	Thank you. I say it's better late than never. But why this strategic direction was taken at the beginning of the 1990s could be asked by those who implemented the Constitution and its laws. I think that it can be fairly easily furnished by the logic that, during the Soviet era, ownership had been taken away for a very long time, and rental relations in the area of housing existed. After all, life tends to be like this, when the pendulum is at first on one side, it soon goes to the other. In Estonia, 4% of the municipal housing fund is currently in the hands of the state and the municipality, which is clearly less than elsewhere. In Western Europe, there are around 20% of such housing funds. It was the choice the country made at one point. Life has moved on. We also see the need to preserve life where the developer never goes to build a rental home, because its payback period is much longer than that of building a house ready and selling it to someone. I think it is elementary that the state is going to help if we want to keep life everywhere, including in the periphery, not to make Estonia into a city state. I believe that this is a step in the very right direction. Looking at the feedback that has come in the last few days, I am quite convinced of that.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-09_U178	Ain Lutsepp, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-09_U179	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear Minister, I will specify Külmiki Hatter's question and the answer received. You have pointed out that local governments are applying for rental housing. Is self-financing by local authorities also needed in this regard, and how much is it?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-09_U180	Thank you. This is the case, because I cannot tell you this now, because these measures are already three in themselves. Only one of them is that the state is putting real money in it. The regional limit is greater there; it is used in smaller places rather. The second measure is that we provide a guarantee. There are considerably more opportunities to use it. The third is that we only separate the land. But all of them have a different equilibrium point. That is not quite clear at the moment, because we have reached the final stage in developing this measure, but there will certainly be further additions when we meet the parties, and there will probably be some concessions even when we have reached the government on this issue. But we do not now see that the state's contribution should be more than a third.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-09_U181	Thank you, Minister. No further questions for you. I'm opening negotiations. Mikhail Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-09_U182	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, Quite a serious issue is under discussion here, but the measures we have been talking about here are not enough, in my opinion, to resolve the matter. I will start with the construction of an apartment building in Ida-Virumaa. I don't know what the situation is in South Estonia, but I remember well one Kohtla-Järve street, where there were six or even eight empty apartment buildings in a row, whose windows and doors were smashed in, where there was no heating, and where there were no residents inside. To Kohtla-Järve, the destruction of them caused a major problem. Now I hear of a great plan to build municipal houses in Ida-Viru County. I think the problem is very different. There is no job in Ida-Virumaa and people leave it. The question is not that there are no living quarters. Rather, the question is that the apartment cannot be sold. Today you could buy a three-room apartment in Kohtla-Järve for €4,000. That's not the kind of money to build a new house for. It is entirely wrong to talk about a market failure or that there are no living quarters for people. I don't know what kind of research we're talking about. It seems to me that this study is not very competent when it proposes to build new municipal houses in Ida-Viru County. Kohtla-Järve is located 50 kilometres from the border with Ida-Virumaa. If people live in Kohtla-Järve, they will probably be able to go to work in Narva, Kiviõli or wherever. Indeed, there is a great need for municipal buildings in Tallinn. I think there are hundreds and hundreds of people here in every part of the city, 3000-4000 people are currently in the order of municipal apartments in Tallinn. The reason is very simple: it is either not possible for people to buy a new apartment or the rent on the market is too high. For political reasons, the Ministry does not offer the possibility to build municipal houses in Tallinn, but this one single place, where there is a great demand for municipal houses, is now Tallinn. Why the capital isn't chosen as a target, I don't understand. I assume there is a political reason for this first. The reason is that we do not want to build a large city from Estonia. People don't stay in Valka, Võru, Ida-Virumaa or wherever, just because they have an apartment where they can live. Although it is certainly one of the things that can hold them there to some extent. Let's talk about the experiment. Experiment is very nice, but why experiment? Figures are known, there is experience. Tallinn has really been building municipal houses for years. First, the problems of the forced tenants were solved, later the issue of the necessary staff was resolved for the city, of course not entirely, but apartments were given to teachers and medical staff because there was a great need for them. Why do people prefer municipal housing? Very simple: if the partner is a city or a state, then it is a logical and simple rental relationship that does not end because of the sudden desire of the owner. Our property has become a sacred cow, we all want to be owners. This is what is dictated by our market, where there are only private operators. Unfortunately, municipal apartments cannot be offered by local authorities at all. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-09_U183	Thank you for the floor. I am sincerely pleased that the young minister, a woman, comes up with such a proposal. It is 25 years late, as the previous speakers have already said, but it is now on the agenda. We've only been raised for a quarter of a century in the belief that everyone has to be the owners. However, it does not seem to have justified itself. When you look at the cities of western Europe from Helsinki to Paris, you look at Stockholm and all the cities that are between it, it turns out that they have a municipal area of about 10 to 40%. It's a very comfortable way of living in itself, because you don't have to worry about repairs, you just rent it. It's especially good if it's a modern house. This was the case during Soviet times. Although the minister said that there were no ownership relationships during the Soviet period, the lease was concluded for an unlimited period at the time, and it was essentially your apartment that was taken away from these tenants during the great greed of the Republic of Estonia. Now I would like to say that this programme is quite difficult to implement. I predict to my socialist colleagues, Social democracy is quite close to my heart to the world view, so that you will not succeed in implementing this programme. The squirrel party will not allow you to do so, the Reform Party will not allow it under any circumstances. This was already seen in the Äripäev editorial of last week, which said that, of course, maybe it wasn't quite the right word, that the rental market shouldn't be fucked up. The exact same word was used 15 years or more ago in Tallinn when Edgar Savisaar started building municipal apartments. I was a member of the City Council at the time, and I remember it very well. When this program was adopted, a terrible villain and a terrible war against Savisaar began. It's a good thing he survived this fight. The real estate brokers and the real-estate crooks who dealt with the apartments wanted to eat him, because there's no way we should have let the prices of Lasnamäe apartments go down. Of course, Savisaar built these houses and people are very grateful. But I think it's really hard right now. I don't want to be a bad prophet, I'd like to be a good prophet, but it seems to me that this program is going the same way as IRL's administrative reform went. They let it be a year or two or three, they wasted millions, and eventually they crucified it. The Reform Party itself came up with its pathetic new plan and is now taking us to the destruction of this administrative reform, I don't know. I'm afraid it's going to be the same way. I also know Ida-Viru County very well, but as far as south-eastern Estonia is concerned, this point should now be deleted, that rental housing in south-eastern Estonia needs to be built. I can tell you this because I know Kõlva, I know Võru, I know every street in Valga. If you pick up newspapers or look at real estate portals, you will find at least 30 apartments in Põlva that you could rent tomorrow. As many cheaply priced apartments can be bought and rented both in Viru County and Valga. Perhaps the mayor of Valga, a social democrat, of good will, said that they would be needed there, but in the center of Valga there is now an empty, modern apartment building, I don't remember exactly how many houses it is, twice as much. It's been empty there for several years because it's impossible to get residents there. If you don't have a job to offer, you don't attract anyone with an apartment these days. But we, Minister, have a good proposal. We would like to make this proposal to you. Marika Tuus-Laul, who is my colleague and sister, Valeri Korb, sitting next to Marika, from Kohtla-Järve in Ida-Virumaa, and I thought that you could do your pilot project in Tallinn and build a rental house for members of the Riigikogu who actually live in the countryside. They now rent apartments around the city, Kadriorg or where they don't know, and they pay the price of their souls. I'm looking for an apartment like this for 500 Euri apartments where you're like a cockroach in the wall. Then build a beautiful house! I'll have three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-09_U184	Build a beautiful house, show the example of how the Estonian state honors its people's ambassadors. We could all live in the same house together, go to the same buffet, go to the same sauna tonight, have club nights and work out drafts. So, wind to the wing! I think you have a great future, Mrs. Oviir. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-09_U185	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-09_U186	Thank you. Let's go to the financing scheme. It's also a little strange that money is put into building a house. The house is being built, but who's going to manage the house? Who is responsible for empty apartments? Who is responsible for heating these rooms? Building a house is only half a thing. Later, it needs to be maintained somehow. What happens if the local government wants to get this apartment building, people move in there and live there for a while, but then they start moving out of there because they need to work elsewhere or they decide to leave the area? It must be paid by the local government. Whether the local government has enough finance, I doubt that. There are now plenty of houses whose owners cannot be found at all because they are in Australia, England, or somewhere else. Houses stand half empty, no one lives in apartments. In conclusion, I would like to say that a programme is needed, rental dwellings are needed, because there is a great demand for them, but they must be built where there is a real need for them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-09_U187	Thank you. Heimar Lenk, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-09_U188	Three minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-09_U189	Mr. President! Minister, thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I had no intention of speaking, but when I listened to these discussions, the idea went down in history. I remember when the Riigikogu, meeting in 1992, adopted a decision on the privatisation of housing. My dear late brother Rein was a member of the Riigikogu at the time, and I had heated debates with him on this subject. He tried to convince me that we were now creating a layer of ownership. I tried to convince him that we were creating a layer of ownership, but not all of these owners are capable of being owners, first of all. Secondly, some owners' ownership is restored at the expense of current owners, which is the problem of well-known forced tenants. Thirdly, we enter capitalism, which means that in the long run a huge amount of virtually worthless real estate will be created. That's what happened. It's happened! All of Estonia is filled with worthless real estate, because no one wants to live there, it is not possible to sell it because there are no jobs, there are no infrastructure, there are no schools, there is nothing anymore. I won't talk for long. Heimar Lenk gave very good examples, as well as Valeri Korb as a practitioner. I would like to say that a large part of this real estate, full of the Viivikoda, full of Kiviõli, full of these places Valga will find in Estonia oh how many, doesn't deserve to be restored anymore. Of course, new quality, new materials, all kinds of insulation systems, heating systems, etc. This is another thing. But what needs to be addressed? Attention must be paid to the fact that life is like a telescopic rod on which you pull one link out and then the next link out and then another link out. When building everything, you have to look at the perspective, be it at least a medium-range perspective, for about 15 years. What's 15 years from now in this place? Will there be jobs in this place in 15 years? Do the people who live and work there now have children to support schools? Are there shops, other service facilities? What is the capacity to provide public services? That's it. Building itself is easy, it's nothing. We've got construction companies rushing to build clogged feet, how many. The question is, why? What is the benefit of this for how long and how many people? Those are the questions. In this sense, I join the previous speakers in saying that I think we have a certain shift going on right now. Many owners would like to be tenants so as not to assume ownership and spending. From this point of view, I believe that creating an alternative rental market alongside what exists is not a bad thing, and that it is not a fouling of the market. This is a different way of creating market competition. But we need to think through solutions with a more distant perspective. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-09_U190	Thank you. Now for the speech. Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-09_U191	Thank you. No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. An inquiry has been answered.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-09_U192	Good vice chairman! My point is that we certainly cannot go down the road that the country comes to help and should only build new housing. We have enough homes that we need to support, and certainly they can live in. This measure, which we have addressed here today, is more long-term. A much faster solution would still be to review the guarantees that can be offered to tenants. It is often the case that the dwelling is rented out, but for example, it is not the person who rents the dwelling that is responsible for paying the electricity bills, but in the end, the landlord still has to pay all the utilities. It is still my first call to see what we can do to ensure that the rental market is open and reliable. Perhaps some measures could even promote the possibility of renting out empty dwellings, because self-employment, as such, does not offer guarantees to the person who starts it. Perhaps we could start by reviewing existing laws, which would provide a quicker solution instead of building new homes. We see that we have empty schoolhouses, we soon have empty gyms, we have empty cultural houses. We do not need new empty houses. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-09_U193	Thank you. I ask the Riigikogu to speak to Valeri Korb!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-09_U194	Ladies and gentlemen, It is very nice that we remember that we have a national programme that started in 2013 and will end in 2016. So that's great! But it would have been good to hear from the Minister how many square meters we were able to build with this program in those three years. I think the same way as Heimar, that if there's money, you have to think about where we're gonna put it. I remember those days when I was a government employee on Kohtla-Järve. The three - room apartment cost $150 plus utilities, which were to be paid for electricity and water. For God's sake, come on, take it, buy it! If we're talking about Ida-Virumaa or if we're looking at Valga, we need to think about where it's right to use the money. I was talking about the really big job done on Sillamäe. You drive past and see that the ninth, eighth and seventh floors have been taken down. Nearly 3 million euros went to this dorm. Now we're gonna talk about building new dorms. We build where students live, where they study: Tartu and Tallinn. Why not put the money in there? I mean, it's more of a political story we put money in, Ida-Virumaa or Southeast Estonia. Let's go and say we found the money, and we'll put these things in place there. A big mistake maybe still be when we talk about what the stake is. Really, how much more money does the local government have to put in to build a new house, 15%, 40%, or 50%? The 2.5 million you're talking about is nothing, frankly. Maybe you can build a private home. After that, the question arises again about who is in possession of the building, who is going to maintain it. It's not like you open the doors, people move in, but then they start thinking about who's gonna take care of it. The new house really needs good maintenance, and it's gonna take more money. When it comes to local governments that are participating in this programme, Ida-Virumaa may be the only ones in Mäetaguse and Illuka who are still receiving the resource tax, they can afford it. But I don't think it's gonna be a two-storey or three-storey building beyond the Mountain where people would come to live. That's also a big problem. On the other hand, I realized that the construction programs were related to the land. Excuse me, but why now build land in Ida-Virumaa when there are really empty apartments in cities? I'll be honest with you, a few years ago, it was possible to buy, say, a three-room apartment with separate rooms on the second floor, with 10,000 euros. Compared to the prices of Tallinn, Pärnu, Tartu or other cities, this is nothing. Really, prices are so low that when it comes to building these houses in Ida-Virumaa, I'm not saying it doesn't have to be done, but it's a bit of a waste of money. I think there is perhaps political money here: we want to pretend that you see, we are building. Madam Minister, think about where it would be better to use the money, and don't throw it where it just doesn't play out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-09_U195	Thank you. Mart Helme, speech chair of the Riigikogu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-09_U196	We shall proceed to the next request for information, which shall appear on the agenda under order No 5. It was presented by members of the Riigikogu Uno Kaskpeit, Martin Helme, Mart Helme, Jaak Madison, Raivo Põldaru and Arno Sild on 21 March 2016. The inquiry is about the cessation of the activities of the Police and Border Guard College in Muraste and the transfer of its activities to the locality. An inquiry shall bear the number 189. Reply by Minister of the Interior Hanno Pevkur. I ask Uno Kaskpeit, representative of the speakers of the Riigikogu Chair, to introduce him to the inquiry!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-09_U197	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, The inquiry is about the termination of the Police and Border Guard College in Muraste and the transfer of its activities to either Paikus or already on Kase Street. I don't even know where they're taking it yet, because those stories change every other day. On 8 September last year, however, we sent the Minister of the Interior a written question about the sale of the police and border guard building in Muraste. Firstly, we wanted to know the reasons why the Ministry wanted to sell a well-off complex, and secondly, we wanted to see a comparative analysis of the complexes of the Muraste and Paikuse schools. On 23 September, we received a reply that the Ministry of the Interior did not intend to sell Muraste's study unit property. The second question was not considered necessary at all. On 14 October last year, an article "The Police and Border Guard College closes the doors in Muraste" was published in Harku Municipality's Official Journal. The letter from the Harku Municipality Government to the National Defence Academy of 16 November last year shows that the state no longer wants to deal with the detailed planning of Muraste. The parish board proposed to change the purpose of the land. On 25 November last year, the capital Virkko Lepassalu newspaper of Tallinn published an article on the topics of the Muraste Border Guard School. The article highlighted the position of Marko Pomerants, then Minister of the Interior, published in 2009 that the Kase Street complex could be concentrated on Muraste if the study complex was extended there. In all of this, please answer four questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-09_U198	Thank you very much. I ask the Riigikogu's speech chair to be answered by the Minister of the Interior Hanno Pevkuri!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-09_U199	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good heirs! I'd be happy to discuss Muraste College with you. The first question concerns my answer to you. I'm sorry if we missed each other a bit! The truth is, the Ministry isn't planning to sell the Muraste complex. We were based on the idea of the question and we understood that you wanted to know whether comparative analyses have been carried out on the sale of Muraste or Paikuse buildings. No, we haven't done comparative analysis of sales. With regard to whether any analysis of Muraste or Paikus has been carried out, an "immediate assessment" of the advantages and disadvantages of one location and another has been given. The second question concerns the same analysis and the article of the Harku Municipality Journal. It's quite rude to say that we've been trying to estimate both the pros and the cons of both of them. According to estimates, if the academy doesn't need as much space as it does on the Paikuse, Muraste and Kase streets, if we put it there with Väike-Maarja, then it makes sense to continue in three locations: Väike-Maarja, Kase Street and Paikuse. Compared to Muraste minus Placement, first of all, the cost of living in Muraste is about 20% higher. There are also certain limitations that hinder the necessary development. For example, there is a ban zone in Muraste for the construction of a border watercourse, and it would be impossible to establish a Natura 2000 site and a cardrome nearby. Similarly, access, as the heir of understanding certainly knows very well, is problematic in Muraste. But there are still these points, among other things, water supply. There is a well in the grasses, and groundwater is used, and we know that its reserves are limited. However, consideration must also be given to the quality of mobile distribution, comparison of accommodation and vehicle storage, etc. The third question: 'Which decision of the Ministry of Internal Affairs is based on 16.11.2015 Harku Municipality Government in its address to the Estonian Academy of National Defence to change the land's destination? " It is very difficult for me to answer, frankly, because we have not turned to Harku Municipality; we have received this address. Well, it's presented to the National Defence Academy, and we've taken note of that. But in response to the Harku Municipality Government, we said very clearly that the Ministry of the Interior does not see the need to change the purpose of the Land of National Defence, nor does it see the need to change its purpose at all. We also stressed in the letter that, in terms of state assets, the Ministry supports the maintenance of the current situation of Muraste's study complex and the ad hoc use of defence land. The fourth question is: What are the future precise plans for Muraste School? We have dealt with this before, and we do not have a definitive solution for Muraste. Right now, we have the knowledge that we're trying to fix the Kase Street complex. A call for proposals has already been organised for this purpose. At this point, we'll see more perspective than Muras. Indeed, in the long term, it makes sense to hand Muraste over to another national defence player. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-09_U200	Minister, thank you. You have questions. Uno Kaskpeit, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-09_U201	When you look at the site, all the buildings there are residential buildings, cafeterias and study buildings are amorated. When you look at the territory of Kase Street, we recall 2007 when the people who participated in the riots went to the territory of the National Defence Academy on Kase Street. There's a security risk that this place stays inside the city's big residential area. All these things should be taken into account. The lawns are built properly, all the conditions are there. It is also possible to build additional structures for Muraste school according to the current plan. I don't know what the Department of the Interior is thinking at all. There's a lot of money wasted in the Murders, but they're planning to give this school away now!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-09_U202	Thank you for your question. Certainly no euro or crown was wasted in Muraste in its time. Muraste was developed as it was at the time. Similarly, Paikuse Centre, Väike-Maarja Centre and Kase Street buildings have been developed. The birch buildings are undoubtedly in the worst state, we are planning to repeat them for very large sums of money. When we look at learning needs, it is clear that we do not have an application for all complexes. Let's take Muraste. The best number of cadets is about 200, there are 50 cadets there today, and the average number of cadets there is 80-100. So Muraste is clearly under-filled. Similarly, there is not enough pressure on the site. To decide which complex is most promising, in all circumstances, it is not only to consider whether Muraste is in a better position today than Paikuse or not. We made these choices, we thought about the prospects, the possibilities of building a cardrome, the accessibility and connection to other centres, the possibility of parking. It's all taken into account. When it comes to security, the opposite is the case: from Kase Street we can call for cadets to help, if necessary, and it is possible to accommodate internal defence people, but it is very easy to cut off Muraste, because if this one road is cut off, you will be locked. These circumstances have been taken into account. I understand the emotions of the heir and, above all, of Uno Kaskpeit with regard to Muraste, but believe me, we will make these choices on the basis of what is more reasonable and where there is more perspective, also taking into account the financial opportunities of the taxpayer.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-09_U203	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-09_U204	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Mr. Minister! As I understand it, the Muraste complex is mainly built with euro money. Isn't it a little tight that there's euro money in it, but as soon as we run out of dedicated use, it'll be sold? Or do I get it wrong?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-09_U205	Thank you. Once again, it is certainly not my wish to sell the Muraste complex. As far as possible, we'll try to find a defense app for it. This is a very good complex and it is certainly reasonable that defence action will continue there. That's the first goal we're going towards. However, if we look at the needs of the National Defence Academy, we do not need so much space from them. Every square metre that is over is an additional cost that is unreasonable from the taxpayer's point of view. If you ask about euro money, once again I will say that if we can maintain a national defence target, I will see no problem. In addition, it is very difficult for me to take any position as to why Muraste was chosen in its time rather than investing in a Kase street complex, for example.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-09_U206	Raivo Põldaru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-09_U207	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. Mart Helme already asked some of my question. You've counted why Muraste isn't good. You valued the administrative costs there very much. I wonder what leads to this amount of administrative expenditure compared to other places? Do you not think that this is why internal security training in Estonia could be lost? Or not?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-09_U208	Thank you. As far as training is concerned, I certainly believe that internal defence training will not lose anything, because we are currently investing, as I said, over EUR 15 million in order to repair the Kase Street complex. This complex is in very bad shape. I think that if we look at the study bases used by the Academy of Home Affairs in Väike-Maarja, Place, Muraste and Pirital Kase Streets, we can see that this area is too much for internal security training needs as a whole. Even if we should increase the reception of cadets, we will be able to cover police and border guard training with Kase and Paikus complexes and rescue training will take place in Väike-Maarja. So I don't share this concern that internal defence training is going to get any worse.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-09_U209	Arno Bridge, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-09_U210	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. Has it been analysed that the closure of Muraste does not create a situation where, after a while, new premises are needed for the study centre? For example, I would like to mention that in Narva-Jõesuu, with the closure of the Border Guard Training Centre, we have lost the internship base that we need now. Narva-Jõesuu had accommodations, weapons rooms, study rooms, etc.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-09_U211	Thank you for that question. Yes, we have looked in cooperation with the internal defence authorities, the Police and Border Guard Board, the Rescue Board, the Tax and Customs Board and the prison services, which could be a perspective on how many study places we need in the coming years. On my desk there is an internal defence academy development plan for confirmation or coordination. We've tried to predict as much as our knowledge allows. Well, knowledge of time is changing. When more than a decade ago Muraste was renovated, the knowledge was like this, and now it's changed. Like I said, we're trying to keep up with the times. Our aim is to provide good internal protection education, in the conditions we currently have. We can't do everything. The main objective, as I said, is to repeat Kase's buildings, but also to look at the perspective of the preservation of Paikuse and Väike-Maarja.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-09_U212	Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-09_U213	Thank you, Mr. Vice Speaker. Minister, thank you very much. Listening to the story of how one place should be developed and taking action in another place does not pay off, the idea still arises that a decision taken long before your time, several years ago when the border guard and police were united, was not right, contrary to the assurances that sounded at the time. I am almost certain that you are beginning to assure us now that the development and quality of one side or the other have not been damaged. In fact, we still see quite systematically how the development of border guards is essentially zeroed. Or are you arguing?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-09_U214	Thank you for your question. Of course I disagree. I suggest you read about the merger of the National Audit Office's audit police and border guard. There are answers. I don't have to tell you anything else here. The audit makes it very clear that it is precisely the border guard that has won the most of this merger.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-09_U215	Andres Metsoja, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-09_U216	Good President! Minister, thank you very much. Some time ago, we had a good opportunity to visit Paikuse Police and Border Guard College, and we saw this infrastructure very clearly. I understood that the local government is a very good partner and has expressed a desire for this centre to be expanded. But I ask about the perspective: when could it really happen, and what is the level of preparation now?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-09_U217	Thank you. The site has two critical development needs, which are not in Muraste, Kase street or Väike-Maarja. It's a cardrome. The preparatory work is being carried out and is certainly an important part of the local government and also of the local people's negotiations. After all, this means that the locals are getting more traffic there. The second need we see there is the shooting range. In conjunction with this, it is also necessary to decide on the matter of the tactical house. The tactical house, the shooting range and the cardrome are the steps we want to take next on the site. If you look at the academy as a whole, I have to come back to Kase Street again. This complex needs to be fixed first, so let's see how much of the current investment funds are left. All of these three objects are not required to invest so much on the site of a car drone, a shooting range and a tactical house, there is no need for capital reconstruction. They can also be made from current investments and there is no need for a classic investment decision through Riigi Kinnisvara AS. So we'll try to move forward as soon as we can. The shooting range is, as far as I know, already in the construction preparation phase.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-09_U218	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-09_U219	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good minister! I too had the privilege of going to the Place a month and a half ago. I must commend the director there. You don't often meet the headmaster with such a positive attitude and aura. The problem of the cardrome was similarly highlighted, which is completely solved because they actually have land, these summer complexes are considered to be there temporarily. There are plans and thoughts about the tactical house. However, the previous question was not answered precisely. What is the time perspective when these two significant investments could be made there? I understand the interest of the school is that the Muraste complex should be shut down because they just can't get as spread out as they are right now. Do they have an alternative for 'water training' near Pärnu?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-09_U220	Thank you. As far as the perspective is concerned, we have talked to the academy so that we can move in such a manner that these investments can be made next year and the next year. Well, I'm sure that depends on how big we're going to do the tactical house. There are possible different options, you can take the entire tactical building in full, but it's also possible to do a little bit of work on the current tactical building. So there are options. Part of the choice depends on when the action in Muraste ends and how we can move forward with Muraste. In our opinion and in the opinion of the academy, maintaining all three complexes represents a very high management cost. If this money could be used for investment or renovation, which is also a classical management cost, rather than an investment cost, then it will be possible to make these investments next year and the following year. We hope that this will be the case, but the main focus is on renovating Kase buildings and approving this project in the Ministry of Education and Research, Innoves, so that this work can begin.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-09_U221	Jaak Madison, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-09_U222	Thank you, Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu. Good minister! I came up with a question about their cost and management. At what point did this deficit occur, and what could have caused it? If it has worked so far, has been managed and managed, now there is a need for cheaper solutions. Where did this deficit come from, for what reason? Why don't you explain it? Has it not been planned to invest in real estate development on Kase Street, for example, and to reinvest the money in the Muraste currently in existence? Haven't you had a plan?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-09_U223	Thank you. We don't invest in wreckage. In a classic sense, there is no deficit, there is knowledge, and there are calculations of how much money we spend. This knowledge of the cost of the Place and the size of Murastes has always existed. There's also a sense of how much space we need. If you put these calculations side by side, you can see that a wise master does not manage in such a way that he holds in his hands the four institutions that he needs three of them. If the operating costs of one institution are excluded, the remaining resources will be able to do something that is absolutely necessary. There's an urgent tactical house, shooting range, and an autodrome. These are the calculations. If we look at whether or not to continue on Kase Street, see that there is not only police and border guard training, there is also prison service training and customs training, there is also further training and there is also the Institute of Internal Security. So there's a lot more activity on Kase Street. It is certainly not even theoretically possible to transfer all activities to Muraste. In all these circumstances, it is best to stay in three locations: Väike-Maarja, Paikus and Kase Street in Pirita, from the point of view of academy and domestic security education.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-09_U224	Minister, thank you. No further questions, but there are requests. I'm opening negotiations. Riigikogu speech chair, Uno Kaskpeit, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-09_U225	Mr. President! Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Minister! Generally speaking, you have done well to demolish the border guard. This last pulpit of the border guard and all the other units of the school are, of course, like night and day. When border guard training is transferred to the Place, I very much doubt that the trainers will go there. You have the idea, of course, of making a super cop who watches over everything. Unfortunately, I have to tell you that this doesn't fit our terms. If you could open your eyes and look around a bit, you would see that all countries bordering Russia have independent border guards. Some of them have military border guards, just like we used to have. This is because we have a security threat. But you found that Estonia does not need a border guard. Of course, a wise master would not have destroyed such things. But it's hard to explain to you because you went to America looking for a border guard experience. It was a surprise to me, because we used to go to America in 1993, too. When the Americans came here in 1995 to offer us their help and got acquainted with our systems and training, they said that they had nothing to give us to develop our training, they could only give us a little technique or something, because given our landscape, our political situation and our neighbour, the only thing that allows us to survive is Finnish-type training and training. To be honest, after the military side of the border guard was demolished and abolished, this hole in the Estonian national defence has not been filled until today, Minister. You must look in the mirror and say thank you very much for the actions of your party and partymates. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-09_U226	Thank you. No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. An inquiry has been answered.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-09_U227	We are going to the sixth question on today's agenda by members of the Riigikogu Oudekki Loone, Enn Eesmaa, Tarmo Tamm, Jaanus Karilaid, Anneli Ott, Viktor Vassilyev, Siret Kotka, Mikhail Korb, Peeter Ernits, Heimar Lenk, Märt Sults, Mikhail Stalnukhin, Valeri Korb, Vladimir Velman, Krista Aru, Andres Ammas, Monika Haukanõm and Artur Talvik. The inquiry was made on the day of 20 April 2016 and is about deaths and disappearances. It's number 211. Mr Pevkur, Minister of the Interior, will answer the question. I ask the representative of the heirs Oudekki Loone Riigikogu to introduce the inquiry to the public!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-09_U228	Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, thank you very much. I represent a large part of the Estonian public, who has had serious problems, in addition to the interviewers. One of these people expressed their concern about the functioning of the Estonian law enforcement system, including on 2 March in Delfi's heading 'The voice of the people', raising serious questions about why fiction is being studied in Estonia instead of people's deaths and disappearances. The Delfi article referred to two specific examples when the police and the prosecutor's office refused to open criminal proceedings on incomprehensible motives. If there's yet to be a potential controversy over the disappearance of people, there's no room for a public figure in suspicious circumstances in the event of death. The article stated that it is not in line with the sense of society's fairness that law enforcement bodies deal with fictional works "Untitled 12' with fictional characters rather than the death of a real person, which are now available to the public in the Amazon sales environment. It's like we're having a trial against freedom of expression, but we don't deal with people's deaths. This creates strong suspicion and undermines the credibility of law enforcement authorities and the Estonian state in the eyes of our own citizens, as well as our reputation in the international arena. We therefore expect the Minister for the Interior to comment on the following questions. How is it possible that the decision not to open criminal proceedings against the death of Hardo Aasmäe was taken even before the results of the forensic examination of the body were found, so it was not considered necessary to find out all the facts? § 6 of the Code of Criminal Procedure lays down the principle of the mandatory nature of criminal proceedings. On the basis of what evidence did the law enforcement authorities decide not to open criminal proceedings against the case of Hardo Aasmäe? On 31 December 2015, Hardo Aasmäe's obituary was published in Postimees. How did the defense police get hold of information about the death of Hardo Aasmäe that had not yet been published? Could it be justified to initiate internal controls in order to clarify the reason for the strange inaction of law enforcement authorities? Finally, why is the potential criminality of opinions given more attention than the possible criminality of the death of a public figure? We're waiting for the Minister to explain. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-09_U229	Thank you. I ask the Riigikogu's speech chair to be answered by the Minister of the Interior Hanno Pevkuri!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-09_U230	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good heirs! Let it be said at the outset that it does not matter whether a public figure or someone else has died, the rules of conduct must be the same. I will answer the first and second questions together because they are clearly linked. After all, pre-trial criminal proceedings are known to be governed by the Code of Criminal Procedure. Paragraph 193 (1) of the Code states that criminal proceedings are to be opened where there is an incentive and grounds for doing so and there are no circumstances which preclude criminal proceedings as provided for in § 199 (1) of the Code of Criminal Procedure. As I said, human life is something where the rules must be the same. Human life is undoubtedly the most important legal benefit protected by penal law. Paragraph 196 (1) of the Code of Criminal Procedure provides for the obligation to notify the investigating authority or the prosecutor's office of any death which may reasonably be expected to result in the death of a person as a result of a criminal offence. There are, of course, certain circumstances which must be identified on the spot to suggest this. If, having examined the facts on the spot, the defendant raises such suspicion and appears to be a criminal offence in the event of death, criminal proceedings shall be initiated immediately and a forensic examination shall be carried out. Inquiries may not have been very specific about what needs to be explained a little about the difference between forensic expertise and forensic autopsy. As I said, forensics will be appointed if there is reason to assume that a crime has been committed and criminal proceedings will be opened. In the event of death or suspicion of other external causes, or if the cause of death is not identified, the investigating authority or the prosecutor's office shall send the body to a judicial autopsy. If a medical autopsy reveals or suspects that a person's death has been committed as a result of a criminal offence, the execution of the autopsy shall be interrupted and immediately notified to the investigating authority or the prosecutor's office. In that case, the autopsy shall be completed in the form of a medical examination. There is a fundamental difference between a forensic autopsy and a forensic examination. Since, in the case mentioned in your inquiry, no evidence of a criminal offence was found at the preliminary examination or later, at the forensic autopsy, and no evidence of a criminal offence was found on the basis of explanations taken from persons, criminal proceedings were not initiated. Third, you asked how the defense police found out that Hardo Aasmäe was dead earlier than Postimees. Believe me, it's perfectly normal for two police authorities, the Police and Border Guard Board and the Defence Police Department to share operational information. The Ministry of the Interior also has an Information Monitoring Department, where information runs together and who, based on the need to know, transmits information about all operational events to, among other things, the Officer of the Defence Police Department. Undoubtedly, every death in Estonia is an operational incident and will be reported to the appropriate circle. As I said, there is also an operative of the Defence Police. I'm sure there's nothing weird about it. Fourthly, you asked whether it was justified to initiate internal controls. As I said, we have not identified any circumstances that would give us the basis to discuss whether internal control is necessary or not. The fifth question concerned the assessment. I can assure you that the Police and Border Guard Board is governed by the law in its actions. If you look at the law, it is clear that if the circumstances of the crime appear, as I said to you in response to the first and second questions, criminal proceedings must be brought. Where circumstances preclude this, proceedings shall not be initiated, regardless of the type of crime. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-09_U231	Thank you. You have at least one question. Oudekki Loone, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-09_U232	Thank you. The press has quoted experts who consider it likely, based on the nature and extent of Hardo Aasmäe injuries, that Aasmäe's fall over the handrail of its office was preceded by a quarrel and a possible violent incident. There has also been a reference to possible extortion and to the fact that things had allegedly been misplaced in the deceased's office and the office door locked in a way that the deceased would never have done so. Other questions of this kind have also been referred to. According to the press, law enforcement authorities have paid no attention to this information. Are these data correct, and if they are correct, are they not enough to justify the initiation of internal controls? As we can see from Harku's case, Estonia's police and force organizations have had questionable action.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-09_U233	Thank you. I've been going over the operational information we had on this case. On the scene, an ambulance was in charge of resuscitation. As I said, neither the judge on the ground nor the prosecutor on the scene found that this case could be a criminal offence. Police patrol, cell phones and additional ambulance crews who arrived, revived the person for 22 minutes. The resuscitation was terminated by a decision of an EMT. In addition to police officers, there was a prosecutor at the scene, and the medical examiner came immediately. It's very difficult for me to confirm any speculation when the forensicsman, being at the scene, says immediately after the event, that the injuries of a person do not in any way indicate violent death. I don't know who these people are who take it for granted, even though they haven't seen the event or the person who left life. I trust very clearly the forensicsman who was on the scene, the ambulances who were on the scene, and the prosecutor who, along with the police, checked the scene immediately. Although there have been so many experts on the scene, but if they say on the tabloid columns or somewhere else that there was something suspicious, someone might think there was something suspicious. However, I do not want to talk about the details of this event once more in this Riigikogu board, precisely in order to protect the family. The case has also been examined by close relatives of Hardo Aasmäe and has no complaints against the police, the ambulance, the prosecutor's office or the forensics.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-09_U234	Heimar Lenk, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-09_U235	Does the law enforcement authorities in our country have a duty to investigate such deaths in every way and objectively? Why am I asking that? The medical examiner and everyone else were there in an instant, these decisions were made at the utmost speed and Hardo Aasmäe was also buried very quickly. If there were articles in the media in the next few days, did it not come to the thought that the matter should be examined further? Right now, you're relying on the first-minute response, that's all we've heard from you, but the stories continue.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-09_U236	You know, despite all the respect, it's already in the conspiracy theory cube. The event took place on 29 December, and the autopsy with all the consequences was written on 25 February. I wouldn't say there was something going on really fast. Thanks to the fact that the event took place in Tallinn, it was also possible to invite a medical examiner to the scene immediately, which was certainly very necessary and good for an adequate assessment of the event. I think it is simply not appropriate to start speculating or conveying some conspiracy theory, to respect the past life of Hardo Aasmäe and the present peace beyond the clouds.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-09_U237	Marika Tuus-Laul, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-09_U238	Thank you. Good minister! However, I have seen that important information is hidden from citizens in many cases. For example, I shall mention the death of this Harku case or of the Kender process, but of course, also the death of Hardo Aasmäe. Will the Estonian public ever know the truth or at least all the facts that have been made clear today? In citizens, this case has raised a great deal of questions, and that is why speculation is spreading. It seems to the public that this fall doesn't make any sense that night. You've heard it yourself. How can we still dissuade this doubt and know the truth? Otherwise, people won't calm down.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-09_U239	Thank you. You know, sometimes death is very illogical, and it doesn't make any sense why one person or another did something or why one incident happened. When a person falls from somewhere, it's very difficult to estimate everything after all. But accurate knowledge can still come from the people who are responsible for Estonian justice every day. After that event, the ambulances were present, the prosecutor, the detective and the medical examiner were present. Are these people going to hide something or deny it? What do they need it for? If those people who are there as doctors, investigators, prosecutors or forensic doctors do their job professionally, knowing that there are a lot of experts in other fields on the ground, I see no reason why these people should do their work in an unquality manner. What makes you think something's wrong or something's wrong? Trust Estonian civil servants, especially as they handled this case very quickly, were present quickly and handled the event properly.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-09_U240	Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-09_U241	Thank you, Mr. Speaker. Minister, thank you very much. It doesn't matter how long the ambulance resuscitated someone or how quickly the forensicsman was present and what the autopsy showed. Well, what did it show? That man fell from a height and fell to his death. The question is, will there be an investigation into why he fell, how he fell, and whether anyone here had any motivation? We know that Hardo Aasmäe went around telling us that he was exposing the VEB Foundation's money movement, so the motivation was how much. We're not talking about conspiracy theories. We are talking about the fact that a person who promised to disclose extremely explosive political information was killed under strange circumstances, and no one investigated the circumstances of his death, because an ambulance doctor arrived who decided that resuscitation would not produce results, and a prosecutor who decided that there was nothing suspicious. That is why we are still not satisfied with the explanations given.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-09_U242	Thank you. Well, then you won't be satisfied with everything. I can't change your opinion. I can rely on what this event was like in the eyes of the people who went there. If you have any doubts or doubts, I can't change your opinion. I can rely on the knowledge that has been made clear during this procedure. I have no reason to say today that, in this case, this case was not investigated in criminal proceedings, but, in the course of administrative proceedings, there would be something criminal. No, it's not.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-09_U243	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-09_U244	The old Romans had a saying 'Cui bono? '"Whose interests? ', 'Who will benefit? '. It's the key question of every detective and every investigation, who gets the benefit of it. The previous speaker read a number of exciting things about the life of Hardo Aasmäe. I met him several times, and I know exactly that he was going to release new material about the VEB Fund affair. Let's put all these things together. After all, it is quite obvious that if a person who has been on one of the stairs for years and years suddenly falls, a thorough study should take place. We started tearing tears here. I got my eye wet as soon as they talked about honoring Hardo Aasmäe's memory. Respecting his memory is when we figure out what happened, not if we let it be covered up. Today it became clear that nothing was studied, nothing was done. The minister had the arrogance and skinwalking to inform us to ask the prosecutor's office. I'm sorry, you came here to answer a question. I don't have all the data, and I'm not going to tell you everything. I don't know what the point of asking is? Should we make a separate inquiry to the Minister of Justice so that he should tell us about the prosecution's view of the matter? This is unacceptable. In my opinion, it would be essential to support the good reputation and credibility of the Minister of the Interior itself, as well as of the investigating bodies and the prosecutor's office, to have a thorough, proper and transparent investigation into what was happening and to have the public informed of its results. In Estonia, it has happened before that a person has fallen down the stairs and died. My own dear uncle died the same way. There have been similar cases in the Department of Defense for over a few years. They're never gonna find out, and it's never gonna work out. I have already quoted the Latin expression here, but ceterum censeo, I think it is very simple: nothing will get better in Estonia until the Reform Party is sent to rest on the opposition bench. I will say what I have said here many times: it is a forceful impression that whether we are talking about Elmar Mediar or something else, there is a culture of corruption in the Ministry of the Interior, and it starts with a minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-09_U245	I ask the Riigikogu speech chair Heimar Leng!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-09_U246	Thank you for the floor. I would not comment on a particular case, although I also agree with the previous speakers that the tragic evening of Hardo Aasmäe should have been examined in greater detail in any case and said something to the public about it. The fact that the family doesn't want to talk about it gives the impression that the family has been taken a vow of silence, they have been told not to ask questions. When we look at history, we see that about the same has been happening in Estonia for 25 years, by the way. But before I start talking about history, I would like to say, as has already been said in this Chamber today, that we have listened to the Prime Minister and several ministers today, but tell me, ladies and gentlemen, have we received any new information as ambassadors for which we are sitting here, getting paid by the state and spending hours here. We've been told nothing today, we haven't heard anything new. We hear you don't ask. That's what the Prime Minister started and explained the construction of servers to us instead of talking about e-elections. Now Minister Pevkur, a nice man, my old colleague from Nõmme's administration, has made an evil appearance, saying how we ask like this, do we not understand that the prosecutor is doing this and is coming? Of course you can't! Now I come to history. Similarly, all of our most important cases have become dim. It's a bad thing to say, these are ugly and tragic incidents. Let's remember the Kurks disaster when a junior officer sent several people to the cold grave who died that very night. But President Meri didn't do anything, the man was unpunished. I'm not bloodthirsty, but we don't know what happened that day. The run-of-the-mill crisis is still not clear. When Edgar Savisaar made the movie "The Savisaar Process," the public media and the governmental community accused him of how he did it and why. But he did it to make one thing public. He couldn't make a real documentary, he did a documentary drama, and now we see what's happening in the Estonian law enforcement agencies. Ladies and gentlemen, Pick up Saturday Saturday's Saturday's LP. Ingrid Veidenberg has written down a unique interview with Under the Ironsmith. This is a lawyer who was once dismissed, once lost in court, once did not lose in court and eventually lost in the Supreme Court. He will speak on four pages, which will take place in the Estonian law enforcement agencies. It's not my expression, it's his expression that we live in a police state. That's the opinion of an experienced lawyer. He says exactly what he thinks about the Estonian police. I did not come here to criticize the Estonian state, but I also want the minister to read this interview and watch the series on Savisaar so that he can understand what is happening in Estonia. Now I come to another event in history, it's a disaster in Estonia. What have we been told about this? A minister then came to the TV screen and cried out how dare they ask if these people were in a cold grave. Today we heard the same from Mr Pevkuri: how dare you ask, shake salt on the wound, the family is worried! But we haven't found out what happened to Estonia, all we know is that this was a unique case in the history of the world when one ship was put into a cement sarcophagus so that no one ever gets to it again. President Meri has left. Prime Minister Laar, who is not very active at the moment, maybe knows something, and perhaps also the Swedish Prime Minister at the time. But we don't know. We've been raised like this for 25 years... More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-09_U247	Three minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-09_U248	... as the previous speaker said, under the dictatorship of the Reform Party, that the people should ask no questions! Don't dare ask, live well! The previous speaker, Oudekki Loone, spoke of this. The minister says what he's saying on this remote is right, and you have to believe it. But who do they say that to? People's ambassadors. What else can we talk about a common citizen? How does a common citizen know the truth? He is completely under the authority of law enforcement agencies, ministers or government. It is sad that we have built such a country, and in 25 years we will be talking about where we have come from. That's where we're at! We've never gotten any answers from this remote, so we're being raised here, so we can't even ask. The Minister will immediately look at how you ask, ask something else, ask how we are doing in Brussels, then we will talk, ask how we went to the last NATO meeting, then we will talk. It was great, how nice it was there, you know how we were recognized as an e-governance and a tiger we are! But they don't say anything about the rest of it. Then another minister comes and says we're gonna build apartments for you. For what and for who? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-09_U249	I ask for the speech chair of the Riigikogu Mart Helme!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-09_U250	Mr. President! I have to say for the second time today that I didn't intend to come here at first, but the subject is very important to me personally, because my brother's death was covered up in exactly the same way. My brother fell down the stairs in Saue Manor, it was called an accident, but as I was told by an acquaintance doctor, his injuries could not have been caused by the fall. He had his head kicked in, but when he fell, he should have broken his neck. An investigation was initiated, there was a pompous funeral, but we still don't know what happened. But what I do know is that it all happened at the Christmas party, and he said he was gonna let the holidays go by, and then he'd set the bomb off. In retrospect, I can assume it might have been connected to Herman Simm, but I don't know exactly because my brother is gone. He didn't tell me what bomb would set him off, he couldn't say anything else. That is why I say that such things need to be clarified. You can't just talk about religion here. The ambulance was there, and the ambulance said it was an accident. Well, what kind of research is an ambulance? The prosecutor was present and did not see any reason to challenge the fact that it was an accident. What kind of investigative authority is the prosecutor? The investigative body is a criminal tracker who comes and carries out criminal surveillance. He gathers up what he can gather, analyses it, and says, "Yes, we found absolutely nothing. 'Dear Minister, It is not up to us as ambassadors to investigate whether or not the criminal pursuit has done its job or to what extent it has done so. We don't have a cardinal like you at the Home Office and everything. We're in the process of lawmaking here. Maybe it's worth remembering. There have been very critical comments about our regime. I have, regrettably, had to express the opinion in many places that we have a great deal of talk about the rule of law, but in fact we do not even follow the principle of separation of powers, because power, government, uses and shamelessly exploits the authorities. I will give a small but very eloquent example of how the Defence Police essentially executes the political order of the government. In the highest national defence courses, where members of the Riigikogu also participated, the Director General of the Estonian Ministry spoke about the enemies of the Estonian state. Of course, Estonia has enemies, nor do we have such a poor country that we have no enemies. But then he talked about useful idiots and showed it a picture of the torch train of the Estonian Conservative People's Party. We're useful idiots! Thank you. It's all clear, the government's order has been fulfilled, the message has been sent out, the political opposition has been re-demonged. Defence police should not do such a thing if they do their job impartially, without fulfilling a political order. I dare assure you: we are not useful idiots, we represent the interests of our constituents. There are very many people among our constituents who think that the Estonian state should be different. If anyone thinks we're useful idiots as representatives of such ideology, they might think so at home, and even at dinner, maybe tell their wife, but she can't say that in higher national defence courses. This is not a separation of powers, nor is it an objective, balanced and political task for the security authorities. I'm asking for more time!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-09_U251	Three minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-09_U252	It's nighttime, and everybody wants to go home. Two questions are still pending, and the Minister for Rural Affairs is waiting for his follow-up. But indeed, gentlemen of the government, we are not critical of evil against you, but we are critical of politics because that is the way it is. There are a great many representatives of different opinions and these differing opinions are colliding. The presentation of different opinions is an essential part of parliamentary work and democratic organisation. It is very naive to demand from us that we blindly trust the members of the government and the institutions under the direct leadership and control of the government. We can't trust blindly. We know that even if things are done with the best of will, human error is still possible. If we draw attention to these mistakes, we are not useful idiots or a bunch of villains, as has been said in the mainstream media about members of our party, nor are we just idiots, as ETV+, which is the country's livelihood, has taken the trouble to name my groupmate and son Martin. It was not appropriate that the quality culture page funded by the state, Sirp, published a picture where Martin was labeled "My... is clean" around his neck. If this isn't all political manipulation, incitement to hatred against dissidents, then what is it? This is all about the fact that the principle of separation of powers is very blurred for us and that we are using very clear and power-accepted verbal and mental violence against political dissent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-09_U253	Thank you. Hanno Pevkuri, Minister of the Interior of the Speaking Chair of the Riigikogu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-09_U254	Good heirs and collaborators! I sincerely believe that you owe an apology to Hardo Aasmäe's loved ones and Indrek Meltsas. If you don't believe the question of faith again, read what Indrek Meltsas, who was with Hardo Aasmäe for his last minutes and hours. No one else saw the event more closely. No matter what you think of one person or another, he was the person who was with Hardo Aasmäe then. On 13 May 2015, he gave an interview to the Evening Light. That's all he ever wanted to talk about. Justifiably. In the same story, Hardo Aasmäe's daughter says that she has repeatedly spoken to the police and received maximum information. To be honest, it is still embarrassing when the death of one respected person is associated with the destruction of Estonia or something like that. Whatever conspiracy theories are in your head, it doesn't give you the right to talk about another person's death like that. I'm going to say this wholeheartedly. Whether you believe me or not, it doesn't matter. Read what's written. Read what the person who spent the last hours and minutes of Hardo Aasmäe with him has said. What you're involved in is only the fruit of your fantasy. I really hope you'll think about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-09_U255	I'll close the negotiations, we've got an answer to the question.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-09_U256	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Minister, thank you very much. Today, we hear from another member of the government, the first was the Prime Minister, that we have a religious state. We have to believe that everything is okay with the e-elections, and we have to believe that everything is okay with the circumstances of Hardo Aasmäe's death. My question, to which I ask the answer, is this: were thorough investigations carried out on the spot, as we can see from police films: fingerprints were taken, footprints were collected, all kinds of textile fibres were collected, the study was searched, all kinds of evidence was taken there, whatever? Were these evidence analysed whether the distinction between telephone calls and us were investigated? Were all these evidence put together, interrogated by the people who were last in contact with him, etc.? Did they do all this?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-09_U257	Thank you. The actions that the prosecutor considered necessary were carried out on the ground. If you want to know more, you have a chance to contact the DA's office and ask the DA. Take this case off if you want. As a member of the Riigikogu, you have the opportunity to do so. If you make an inquiry into the DA's office, the DA's office will answer you. However, if you assume that I, from this panel of the Riigikogu, will reveal all the facts of this case that are known to me, I will not. I respect Hardo Aasmäe. That's why I don't do it.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-09_U258	March Sults, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-09_U259	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! Some time ago, there was a misguided use of force at Harku's detention site, a shooting. Writer Kender is under trial as a producer of child pornography, while Tõnn Sarv is a respected person who describes the life of a teenager and an adult in a positive sense. This led me to ask a question, based on your claim that the prosecutor was present: how many accidents can you name, where the prosecutor has been immediately present and where everything has been in the first place, in a second? Can it be avoided that the police and internal bodies live like a country in a country and according to their own rules or under somebody's dictatorship?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-09_U260	Thank you for your question. I'm sure the internal organs will live the way your inner life thinks it's right. As far as the presence of prosecutors is concerned, since the Code of Criminal Procedure provides that the prosecutor is in charge of the proceedings, the prosecutor is present in as many cases as possible, in particular with regard to serious cases. The prosecutor wasn't there in a so-called trick or a second, as you said. The D.A. showed up like all the others. The first information that came about the case was certainly not that the fallen person was Hardo Aasmäe. The first information that came as operational information was that a person had fallen, and the ambulance went in and the police also arrived. When the ambulance identified a person's death and that he could no longer be resuscitated, a representative of the prosecutor's office came naturally. The same is true in other cases. It's a perfectly normal practice for a prosecutor to show up because he's in charge of the proceedings, he has to decide whether or not to start criminal proceedings, and if he doesn't, he needs to know why he's not starting. The prosecutor is responsible for this in Estonia, according to the Code of Criminal Procedure.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-09_U261	Raivo Põldaru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-09_U262	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. I suspect you're not usually informed of deaths. But when did you find out about the operatives that the police moved on this case?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-09_U263	Thank you. When a message about death arrives in the intelligence department of the Ministry of Interior, regardless of who the person who died was, the Minister will know about this case. There is a system for this. Regardless of whether a person is a public figure or not, the SMS notification is that a person has either died in an accident or a major fire has occurred. This operational information will be provided through the Minister's SMS notification.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-09_U264	Minister, thank you. I'm opening negotiations. Riigikogu speech chair Oudekki Loone, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-09_U265	Happy attendees! Thank you all for your active participation in this conversation! I'm also a little sad, of course, probably you're sad too, because we got very few answers. Indeed, as a good colleague Mart Helme said, we learned that we must believe in the government and believe in the prosecutor, because they know what is good for us. At the same time, we know that the use of excessive force has recently taken place in Harku, the uncomfortable writers are being tried and high state officials say that people over the age of 45 are not at all able to learn. Therefore, a serious question arises as to who our country will still stand for if we investigate things arbitrarily. Indeed, as my fellow parties have said, we have a situation in which the state is using power against its citizens in a spiteful and condescending way and does not even want to explain anything. Of course, every death has to be investigated. If a public figure has died under very suspicious circumstances, then the public has the right to know the facts, the right to know the truth. If the tragic death of Hardo Aasmäe was an accident and there was no connection to the VEB Fund, nor to the KGB files allegedly in his possession which were of interest to the Defence Police, nor to the projects organised by him or the NGO Encyclopedia and financed by the National Fund of Azerbaijan, and it was an accident, then the public must know about it. You need to know on the basis of facts, not in a way that you believe in the Minister. I don't think so! You don't have to. A democratic state cannot be based on the fact that I have to believe experts. A democratic state means that things need to be explained to the public. All the problems need to be explained to the public. It is now necessary to explain how we have come so far that our power organizations, the same institutions to which citizens have entrusted the state's power monopoly, the state's violence monopoly, have started to act arbitrarily, indiscriminately, degradingly, spitefully and arrogantly to protect all of us, saying that you do not need to know anything. That's something to think about. I hope that the Minister will do something to improve this culture and calls, however, for internal controls to be carried out in this case as well. See, we don't leave here until the public knows the truth, the truth we have, the facts we have. It's not just the question of whether I can access anything. This is the question that the Estonian public and the Estonian people deserve the truth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-09_U266	Please, Martin Helme! Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-09_U267	Let's move on to the seventh question. This is presented by members of the Riigikogu Siret Kotka, Tarmo Tamm, Erki Savisaar, Viktor Vassiliev, Aadu Must, Jaanus Karilaid, Martin Repinski, Olga Ivanova, Rein Ratas, Enn Esmaa, Kersti Sarapuu, Märt Sults, Heimar Lenk, Marika Tuus-Laul, Kadri Simson, Mikhail Korb and Peeter Ernits on 11 April 2016. An inquiry shall be made in respect of the PRIA grants and shall bear the number 204. Reply by Minister of Rural Affairs Urmas Kruuse. I ask the representative of the speakers of the Riigikogu Chair Heimar Leng, who will introduce the inquiry to the public!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-09_U268	The question is about agriculture, rural and rural areas and the support provided by the PRIA. Now, I'm going to read out a paragraph to introduce to you what is really going on here. While receiving payments is usually a positive event, many farmers were unpleasantly surprised by direct payments last December: the smallest delay in entries in the animal register meant a deduction from the amount of aid. According to the rules, the keeper has seven calendar days to report any movement of animals to the PRIA. It is also the keeper's responsibility that the message arrives within seven days. We have given examples of what has happened in Tartu Agro, etc. The questions to the Minister for Rural Affairs are how he assesses the PRIA penalty system, where even the slightest error means deduction from the amount of aid. We are interested in the extent to which such a penalty system is derived from European Union legislation or, again, it is our own design, as we have also called for eight sinks, while one is required in Europe. That's the point. The minister's going to talk about everything, because he's up to speed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-09_U269	Thank you. I ask the Riigikogu's speech chair to be answered by the Minister of Rural Affairs Urmas Kruuse!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-09_U270	Honourable President! Honourable members of the Riigikogu! I'll answer questions from the questioners. The first question: 'How do you assess today's PRIA penalty system, where even a minor error means a deduction from the amount of aid? To what extent does this system of penalties derive from European Union legislation? ' PRIA carries out its work on the basis of pre-defined legislation. Control of cross compliance and consideration of infringements are largely due to European Union legislation, such as the Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council. The implementation of cross-compliance is therefore similar in all Member States. As the requirements derive mainly from sectoral legislation, they are subject to checks by the authorities which carry out routine checks under these legislation: Agricultural Office, Environmental Inspectorate, Veterinary and Food Administration or PRIA. Yes, we are aware that late notification of animal movements has led to a reduction in certain subsidies. The requirement to notify movements of animals shall be checked administratively on the basis of the entries in the PRIA register. The number of these checks is considerably higher than the number of on-the-spot checks, which probably has led to the detection of a larger number of irregularities. It is right that the movement of animals is likely to be greater in the case of larger herds, but in this case, I believe that particular care should be taken. Why is compliance and non-compliance very closely monitored in the European Union? This is precisely due to the control of animal diseases, i.e. the location of the animal must be identifiable. At the same time, it must be recognised that as of today, a number of farm buildings can be registered as a single site, i.e. an epidemiological unit with a similar health status can be formed, giving the opportunity to actually reduce the burden significantly. Generally, in the case of the first infringement, the reduction is 3%, while the reduction can be from 1% to 5%. For each subsequent infringement, the reduction shall be multiplied by three and may be up to 15%. European Union legislation lays down rules in which cases the infringement is to be considered repeated. The inspection bodies shall not be able to apply penalties for infringements. Question 2: 'What are the possibilities for Estonia to make today's system more flexible? Is it possible, in principle, to take greater account of the proportionality of the infringement when imposing the penalty? ' The size of the control sample, the basis for the reduction of the aid, the percentage reduction, the counting of repetitions, etc., are common to all EU Member States. In Estonia, infringements are assessed using the assessment matrix, the proportionality of the infringement is taken into account in the assessment of the severity, extent and persistence of the infringement. These are all the components of the assessment matrix. Of course, when determining the extent of the non-compliance, account shall be taken, in particular, of whether the non-compliance has a far-reaching effect or whether it is limited to the holding. As the good questioners pointed out, Estonian legislation does indeed indicate the number of days during which the animal must be registered and the register informed of the event. It's been delivered. I think the questioners also meant whether, given proportionality, certain infringements could be overlooked at all. There is no such right in a Member State. If European Union legislation or the Commission's working documents make it possible to simplify the sanctioning process in the future or to make sanctions easier for the applicant, then Estonia will definitely implement it. Question 3: 'If a farmer is wrong about the rules, his next grant will be reduced. How does PRIA use the deductions? Are these sums distributed to other farmers or are they to be reimbursed to the European Union? ' Member States may retain under Article 100 of Regulation 13/06/2013 25% of the amounts resulting from the application of reductions and exclusions. Thus, a quarter of the outstanding amounts due to irregularities remain in the Member State and go back to the national budget (in the case of direct payments) or payments (in the case of rural payments). The rest will go back to the EU budget. But there can certainly not be a basis for simply making a mathematical deal about how much money comes back to Estonia. Question 4: 'Through animal growers, there has also been talk about replacing eartags by chip, which would make accounting much easier. How real is it that chipping is allowed in Estonia instead of eartags? ' There are common, directly applicable principles for the identification of farmed animals in the European Union. Movements of the identified farm animal must be traceable so that disease control measures can be correctly taken in the event of an outbreak. Electronic means of identification shall also be progressively authorised as means of official identification. However, the animal must always be identified by two identical means of identification, at least one of which is visible and the number clearly legible. Of course, the electronic means of identification, together with the reader, will, above all, facilitate internal management and the management of the livestock, which will be of great help to the farmer, whether it relates to production, calving or health data. This will allow the keeper to collect structured data on his animals more quickly and at a higher quality so that they can later be properly analysed. The keeper shall have a permanent obligation to report the events with the animal within seven days to the register of animals kept for farming purposes, including regardless of the possibility of additional means of identification for bovine animals. The animal keeper can use the e-PRIA service as a faster solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-09_U271	Minister, thank you. You have questions. Martin Repinski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-09_U272	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. Here's the question. Despite the fact that we have a very convenient and up-to-date e-PRIA system, where all events can be recorded, there is still a great deal of bureaucracy in this area. This is because all data is duplicated several times. For example, cattle farmers must register the data in e-PRIA. When an animal moves from one place to another, it must be registered in a passport. The young flock book and the performance control register shall be recorded and, in the case of organic animals, the organic holding register shall be kept separately. All of these are the same data that could actually be viewed via e-PRIA. Are there not plans to combine all of these things so that there is no duplication and stupid work that will, in fact, be strictly controlled afterwards?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-09_U273	Thank you. I also spoke to Commissioner Hogan, who visited Estonia about this bureaucracy in the common agricultural policy. As I have described in part in my reply, regardless of whether electronic chips can be introduced to facilitate all monitoring, there must also be a parallel sign, or electronic ear tag, which should be immediately visually observable. That is why we were not given very much hope in this matter, despite our proposals and our e-experience. However, with regard to reducing red tape from the point of view of livestock farmers and farmers, we would certainly like to move forward, as the Commissioner and the Commission have actually proposed. This may mean less bureaucracy for the farmer, but it will probably lead to more bureaucracy for the implementing authorities, including the PRIA. However, in my opinion, our aim could be to reduce bureaucracy from a farmer's point of view.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-09_U274	Heimar Lenk, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-09_U275	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. An interesting example is given in the text of the inquiry. When livestock farmers were checked and controlled by 466 livestock farmers, more than a third of cases of non-compliance were detected. Isn't that a little too much when a third of the farmers are wrong about the rules? Maybe the rules are too harsh.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-09_U276	Thank you. In an emotional sense, it may always seem that a controlling authority or a money dispenser behaves harshly. However, as the European Union looks at, the allocation of funds is accompanied by very clear rules. If you look at purely statistics and attitudes, you can see that even if it is forced to impose sanctions, the PRIA will certainly not use the maximum rates, but will try to use the lowest rates allowed under the law. When we talk about submitting applications, we have received feedback that so-called advisory services have greatly improved the quality of these applications, which means that any errors have become less pronounced.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-09_U277	Minister, thank you. No further questions. Is there a desire to negotiate? No requests, no answers to any questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-09_U278	We will move to the next inquiry by Riigikogu members Heimar Lenk, Enn Eesmaa, Valeri Korb, Marika Tuus-Laul, Vladimir Velman, Tarmo Tamm, Rein Ratas, Erki Savisaar, Jaanus Karilaid, Anneli Ott, Viktor Vassiliev, Siret Kotka, Mikhail Korb, Peeter Ernits and Mailis Reps on 18 April in the s. a. An inquiry is about joint activities in Estonian agriculture and bears the number 209. Reply by Minister of Rural Affairs Urmas Kruuse. I ask the representative of the Speakers of the Riigikogu to introduce the inquiry to the public!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-09_U279	Thank you. This is an inquiry into joint activities in Estonian agriculture. This question is necessary because if there are thousands and even tens of thousands of public limited liability companies in Estonia, but there are cooperatives in the country and elsewhere, even in finance, perhaps only hundreds, larger and more important cooperatives may be dozens. At the same time, we know that there are hundreds of thousands of agricultural cooperatives in the European Union, that cooperative banks and all kinds of other forms of cooperatives have been developed. In the first Republic of Estonia, agriculture was mainly based on the foundation of the cooperative movement. We therefore had a number of questions. Perhaps the Minister will tell us what the situation with this cooperative movement is. Is this a form worth developing? Last week, an agricultural figure in Äripäev wrote that cooperative activity on land was like the last century. It was Kuldar Leis, a dairy producer in Põlva County who thought that perhaps this cooperative movement should be lost in history and doubted whether it was worth giving us EUR 15 million now to create a new large dairy cooperative with state money. Such interesting questions have arisen as to how to make our agriculture even better and whether the cooperative movement has a place in the Republic of Estonia. We are happy to hear what Urmas Kruuse says about this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-09_U280	Thank you. I ask the Minister of Rural Affairs Urmas Kruuse of the Riigikogu to answer the question, which bears number 209!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-09_U281	Mr President, thank you very much. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! There is an opportunity to respond to an inquiry, the first question of which is: 'Why has the collective agricultural activity in Estonia not gained the right momentum over the 25 years of independence? Is this because a rural man's excessive independence, a bad memory of Soviet collective farms, or a lack of state support? ' Surely the reason may be a bad memory of Soviet times, but also a lack of awareness and too little faith in certain collective activities. At the same time, previous experiences and disappointments may also be the reason. But I personally very much hope that mistrust of this form will decrease and become a thing of the past, which does not mean that we should pay very much attention to only one form. However, if we look at joint action and agricultural policy, the priority of joint action has been quite noticeable, especially when we are talking about rural development policy measures. It has also been possible to obtain certain investment support for the creation and development of cooperative activities. In total, cooperatives received more than EUR 10 million in support of these measures. The second question: 'Is not one of the reasons for passive collective action due to the lack of legislation in Estonia? Has the Ministry of Rural Affairs done enough to increase the interest of the rural population in and develop joint activities? ' We do not see major shortcomings in the law, because the legal framework for the formation and functioning of cooperatives in Estonia is entirely there. In fact, practice also shows that the legal basis has not prevented the formation of cooperatives. There can certainly be nuances here that can be reviewed and improved over time. In the Ministry of Rural Affairs, we have tried to promote the interest of the rural people in collective action and to promote awareness of it wherever possible. This year we want to do this even more systematically. We intend to implement a four-year joint action communication programme within the framework of the rural development plan, which will share knowledge on the subject of the establishment, operation and management of cooperatives, as well as on the common market and export. The third question: 'Long has been said about the need to create a large and modern dairy cooperative across the country. The first steps have now been taken in this direction. At what stage is the new cooperative present, and what is its perspective? ' I would like to start by pointing out that the new cooperative will certainly not be created by the Ministry of Rural Affairs. It is our desire and initiative to encourage this if milk producers find a way and consider it necessary to implement it. Today, I can say that this assessment, which has emerged in the discussions, gives reason to believe that there is real readiness in the sector. Yes, the public may have heard the most about the creation of the so-called dairy cooperative, but in the ministry we are looking at this subject a little bit more broadly. We hope that Estonian pig farmers, for example, will also carry. Grain growers have already set a certain example. These examples have, at least so far, been quite positive. Of course, we want to contribute to this process, and one way of doing so is certainly also the so-called 'big project'. The fourth question: 'The final in-depth overview of the joint activities in the country is reflected in the survey of the University of Life Sciences 'Societies in the Estonian Agricultural Sector', which was published in 2013. There are certainly developments in this regard today, but there are no more recent studies to be found. Shouldn't we re-order this study? " At the moment, there is no plan to order another study. We have sufficient information on cooperative activities and, of course, books that describe cooperative activities very well in the first years of the Republic. Question 5: Does the Ministry of Rural Affairs have statistics on the number of agricultural cooperatives and their activities? ' There is no separate collection of national statistics on agricultural cooperatives in Estonia, but the Ministry of Rural Affairs has kept up to date with the sector and we have collected information from the business register as well as by other means, for example by meeting specialists. Between 1995 and 2016, 336 farmers' income cooperatives have been registered in the commercial register (as at 22 March). Of these, 177 have now been deleted from the register due to bankruptcy or liquidation, i.e. 159. Question 6: "Are you personally a supporter of the cooperative movement, or do you see a better way to develop rural areas in crisis? ' Personally, I am a supporter of collective action. We see the power in the work together, we take away the 'Let's do it this weekend! ' thalms, which are also in some ways joint activities and have brought a great deal of positive to society. In addition to practical value, I also see social cohesion and positive values there. However, I am convinced that we cannot take one form of action a priori in such a way that it is only the right form. It is important to note that joint action only occurs when people affirm common values and see a positive objective. This means that they take full responsibility for financial activities, quality, production and supply chains, including breeding and breeding. If we look at the practice of the world and Europe and remember the first Republic of Estonia, we will see that this form has been sufficiently viable and the chance to hedge risks is actually much bigger there than the individual company. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-09_U282	Minister, thank you. There's a lot of questions. Heimar Lenk, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-09_U283	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. I understand that despite the fact that opposition to the cooperative movement has recently been said in the media that public limited liability companies are still more effective, we still cannot believe that the cooperative movement is going down in history. Is that it?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-09_U284	Surely you shouldn't think so, it would be premature and pointless. It is not possible to artificially eliminate certain forms. I read the article too. There are still such statements, but you could say that there are just as many opposite opinions. If we are talking specifically about a major project to be launched by the Ministry of Rural Affairs, what does that mean? So that farmers can and should have their own industry, through which they can achieve greater market power, which is a problem for the farmer, not only in Estonia, but throughout Europe and the world in general, when we talk about reducing farmers' incomes.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-09_U285	Arno Bridge, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-09_U286	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. Making a new cooperative is a very good idea, but as you said, it is a four-year programme. But what happens today and tomorrow and the following year when every year the dairy herd is reduced by 10,000 cows? In four years, the number of cows has already fallen by a huge herd of cows. How does our government plan to save agriculture in crisis this year and next year? What additional measures are planned to be taken?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-09_U287	Thank you, Reverend Asker! I certainly share with you the concern about the situation that is currently taking place in certain agricultural sectors, especially dairy and pig farming. But if we are looking at price volatility, even though today the main issue for the farmer is that there is oversupply in the market and sales prices are low, we need to prepare steps by the time the market is on the rise. We look at global trends and experts, everyone says that the demand for food will increase in the future. But what do we notice? If we compare the current price of milk, for example, with that of the end of 2009 or 2008, this is a sign that, at one point or another, we will return to the market recession. If I describe the package that the government adopted last year, which it partially implemented this year and intends to implement in the budget for the following year, then it must be said that the honourable Riigikogu has also believed that certain extraordinary subsidies from the budget of the Estonian state have been necessary for the farmer. We hope that the honourable Riigikogu will approve the additional subsidy of 4.6 million euros during the discussion in the government in the framework of the budget strategy for the following year. The key role of collective action is that, once again, I will say how to achieve greater market power. One optimistic farmer has said that physics has its own laws, and one of these laws is that a stone always falls to the bottom. But if this sinking means that there is a farmer at the bottom, then there will be a processing industry and then there will be trade, and if we look at consumer prices, what will we notice? Once again, we notice that the farmer loses the most. How do we get extra money in there? Yes, indeed, one subject is efficiency, but its growth may not always be noticeable in the farmer's pocket, because it can be eaten either by trade or by the processing industry. Consequently, it is essential for farmers to increase market power. Otherwise, the position of these negotiations will be weaker than that of the other partners. Certainly, the Ministry of Rural Affairs cannot oblige any dairy producer or farmer to form a cooperative, we simply give this opportunity and support those who have found that this is the right way.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-09_U288	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-09_U289	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, You rightly mentioned that joint action is, in some ways, an action of a kind, because it requires the joint recognition of certain values and assessments. Is the Ministry of Rural Affairs aware of any other marketing or trade initiatives that farmers think about in their heads?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-09_U290	Thank you, Reverend Asker! Let me give you two examples. I was quite sad when I looked at the funding of the European Union in the last period. I was particularly sad when I looked at how many Lithuanian farmers and entrepreneurs had used a single promotional measure, over EUR 20 million, but we received a little over EUR 1.5 million, which was actually a major problem despite the different size of our countries. There is hope that this time the backs will be better assembled and more money will be sought. This is one way to succeed in export markets. Unfortunately or fortunately, we must take into account that if we are able to produce twice as much milk as we consume ourselves, in whatever form, exports are essential. This actually means that there is also the possibility of adding value. When I look at different sectors, the last meeting I had with sheep farmers, I see more and more signs that even compared to a year ago, the sector as a whole has reduced scepticism. People are more concerned about how to sell and market together, how to maintain quality, and how to save farmers' time. Some say very honestly and beautifully that they are able to grow, but others should be able to sell. If responsibilities and areas of activity are broken down through cooperative activities in such a way that everyone can do their best, we can say that we should also achieve the best result.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-09_U291	Raivo Põldaru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-09_U292	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. It was said that farmers also need production to gain access to the market. Has Estonia really already exhausted its production capacities so that there is nothing left to squeeze, and we must bring milk to our southern neighbours? Or do we still have opportunities here before this new dairy cooperative, for which these millions come from Europe and where do we put the money ourselves?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-09_U293	Thank you. Indeed, if we recall this package of aid measures, it amounted to nearly EUR 30 million. The last payout, 4 million, was in February. But despite the good and bad times, Estonian farmers and dairy producers have always exported to neighbouring countries. You don't always have to look at it in a negative light. Negativeness also means that if there was ever an audit of the price of a 40-cent milk kilo, then it is clear that the current 23 cents will not satisfy anyone. We have an open market, which means that Lithuanians were also able to export to a certain extent and were willing to pay Estonian milk producers more than Estonia's own industries. So it's kind of like an open vessel. But if I step a little further away from the Baltic States and the Nordic countries and look quite far away, especially from Asia, I dare say that the Baltic States, together with their Nordic colleagues, are relatively small spots in this sea, with which the size of the market can be compared. During the last trip to China, we signed a fisheries protocol, so that Estonian herring and sprat can now also enter the Chinese market if the companies so wish. We went to Harbin, where there are 10 million people, but if we also take the surrounding province, the population will be 40 million. So the market is unfathomable there. In my opinion, it was a positive surprise when Finnish and Swedish colleagues said that in the future we should try to find opportunities together to advertise and sell high-quality Nordic goods. In agriculture, we certainly produce such goods.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-09_U294	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-09_U295	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good minister! I think that, under the small market in a small country, we must definitely move towards joint action. I welcome the joint action information programme, which unfortunately comes too late, but better late than never. I have two questions. While I used to work at the Ministry of Agriculture, there was a small joke: one village, one farm, five combines. What are your investment support guidelines for more joint action on investment measures? The second question is what are the mechanisms for protecting foreign capital. A very important influence is, for example, the purchase of land. It would certainly be encouraging to develop joint action if there were to be confidence that it would remain in the management of its capital. Do you have any thoughts on that?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-09_U296	Thank you. If we look at the support for joint action and a certain set-up, we can say that we have supported the activities of so-called producer groups. This means that representatives from a particular sector will agree on how they will carry out their work together. In order to receive support, they must have achieved certain sales revenue, if you can say so. This means that we have today, had yesterday and will continue to have grants for joint action, which is one of the basic criteria for receiving support at all. When we look at the types of cooperatives that work in Estonia, the picture is diverse: there are machinery cooperatives, there are dairy cooperatives etc., etc. We can say that we also see these different forms on the markets. If we look at the lessons of the crisis, we will see that certain joint action in Europe and more generally has helped to survive the crisis better. What makes my mind a little sad is that we have not been able to agree with farmers on the creation of a so-called crisis fund, which could be done within the framework of these rural development programme measures. There are several reasons why this has not been done, especially among farmers, some of them purely financial, some emotional. If we keep talking, we cannot say today that foreign capital has so much land that we should be afraid of it. If we look at the agricultural land that has come into use, its size has increased every year. At the same time, I share your view that, in the case of certain cooperative movements, foreign capital can help to make this activity more effective. But our desire, above all, is to offer a better price to the farmer, i.e. market power, on the one hand, and the ability to be more successful in the export market, on the other. So I would not just address this issue in the light that capital does not have a nationality or capital has a nationality.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-09_U297	Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-09_U298	Thank you. Of course, I do not share the view that dissent is forbidden. I think it is very welcome that people are different and think differently, which is why one logical and normal thing comes together. What is quite different is whether we can talk about the value being traded. I cannot confirm your knowledge that Finland is setting up a factory or is going to export to Russia. Certain sanctions have been imposed against the European Union as a whole. The economic embargo was still initiated by our good neighbour, on the basis of the free movement of persons towards the European Union. That was his objection. But since the Russian embargo began, we have found more than 15 new countries of destination. It is true that their scale and price level are perhaps not yet what would satisfy us, also because there are problems in third-country markets, and the Chinese economy has perhaps not grown very much. But no one can deny that Estonia and Latvia and Lithuania have been good exporters to Russia. Indeed, this first wave was felt more quickly by us. This was, in fact, the reason why Latvians, Lithuanians and Finns received the first emergency support only in targeted form. In my opinion, there are two things to focus on. It should not be a long-term dream that the Russian market will open at one point. I think we need to find new markets, and if the Russian market ever opens, it will be an additional bonus. But if you ask me if I would be willing to exchange freedom for economic gain, I will certainly say no.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-09_U299	Minister, thank you. No further questions. Is there a desire to negotiate? No requests, no answers to any questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-09_U300	Thank you. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. If something doesn't work, you have to look for the reason. I am thinking about the subject we are talking about: legislation and the banking system. On the other hand, you are talking about the market. However, the point is that I think we all have to admit that the sanctions that have been imposed in recent years have basically knocked agriculture off its feet. I read how your Russian colleague said that Russia lacks 7 to 8 million tonnes of milk. It's a huge market for us, but we'll pretend it's not necessary. Why, for example, do Finns open up a new factory in Gachina, where they start producing three times more butter? They can, but we can't! I don't understand it. If I think differently than I have to, tell me I don't understand anything.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-09_U301	Now, good fellows, we all have the opportunity to register for a speech in a free microphone after the hammer hit. No calls, so no free microphone will be opened. Today's trial is over. I wish you the strength of our work! Take care! Closure of the sitting at 21.09 a.m.
