ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-22_U1	Honourable Riigikogu! We will begin the Monday session of the 6th plenary session. First of all, there is the handing over of drafts and enquiries. On behalf of the Government of the Republic, Heili Tõnisson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-22_U2	Mr. Chairman! Good Riigikogu! The Government of the Republic initiates a draft law amending the Income Tax Act. The Minister of Finance Sven Sester represents the Government of the Republic of Estonia when the bill is being processed in the Riigikogu. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-22_U3	Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-22_U4	Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of 15 members of the Riigikogu, I hand over a draft law on the repeal of the Cohabitation Act. I have a very simple reason. Last time we voted to repeal the Cohabitation Act, several colleagues told me to get this shit off the agenda. Let's try to understand now, people! As long as this law is in force, this shit won't get off the agenda.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-22_U5	Mailis Reps, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-22_U6	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the Riigikogu! I'd be happy to introduce you to the Minister of Education and Science Jürgen Ligi. I'm sure you have noticed that on quite a number of occasions our concerns have been reflected in the media because Estonian young people do not want to study the teaching profession so thoroughly that they are more interested in it, also by obtaining a Master's degree and going to school. One reason may be the teachers' low wage and what is happening around it, but there are certainly other factors. If we are going to take stock of the OECD countries, we will see that our schoolchildren do not see themselves as a teacher in the future life. In comparison with 40 countries, it turned out that Estonian teenagers have no interest in teaching services at all. Unfortunately, we are at the top of this table or looking the other way around. Of the 15-year-olds, only 0.6% considered the teaching profession to be their future occupation. The average for OECD countries is around 5%. We therefore ask the Minister what he considers the prestige of the teaching profession among young people and how this profession can be made attractive to young people. There are also questions about teachers at the university about how teachers see their future and how to attract more young people to school. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-22_U7	Uno Kaskpeit, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-22_U8	Mr. President! Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the members of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia, I have an inquiry to report to the Minister of the Interior. There has been quite a run-through of information from our media that immigrants from Iraq who arrived in Finland are disappointed in the Finnish country, especially in the speed of processing documents. This was also acknowledged by Finnish Minister of the Interior, Petteri Orpo, in an interview with Eesti Päevaleht. Over 5,000 immigrants from Iraq arrived in Finland during the first three weeks of September 2015 alone. Finland is now trying to start sending them back to Iraq on charter flights, but there are so many that they can begin to infiltrate elsewhere in Europe. Consequently, we have some questions for the Minister of the Interior. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-22_U9	Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-22_U10	Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, Those of you who lasted longer than mere presence checks in the Riigikogu on Monday a week ago will probably remember that the Minister of Economic Affairs was here to talk about the ferry connection between the islands. One topic also arose the fact that people with reduced mobility travelling to Hiiumaa are stuck on the ferry deck, because their access to the passenger deck has not been arranged in any polite way. The transmission of last Monday's sitting brought feedback from our group, which is why I am now going to turn over 19 Members to Margus Tsahkna. Inquiry is based on the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. The United Nations Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities entered into force in Estonia on 14 April 2012, the ratification of which committed itself to continuously improving the situation of persons with disabilities. Formally, it is as if we are fulfilling all the obligations that this Convention has placed on us, but in reality, regardless of the convention and the supervisory body concerned, people with disabilities still have problems accessing several sides. We therefore have four questions for Minister of Social Affairs Margus Tsahkna. After all, he is the person who should ensure that soon all people with reduced mobility will have easy access to possible jobs. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-22_U11	I have adopted two draft laws and three requests for information, which we deal with under the Home and Working Procedures Act. Incoming check, please! There are 86 members of the Riigikogu, no 15. Let's go to the agenda. Here's a little bit of a clarification. In particular, the Social Affairs Committee has proposed that the second item on the agenda of this working week be removed from the second item of the Thursday, 25 February session, i.e. the Riigikogu's decision to propose to the Government of the Republic, submitted by the Group of the Estonian Centre Party 147. Dear Riigikogu, with this amendment, I will vote on the agenda for the 6th working week of the third plenary session. Please take a stand and vote. There are 80 members of the Riigikogu in favour of approving the agenda, there is no one against and there are two abstentions. The agenda is confirmed.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-22_U12	The first question to be dealt with is an inquiry by the members of the Riigikogu Artur Talvik, Ain Lutsepp, Andres Herkel, Krista Aru, Andres Ammas, Jüri Adams and Külliki Kübarsepp. Arthur Talvik, on behalf of the heirs, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-22_U13	Good Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, Today we have finally reached the large hall of our inquiry, which was presented much earlier and which we have postponed once, in response to the National Audit Office. It is known that the National Audit Office is currently carrying out an audit of Estonian Air. We've postponed the question. Although this audit is still not ready, I understand that the chief controller is ready to open the doors in front of us and talk a little bit about the audit. We have asked eight questions and this time we have restricted ourselves to the bankruptcy of Estonian Air. We are not talking so much about the new Nordic Aviation Group, as we are talking about Estonian Air, so that it becomes clear what mistakes were made there, whether it could have been a classic transfer phenomenon, whether one is responsible for the bankruptcy of Estonian Air, how these decisions were made, and so on. There are eight questions and I am very grateful to the Auditor General if he can at least answer some today.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-22_U14	The inquiry has been submitted to the Auditor General. Please, Alar Karis!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-22_U15	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! Members of the Free Party Group of the Riigikogu Jüri Adams, Ain Lutsepp, Külliiki Kübarsepp, Artur Talvik, Andres Herkel, Andres Ammas and Krista Aru submitted an inquiry to me on 11 January this year, where there are eight questions about the background of the bankruptcy of the state airline Estonian Air. Before I go to specific questions, I stress that I can only partially answer some questions now, because the audit on the subject is still ongoing at the National Audit Office and will be completed in May according to the current plans. Therefore, my assessments today are not based on an audit, but on general information. Now the answers to the specific questions. The first question: 'In what parts and when was the State Audit Office known to be granted state aid to Estonian Air, and on what grounds? ' As is well known, Member States have agreed on the conditions under which the State may grant aid to companies to support fair competition in the common market of the European Union. According to this regulation, the Member State must inform the European Commission of the intention to grant the aid and, as a general rule, must not grant aid until it has been authorised by the Commission. It is up to the Commission to monitor compliance with State aid rules, to initiate proceedings in case of doubt and to decide whether or not the aid granted by the State is compatible with the rules. In December 2012, the Estonian State informed the European Commission that it intended to grant a loan to Estonian Air in difficulty, noting that the State had provided the company with capital contributions in the past. In February 2013, the European Commission officially announced the opening of the State aid procedure and this procedure reached its end in November 2015. The Commission decided that, between 2010 and 2014, the State had provided Estonian Air with capital of EUR 47,9 million and a loan of EUR 37 million, which was incompatible with the State aid rules. In January 2016, the government decided not to refer the Commission's decision to the Court. According to the Commission decision, the following government decisions were considered to be incompatible with the State aid rules: a capital contribution of EUR 17.9 million in 2010, resulting in the return of the State to a major owner of Estonian Air; a capital contribution of EUR 30 million in 2011 and 2012 financing the strategy for aggressive expansion of Estonian Air; and loans granted between 2012 and 2014 totalling EUR 37 million. The Commission also analysed the State's intention to provide Estonian Air with an additional capital of EUR 40.7 million and considered that this would also be contrary to the rules. However, this intention was not realised and no funds were provided to the company. In 2009, approximately EUR 2,5 million was granted by the State and the sale of Estonian Air's groundhandling unit to the state-owned Tallinn Seaplane Harbour for EUR 2.4 million was declared by the Commission to be in line with the rules. The second question: 'How did the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications respond to enquiries concerning Estonian Air in 2010 and were the answers exhaustive? " In June 2010, the National Audit Office sent a letter to Estonian Air, the Minister of Finance and the Minister of Economic Affairs and Infrastructure, after the government had decided to make a capital contribution. One question in the letter was whether the increase in the share capital would be coordinated with the European Commission on possible State aid and, if not, on what grounds. The Minister of Finance replied that the matter was not his responsibility and that the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications dealt with the analysis of aid to the transport sector. The Minister confirmed that the Ministry of Finance had not consulted the European Commission on this matter. However, from the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, the Chancellor replied on behalf of the Ministry to the National Audit Office. It confirmed that the Ministry had not consulted the European Commission, but that if the State acted as a private investor would when making a capital contribution, it would not constitute unlawful State aid. The National Audit Office does not have an analysis on the basis of which this position was formed in the Ministry. The National Audit Office also recommended that the Minister of Economic Affairs carry out an analysis of state aid in a letter sent in November 2010. The minister didn't answer the letter. The National Audit Office is not aware that the recommendation was followed at the time. I will answer the third and fourth questions together. The questions are: " Were the funds allocated on the basis of any in-depth expertise or analysis? How did the Ministry justify its state aid decisions to the National Audit Office? What is the National Audit Office's assessment of the activities of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications at the time of granting state aid to Estonian Air, taking into account the legislation of Estonia and the European Union? 'As I said at the beginning, the National Audit Office is currently carrying out an audit entitled 'The Government's activities in developing state aviation companies'. This audit should provide an answer to both these and many other questions related to Estonian Air. According to the National Audit Office Act, the National Audit Office may not disclose its views and assessments until the audit report has been made public. The preliminary plan of the National Audit Office was to publish the report in February, but since it has become apparent that some of the material relevant to the audit has not been found in the expected locations, we need to carry out additional audit operations to fill in the information gaps. The report should be completed by May at the latest. I will also answer the fifth and sixth questions together. The questions are: 'What is your assessment of the government's exchange of information with the European Commission on State aid, could it have been decisive for the fate of Estonian Air? Officials of the European Commission have indicated that the Estonian Government started coordinating state aid with the Commission's Competition Directorate-General too late when the first injections of funds had already been made. Who do you think is responsible for such activities? 'The general principle of State aid rules is that the State may grant aid with the authorisation of the European Commission. In certain cases, aid may also be granted before authorisation, but the Commission must be informed in advance. In this way, the Commission can, if it so wishes, initiate proceedings and take decisions afterwards. The State of Estonia submitted to the European Commission a formal notification of the Government's decision to grant a loan to Estonian Air on the same day as the first part of the loan was disbursed, i.e. 20 December 2012. In its decision, the Commission stated that it therefore considered the granting of the loan as State aid without prior notice. This can be interpreted as an aggravating but certainly not decisive factor from the point of view of the State aid procedure. For information, the government's decision to grant the loan was made a week before Estonia officially informed the European Commission. On 3 December 2012, the Commission received provisional information on the intention. However, the decision of the European Commission shows that the decisions taken earlier in 2010 and 2011 by the government, which were taken before the Estonian State informed the European Commission of its intention to grant the loan, became decisive. In the subsequent state aid procedure, the Estonian State provided the Commission with additional information and arguments, but the decision shows that they did not affect the final result. In total, Estonian Air did not find it fatal to exchange information on State aid procedures, but rather to do so at a time when the government provided the company with EUR 17,9 million plus EUR 30 million in capital years earlier. We will certainly also address these issues in more detail in the audit report. Question 7: "How do you comment on the assertion that there has been a state-lawed transfer between Estonian Air and Nordic Aviation and how can a new airline be avoided in a similar situation to that of Estonian Air? "Estonian Air's assets and liabilities, rights and claims must be clarified by the ongoing process of bankruptcy of the company. The National Audit Office has not committed itself to duplicate the work of the insolvency administrators. As regards the creation of new airlines, and here I am thinking of both Nordic Aviation Group and Transport Asset Management, the report that will be prepared for their start-up will also be discussed. And the last, eighth question: "What is your overall assessment of Estonian Air's leadership over the past ten years? Was it meaningful and correct, or were there systemic errors and omissions that fit into the interest of the National Audit Office? ' When we talk about a state-owned company that last operated profitable ten years ago, in which the state has put tens of millions of taxpayers in euros and which is now in bankruptcy, it is understandable that there are questions about the level of governance. In assessing what happened to Estonian Air, a number of aspects must be taken into account in conjunction: the pace of decision-making, thought-out and competence of management decisions, as well as the extent to which the final outcome could have been influenced by the realisation of business risks in a complex business environment. I hope that you will receive enough information from the National Audit Office's report after it has been completed to draw your own conclusions. Thank you for listening.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-22_U16	Questions for the Auditor General. Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-22_U17	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Auditor General! This question: how were all these tens of millions of euros reflected in the state budget? Was it a specific line from which it could be said that it was a grant for Estonian Air and so on? What did it look like in all our budgets?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-22_U18	Honourable questioner! The last time I was here before you, I pointed out that there was a line in the budget under the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications called 'Financial Transactions', and there is not much explanation. The members of the Riigikogu probably did not have any questions at the time when the state budget was adopted.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-22_U19	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-22_U20	Thank you, good Chairman. Thanks for the answers. You have pointed out here that the report is in progress because the materials needed have been lost. Can you tell us what materials we are talking about and how this is even possible in Estonia? And do you think there's anything you can do to (a) find these materials and (b) prosecute those people who are responsible for the loss of material?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-22_U21	Thank you for this question. But I have to fix you. I haven't used words that the materials are gone. The National Audit Office has not found certain materials where we expected them to be. That is why we have extended the work process. It is likely that some material will also be passed on by 'oral', which is why we are also questioning people further so that we can find out the truth.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-22_U22	Marika Tuus-Laul, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-22_U23	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr. Auditor General! You said you couldn't make an assessment right now because the audit is ongoing, it's being carried out and you're still explaining the exact facts. But you certainly followed this whole process alongside the 2010 capital contribution when a loan was granted in 2011 and 2012/2014. You also talked about this new plan. I'm sure you've made some kind of assessment over the years. A little, quite mildly, you just said that. Perhaps, however, you are going to be more specific in the light of the current situation, what have you thought all these years, looking aside from the process?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-22_U24	Good questioner! I would be happy to take the view that I will make that assessment when the audit is complete. As a citizen, we all certainly have our own opinions on things. However, if not all the facts are known, it is not particularly correct to assess a complex issue such as the granting of State aid to Estonian Air or its bankruptcy.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-22_U25	Jaanus Karilaid, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-22_U26	Thank you, manager. Good waitress! I asked this question recently from another high-ranking civil servant, and I also received an answer from him, but now I ask you whether getting State aid coordination from the European Commission must be fixed in writing or whether it is enough to have conversations with the officials of the European Commission?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-22_U27	As far as I'm concerned, things like this are usually written in writing. The problem with oral statements is that when action is taken, the person who said an oral statement later claims that he was misunderstood. So things are still going to be in writing at the level of the European Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-22_U28	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-22_U29	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Auditor General, thank you for your answers. You did not say this very clearly, but I read from your reply that if this letter of 2010, had been heard, a large part of this problem would probably not have happened. There was a delay until the end of 2012 before the dialogue with the European Commission began. True, I think the $17.9 million was already decided before your letter. But the question is this: how could a circle of people who should have known the European Commission's rules of procedure on State aid be clearly defined, but who simply failed to react within two years? Can there be any reasonable reason why all this happened? Is it theoretically possible that such important positions will be held by people who simply do not understand these rules?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-22_U30	Thank you very much. I'll start at the back. I guess it will. People do not enter these positions differently if they are chosen or appointed. Filling these places is what it is. However, as far as the audit is concerned, we will certainly add a time series to it, which shows the analyses, which data were used on the basis of the decisions made at that time, who were in the Estonian Air Council at the time when the decisions were taken, who led Estonian Air, who was in the government when those decisions were taken. I think that if there is such a time series in the audit, it may be easier for you, members of the Riigikogu, and also for the public to draw conclusions.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-22_U31	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-22_U32	Thank you, manager. Dear Auditor General, I also ask about the letter where you drew attention to the illegal granting of State aid. I was amazed by a statement from your report that the Minister did not reply to the letter. Are you sure the minister even read that letter?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-22_U33	I think it's a question for that minister. He can tell if he's read it or not, I can't answer it. But the fact that the Minister or the Ministry doesn't answer the letter is deplorable. Already, the law says that letters usually have to be answered, and this has to be done within 30 days. But, yes, there are letters that the Ministry has not responded to.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-22_U34	Ain Lutsepp, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-22_U35	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Auditor General! I'm going to specify Küllik's Hatter question. Which documents and authorities were not immediately available? I mean the documents that led the audit report of the National Audit Office not to be completed in February, but to be completed in May? What kind of office is there in the back?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-22_U36	Honourable member of the Riigikogu! With your permission, I will not answer that question. I will answer this when there is an audit outside, where it is clear which institutions have either put their documents where they should not be, and what information we have received from another institution or during discussions.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-22_U37	March Sults, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-22_U38	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good waitress! The Latvian State's aid to the Latvian airline was legal; the Estonian aid was illegal. Two neighbors, one common goal, common business, know-how also common. That's the question I had. The Latvians wanted their airline to continue, but the Estonians didn't want to. I mean, isn't all this the result of not being targeted? Perhaps they wanted to bring a new player to the market and sink Estonian Air? I just have these doubts.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-22_U39	I don't know what to say about that. There is, of course, a great deal of speculation here. However, we know that state aid can be granted once every ten years and, in this case, Estonian Air or the Estonian State was wrong. Latvia did not make this mistake. But I don't dare to see the maliciousness of what I know right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-22_U40	Arthur Talvik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-22_U41	Thank you, Chairman. Good Auditor General! Such a fine-tuning question. From what you said, it seemed that you were also discussing the creation of a new airline, the Nordic Aviation Group, in your audit. Are you also looking at this from the point of view of whether there has been a so-called 'flagging'? And secondly, in this audit, are you also concerned with the role of Infortar, on the basis of various aspects?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-22_U42	We will certainly examine all aspects relating to the creation of the Nordic Aviation Group. The main purpose of our audit is to avoid the mistakes that Estonian Air may have made in this company that is already working. We're looking into a new company from the point of view of whether there was enough information on the basis of which these decisions were taken.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-22_U43	Urve Palo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-22_U44	Thank you, good Chairman. Honourable performer! We have been looking forward to this audit. When Estonian Air went bankrupt and the National Audit Office promised to carry out this audit, it was mentioned that it would be ready by February. There must be a lot of people waiting for it, because it will definitely bring clarity to the house, and I think it's important and good that you do it. So thank you for that! But that's what I'm asking. You didn't get some of the necessary documents, and I understand it was the Ministry of Economic Affairs in particular. What gives you reason to believe that you will be able to obtain these documents in the meantime and will be ready by May? Can we be sure of May?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-22_U45	Sometimes it is not a question of some documents. Let's say there aren't any documents. Then it's to find out, to have more conversations with people, to get the people involved on the list. If it turns out that there are really no documents, then it must be made public and also in this audit. I can't predict whether or not all the documents will be received right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-22_U46	Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-22_U47	Thank you. Mr. Auditor General! Does the National Audit Office intend to audit state-owned companies twice a year or after two years or even longer to see what they do?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-22_U48	The National Audit Office works according to an agreed work plan that is public and also accessible to all of you. It is clear that we do not go to every state enterprise every year. We assess risks and situations and plan our audits accordingly. Financial auditors will certainly monitor the situation more closely, especially with regard to public procurement. Our options are clearly limited, can't be "in" everywhere. In addition, I think it is important to know that national companies and other companies also have internal control systems that should function and actually mitigate risks.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-22_U49	Thank you, Auditor General Alar Karis! I'm opening negotiations. First, I have to give the floor to the questioners. Arthur Talvik, please, on behalf of the heirs!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-22_U50	Mr. Chairman! Thank you very much, Mr. Auditor General. Ladies and gentlemen, From the performance of Alar Karis today, it can be concluded that there is going to be a very interesting audit. I very much hope that this extra time will give them the opportunity to unravel the whole problem into sticks and draw very deep conclusions. Stupendous things came out of today's report, for example, that the Ministry simply decides not to answer questions from the National Audit Office or answers with a relatively superior tone, pushing the blame from one side to the other. I very much hope that the focus on responsibility will be decisive in this audit and maybe it will also change the way of thinking. Perhaps, under the influence of this audit, people in a high position in the Estonian country will take some responsibility. 130 million! Today's other enquiries are about farmers who have asked for top-up, and these sums are repeatedly less than 130 million, which is put into Estonian Air. And as we can conclude from today's answers, it was done recklessly, recklessly, and trying to correct the mistakes afterwards. There are a lot of questions, and we certainly are also very interested in the fact that we hope that the audit will also provide answers to the question of how the new company was created, whether everything has been done right when it was founded. So work hard and thank the Auditor General! We look forward to this audit.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-22_U51	And now Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-22_U52	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, First, a small line to the previous speaker. It's just another audit, and it doesn't change anything. Hundreds and hundreds of such audits have been carried out. In the last term, there was this case that I discovered after we had heard another audit in our room and came to the hall for a member of the special committee to cry. Really, the tears were in your eyes. I asked who hurt you. He said no one did, but after that audit, I don't know what to expect, I didn't think things were so bad. So the National Audit Office has been illuminating the truth to us for 12 years, only there is no result. It's not just because we don't really listen to it. Now, about the subject we're talking about. My dad was a pilot for life, but that's also the only thing that connects me to aviation. That's why I'm talking about another subject. In 1999, around the same time, I came to this hall. Before that, I had no accounting or budgetary experience. For 11 years I taught Estonian, before that there was another job, an army, etc. I mean, there was no experience. And in the autumn, it opened up for a budget debate. I have to tell you that it was a fear of picking up these yellow books, but this fear disappeared momentarily because the budget had been written off in such a way that at that time any person could understand it from the beginning to the end with a certain intellect, but with an arbitrary, not economic education. The public investment programme, or RIP, gave a perfectly clear picture of how the state will invest in one place or another over the years. Believe it or not, even the rooftop money was distributed according to the RIP in order to cover a certain amount of next year's expenses. In the past, the situation was even more interesting. At the end of last year, the National Audit Office made an example for the special committee on state budget control, a copy of the state budget of the Republic of Estonia in 1938. That budget could have picked up any Aunt Painting and understood everything from the beginning to the end. Where are we now? They come to this hall and talk about financial transactions. Nothing has been written, someone takes decisions, tens of millions are thrown out, and still according to one Parkinson's law, which says that the higher the amount, the shorter the debate on this fate. So the question, I guess, isn't Estonian Air. It is a question of the system; it is a question of the state budget law and of the form taken by our state budget. Every year it gets more and more complicated, and every year there will be more and more opportunities to use the money that comes in, well I am not saying that illegally, but given that the decisions at issue today were not coordinated in time with the European Commission, perhaps this definition is also appropriate. So the main problem is something else, and I think that Estonian Air is not the only organisation that has abused state resources. There's a lot, a lot more of them. And if we start working on next year's budget in the autumn, please note that we are again adopting a document that will once again allow another Estonian Air to illegally allocate taxpayers' money.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-22_U53	Jaanus Karilaid, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-22_U54	Ladies and gentlemen, I want to pay tribute to the auditors. In my opinion, the inquiry was very constructive and very necessary, and the audits of the National Audit Office are also very necessary. What happens next depends on Parliament, whether Parliament has the capacity and will to deal with it. When the Auditor General answered the questions today, very good ideas were also proposed that can be dealt with further. I asked whether the coordination received from the European Commission should be written or oral. A very high-ranking civil servant recently approached us, claiming that he asked orally for coordination concerning another company in the country. Here comes a completely different approach from the two high state officials. Parliament should now really ask why this is the case, why questions are answered differently in this way. The other thing is that even the most honest man, and the Auditor General, should be one of the most honest in his position to stand up for his reputation. Inevitably, even the most honest official can be overshadowed by intrigues and suspicions. We are now seeing that the audit disclosure shifts from February to May. Inevitably, the question arises as to whether this again relates to the IRL politician, Juhan Parts, who wants to be posted to a high position before that. It's not like we can talk about a company being guilty. National companies are politically managed. We often like to talk about the responsibility of officials, but we do not talk about the responsibility of politicians at all. I suspect that delaying this audit for another three months may have been reflected in political motives. I hope this is not the case, but on the one hand, it is the task of the opposition to raise such doubts and, on the other hand, it is the duty of the rulers to take those doubts down. So, in any case, a very necessary questioning. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-22_U55	The members of the Riigikogu no longer wish to participate in the negotiations, and I understand that the Auditor General has nothing to say. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-22_U56	The next item is the question of Jaak Madison, Martin Helme, Henn Põlluaas, Mart Helme, Uno Kaskpeit, Raivo Põldaru and Arno Sild. Jaak Madison will perform on behalf of the heirs.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-22_U57	Good Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, Happy anniversary of the Republic! On 14 January, including the question to Mr Reinsalu, our group members submitted an inquiry. The subject is compensation for occupation losses in the Republic of Estonia by the Russian Federation. This inquiry is primarily driven by the replies and positions of the Foreign Minister, which, unfortunately, have not been confirmed as official positions of the Government. We would therefore be very happy if we could get adequate and concrete answers from the Minister for Justice, who has so far been very polite in this matter and following the positions that have been confirmed in 2005. On 9 June 2004, the Riigikogu adopted a decision on the activities of the National Commission for the Examination of the Repressive Policy of Occupations, point 6 of which instructed the Government of the Republic to submit to the Riigikogu, by 1 January 2005 at the latest, its position on any claims for damages arising from the losses and losses caused during the occupations. On 14 January 2005, the Riigikogu received the position of the Government of the Republic, which was entrusted to the Ministry of Justice with the task of preparing a possible claim for damages with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. In the light of the disagreements in the government and the arbitrary breach of political powers, we ask the Minister to answer four questions. First of all, 'What is the view of the Government of the Republic regarding the claim for occupation damage from the Russian Federation? ' Second: 'Does the Minister of Justice intend to carry out the tasks assigned to the government by the Riigikogu in 2004? ' Third: 'How is the Constitution, the Parliamentary principle and the continuity of the Estonian state consistent with the situation where the Minister of Foreign Affairs and Prime Minister are not guided by the decisions of the Riigikogu and the official positions of previous Estonian governments? " And lastly, do you intend to demand that the Government of the Republic proceed with the identification of occupation damage and the filing of a claim? ' Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-22_U58	An inquiry has been made to Urmas Reinsalu, Minister of Justice. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-22_U59	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! Responding to this serious question on a very serious and painful subject, the wider context of the whole problem needs to be opened. First of all, however, the position of the state institutions of the Republic of Estonia and the universal claim for damages under the international law of the Republic of Estonia and the right to damages under international law. The institutions of the Republic of Estonia have adopted the following positions: First of all, in 2004 the Riigikogu considered it necessary to instruct the government to state its position on any claims for damages arising from the damage and losses caused during the occupations. In 2004, the Government of the Republic formed a position in this regard, which consisted of the following. The government considered it necessary to continue to analyse the possibilities of obtaining compensation for damages caused by the occupying authorities and to prepare claims for damages. The government stressed that support should be given, in particular, to possible claims for damages in relation to human harm. The government considered it necessary to inform the general public more generally about the repression of the occupying powers on the territory of the Republic of Estonia and instructed the Ministry of Justice to engage with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in the preparation of a possible claim for damages, stressing that it is important to establish an international background in dealing with the issue of damages claims and to emphasise this issue in relations with other countries. The government proposed that the Riigikogu address the Parliamentary Assembly of the European Parliament, the Council of Europe and the parliaments of the other European Union countries with a proposal to adopt statements condemning the totalitarian communism regime. As we know, in the serious cooperation between many countries, particularly those of Eastern Europe, these parliamentary assemblies expressed both the European Parliament and the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, albeit in different wordings and with different emphasis, but clearly condemning the activities of totalitarian regimes. The position of the Government of the Republic, which was guided in 2004, was as follows. The principle that the State is responsible for violations of international law is part of ordinary international law. The central principle of state liability is that the State bears international legal responsibility for an act of international law. A State which has infringed international law shall have the obligation to give reparation. The main forms of repair are compensation and apology. In 1940 and 1941, and after 1945 during the Soviet occupation, the Soviet Union violated the standards of international law in force at the time, through deportations, political arrests and other mass repressions. The London Statute, which was the basis of the Nuremberg Process, defined in 1945 crimes against humanity and crimes against peace, or aggression, with retroactive effect in the context of World War II. The occupation of the Republic of Estonia can be regarded as a violation of the agreements concluded between the Republic of Estonia and the Soviet Union, as well as of the general principle of international law, the sovereignty of the state and the integrity of the state's territory. The Republic of Estonia has the right to apologize for and/or to claim compensation for these violations, as the continuity of the Republic of Estonia was preserved due to the illegality of the 1940 annex. The repressed were citizens of the Republic of Estonia. The claim can be made to the Russian Federation because, as the Soviet Union collapsed, the Russian Federation took over the rights of the Soviet Union, claiming to be a continuing state of the Soviet Union in certain areas, i.e. in Russian gossudarstvo prodalzhite. It is possible to make a claim for public apology, financial compensation, or money, or both. These were the views reflected in the general principles of international law, which the government formed its positions in 2004. These crimes against our people and against our statehood are timeless. I recall that the repressions during the first Soviet occupation meant more than 48000 lives lost to Estonia so far, while the second Soviet occupation took about 121000 people from our midst. The fact is that the Russian Federation has not taken significant steps either to apologise or to compensate for the damage. In 1991, according to the principles of state liability, the Republic of Estonia has restored its independence to the right and obligation to represent and protect its citizens and to require the Russian Federation, as a country wishing to maintain continuity with the Soviet Union, to compensate for the damage caused by the gross violations of the law of its time. It is a universal principle of international law that cannot be challenged in the rule of law. Now for the positions regarding the Ministry of Justice's activities in dealing with the problems. The work plan of the Government of the Republic gives the Ministry of Justice a series of tasks. The Ministry must, among other things, be actively responsible for the awareness and condemnation of communism and Nazi crimes, and must continue to stand at international level for declaring communism as a criminal ideology, and continue to investigate communism crimes and identify persons guilty of crimes against humanity and genocide. These are my tasks as a minister, all of which, of course, must be dealt with. On 23 August last year, the Estonian Ministry of Justice launched an international initiative concerning the establishment of an international administration of justice for the investigation and processing of communism crimes. I am pleased that more than ten European Unions and other countries have joined this initiative and action. Last year, the Ministers of Justice of the three Baltic States drew up a communiqué, which also concerns the issue of damage caused during the Soviet occupation and cooperation between the Baltic States. My unequivocal position is that the Baltic States must cooperate on these issues. Currently Latvia, Lithuania and Estonia have reached a different distance by assessing the financial and other losses. Since these are analogous problems, it would be reasonable for all three Baltic States to act together and analyse possible legal steps together. I would like to stress that there have been opinions here, as if it were a past that we no longer need to deal with. What I'm saying is that one thing is a legal right. Legal law exists under international law, I can over-analyze it, but there is no question here just legal law exists. Who is competent in the Republic of Estonia to waive such a right? We spoke here about millions of euro payments made to Estonian Air under the previous item. Which institution in the Republic of Estonia has the mandate to waive such a claim for damages under international law? The legal competence to represent the country, of course, lies with the government and the parliament, the legislator. I also argue that the moral right to waive this requirement under international law is not for the generations of young people today, but for those generations, for those who have survived the horrors of occupation themselves and perhaps also for those who have lost their loved ones. It is important to stress that Article 1 of the Doctrine of State Liability drawn up by the International Law Commission contains the principle that an act against international law entails the international responsibility of the State concerned. This means that liability arises as soon as one country commits unlawful acts of guilt against another country. However, Articles 43 and 45 of that doctrine lay down the requirements and rules to be followed by the affected State when referring to the responsibility of another State. According to Article 43, the injured State, which refers to the liability of another State, must inform the other State of its claim. The State affected may also specify the form in which the repair should take place. On the basis of a specific case, for example, reference is made to the "Certain Phosphate Lands in Nauru' case concerning international law, which allows liability claims to be made at different levels of government, and it is sufficient that the State responsible becomes aware of the claim through the application made by the claimant, even if it is given in the form of a call or meeting notice. If the State affected fails to comply with the rules, it may have negative consequences, including the loss of the right to refer to the liability of the State as set out in Article 45. Under this provision, State liability may not be referred to if (a) the State affected has legally waived the claim or (b) the State affected is deemed to have tacitly agreed, as a result of its behaviour, that the claim has expired. The latter provision means that if a State fails to make a claim within a reasonable period of time or shows tacit consent to an injustice, it is equivalent to a waiver of the claim and the obligation to pay for the reparation of the offender does not apply. However, the international court has also held in its case law that international law does not impose any specific time limit in this respect. It therefore depends on the circumstances of the particular case whether or not the passing of time renders the application of this requirement unacceptable. Thus, first of all, the Republic of Estonia has the right of claim under international law and, second, the waiver of entitlement would require the official positions of the state institutions to be formed either at the level of the government or at the level of the legislator. This has not been done by the institutions of the Republic of Estonia. Various politicians have expressed their views on this issue. I think that all politicians should be guided in their assessments by the fact that their assessments must not lead to the declaration of State liability referred to in Article 45, according to which the state has legally waived its claim. These principles and practices of international law must be borne in mind by all national institutions in their activities. It has also been asked why to deal with it in the first place. I would like to respond with five arguments from Dr Dainius Zhalimas, President of the Lithuanian Constitutional Court. Firstly, the treatment of a well-founded claim for compensation is, first, a warning example for the entire international community in order to prevent similar crimes from being committed. Secondly, victims of the crimes committed by the Soviet occupation regime must at least be given symbolic justice and moral satisfaction and guaranteed full protection of their dignity. I think that in this debate we must also not forget the people who are the hardest affected by this issue, the victims. Thirdly, historical memory and historical truth must be preserved, especially at a time when attempts are being made in Russia to reconstruct history and question the legitimacy of the restoration of the independence of the Baltic States. Look, if we abandon the principle of legal continuity, we do not have the right to any claims arising from international law, as Estonia voluntarily joined the Soviet Union according to the official concept of the Russian Federation. Consequently, the principle of legal continuity is the basis for this requirement under international law. Professor Zhalimas highlights two other important arguments. Firstly, taking responsibility is a prerequisite for sincere bilateral relations between countries. Speaking of the possibility of compensation in all abstract categories, we must not forget the perspective of what we envisage in the future bilateral relations, which should be based on sincerity and mutual trust. Taking responsibility is one of the firm prerequisites for building trust. Fifthly, taking responsibility for international crimes is one way to confirm that the country respects the principles of the rule of law and law and appreciates other important values of today's democratic world. I would not at all like to take as a basis the principle that, in the case of the Russian Federation, we are undermining the fact that it will never want to accept its responsibility in the future and that, therefore, it is not possible to bring a claim for damages. The belief that, in the case of the Russian Federation, we can also feel the responsibility for bilateral relations on this painful issue is certainly something that must be kept in mind in view of the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-22_U60	Questions for the Minister. Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-22_U61	Thank you, Mr. Speaker. Minister, thank you very much. It is unfortunate that some other ministers weren't in the hall right now, but I hope they'll look at the verbatim later. You stressed that we have a right of claim under international law, but later you spoke about what a silent waiver is. And now a very specific question: does the statement made by Kõivas and Kaljuranna that we are not dealing with this and that it is unimaginable, mean that we have so-called silently renounced our entitlement? And the second question. There was also a story about who represents the country and how. Who do you think should mainly deal with this, either the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Ministry of Justice, the government collectively or the Prime Minister? Who is the main competent minister who should be dealing with this topic in Estonia now?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-22_U62	Thank you. First of all, I would like to say that the decision-making bodies that have been given this competence. On a specific issue, i.e. the question of filing a claim for damages, international law does not provide which body must have that competence. The Government of the Republic has not taken any decision on withdrawal or waiver of entitlement which, as I indicated, is theoretically possible under international law. I certainly do not want to say that, according to one specific statement or another, the claim has been assessed as permafrost. In my opinion, no official in the Republic of Estonia has expressed the view that the Republic of Estonia will waive the right to this theoretical claim. There is a very important principled distinction here. The question is what a politician thinks this perspective is and how does anyone think it needs to be dealt with. I think that these issues, which also concern the issues of occupation, must be dealt with by the Ministry of Justice according to the government's work plan. And these are the issues we are dealing with. How? I think it is reasonable to harmonise the methodology used to analyse the extent of Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania's losses and the consequences of the occupation. We also stressed in the Riga Declaration that all the economic damage caused by the Soviet Union to the Baltic States should be assessed jointly in cooperation. As I pointed out, different countries have come a different distance from this work. In Lithuania, a referendum has been adopted and carried out on a constitutional level. The people found, as well as the opinion of the President of the Lithuanian Constitutional Court, that no state body in Lithuania has the legal right to waive this requirement. This is a very important fact. The Lithuanian State has already made this request to the Russian Federation in bilateral relations. Latvia has recently completed one interim report on the damage caused and has also expressed it on a financial scale. In Estonia, this work has been carried out on the largest scale in relation to the White Paper on Occupational regimes, which also deals with various aspects of damage. Economic damage is also addressed, but human damage is clearly at the heart. The right thing is that the methodology has been different for all three Baltic States. To discuss how these methodologies can be combined is self-evident. Secondly, it is absolutely necessary, based on the principles and practice of international law, to analyse the scenarios of the real possibilities of redress. Legal experts must work towards this, and once again it makes sense to do so in cooperation with experts from all three Baltic countries. I have spoken with legal experts from both Latvia and Lithuania who have specialized in international law, as well as with Estonian experts. I do not want to get ahead of events, but it is indeed possible to construct different requirements, even in a situation where the country that caused the damage does not wish to participate in international justice as the other party. It is reasonable to wait for lawyers' assessments, and then it will be possible to make decisions based on arguments, international law and our knowledge of the suffering that our people and our country have suffered not ten centuries ago, not 50 centuries ago, but half a century ago. I don't think memory has to be treated as an uncomfortable burden that we want to shake off our shoulders and go into the future without ever looking into the past. No, memory is our power, memory is our roots, and memory makes us who we are. It must be guided. Legal work has already been done on these issues this year and the work will continue. And if any analysis is of such a level that it is possible to make decisions and make substantive constitutional choices on the basis of them, it is done.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-22_U63	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-22_U64	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, I certainly agree with you, it is very good that the crimes of occupation regimes have been condemned. I think it's been about 14 years. This has also been the case with the decisions of the pan-European parliamentary assemblies. But it seems to me that this is not a good time to deal with this issue. We are even talking about changing the name of the Museum of Occupations and it also seems that in the government you are alone with this initiative or at least you can hear a certain cacophony. My question is, what's your next schedule? You have already answered my planned question about Latvia and Lithuania, but what is the future schedule of cooperation? And will the information about what you're doing still reach the Prime Minister and the Minister of Foreign Affairs, so that there will be no internal political cacophony?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-22_U65	As far as changing the name of the occupation museum is concerned, I admit that the activities of the organisers of this museum, created in good faith on a private initiative, must certainly be viewed with a sense of Pieté. Mrs Kistler-Ritso's decision to build this museum with the support of her donation deserves eternal recognition and must be taken into account. Given that we are going to celebrate the 100th anniversary of the Republic of Estonia, I cannot imagine that we do not have a central memory institution, a central museum that deals specifically and exclusively with occupations. If we look at even the countries of Eastern and Central Europe, that would be unprecedented. It should be borne in mind that, if, indeed, a private initiative leads to a situation where there is no memory institution in this way, the state must think about how this task will be carried out. However, as far as my loneliness is concerned, I think that there was no political debate and confrontation in the decision-making of the Riigikogu on this issue, and in my opinion, no one has now questioned the legal continuity of the Republic of Estonia and that the Republic of Estonia was illegally harmed. In my opinion, there is a broad consensus on this issue in the country. Thirdly, I think that a person who is oriented in international law cannot also question the fact that, when unlawful damage was caused, it also results in the right of claim. The question is how to realise this right of claim. It requires, as I said, analysis, and the Justice Department will definitely do it. This also requires, of course, that if concrete proposals are developed on the basis of analyses, they will be analysed at the level of the government institutions so that there is no conflicting air. I want to stress that this is some kind of media noise right now. I explained that it was not the request of the Minister of Justice of the three Baltic States to compensate Russia for the loss of occupation. It was just the view that there was a right of claim. Secondly, we are working together, and thirdly, it makes sense to base this cooperation on legal continuity and to identify in a coherent way all the economic damage caused by the Soviet Union to the Baltic States. Once this work is done, countries will be able to make decisions together. There have been different interpretations. Interestingly, I approached the papers with a desire to write an article about it, but for some reason it did not respond positively. Journalism publications indicated that these topics were of no interest to readers. I guess he is. Perhaps someone really feels that the past is either uncomfortable or so boring that it is not considered necessary to deal with it. I think the past has to be dealt with. It's about values in society, how society makes sense. And we will not escape this responsibility.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-22_U66	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-22_U67	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. I was present here in this Chamber when both the Minister for Foreign Affairs and the Prime Minister confirmed that it is hopeless to demand compensation for the damage to the occupation, and the current government is not dealing with this issue. We also all know that, fortunately, the soon-to-be president has repeatedly called for the past to be forgotten, not for talking about occupation, and for looking to the future. The news that came a few days ago that the name of the Museum of Occupations would be changed to Vabamu made me inevitably draw a causal parallel between these views and the change in that name. My question is this: do you sense that Estonia is currently trying to circumvent the topic of occupation at the highest level, at the level of government and president, and to put everything that affects the occupation under pressure?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-22_U68	Thank you. I wouldn't make such a generalisation. These are complex and difficult issues, which, of course, require thorough preliminary work, which is precisely a matter of international law. The legal argument is our weapon in these discussions. As Lennart Meri said, a nuclear weapon of a small country is an international law. In my opinion, on these issues, we must rely on a passionate, rational legal argumentation chain. There are a lot of recent assessments and opinions that are not based on facts. We need to deal with these issues on a factual basis, and that is what I tried to highlight in my report to Parliament. Now, a little of the struggle for history or the attempts to idealize history, turn history into a weapon of political struggle. We can see that the Russian Federation is systematically dealing with this. History is a political weapon in this country. This has nothing to do with the Estonian context, but the fact is that Latvian memory researchers have complained to me that the government of the city of Riga, led by Mr. Ušakovs, is deliberately and systematically involved in the extinction of the Latvian occupation museum. Those are the facts. Things are different in Estonia. The past is not our weakness. But you have to know how to deal with the past, otherwise the past becomes a threat to our future. That's it. We need to understand that the idea of freedom is that we want to remain independent and free over time and, unfortunately, reminds us best and, unfortunately, even the most painfully non-freedom, or all these decades of slavery. It is not rational, in my opinion, to declare it an awkward page or simply to turn it into an archive issue, because it will make us vulnerable to the dangers of the past in the future. We just can't afford that luxury.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-22_U69	Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-22_U70	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. First, the term 'gossudarstvo prodolzhitel' does not exist in nature, even the word 'prodolzhitel' does not exist. You probably wanted to say "pravoprijonik." But that's it. Secondly, I was sitting in this Chamber to hear your answer to questions one and four, but you didn't answer them. You talk for so long, maybe you'll find time to answer them. And third, here's my question. You're the Minister of Justice, and legalism means a lot of things like precedent. Please tell me which countries have formally applied for such compensation in the last 25 years and what has become of it. I mean, how many such conversions have there been, and with what result?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-22_U71	The precedents are very different in international law. Perhaps one of the most interesting is the beginning of this century. In America, at the end of the 18th century, there is a cake law. In the interpretation of the Supreme Court at the time, it was possible for all parties to lodge claims for damages on American soil under general international law. This solution was chosen by representatives of the American Jewish community, who filed claims for damages on American territory against European companies who had forced Jews into slavery in World War II. And indeed, these things were taken into legal proceedings, dealt with in depth in courts, concluded agreements for out-of-court reconciliation, and the persons were compensated. Indeed, international law allows for a wide range of legal proceedings, including in the jurisdiction of the international court. Now specifically from the first and fourth questions. Firstly, as I said, my position is that, if the relevant analyses have been carried out for the Government of the Republic, they must also concern comparative assessments and cooperation with other Baltic states, then it is possible for the Government to prepare choices for prudent decisions under international law. This debate certainly has a place not only in legal matters but also in diplomacy and how the three Baltic States envisage action in this regard. We're going to take this forward step by step. What is the view of the Government of the Republic regarding claims for compensation for occupation damage to the Russian Federation? I've already introduced those decisions that have been made before. No other decisions have been considered necessary by the government in office.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-22_U72	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-22_U73	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, You spoke very nicely about the cooperation between the three Baltic States in discussing, calculating and further acting in the framework of international law. Please tell me which of the three Baltic States was the initiator of this cooperation and whose most enthusiastic leadership this cooperation is running. Or can we say that this is a dignified cooperation between three equal partners?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-22_U74	We're three brothers, three other destiny mates on this road. Each one draws his own rope by being the central carrier of some action. In August last year, I launched a pan-European debate on the International Day of Victims of Totalitarianism, where the idea of a body investigating communism crimes was raised. My Lithuanian colleague sent a letter a month ago, where he felt it was important to celebrate the European Day of Remembrance of the victims of Communism and Nazism in Brussels on 23 August, and I and our Latvian colleague joined it. A Latvian colleague took a concrete initiative in Riga, which led to a joint debate on cooperation. The Latvians had a very practical reason for this: a mid-term report was prepared by the Latvian Committee of Inquiry, which prompted this debate. As I said, compared to three countries, we are at a different distance from this job. The damage caused in Estonia has not yet been calculated in cash. Kalev Kukk has tried to value economic losses in money in the White Paper on Occupational Damages. Latvia and Lithuania have tried to use the same method, i.e. to estimate the loss of income that could have been created as value in society if these countries had not been occupied. Kalev Kukk was the benchmark for the development of the Republic of Finland. Of course, subjectivity is always at stake in such methods, but it came to the conclusion that occupation brought about an eight-fold lower level of prosperity for our people. I think that these economic indicators are convincing enough to confirm the notion that our younger generations today have very little competence to say whether or not we have a mandate to deal with this issue. The damage suffered by the entire people and the state is simply so immense that it is difficult to record in any catalogue of resources available to the state. There have also been arguments that the Russian Federation can submit counterclaims during the occupation of the Republic of Estonia, after all, many factories and other objects were built here. I would like to make it clear here that there is a general principle of law: ex injuria jus non oritur, or illegal occupation, does not give rise to any legal rights, including property rights, for the occupying person. All that occupying power has done, no matter what it has built, has been his responsibility.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-22_U75	Jaak Madison.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-22_U76	Thank you, good minister, for your answers. In answering the third question of inquiry, you stressed that every person has the right to have his or her opinion and to express it. At the same time, we must be guided by the fact that the Minister for Foreign Affairs and the Prime Minister are not quite ordinary citizens who express their views on social media or when talking to a neighbour. The first question is, however, how do you assess the opinions of the leading government figures in Estonia, which are not in line with the official position adopted more than ten years ago, but which should still be based on. And how can this affect cooperation with other Baltic countries? Secondly, much has been said about the analysis, that only after the analysis can we proceed. How far is the analysis, and what is the timeline for its completion?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-22_U77	I told my Latvian colleague when I saw him at the meeting of the European Justice Council in Brussels that there was such a public controversy in Estonia. He was rather surprised and said that in Latvia these issues were dealt with as the rules of international law allow. In Latvia, as in the other way around, there is no understanding. He was surprised what could be so highly polychemical here. When it comes to the opinion of one person or another in particular, it may make sense, if indeed, to take these views as one or the other politician's own opinions. It is not worth pointing out that the requirement could be waived. There are no requirements in international law regarding the form of the claim. We must ensure that international law does not allow the opinions expressed by different officials to be interpreted as a formal position or a declaration of waiver in a possible future legal dispute. In this sense, I hope that this debate does not sound like this. As far as the pace of progress is concerned, perhaps it is best to bear in mind the perspective that we will be able to carry out certain legal analyses this year. But I stress once again that it does not depend solely on my actions. These analyses will be considered when the relevant communiqué or joint statement is based on a joint assessment by the Ministry of Justice of the three Baltic States. Whatever way to act, it is certainly irrational when the three Baltic States define their position or take possible legal steps alone or, worse still, choose different paths. This is certainly a case where speaking in choir increases the common strength and not dispels it.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-22_U78	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-22_U79	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good minister! Thank you very much for your meaningful and constructive answers. You were asked today for examples of damages payments. I was the first to recall that in 2008 Italy committed almost EUR 150 million to Libya for the former occupation over 25 years. It is regrettable that the Minister of Foreign Affairs and the Prime Minister placed themselves with their soloes, whose content was contrary to Estonian views, outside the Estonian legal space. After all, the damage caused by the occupation concerns not only the state but also hundreds of thousands of citizens whose right to claim claims and to seek compensation is inalienable. My question is this: does the Prime Minister and the Minister of Foreign Affairs have the slightest right to speak on behalf of the citizens, calling their possible claims unimaginable?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-22_U80	Certainly no public authority has the power to deprive citizens of their subjective rights. Do citizens really have these rights arising from international law? When we speak of such a clearly understandable matter as slave labor, of course, this claim has arisen. The property of individuals has been damaged by unlawful acts, the health of individuals has also been damaged, and many have also left lives. So that right exists and if the state ignored it, it would unequivocally take the view that the Republic of Estonia does not have legal continuity. In that case, this theoretical right of claim for citizens would undoubtedly disappear. After all, it is understandable that, if the country, hypothetically, joined the Soviet Union voluntarily, it is therefore its own activity in relation to its own citizens. In such a case, the right of action of individuals under international law shall no longer exist. It is certainly reasonable to bear in mind that, with central weight, the issue of human harm is understandable, both from a humanistic and inalienable point of view of human rights. It must be guided. Let us look at the behaviour of the various countries that have wished to bear this responsibility under international law. They have compensated individual persons for any damage caused by genocide or any other violation of international law. This has been done on a very large number of occasions, and it has been either the free will of countries to take responsibility for what has been done in the past or the result of justice or political pressure. Of course, no person has the right, whether in high office or not, to declare the claim of the people to be nonexistent.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-22_U81	Arno Bridge, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-22_U82	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Minister, thank you very much. Here's the question. Is there any interaction between the signing of the Riga Declaration and the subsequent activities and the preparation of the border agreement with the Russian Federation, or are these two completely different things?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-22_U83	This initiative has been sought to attribute negative political influence as if it were detrimental to the conclusion of a border agreement. Logic is such that it upsets Russia. I've been a realist about this. Neither the activities of the Russian Federation in Ukraine, nor the kidnapping or other cases of an Estonian defence police officer, have fundamentally damaged the prospects of the border treaty. The countries have dealt with these matters differently. I think that the Republic of Estonia has emphasised in the border agreement that the agreement only determines the passing of the border line. All other relationships which could result from any historical or other factors cannot be governed by the Borders Agreement.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-22_U84	Jaanus Karilaid, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-22_U85	Thank you to the manager. Good waitress! In the situation where you are dealing with the collating of the damage to the occupation, the Government of the Republic has taken a very clear path towards ratifying the Russian-Estonian border treaty, which seeks to present a gift to the Russian Federation and give away a piece of land the size of Saaremaa. There is no mention of compensation requirements. Do you not see the need to ask for compensation when the principles of Tartu peace are abandoned and something is given away?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-22_U86	I said that, as far as the border line between the two countries is concerned and the related security policy and other considerations, the Republic of Estonia has taken this agreement from the point of view that it does not in itself concern those relations arising from unlawful occupation. However, one point that was referred to here in one question and which concerns third-party claims must certainly be borne in mind. I am referring to persons who have applied for the return of property unlawfully disposed of in the territory of Petseri County, i.e. in the territory of the Tartu Peace Treaty. When this law was passed, the Republic of Estonia did not exercise the factual power of state there. This issue certainly deserves legal analysis. Although the Republic of Estonia has compensated those persons, when they have requested it, for the removal of their property, this does not mean that it deprives them of the right to protect their property rights also in their relations with the Russian Federation. This fact must be borne in mind, and this will certainly be analysed by the Ministry of Justice.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-22_U87	Thank you, Minister of Justice Urmas Reinsalu! I'm opening negotiations. Mart Helme would like to speak on behalf of the heirs. Honourable heirs, you are always the first to have a say, use it boldly!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-22_U88	President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin by thanking the Minister, because this was very constructive. He had prepared himself well, didn't shoot off his hip, didn't cause excessive demagoguery. He explained everything in a way that he and his office could understand with their better recognition. The conflict between the Minister of Justice and several other ministers, in particular the Prime Minister and the Minister of Foreign Affairs, is all the more acute. They assured our entire company here, not only to us, but also to the people behind us, who have sent us here very clearly, that there is no prospect of compensation for the damage to the occupation, and the government in office is not dealing with this issue. And let's take into consideration the other views these same people have said off this remote control! I am thinking of absolute evasiveness and the inability to state clearly whether 5.2% of Estonia's territory is still occupied or not occupied, whether we are going to ask for compensation for this occupation that is still going on, for those landowners, for those property owners whose property has remained on the other side of the current border or control line, no matter what word we use, or we are not going to. Are we really saying that you don't need anything, because with yellow cards, you got something, basically, you got it? We are setting aside evasive answers to direct and clear questions about whether the Republic of Estonia has a valid border agreement with the Russian Federation or whether we do not have a valid border agreement, which requires a new border agreement, and we understand that the honourable Minister of Justice is probably alone in the government on this matter. The greater recognition for the fact that he is based very clearly on the provisions of the Estonian Constitution, that the border between Estonia and the Russian Federation is the boundary defined in the Tartu Peace Treaty. It is clear that Estonia has been occupied. I didn't ask you by any chance about the Museum of Occupations. This is another example of what kind of menthalal was but not only mental, but also spiritual, if you use foreign words, the transformation has taken place in the Republic of Estonia and, above all, in government circles over the last 25 years. When the museum was founded, it was called the Occupational Museum. "Occupation" was in the singular. Next, the impression needed to be diluted, not pointed to the country that occupied us for 50 years. It was necessary to dilute the impression and also to bring into play the country that occupied us during World War II, Nazi Germany, and was named the Museum of Occupations. The intermediate stage was that the stars that formed the name of the museum were taken off the wall of the museum, that did not stand out, for God's sake, is not beautiful, insults anyone. And now it's about the fact that our Museum of Occupations is turning into a Freemum. Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-22_U89	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-22_U90	Mental and mental fractures have taken place. There's been a loss of sovereignty. And what else has happened in the Republic of Estonia? This is what we are always talking about: the division of society. I read an interview by Toomas Hendrik Ilves in the Eesti Päevaleht. This whole interview is like one big, rude pointing finger from a stalinist poster. You, Estonian, are responsible for the world's misthinking of us! You're intolerant, you don't want refugees, you're still talking about occupation. You, you, you! Here comes the salmon. Not the people, and not the extremists, like me here, will divide the people, but those who impose on the people with his historical memory, things contrary to his sense of moral justice, be it the law of cohabitation, be it the Renaissance of the Museum of Occupations. It's as simple as that. It would be nice if the extreme left and those who have given our sovereignty away from the glass beads would understand this and try to come together on the middle floor as well. We'll try for our part. You could also catch extremists who get money from Putin all the time. Come and meet us halfway, maybe then we can overcome the people's division, and maybe then we will be there for the 100th anniversary of the Republic of Estonia, that we can really agree, joyfully and hopefully look forward, as we did in 1989 and 1990, to go to the Song Festival Square and sing patriotic songs together, without feeling bitter about the fact that every fifth person eats a potato choir. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-22_U91	Mikhail Stalnukhin, please! Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-22_U92	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, Thank you, Mr. Minister of Justice. While in this Chamber, I feel that I have come to a fairy tale country where there is some parallel reality. And it's such a great feeling, because what's really out there, I really want to forget sometimes. But no matter what, we live in this world. Tonight, a subject you might want to think about has popped into my head. Hey, has it ever been that Estonian agriculture is as low as it is now? Of course, it must be taken into account that at all times there are certain techniques, certain techniques, etc., but has there been a situation in recent history where we virtually lack our own industry? Has there been such a time that so little depends on us? Sovereignty was given away, didn't it? I totally agree with that. Walking around Estonia, looking at villages that have run dry, looking at thousands of ruins that are standing across the country and nothing can be done if you listen to what people are saying about our medicine, about our ability to save, will anyone ever claim damages for it? From who? Let's start over. My grandfather went to camp in Siberia twice. First time in 1940. There in Siberia, he was offered the opportunity to go to the Estonian Shooter Corps at the end of 1942. He went there, and after a while he camped again. There was a strange story that continued after Korea and then in Magadan. But that's it. When my mother went to the state archives, when it was opened, and there was an opportunity to investigate these things, it became clear that both times when Grandpa was sent to a camp in Siberia, the person who wrote the complaint on him was Do I have to draw any conclusions from that? Do I have to generalise it somehow? Should I claim damages or just know that geography has nothing to do with it? The point is that in every country and in every regime, there are people who are vile and there are those who are noble. Yes, I agree that the Estonian people have suffered suffering. But what people did not experience them in the last century? I remind you of the famous word judenfrei, which also sounded in Estonia, in the first country in Europe, who killed all his Jews. I am telling you about 31 death camps that were active on Estonian territory and where the local people also worked mostly. At first, its inhabitants were killed and the Jews from Europe were killed. Does anyone want us to stop looking behind us and step forward looking forward, or is that how we live looking back? If so, please accept that a claim for damages may also be made to us. As for the extremely funny statement that Russia must not demand anything back, that is not the case. And that is why, in fact, no former Soviet republic, which is currently an independent state, and no former Warsaw Treaty country has filed any claims in 25 years. I can read you a lot of statistics. I'm picking a year, like 1985. Russian Federation, then Soviet Republic: average per capita production of 14800 dollars, consumption of 12500. The second extreme is Georgia: average per capita production of $12,800, consumption of 31500, or 2.5 times higher. Estonia was more or less the same: production of 15400 dollars and consumption of 26000. It was an occupational risk, said the minister here. But if this trend was consistent in all these 50 years, why were our parents or grandparents the communists, the communists, the trade unions, why did they send their children to the pioneer camps? Why did they use the benefits of this regime, get apartments, etc.? You don't like what I'm saying, but that's what a lot of people think, especially when they compare the situation with what's going on right now. Personally, I think there are two reasons why this issue sometimes arises. One is the desire to overcome economic difficulties. How about luck? Maybe that's the money from Russia. Another desire is to make political advertising. So if you want to make claims to someone, think about whether there's someone next to you who can get you the exact same or similar requirement. As it would sound here, the Jews had the opportunity to claim compensation for everything they had to suffer, and this requirement could extend from Germany to other countries. In any case, I think it's an eternal issue, it never ends. There was no frustration in Estonia before. It was discussed here how many former communists were sitting in the Riigikogu, but it was never a particular problem in continuing their careers. The communists were, are and will remain, and the way to blame everyone else for their mistakes is left to us as their inheritance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-22_U93	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-22_U94	Mr. Chairman! Honourable representatives of the people! I came here on behalf of the Free Party to say mostly that we want to express our total disagreement with the previous speech. Certainly the fact that we have a claim for compensation for the damages of the occupations, even in theory, is correct. This is right because our country relies on legal continuity, because occupation is a historical fact and it must be drawn its own conclusions. However, the politics of the Republic of Estonia have consistently maintained this line. Despite the flickerings that were brought to light from the other end of this hall, I recall that in 2002 the crimes of occupation regimes have been condemned in this Chamber. To a large extent, the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe and the European Parliament have done the same when Estonian politicians are involved. Consequently, everything that concerns a claim for damages is, in theory, absolutely correct and, in this sense, the Minister of Justice must be accepted and the international cooperation in this area recognised. The question is, what is political reality? Certainly no one in this Chamber is seriously hoping that this is a means of implementing our squeaky state budget. This is a completely different question and I ask you to keep separate, which is continuity under international law and staying on this line, which theoretically leads to claims for damages, and which is a day policy. The Free Party certainly does not want to turn this issue into a day-to-day policy for the collection of points, nor has it done so far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-22_U95	Jaak Madison.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-22_U96	Ladies and gentlemen, I was motivated by Mr Stalnukhin's speech. I have no doubt that there are people in the Chamber who agree with him, and perhaps more than one person shares his opinion. With full respect for a good colleague, I cannot agree with his views. The reason we put forward this question lies in the speeches of the members of the government. If there had not been a solo show that opposed the official positions of Estonia and expressed not only a personal opinion, but also positions that harm the interests of the Estonian state and the people, and cooperation with our historical partners, Latvia and Lithuania, there would have been no reason to pass on this question. We cannot call this a political point to raise the party's reputation and gain more popularity. It's a matter of principle. It is about the principle of continuity whether we admit that Estonia was occupied, or whether we are going to deny it and hide it and try to forget the past and tell the people that we are looking to the future. Whoever doesn't remember the past lives without a future. The past is that Estonia was occupied. The damage caused by the occupation is irreparable, and its forgetfulness is treasonous. It's as simple as that. When we talk about making a counterclaim, there are two options. International law gives no basis for occupying power to bring claims for damages to occupied areas. If anyone claims otherwise, this person simply does not recognise the existence of occupation. We're talking about the existence of communists in history and today. Yes, we can agree that the communists were that the communists are still present today, certainly there may still be others in this Chamber, but we cannot agree with rhetoric that the communists must remain in the future. Communism must be eradicated and eradicated. So it's purely the principle of how we deal with history and today. We need to get on with this. I am pleased that Mr Reinsalugi acknowledges that this issue needs to be addressed and that he draws on the positions taken by the government and does not express personal opinions. I very much hope that the Minister will be able to defend these positions in the government, that the analysis that has been spoken will be completed and will move forward with firm steps. Of course, we all agree that neither today nor tomorrow are there likely to be any reason to expect any compensation, even less polite apology, because the current power in Russia is, as it is, what it is. However, we must never give up our positions, because as we know from recent history, the days pass very quickly, and tomorrow may be very different than yesterday. I hope that the Minister's work will succeed, and I wish us all more sense of reality and less attitude, which clearly go against the interests of the Estonian state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-22_U97	Jaanus Karilaid, is this a speech? Jaanus Karilaid, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-22_U98	Ladies and gentlemen, No one in Estonia denies the occupation in this hall. At the same time, playing for political gain raises questions about the feelings and suffering of the Estonian people. My question to the IRL politician, the Minister of Justice, was that the Government of the Republic is currently very proudly dragging the ratification of the Russian-Estonian border treaty, and this treaty distances itself very clearly from the principles of Tartu peace. A little over 5% of our land will be given and no compensation will be required for this. These two facts show that small hypocrisy is still at stake. It would be the job of the Minister of Justice to dispel these doubts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-22_U99	Thank you. There is no further wish for negotiation. Please, Minister of Justice Urmas Reinsalu!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-22_U100	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! Mr Karilaid, as a representative of the Centre Party, you claim to be hypocritical when talking about the occupation, the legal continuity of the Republic of Estonia and the interests of the Estonian state. I'd turn that spike towards you. But as for the problems that were raised here, Riigikogu member Mikhail Stalnukhin thinks that someone is hoping to get rich with this claim, making a lot of money. This has also sounded in the comments of several positions expressed in public spaces. But we don't mean the perspective of getting a lot of money, it would be comparable to the notion that oil will be found somewhere, and then we'll be rich. I'll ask you backwards. If we were to be paid a lot of money to assure us that the Soviet Union, who is rightful, of the Russian Federation, has never done us any harm, would we take this money and sell our birthright? Would we be like Esau, who sold his birthright to his brother for a lentil? Question: Does the money decide whether our people were destroyed and enslaved? Was our country trampled on porn? Is money the standard? I think there is a deeply immoral collection of representatives of the people to express such thoughts. The second question is that it is like trying to impose collective guilt on the Estonian people that he became the victim of the occupation. It was as if people were guilty of living in an occupied country, earning their daily bread and also getting apartments, eating and producing, as was indicated, in 1985, Estonian SSR had $15,000 per capita GDP. I dare say that using the category of market economy statistics for GDP, when it comes to the logic of the accounts of a totalitarian state, is completely pointless. This was demonstrated even by comparing investments in the Soviet military industry complex with military expenditure in other countries. The fact is that crimes against humanity were committed against our citizens, annexation crimes were committed and the victims were committed. That's the basis of everything. The Russian people also undoubtedly survived the atrocities during the Communist regime. Underfooting people's fundamental rights and freedoms took an incredible scale and, of course, it is the opinion of every honest and responsible Estonian person that we are in solidarity with the Russian people and understand the suffering that the Russian people suffered. But the legal relations between countries are quite different. Undoubtedly, the Russian people have the right to claim compensation from their country, as a successor to the Soviet Union, for the suffering they have suffered. They also have the right to demand the moral condemnation of what has happened in their country. The starting point for both the Republic of Estonia and the Russian people, honest people from all over the world, is the requirement that their actions must be held accountable. If responsibility has not been taken, it means that its actions, or those of its own kind, have not been condemned, and it immediately gives rise to a moral mandate to commit further violations of international law, with military force, if necessary, as we have seen in Georgia and Ukraine. There has been much talk of human rights violations in Russia today. Mart Helme was talking about a spiritual transformation. I would like to say that one clear initiative by the government shows that this transformation is not exactly the perspective you have pointed out. In fact, the government has decided to establish a memorial of the victims of communism, no dilution, no spraying of focus. That's how you take it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-22_U101	Thank you. We're done answering another question.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-22_U102	We will proceed to today's third item on the agenda, namely the question of administrative reform submitted by the members of the Riigikogu, Kersti Sarapuu, Mikhail Stalnukhin, Märt Sults, Valeri Korbi, Marika Tuus-Lauli, Vladimir Velmani, Andrei Novikov, Enn Esemaa, Tarmo Tamme, Rein Ratas, Jüri Ratas, Martin Repinski, Erki Savisaare, Jaanus Karilaidi, Anneli Oti, Aadu Musta, Viktor Vassilyev, Peeter Ernitsa, Mikhail Korb, Toomas Vitsut, Mailis Repsi and Kadri Simson. The inquiry has been submitted to the Minister for Public Administration, Arto Asa. On behalf of the heirs, please speak Kersti Sarapuu!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-22_U103	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, thank you very much. The subject we are about to address has a direct impact on Estonia's life in the very long term. On 20 January 2016, the members of the Centre Party Group submitted an inquiry into administrative reform to our Minister for Public Administration, Arto Asa. The government coalition has identified state reform, including administrative reform concerning local governments, as one of its main objectives. On 19 November last year, the concept of administrative reform was approved in the government office and sent to the coordination circle on 18 December. These documents also provide a timetable for the reform. This is such that the preparation of the reform will run until July 2016, the second phase of own-initiative accession will run until January 2017 and the third phase of mergers initiated by the Government of the Republic will start in February 2017 and the accessions will enter into force during the regular elections in 2017. At the Cabinet meeting held on 19 November 2015, the Government of the Republic approved the criterion of administrative reform that a minimum of 5000 inhabitants should reside in a local municipality. With reference to the definition of local government in the Local Government Organisation Act (KOKS § 2 "Definition of Local Self-government') and Article 3 "Definition of Local Self-government' of the European Charter of Local Government, we ask whether this is legitimate. The concept of administrative reform and the draft law on administrative reform and the explanatory memorandum do not provide convincing reasons for the reform. Rather, we suspect that this is another attempt at administrative reform. We therefore have a number of questions for the Minister for Public Administration, Arto Asa. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-22_U104	Thank you. I ask you now to answer the question, Minister of State Administration Arto Aas!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-22_U105	Honourable Riigikogu! Good heirs! I will answer the questions asked. However, in a few weeks' time, perhaps the situation will be that the relevant bill has already been handed over to Parliament and the picture will be much clearer. But let's get going again. The first question is when other legislative proposals for the comprehensive implementation of the administrative reform will be developed and how the capacity of local authorities can be assessed without knowing new funding principles and tasks. More specific proposals for amendments to sectoral legislation include possible changes in the organisation of funding, regulation of cooperation between local authorities, establishment of joint institutions and possible additional tasks for local government associations. The changes are planned to be submitted to the government this spring, after the draft law on administrative reform has been approved by the government. During the discussion of the draft law on administrative reform in the Riigikogu, it will be possible to assess other planned changes. The amendments to the sectoral laws should enter into force on 1 January 2018, i.e. after the elections of local government councils in 2017 and the formation and employment of the large authorities of the merged municipalities. So we still have some time to make sector changes in law and debate. The Administrative Reform Act regulates the first phase of local government reform, i.e. the implementation of changes to the administrative-territorial organisation. This does not necessarily mean that territorial changes are prioritised over sectoral changes as an objective of administrative reform. However, not all the changes are effective and not appropriate to deal with one law, as the negotiations take place gradually and on a broad range of topics. Such a cluster law would also be burdensome for practitioners and stakeholders involved in it and would not allow sufficient time for discussion to be devoted to all sectoral changes. Let it be said that the framework law itself, along with the explanatory memorandum, is over 100 pages, so that there is a great deal of material. Similarly, in the case of a subject as complex as the reform of local government, it will not be possible to finalise solutions for tasks and funding until concrete solutions for the first stage of the reform have been agreed by Parliament. Since we do not know exactly whether Parliament will accept a draft law such as that proposed by the government and the timetable for such criteria, it is a little difficult today to set out the following steps in very detailed terms. The assessment of the capacity of municipalities after reform before agreeing on sectoral changes and assessing their effects can be based on the effects of mergers that have taken place to date. The accessions so far have shown that the merger will contribute to the capacity of local governments. Firstly, as a result of the merger of the municipalities, the number of inhabitants and the area of the municipalities increases, allowing economies of scale to be achieved in the provision of services. The analyses show that the most obvious effect of the scale is the organisation of support services and management related to the municipal office and financial work. The merger will result in a reduction in the cost of time per capita in the management of support services and more resources for content activities can be allocated to operational expenditure. The smaller the merging municipality and the larger the merged municipality, the more perceived the effect of economies of scale. Another important positive effect is specialisation. According to analyses and peer reviews, officials in municipalities with at least 5 000 inhabitants will have better opportunities to specialise. It allows optimal use of human resources, hire key officials, pay them competitive wages and be attractive to professionals with professional qualifications. If, on average, there are 3.9 employees per 1000 inhabitants in Estonia, this figure is nearly twice as high in the municipality with less than 2000 inhabitants: 7.7. In municipalities with the lowest population, one employee must be able to cover a wide range of areas, which also requires different competences and is very difficult in reality. The third important positive impact is the increase in investment capacity. On the basis of the municipal budgets and budget implementation reports, experts estimate that sufficient investment capacity for the development of the living environment is evident from the existence of 5 000 inhabitants. The income of the local government's core business with about 5 000 inhabitants is approximately 5 million euros, which is capable of ensuring sufficient investment capacity. Research into the satisfaction of the population also confirms the increase in the investment capacity of the merged municipalities. The associated municipalities are more likely to be more satisfied with water supply and sewerage services, as well as with cultural events, sports activities and recreational education, compared to non-joined municipalities. This suggests that the merged municipalities have been able to contribute more money to resource-intensive projects. It is also possible to create more diverse leisure opportunities in larger municipalities. Question 2: "Are there plans to increase the revenue base of local governments in the course of the administrative reform in order to fulfil existing tasks? What new tasks will local authorities be given? " The brief answer to the first question is: Yes, it is planned. We are working to increase the income base of local governments. It is a budgetary decision that is scheduled to be discussed in the government office this Thursday. But, above all, such major decisions with long-term implications will be taken during the preparation of the country's budgetary strategy, which will normally reach a decisive phase at the end of April. But even after this week's government meeting, I hope more concrete proposals can be made. In any case, I've prepared such proposals and I'm going to the office with them. There are different ideas, alternatives, proposals for new tasks. The tasks of the municipalities may include both tasks performed independently and those carried out in compulsory cooperation. The most important proposed change is to give the task of developing the whole region, including the business environment, to the cooperation bodies of the municipalities. The task includes the preparation of the county development strategy and other local development activities related to it, for which the county governor is currently primarily responsible. The aim is also to increase the role of local authorities and to strengthen their cooperation in promoting the development of the region. The regional or regional development planning to be transferred does not include spatial planning, i.e. the establishment of regional planning, which falls within the competence of the State. The task of developing the business environment may be entrusted to municipalities for the joint compulsory implementation of cooperation through county development centres. For this purpose, the regional development centres will be transferred to the municipalities for joint management. Regional government associations also play a role, thus increasing the opportunities for local authorities to develop entrepreneurship in the region and direct the steps they take and apply for grants. Of course, money must move along with tasks. In the course of the reform, the transfer of state and municipal functions to municipalities by other rural governments and the central government and the change in the organisation of the financing of these tasks will be analysed. Examples include the tasks to be carried out by rural governments involved in education, youth work and social coordination, and the organisation and financing of public services and subsidies in the social field in part. In addition, it can already be said that the state will, to a very large extent from next year, support municipalities in organising an education of interest. We have also given the Riigikogu proceedings amendments to the State Property Act in order to significantly increase the possibilities for local governments to acquire land necessary for entrepreneurship. So certain processes have already been set in motion, but there is still some work to be done. The third question: 'How do you think the minimum rate of residents as a criterion for administrative reform is compatible with the definition and rights of local government laid down in the Constitution, the Law on the Organisation of Local Government and the European Charter for Local Government? ' The aim of the administrative reform is to support the development of the capacity of the municipality to provide high-quality public services and increase competitiveness. In order to achieve this objective, a merger of local authorities is envisaged, which will increase the capacity of local authorities to organise and manage local life independently and to carry out statutory tasks. Thus, as a result of the reform, constitutional values are better secured both the autonomy of local governments and the fundamental rights and freedoms of individuals. The establishment of the minimum rate of residents of local governments based on the criteria of administrative reform is in accordance with the definition and rights laid down in the Constitution, the Act on the Organisation of Local Government and the European Charter of Local Government, as it is based on the need to ensure the organisation of local governments throughout Estonia where the fundamental rights and freedoms of residents are protected in the performance of local public services and tasks. The concept of local government is defined both in the Charter and in the Law on the Organisation of Local Government in the light of the objective that local authorities must have the right, the ability and the obligation to organise and manage the majority of the social life under their responsibility within the limits of the law and in the interests of local residents. With this definition, the essence of the principle of autonomy of the municipality is also open in the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia: decide on matters of local life and act independently within the limits given by law. At the same time, no legislation has yet laid down the conditions under which a local authority can be considered sufficiently capable to carry out independently all the functions of self-government under the law. In developing the draft law on administrative reform, experts have proposed the criterion of the minimum size of a municipality based on the number of inhabitants when assessing the conditions necessary to establish the basic capacity of local authorities. The independent decision-making of local issues has been the basic guarantee of the local government institution, which may be restricted by law. The restrictions must be applied in such a way as to ensure that the interference with the right of self-regulation which the restriction entails is proportionate, i.e. appropriate, necessary and moderate in order to achieve the legitimate objective. The local government is an independent legal entity, but part of the overall structure of the state. Thus, where appropriate, the legislator may also provide in law for a change in the administrative-territorial organisation of broad-based municipalities, where this is justified by the need to increase the capacity of local authorities and having regard to overriding public interests. The Constitution does not guarantee a specific municipality and city status quo as regards the size of its administrative territory or even its legal personality. At the same time, the violation or termination of the legal personality of the municipality requires compliance by the state authorities with formal and material assumptions. All these requirements have been taken into account in the draft law on administrative reform. Let it be added that, as regards the Charter of Local Government, administrative reform has also been carried out in Latvia and the Nordic countries, using the minimum number of inhabitants: in Latvia, 5000, for example, in Denmark, 20000. So this practice is entirely there in Europe, and a great many countries have gone that way. Question 4: "What changes are you planning in the country's regional administration? Will they be implemented together with the administrative reform of the municipalities? ' As has been said, we are currently working on the preparation and analysis of these changes. The cardinal nature of these changes also depends on which administrative reform law will be adopted by Parliament and whether the proposed timetable and criteria will be in place. In any case, we have foreseen that the number of rural governments will remain the same until the administrative reform is implemented, as rural governments will have certain tasks to carry out accession procedures. Agreements on the number and tasks of rural governments after administrative reform depend on the choices that are to be made in the context of both the reform of local government and the reform of the state. The need to change tasks depends on the tasks to be carried out in counties or regions through public authorities and on the organisation of work. The municipal functions of rural governments can theoretically be assigned to local governments or their associations. As part of the modernisation of administrative supervision and national supervision by rural governments, it is possible to divide the supervisory function of rural governments between ministries and their departments or to consolidate the supervisory tasks of rural governments at regional level. More precise choices for the restructuring of supervision must be made in the course of further discussions, which we will already reach this year. It is possible to continue on the basis of the current model, that additional tasks may be assigned to rural governments. But rather, it seems that weight tends to make major changes. And we will also analyse these changes in the course of the audit of government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-22_U106	Thank you, Minister. You have a lot of questions. Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-22_U107	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. A few years ago, I was on a work mission from the Riigikogu in Latvia, and they were most interested in the changeover to the euro, how it went in Estonia, and we were in the process of their administrative reform, which had then ended a few years before that. It turned out that opinions on how they succeeded were from wall to wall. My personal assessment is that what was more negative about the administrative reform than Riga was the MP we were talking to. There has been talk about the criterion of about 5 000 people, but to what extent has your proposal taken into account the pros and cons that emerged during the administrative reform in Latvia and perhaps in another country?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-22_U108	Of course, we have studied the experiences that exist in our neighbouring countries. At the same time, of course, it must be acknowledged that the countries are still different and have quite different structures, both from the organisation of the municipality and from the structure of the municipalities. So it is not possible to copy anything from one country to another, it is still necessary to find a suitable solution for the Estonian state. As background, we have the experience of others. But, of course, I agree with you that, just as there are different opinions in Latvia, whether this reform has succeeded or not, there are probably differences of opinion in Estonian political parties as to whether this reform is necessary or not or how to do it. As regards the criterion of population numbers, various options were discussed in the preparation of the draft and the criterion of population numbers was reached as the most sensible solution. We don't live in the perfect world. Of course, this option also has its weaknesses, but this is the most sensible solution proposed by the panel to the government.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-22_U109	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-22_U110	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, First of all, I think you're already late. The draft, which still does not appear from the Riigikogu, should have been here in November. Now you are saying that we are dealing with administrative-territorial changes; sectoral changes are still to come. Time's up. But from your presentation, my main point of view was the sentence that proposals to increase the income base will come to the government office on Thursday. Perhaps you are willing to lift the mystery story from what proposals you are going there with and to what extent do you think the local governments' revenue base should grow? I understand that this will be the basis for the design of the budget strategy.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-22_U111	Firstly, on the timetable, however, we are on the schedule that we agreed last spring. The concept was approved in November and I have gone to the government office a few times to coordinate and agree on the most important criteria. At the moment, there is a draft reform at the Ministry of Justice on the last round of coordination, hopefully tomorrow, he will return and we will be able to present him to the government meeting by 3 March. That was our original schedule. As far as the funding proposals are concerned, I can raise a bit of a mystery. One proposal concerns the so-called formula of the Equalisation Fund. We have municipalities whose revenues are growing relatively fast due to certain conditions and they lose money from the compensatory fund in a short time. This may have the effect that the municipality does not make any effort, whether it is connected to vessels. You will receive more income tax, the fine-tuning fund will decrease and the effect will not exist. At present, this fine-tuning fund will be withdrawn within three years. We propose that the change in the income of the fine-tuning fund should not exceed 2% per year in order not to de-motivate municipalities to deal with their revenue side. Another important change, on which a fundamental government position would be sought, concerns the fight against peripheralisation. My understanding is that we should add one component to the model of municipal funding, however, to this same equalisation fund, which takes account of the spread of settlement, peripheralisation. There is no such component so far, and I would like to put such a component in it, because the Estonian regions are different enough after the administrative reform, after the local governments have joined. There are areas where it is objectively more difficult to cope than in the vicinity of Tallinn or Tartu. However, creating such an additional component naturally requires additional money. I also like the general principle that we spend this extra money to level out regional differences. Over the last few years, the scissors between municipalities, either living exclusively on income tax or receiving money from the Equalisation Fund, have increased steadily. This regional aspect should be taken more into account in the model of municipal funding. This is the second basic proposal. The third proposal concerns additional funding for municipalities. This is more like a first reading, because I know that major decisions will be taken in April during the discussion of the country's budgetary strategy. But I would like to make this first reading and put forward my arguments and proposals. In any case, we should move towards an increase in the share of the Equalisation Fund so that the money that was once cut from there during the crisis can be recovered. Of course, our budgetary pressure will be great in the coming years. We have foreseen well-big merger grants. These amounts amount to tens of millions of euros, with a maximum of EUR 80 million being paid to municipalities over the next three years, which is currently not on the cost base. This will probably make my negotiations with the other half of the Ministry of Finance more difficult, because the budgetary costs of this reform are already high. But yes, once the reform has been carried out, there should be a steady increase in revenue. In short, maybe for now.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-22_U112	Arthur Talvik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-22_U113	Good President! Good minister! In a recent Question Time, you mentioned that the original draft has been proposed by coalition partners with a large number of amendments and additions. Could you briefly summarise what are the most radical or most significant amendments that have been taken from coalition partners in the draft?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-22_U114	Indeed, almost all ministries provided their input. I would not say that there was something very radical or very different, because we have been in the government's office and, in principle, agreed on decisions with this draft before being sent to the coordination circle. One issue that has received a lot of attention lately is the question of cooperation between local governments in a greater way than just the merger of local governments. And there is also the question of the internal governance model of the municipality, the topic of the municipality, how precisely and how in depth we should go with this regulation at the level of the law. But I don't remember any of those proposals from some totally different opera right now. There's been a lot of detail. But I believe that, in any case, we have received a stronger draft thanks to this work.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-22_U115	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-22_U116	Thank you, manager. Minister, thank you very much. I have looked aside and heard talk about the need for this reform for at least 10 years. And I am not convinced that this reform will succeed at all. I'm a pretty big pessimist about this. It will not be possible to carry out the reform if there are no tasks and funding put in place, this is the basis of everything. The number 5,000 may be somewhat correct, but it may not be objective. When we look at the map, administrative reform has been carried out everywhere: in Latvia, Lithuania, we do not talk about Finland, Sweden and Denmark at all. Nowhere has this been done on a voluntary basis. Estonia wants to be distinguished here, and that is what makes me think that reform in this form will hardly succeed. For me, the most problematic point is how coalition partners agree. After all, the IRL assumes that such a reform will be carried out, which will result in a single municipality being the county. Are you sure you can convince coalition partners, and this reform will finally be done?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-22_U117	Yes, I am. Indeed, it is not easy to seek compromises, but this government has a clear will to finally do it. Three party presidents have given their three drops of blood for it. I have had the opportunity to prepare for three quarters of years, and I believe that we will send this draft to Parliament within a few weeks.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-22_U118	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-22_U119	Thank you, good manager. Good minister! I will look at your coalition agreement, which states that by 1 July 2016, these legislative amendments have been adopted. It'll be interesting how you can keep this pace. But what bothers me is that you're not defined in terms of local government capacity, you're only based on the population of x. In my opinion, the population criterion can come into play when it is known what the functions of local government are and whether or not this number of x supports this system. For me, the basic fact is that our country is expensive, we need to look at our taxes, our revenue bases and assess whether everything works effectively, while taking into account the grassroots level, or man. Can you philosophize here what the ideal local government is, which are the functions of the municipality, which are the functions of the municipality?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-22_U120	When you start with what you have finished, I believe that the public administration is primarily defined by the public administration, the representative body formed by democratic principles, who speaks on behalf of the local people. It is the body that gives its opinion on the rural municipality's budget and development plans. The municipality may also decide to make a separate development plan for a specific municipality. A municipality or its representative body can be granted the right to decide, for example, on a share of the budget. Such inclusive budget projects have already been implemented in Estonia. At the same time, I do not think that the municipality should necessarily have its own administration, its own bureaucrats, or that we keep the entire structure and all the employees, we simply change the labels on the doors of the parish houses. It will not be of great benefit and synergy. But the public administration could have a perfectly reasonable and logical place in this structure in order to involve people and protect local interests. Ideal self-government is unlikely to exist. Each municipality is specific, but when we talk about capacity, about investment capacity, about professionalism of the administration, we need to set some minimum levels. Think a little about other areas. We have some minima in almost every area, some boundaries, some rates, some requirements. Indeed, without them, certain fundamental rights of people will not be protected in local governments. The National Audit Office has analysed the capacity of local governments and has achieved very critical results, and it has been concluded in many of the procedures of the Chancellor of Justice that local governments are not able to protect people's fundamental rights. In order not to be too theoretical, I looked at the home page of the municipality with 700 inhabitants waiting for my speech today. This municipality government employs six people, such as agronomist, bibliographer, forestry specialist and accountant. Three out of six are highly educated. There are no lawyers, no people with economic education. Surely everyone is a good person, but can their professional preparation address today's challenges? The budget is EUR 700000, of which 25000 will be invested. EUR 25000 per year for investments! Nukker! The majority of the budget, i.e. EUR 400000 of this 700000, is personnel costs. More than half of the rural municipality's budget, i.e. 50.60%, goes simply to support the municipality's government. That's the reality. I have repeatedly said that I do not think that this reform itself overnight solves all Estonia's problems at both state and local government level. But it creates certain new assumptions. In this sense, we do not expect everyone to be appalled and united. This reform is obviously difficult and difficult at the beginning, people are afraid of change, but we have to make these decisions.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-22_U121	Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-22_U122	Good President! Dear Minister, I very much liked the fact that you think it is very important to keep in mind the component that would prevent peripheralisation. But here's my question. What has your cooperation with other ministries been like during the administrative reform process? How many other suggestions have come from elsewhere? We know that people need social welfare services, education and everything else. How has this cooperation worked? Looking at the actions of the various ministries, I do not see that the possibility of life on land is guaranteed, even if the administrative reform can be done.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-22_U123	I would say that our cooperation with the various ministries has been constructive. Of course, we haven't started everything from the zero point. In many areas, even in education, some processes have long been in progress. Events will evolve regardless of whether the administrative reform is successful or not. The social field you know is exactly the same. Of course, there are places where development is slow, but it is inevitable because we have a lot of things on the table at once. And there is some continuity in the Estonian state. After all, every new government doesn't exactly draw on the actions of the previous government. So in this sense, cooperation is constructive. As I said, we have had a number of meetings with the ministries and we are going to go with them to think about what should and could be changed in all areas concerning local authorities. We do have county governments, but most state agencies have regional units, and the whole picture is very passionate. On average, there are 30 to 40 state institutions in one county. Of course, this work will not go on for the next three years, but for the next 30 years. At the moment, decision-making and progress are a little complicated. If we finally agreed, if there were a law on what the future local authority would become, then we could also go much more concretely with the regional level and the sectoral levels. I'm gonna urinate a little bit. If Parliament decides that municipalities will be regional in size, then there will be a completely different picture of the country and its administrative units than in the case of municipalities with 5 000 or 10000 inhabitants. We have to take the first step in this building, then we can take the next steps. It is such a complex and complicated process that it must be divided into stages.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-22_U124	Kersti Sarapuu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-22_U125	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. In the administrative plan being prepared, I like the section that says that the organisation of regional public administration will develop the principles that the content of the work of central government authorities, their quality and how to ensure their availability. It is also nice to say that foundations, inspections, agencies should be located somewhere else in the future than now, at least one could be established in each county. Have you discussed these issues at government meetings and which agencies would you be willing to take out of the capital?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-22_U126	Some of these questions will probably be answered at the end of May, when we will have an analysis of the country's tasks. At the same time, the Ministry of Justice will also carry out its own analysis of governance and administrative arrangements. According to the government's work programme, I should present proposals in August this year on which state government units can be taken out of the capital. Today I can tell you that there will certainly be, we will soon decide at what pace and in what form we will implement it. I will also say that I find the concept of public buildings to be very sympathetic. Neeme the Great gave an example that they must have 35 public institutions in Haapsalu at 36 different addresses, about this way, and the county government is only one of them. In fact, the introduction of such a more reasonable arrangement, to improve the availability of these institutions in one place, is a piece of work. This job is on. It also depends very much on the start-up of ministries, whether or not they are looking for ways to move certain units out of the capital. The Ministry of Justice has been a positive example here. They have already taken part of the jobs out of Tallinn and have made the following proposals.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-22_U127	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-22_U128	Good manager! Good minister! Let's get down on the ground! Let's put together five thousand-dollar estates. Let's say there are seven parish councillors in each and there could be 35 Commissioners in the new area with 5 000 inhabitants. Each municipality has its own library, its own community centre, its own primary school. What agencies will remain in this new major area? How many libraries are left, how many community houses, how many schools and every parish councilman loses his place?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-22_U129	In theory, parish commissioners are most exposed to the risk of redundancy. Indeed, 35 Commissioners are not needed in the area of probably 5 000 inhabitants. As far as other institutions are concerned, they may remain calm. The merger of municipalities does not mean that libraries and schools will be closed. Rather, the effect is that maybe five small schools or libraries do not need a separate director, an accountant, a secretary, a financialist. Such support structures can be connected and there will be a pretty big effect. As far as the size of the municipalities is concerned, as you know, we have the size of the councils in the law. This is generally based on the population. In the course of voluntary accession, you can agree on how large the council will be. So there's really no risk. There are new opportunities, and there is no reason to do such very primitive mathematical operations.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-22_U130	Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-22_U131	Thank you, Mr. Vice Speaker. Minister, thank you very much. You're a brave man if you say there's no risk. This 5000 inhabitants have been through here several times, and an example from Latvia was also given. We know that Latvia has actually started reforming the reform. I mean, I say it again, you're a brave man. But how flexible is this 5,000? If, for example, there are 4900 residents, what then? How rigid is that boundary? Is there some kind of flexibility? And if so, what exceptions are allowed?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-22_U132	Indeed, 5000 inhabitants are a key criterion. Individual exceptions are foreseen. The first exception concerns our small islands, whose geographical position and financial situation are special. Marine island municipalities may apply for a derogation. It's about Muhu Island, Kihnut, Ruhnu and Vormsi. Another exception is the situation where there are already four merging municipalities, but the number of residents is still less than 5000. Then the criterion is 3500 inhabitants. There are not many such regions in Estonia, but there may be a few regions. This relates in particular to the exception resulting from the disunity and the fact that the territory of the merged municipality is more than 900 square kilometres. If the territory of the merging municipalities is more than 900 square kilometres, there may be 3 500 inhabitants instead of 5,000. So, to sum up, two fundamental exceptions are allowed: small islands and very large territories where few people live. With regard to the latter option, experts have expressed the view that if 5 000 inhabitants were still required, the territory could become unreasonable and that it would no longer be appropriate to expand by another partner. But in other respects, this 5 000 still needs to be fixed, because if we allow a very high degree of flexibility or discretion, the disputes and interpretations that arise would lead to a complete swamp in the accession process. They say we promise 4900 inhabitants, but someone has 4800. What happens then? Looks like a little difference, okay, let's promise 4800, but somebody's got 4700 residents. At the same time, it is clear that when the municipalities started negotiations and agreed that 5 000 inhabitants were full, but on 1 January or at the end of this process it would appear that the number of inhabitants has decreased in the meantime, then accession is still possible. However, the golden principle is that on 1 January 2017 the register will review whether 5,000 inhabitants are full or not and whether all small municipalities have already found a partner or partners. In fact, there are very few, but only a few, municipalities where the game is on the 5,000 borders. They are most likely to find those missing people during the year when they are struggling. So the approach is that let's fix this number, so the rules of the game are clear.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-22_U133	Marika Tuus-Laul, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-22_U134	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister! Life has shown that when cuts are needed, they are municipalities that are being taken away. We remember precisely that the sequence of cuts in 2009 started with cuts in municipal budgets. Prior to that, the percentage of personal income tax paid to municipalities had been raised directly. Since then, however, the rural decline began, and now the hopes of rural development are only linked to the fact that perhaps there will be some kind of European aid. At the same time, the decision of the Supreme Court's General Assembly is still in force, which states very clearly that the responsibilities of the state and local government are vague and the financial responsibility is completely out of place. Can these problems be resolved with this reform? And can you tell me what that percentage of personal income tax could be going to local governments? This bill is coming to the hall.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-22_U135	In fact, the State Budget Act states very precisely what the local government's tasks are and what the state's tasks are and for which the state's money is allocated. So, in fact, the rules of the game and the blocks have settled down over the years. Of course, there's always a shortage of money, there's no doubt about it. There is no area in Estonia where there is no reason to complain that there is little money. This is not only complained about by local authorities, but also about health and education, for example. There are always wild fights in the preparation of the state budget. Indeed, the local government leaders look back in good words and yearn for the time of the economic boom when budgets and wages grew by 20% a year. But these were very few years, and that was the economic boom, which also meant booming in the budgets of the state and local governments. In the post-boom period the funding of local authorities was cut, but the funding of public authorities was also cut. Budgets have now increased in terms of the sum of the sum of the sum of the sum of the areas compared to the boom time, while funding has decreased by 15%. In nominal terms, we also receive more money in the local government wallet than ever before. However, I am proposing to the government to increase this revenue base, but, as has been said earlier, there are two options: one with regard to personal income tax and the other with regard to the Equalisation Fund. The aim of the Equalisation Fund is to level the incomes of local governments so that everyone can manage. This picture is such that the scissors would rather grow. Municipalities, which are dependent on the Equalisation Fund, are going to be relatively poorer. Municipalities who don't receive money from the Equalisation Fund are primarily the municipalities of Tallinn's golden circle, it goes pretty well. Edgar Savisaar himself boasted that the Tallinn budget would increase by 9%, the state budget would grow by only 3%. As income tax receipts have been so good, there are municipalities whose revenues are growing faster than the revenues of the State. In this context, it seems to me that regional policy is more appropriate to talk about the Equalisation Fund and not to increase the rate of income tax for municipalities. Both could be increased in an ideal world, but unfortunately we are talking about limited resources and the choices we have to make under limited resources. In my opinion, it is more appropriate to support those municipalities that are less prosperous. Hopefully, in the coming years, we will be able to increase the volume of the Equalisation Fund to what it was in the booming season.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-22_U136	Arno Bridge, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-22_U137	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. In very general terms, you mentioned how public authorities are formed. Will they be chosen on the basis of the Local Government Organisation Act or in any other way? It's completely unclear. When the bill comes to our tables, we must be quite clear about these things so that we can vote for something. On the other hand, you have also mentioned several times that it is currently completely open, which functions remain for rural governments, which functions remain for local governments, which functions go to municipalities themselves. All these things must be very clear and, of course, all kinds of financial issues. Is everything gonna be all right in a few weeks? We'll be voting soon.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-22_U138	Yes, I believe that by the time you have the reform law on the table, you will have enough information to make your choices. However, all discussions on the future of rural governments or on the future of funding models do not mean that there could be alternatives to administrative reform. Rather, these are additional measures that could be used to increase the competitiveness of rural areas and strengthen local authorities. These are additional measures that do not rule out each other. The merger of municipalities must, in any case, move forward, even if we get caught up in the laws of the sector behind some debate. The future of rural governments also depends on whether or not the reform will take place, and it will be easier for government authorities to restructure them than to negotiate with 213 municipalities. The financing model is also in place in Estonia, the municipalities have already merged on the basis of the current financing model and have obtained positive results. I'd look at this work in stages. As far as the functions of the municipality are concerned, we are writing down the basic criteria in the law. In the explanatory memorandum, we specify the possibilities that can be made by municipalities within the framework of the regulation of the municipality. But for me, the sympathetic approach is that, as with other internal issues of the municipality, local governments have the greatest possible discretion in this regard. We do not spell out in detail how we should design and manage the skills. There may be very different situations where skills are needed. After all, the whole idea has germinated from this surface, that maybe large, county-sized municipalities will be formed. In that case, there is a need for a safeguard clause or an inclusion mechanism for existing municipalities or other entities. At the same time, it may also be that a small island or a region with a particular cultural background within a municipality wants the status of a municipality. While respecting the autonomy of the municipality, I support the approach that the structure and governance model of the municipality will be agreed by the new large parish itself during the accession negotiations and will record it all in the Accession Treaty. Later, all the details can be specified in the municipality's statutes, taking into account local circumstances. Tallinn has developed its own practice and the opportunity to design a suitable practice should also be given, for example, in Valgamaa and Pärnumaa.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-22_U139	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-22_U140	Thank you, President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. It is a little inappropriate to say that municipalities are now richer than before the reduction of the income base. Yeah, maybe the sum of the sum, but we should also consider that prices have increased and the tasks have increased. We should also talk about how much money has been lost in local governments' income base over the years. You mentioned Denmark and Latvia as an example. Very good example! Before the Riigikogu, I was the mayor of Saue, and in both countries we have a friendly self-government. But your positive example is, in fact, negative, because both friendship governments claimed that neither their administrative capacity nor their economic capacity increased by joining. We were advised not to make that mistake for your God's sake. But my question is that, according to you, investment capacity is increasing. We'll take two estates that both have, for example, 3 million to invest. Both have their needs, a total of 6 million.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-22_U141	If they merge, it'll still be 6 million and the needs will be the same. Where does the increase in investment capacity come from?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-22_U142	Please ask me a question!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-22_U143	Further details and analyses are worth looking at on the administrative reform website or on the website of the Ministry of Finance. A study evaluating the financial capacity of the municipalities was also recently completed, and the trends in the graphs are quite well drawn. I suggest you look at these materials, they are not politically biased and they are made by independent people. The scale effect really does. In particular, the cost distributions of the municipality change, the cost structure changes. The costs of management and support services will be significantly reduced and will allow for the development of content activities and more investment. We will take the same EUR 0.5 million, which will be paid in small towns. Some of this can be channelled into investments. In the larger area, even fewer people can manage. So that's where this effect comes from, 1 plus 1 is more than 2.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-22_U144	Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-22_U145	Thank you. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. We want the reform of the state to strengthen the local authorities and to be able to do more for the people. You said local government plays a major role in the income tax of the natural person, and the second source is the Equalisation Fund. The Equalisation Fund is in the hands of the State and the State directs this money to the local government through the government. I don't think there's anything to argue with. How does this reform, which you are offering, boost the growth of the state budget? If there is no increase in the state budget, perhaps there is no point in dealing with it.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-22_U146	One of the goals we want to achieve is that more competence and investment money will also be available in more capable and stronger municipalities to develop entrepreneurship. Of course, reform is one thing. The merger is one half of it, the additional revenue is the other half. As mentioned, the acquisition by the State of land for business purposes under the State Property Act is, for example, a third party. In this way, there should be some synergy, which will make it possible to engage more in entrepreneurship on the ground. I will give you an example of very small municipalities. I am not going to name names, but we have very small municipalities that could have received EUR 100000 for certain projects through national regional programmes and euro money programmes, for example, but that money has not been used. I can't believe it, but there are cases like this in Estonia. Is there a lack of competence to make an investment? People do not know how to use money, how to formalise documents, or whether money is not enough for self-financing. The consequence is that the funds allocated from the European Union's common budget or state budget will not be used because small municipalities lack capacity. We should be able to avoid such problems in the future. The money, which has always been scarce and which has been allocated to implementing regional policy measures, must reach the right place. In this sense there is also hope for further economic growth and that the living environment will develop further away from Tallinn and there is no reason for people to leave it.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-22_U147	Thank you, Minister. No further questions for you. Let's move on to the negotiations. Kersti Sarapuu, please! Five plus three minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-22_U148	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and When the direct answers to the inquiry seemed to spread out, we received quite specific answers during the answer to the questions. Known lyrics say I'm looking, you're looking for someone careless, missing. When you draw parallels here, this folk play song reminds you of the partner search for local governments. Even before the next municipal elections, a voluntary or forced merger must be completed. The deadline is therefore 15 October 2017. We fully agree that the Estonian state needs administrative reform. Population is decreasing, many municipalities have become quite small due to people leaving. Today, the administrative reform movement has become quite active among municipalities and proposals for accession are made cross-cross-border, sometimes cross-county. Of course, the reform should no longer be put to the point, but a number of points should still be addressed. The panel of experts set up by the government coalition did not consider the participation of opposition parties to be meaningful, but the Municipal Council of the Estonian Central Party still took its views very seriously, involving Estonian residents in discussions on administrative reform. We conducted six seminars in different areas across Estonia: Põltsamaa, Võrumaa, Misso, Kiviõli, Kohilas, Kuressaare and Läänemaa on the Cross. A summary of the proposals received from different regions was made at a conference in Tallinn, where hundreds of self-governance took part and where representatives of different parties were able to present their views. We are especially grateful to Ave Viks of the Ministry of Finance, and it was also a pleasure to attend the event by Minister of Public Administration Arto Asa. They didn't have to show up much. We join the position of the plan developed by the Government's panel of experts that a comprehensive organisation of public administration must be a prerequisite and a condition for administrative reform. Without it, we will deepen peripheralisation and we will not ensure development. We support the organisation of regional public administration, which analyses the situation and develops the basic ways in which the content of the work of central government authorities, the quality of services, how to ensure the availability of services and where foundations, inspections, agencies and many other entities should be located in the future. A good example is the Rural Promotion Foundation, which Minister Seeder once moved to Viljandi. It is important that the institutions move out of the capital. As stated in the plans, every county could be moved to at least one establishment. There is certainly a need to give greater rights to county councils. Currently, local government associations work on a voluntary basis as non-profit organisations. A common goal is that they become public entities with specific tasks, such as strategic planning of the county, regional planning, development plans and much more. However, no position has been drawn up as to what will happen if one or two municipalities are established on the basis of the county. We also acknowledged the need for a state building in the centres of attraction in the counties, from which all public services can be obtained. Then the situation would disappear, where for example Järvamaa person must go to Tartu, Pärnu, Tallinn or Jõhvi. However, since we live in the age of computers, there are situations where we need to go on the ground to find a solution. We also agree that all development, together with the development of entrepreneurship and job creation, should be combined with funding to provide local authorities with competence. They are most interested in having jobs and there are people who work in these places. After all, the income base of the municipalities depends directly on it. And, of course, there is no doubt that we approve accession grants. According to the plan, the merger grant has been calculated at EUR 100 per person. In the case of voluntary entry, the municipality will be allocated EUR 300000 Unfortunately, it is paid as a one-off grant, and part of this money goes to outgoing local government leaders to pay the annual salary compensation. Losing wages could be separately compensated. What worries us? I do not like that the time for voluntary and forced entry will overlap as early as the beginning of 2017. Voluntary accession to municipal elections should be allowed, results analysed and only then moved forward. Concerns that the accession process is going blindly, it is not known what the implementing provisions will be and whether they will meet the expectations of the municipalities and the promises made to them. It is not yet known what the state's regional administration, the county level will be, let alone the local governments' revenue base, including the financing of roads, will be. The municipality's income base is predominantly derived from personal income tax and the fine-tuning fund. For income tax to be collected by a natural person, people working in the region who are paid and on whom companies pay taxes are required. Whether you like it or not, it all comes down to business over and over again. In the enlarged municipalities, investments may reach the periphery of the rural municipality more and less likely to create more jobs and develop entrepreneurship. It should be the responsibility of the government to pay attention to such tendencies and to take action. There are several possibilities. The most effective and direct solution is to differentiate entrepreneurship-related taxes according to the capacity of the regions and to encourage the payment of various grants through EAS. The number of inhabitants required raises questions of 5000. We are now setting 5,000, but in a year's time the population may have fallen if the current trend continues. More and more people leave the country, either moving towards Tallinn or abroad. In a few years, we will be in a situation where the population of one municipality is less than 5,000. Will there be a new reform? Yes, there is the possibility of exceptions, for example, that if four municipalities join and their area is more than 900 square kilometres in total, then the population may remain within 3500. However, in such a case, the aid for accession shall be reduced proportionately. The Association of Estonian Rural Governments has pointed out that there is no certainty that the public transport network will remain and become denser. We also know that the constant contraction of the school network is painfully affecting the daily lives of people living in the countryside, and especially the inhabitants of the periphery. They have a serious problem with transport when children have to go to school far away from home and participate in recreational and sports circles. Every municipality is constantly making efforts to make the municipality or city manage itself better and more efficiently, and it is important that we are able to compete so that people want to live in specific municipalities. But for that, we still have a long and hard way to go. Thank you for listening.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-22_U149	Thank you. Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-22_U150	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, Kerst and I belong to the same party, we have a similar thinking world, and we have both had local government leaders in the past. But the vision may be a little different. I'm just talking about my experience. I have a certain experience as a local government manager because I have worked as a municipality parent, as a rural municipality elder and as a mayor. And I'm saying there's no way out of reform. There was no way out of it 20 years ago when they started talking about it. Twenty years ago, 252 municipalities found it, now 213. Let's see how the neighbors have behaved, and let's look at the growth of the neighbours. Unfortunately, these things are connected. Latvia had 500 municipalities with something, their number was reduced to 100. Lithuania immediately reformed: one rural government, one municipality. I don't know how bad people live in Lithuania right now. If we were talking about examples of Finland, Denmark and Sweden, there have been several administrative reforms and the figures involved are many times greater than those currently mentioned in Estonia when it comes to future reform. I would like to say that this reform certainly cannot be carried out in such a way that the tasks and funding have not been set in advance. If the local government is not properly funded and the tasks are not set, then the reform does not make any sense at all. Surely this reform cannot be carried out without discussing the functions of rural governments. I am questioning their future, however, whether rural governments in this form are needed, because it is only some department of the Ministry of Finance and I do not think it is appropriate to use the official names there after the reform. The county government fulfilled its role, perhaps seven or eight years ago. He had specific tasks, local government leaders went to the county governments to discuss matters, to agree. But in a later period, many local government leaders have no longer had a matter for rural government. This reform cannot be carried out separately unless rural governments are involved. What else do I want to say? The voluntary merger has not succeeded anywhere. I hope that this will succeed in Estonia, I do not want it to be forced to do so. Unfortunately, I have seen that in many ways this voluntary reform will be a political party-based reform. After all, all kinds of horseshoes and other shapes are designed in order not to join a certain rural municipality and to reform the municipality on the basis of political parties. One thing worth paying attention to is local democracy. If there are 300-400 voters in the area, I would argue that 90% will be known who will vote for who before the elections, because people are connected, either as relatives, colleagues or as familiar. There is no reason to expect any purely political choice. I'm afraid that's the case. Why am I afraid this reform will not succeed this time, too? Because the Reform Party, the IRL and the Social Democrats cannot agree and the Centre Party will not support it anyway if there is no funding and no tasks in place. The reform is certainly hampered by the fact that rural parents' jobs are political jobs. There will be a very precise mapping of where 'the people of our party' will be located. In the future, they should secure the votes for us, members of the Riigikogu. I think it's a big obstacle. Once this reform is over, there should definitely be a local government that has power and money and can decide everything on the ground. But we are ready to take part in shaping the reform stages and hope dies last. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-22_U151	Thank you. Arthur Talvik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-22_U152	Good President! Good minister! Ladies and gentlemen, Overall, it is positive that the reform is coming. My partymates and I are concerned, however, that they talk too technocraticly. They talk about the income base, they talk about borders, they talk about the number of people, but they don't talk about people. What are the real benefits of a person living in a municipality? They say there's some kind of competence growing and the services getting better, but how does a person's life really get better, I haven't heard that answer so far. One thing we think is that ambition could have more in this reform, the municipalities might actually be bigger. For years, I have lived in a community-owned area, with two rural municipalities joining each other, with a population of 7,000. I do not think that our lives are qualitatively significantly better than in the area of about three and a half thousand inhabitants. I think this number could be bigger. However, perhaps the most important thing is what little has been said today: how to avoid an internal marginalisation, how to do this reform in a way that does not only start to develop new rural municipalities, and how to give a greater say to people who live in the municipality, or how the voice of the citizen can be heard better. In other words, how we will also increase democracy in society through this reform. These are questions I don't have direct answers to myself, but we're trying to figure it out. We certainly propose, as one option, a proposal to amend the electoral law in such a way that the voices of the more distant people will certainly be heard in these new, already reformed municipalities. One fascinating question is, of course, how can a forced merger still be carried out. I can tell you that as a resident of Kuusalu parish. We've had this kind of love with Loksa City for years. The city of Loksa loves Kuusalu municipality even more than the town of Loksa. These are two very logical units that could join, but as of today, it is clear that this will not be done voluntarily. How do you put these two into forced marriage? That's a big question. But we look forward to this draft law on administrative reform. We hope to present our thoughts there, and we very much hope that the coalition will listen to them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-22_U153	Thank you. There are no more requests for negotiation. Does the minister want to take the floor? No, I don't. The answer to the third question is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-22_U154	Let's go to the fourth question. This is an inquiry by the members of the Riigikogu, Marika Tuus-Lauli, Viktor Vassilyev, Märt Sults, Aadu Musta, Mailis Repsi, Kersti Sarapuu, Valeri Korbi, Oudekki Loone, Andrei Novikov, Martin Repinski, Erki Savisaare, Jaanus Karilaudi, Anneli Oti, Siret Kotka, Peeter Ernitsa, Toomas Vitsuti and Kadri Simson about the aids of people with disabilities. This has been submitted to the Minister of Social Affairs. Marika Tuus-Lauli, speaking at the Speaker's Office, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-22_U155	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, As we all remember, the new year began with a great startle for people with disabilities, because overnight the rent of aids became more expensive. The rents were many times larger. At the same time, the Ministry had only sent out letters on the last day of last year, which said that all matters would go faster and that the tools would become more accessible, as the Ministry would now become involved in this, and that would no longer be dealt with by the county authorities. I mean, the price increases were really big, people got mega-accounts. The reason for this is that the new regulation came into force in 2016, according to which the use of aid instruments on a flat-rate basis would no longer be reimbursed before this percentage was, in most cases, 90, but that the State would now pay a certain threshold for the rental price of the aid instrument. This was not announced in advance, but people had long-term lease contracts with companies. We have a number of questions about why the system has been changed precisely so that it means an increase in prices especially for all those who have to use means that are more expensive than the average and why people have not been informed in advance. We remember that in the first days of the year, there was no other subject on the news than the fact that people with disabilities have been shocked. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-22_U156	Thank you. Please answer the question to Minister Margus Tsahkna!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-22_U157	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good questioners, lots of them! You asked the Minister for Social Protection about the changes in the organisation of the aid system. First, I will explain what was actually decided, why it was decided and what was carried out, and then I will answer specific questions. The changes that came into force at the beginning of the year will solve the long-standing situation where the availability of the aid and the volume of aid depended on the area in which the person lived in Estonia. The funds for the aid instruments were distributed to counties which concluded administrative contracts with the aid companies they had chosen, where both the priority of the aid instrument and the right to decide on the needs of the person were often left to the company. There was no information about why and what tools the money ran out of and how the money went on. The current system has been opaque for people, it has been difficult to understand what their rights are and what the content and quality of the publicly funded service must be. There has also been no systematic management and prioritisation of the use of the budget to ensure sufficient financial coverage to meet people's needs. The market has been closed, i.e. there has been a lack of normal competition between aid companies, which would give greater interest to companies to consider the content of the service provided to people. Up to now, the information has been mainly in the hands of help providers. The aim of the new system is for people to be better informed about their opportunities, for the country to see where and why money is being spent, and for companies, a framework has been created for what the state expects of them. The amendment has a significant impact on the availability of a needs-based and customer-driven service and on the possibility for the state to better plan the budget in order to reach more people. Changes were prepared in cooperation with the Astangu Vocational Rehabilitation Centre and the Social Insurance Board. A number of round tables have been held on the subject, involving all major aid companies, as well as representative organisations of people using aids, specialists from rehabilitation institutions, therapists and other doctors. The purpose of the roundtables was to discuss the use of all the tools listed in the Regulation. On the basis of the information gathered, discussions were later held with specialists from both the aid companies and doctors in order to assess the conditions arising from the timeliness and daily use of the aids. In parallel, regular transaction statistics and an analysis of company service prices have been carried out and the list has been revised on this basis. During the preparations for the changes, we had good contact with therapists and other doctors to discuss the whole subject. On this basis, the new system has also been created, and a great many of the parties' ideas and proposals have been taken into account. Positively, changes will provide better opportunities for the future to help people quickly and move forward with the establishment of a transparent system. After the changes have entered into force, of course, it is important to communicate with all parties to get quick feedback on whether something needs to be done differently. People's decision-making powers have increased, and companies feel in a clear competition that also offers more opportunities for smaller businesses. The organisation of services has moved to one central public authority, which can respond flexibly and address concerns. We have worked regularly with the helping companies, and mostly we have received support and a positive attitude towards the implementation of the new system. Now specific questions. The first question: "How do you plan to deal with the situation for people who are forced to use a more expensive tool based on the special nature of their disability? " First of all, a change that has come into effect does not force a person to use a more expensive tool. The aim is to simplify the organisation of the service through price caps. In the past, for example, for each aid instrument with a price above EUR 1278 and 23 cents, a panel of experts working with rural governments or a special procedure for the National Expert Committee convened by the Ministry of Social Affairs. The county expert committees met at the discretion of the county governor and the national committees met on a quarterly basis, if possible. For example, in 2015, the meetings took place four times, but only twice in 2012. In the case of the old system, people could wait many months for special decisions, even six months, but in the case of the new system, the legal limit is 30 calendar days. If people need to use a more expensive tool due to the specific nature of their disability, a special procedure is provided for which people must submit an application to the Social Insurance Board. The decision on the solution is taken within 30 calendar days at the latest, which is much faster than it was before. There is no transitional period in this respect; this is a normal change in the working arrangements. The idea of making decisions is not just to pay a price above the marginal price, but to resolve individual situations where a standard tool is not suitable and there is a need for a more expensive tool. On this basis, the Social Insurance Institution makes a decision amending the limit price or other condition of compensation for a particular person's necessary aid. If a specific procedure develops a group for which it is justified to review the Regulation on the organisation of aid instruments, then we are ready to make changes. While there are similar products on the market in a particular category of aid instruments, the State already recommends that different options be considered. This will enable more people to be given the help they need. The price of more expensive aids used because of the individual nature of the person has been raised and will be raised in the future. The second question: 'The need for help, who had long-term contracts with the companies selling and renting aids in Estonia, was forgotten to report the change and therefore, to their surprise, they received several times a larger bill than they had previously. How do you explain such a situation, and how do you plan to avoid such situations in the future? " We note that the situation that did not reach all those in need was certainly regrettable. This is where I have expressed my views. At the same time, it should be clarified that the information provided by disabled people's organisations and their membership has partly been organised through the Estonian Chamber of Disabled People, who has repeatedly visited target groups to present changes and whose list has sent information notes and other educational materials. There have also been regional representative organisations in the counties and we have published articles and other information in different newspapers, portals, etc. In fact, unexpected price increases hit a particular company of about 200 customers. Unfortunately, they were the weakest and most vulnerable part of the clients, the parents of disabled children. There were no such problems with other companies. The companies informed in advance when they made any changes. With this particular company, too, we have sat down and discussed the matter; information has now been shared. The Social Insurance Institution has also personally contacted all the people whose data we received from these companies, and flexible solutions have been found for everyone. The third question: 'Aids for disabled equipment have been problematic over the years. The regulation, which entered into force on 1 January, allegedly sought to resolve this problem by giving people the opportunity to obtain funds of their own choice throughout Estonia, thereby eliminating the situation where those in need had to wait for funding to begin for months. At the same time, this solution created a situation where those in need of more expensive tools will have to pay more in the future. Is this, in your opinion, a good solution? ' To avoid the situation at the beginning of January, the Social Insurance Board has established an active communication with service providers and a feedback system. All service providers have been agreed and asked to send information about all kinds of bottlenecks to the Social Insurance Board. Based on this information, the Social Insurance Institution will contact people if necessary and find an appropriate solution. In mid-January, business feedback on the system implemented was also consolidated, and on the basis of this information and company transaction reports, the Ministry of Social Affairs, in cooperation with the Social Insurance Board, will analyse the changes that need to be made to the organisation of aids and the conditions of compensation. What I want to say is that the system has become significantly more human-centred, we can find flexible solutions for specific cases in the Social Insurance Board that meet people's needs. The market has opened, people have a much greater choice of a specific tool, a kit or a rental service. This concerns, in particular, the equipment and services of disabled children. So far, people have had limited information because of the system shut down. Now we can use competitive advantages, it has greatly broadened supply opportunities and the availability of all information. People really get better tools and services. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-22_U158	Thank you. You have questions too. Marika Tuus-Laul, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-22_U159	Thank you. I was a little startled by the fact that there has never been a systematic management of this area before. In my opinion, this system has been reformed for many years. In 2003, I think Minister Pomerants started it. How, then, has there not been this systemic leadership when these ministerial positions have been essentially in the hands of the current coalition all along?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-22_U160	Let us look at this aid system from the point of view of the person who needs help! Man's chances were limited depending on the county he lived in, that is, what country he came under. What kind of companies contracts were made and what kind of equipment could be bought or rented depended largely on the county government. This meant that there were cases where aid funds had ended in a particular county and people had to re-register themselves to another county government to get the aid anyway. Secondly, every year, at the end of August, this also depended on the county, the money ran out. The country did not have any insight into where we are actually channeling our taxpayers' money. The sums were spent, and then there was a situation where more money was needed. People were without aids, without access to a particular service. As you yourself know very well as an experienced member of the Riigikogu, almost every year at the end of the year, when the draft amendment to the state budget law was discussed in this Chamber, the surpluses and deficits at the end of the year were recorded and additional resources were also found that were directed towards the system of aids where this money was quickly used. Thus, a country which, as we know, does not have its own money, but which only has taxpayers' money that we are redistributing, lacked an overview of how efficiently and at what price the money is used, either properly or not. Let me just give you an example. Now, in the first two months, there have been cases where, for example, rent bills have been submitted to us for a person who died in 2012. The person is dead, but the company has submitted invoices to the Estonian state and the state has paid all these bills. One particular case was that we paid EUR 15 per month over four years, a total of EUR 720. It's only one case, but there's more. The whole system has been shut down. Thirdly, the rental market in particular has been broadly divided between some undertakings which have been in a monopoly position in their region. This has led to a situation where the remedial effects of competition have been limited. Of course, in this area, it cannot be a competition open to the end, it must be regulated because the system is subsidised and supported by the state, but it must still be possible for people to choose services and aids. Another concern has been that there has been hardly any price competition either. Today, the first two months have shown that we have come to the market with new players offering better services and perhaps cheaper. But the idea of innovation is not to push out companies that are currently on the market, who have been active for years and have made a huge contribution to the development of a system of aids in Estonia. The aim is to lower prices through healthy competition. Secondly, the state must have a clear understanding of where taxpayers' money is spent, and thirdly, those who need aid, or those for whom this system has been created, must have the best, flexible service.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-22_U161	Monika Haukanõmm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-22_U162	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. For many years, rural governments have arranged for the provision of aid. This work was transferred to the Social Insurance Board from 1 January. The scandal exploded more or less in the first week after the holidays. It was therefore very strange for me to hear the explanation that the Social Insurance Board was responsible for this whole scandal, because it is their responsibility and they have to take care of it. In your opinion, was such an explanation appropriate and justified? But there's another side to the question. Now it's been a month and a half. How well has the Social Insurance Board now done this new task? This is a fundamental change. Have there been difficulties and, if so, which ones? What has gone better than you may have thought, perhaps what fears did not materialise?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-22_U163	I think this communication, compared to some other communication, started at the right end of the day. Instead of looking for the guilty and arguing about who's guilty, and then, as the next step, letting people go, and then, when there's finally time left and someone still has his place, we started solving the problem, we chose another way. First, we reassured people, and then we started to solve the problems of people who had problems in particular. Indeed, these problems arose especially with the customers of a particular company, not with all its customers. In particular, there was concern in families with a disabled child in need of assistance. So it was a gross mistake in itself. We personally contacted all of them, quite a few came to us themselves, and we solved the problem immediately. As far as the Social Insurance Board is concerned, I can tell you that the ability to communicate with people has been there. One thing that has turned out positive is that the Social Insurance Board is able to collect the information it has received from people through personal communication. The Agency is able to analyse this information quickly and has been very useful in better organising the aids system. So, in my opinion, the Social Insurance Board has the capacity to do so. It is a matter of course that any reform, especially in the social field, will initially lead to problems after its launch. I will give you an example of the situation that we have been through with you and that has arisen before. If we make changes to the tax system, this decision will apply from some date and will affect everyone who is subject to this tax. But if you make any changes in the social field, where people are dealing with personal problems, and if there is a glitch, it will be amplified over and over again. About 70,000 people use aids in Estonia. And if the problem arises with only a few times and this time it wasn't about the system's fault, and it wasn't about someone's deliberate action, then the scandal is still gonna explode. The worst thing we could have done is to turn the reform back or to slow it down. But immediately after the entry into force of this law, all parties acknowledged that reform was necessary. This position was also reached at our joint Social Affairs Committee meeting, where this issue was discussed. Everything can always be improved, of course, but the first two months have shown that we have really been able to offer people a better service. The second plus is that we have a better overview of where taxpayers' money is spent. So the first two months of the reform have been very useful. People have not received a worse service, rather the opposite. And there are new players on the market who may be forcing older people to take a little more account of people's interests.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-22_U164	Thank you. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-22_U165	Good manager! Good minister! You were talking about flexibility here, and I'm not going to say that the maker is going to happen. But here's my question. In Põlva County, there is a man named Ants Väärsi who collects money from good people to buy a used disabled bus to drive a wheelchair - chained landman to one place or another. He still hasn't gotten the money together. Have you, Mr Minister, or the Ministry you manage, donated some euro to him, or are you going to do so?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-22_U166	A disabled bus is certainly not a tool in the sense that it can be requested from this system. However, as far as the transport of people with special needs is concerned, the operational capacity reform has itself provided for a whole range of services to ensure that people are transported. Another thing is the fact that the capacity of local authorities to organise transport services must be significantly increased. Personally, I have not donated any cents to Ants Väärs, and I honestly believe that if the Minister had to make choices that were to be supported and not supported, it would be very difficult. We have a lot of excellent people who are doing a very necessary voluntary or paid job, and I would rather put my energy into improving this system. The reform of aid instruments is one of the many reforms that need to be undertaken in the social field. The social sector is like a patch deck that's been slightly adjusted here and there and next to the patchwork. We need to keep in mind, on the one hand, that we guarantee people the services they need, their availability across Estonia, and, on the other hand, that we use the money collected from taxpayers responsibly. The fact that there is no money in the social field may not always be true. Rather, the question is how to organise the use of money in such a way as to make it as easy for people to obtain services as possible.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-22_U167	Thank you, Minister. No further questions. I'm opening negotiations. Riigikogu speech chair Marika Tuus-Lauli, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-22_U168	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Minister, first of all, thank you very much for these explanations. I was a little surprised by your statement that this area has been properly unmanaged for decades. The re-independant Estonian state is already 25 years old and this adjustment work was started a long time ago, but everything is exactly the same. But our inquiry was specifically aimed at what was still such a mess at the beginning of the year. We're talking about 200 people. They were not more than 200 children's parents, but it can still be said that those who received such a frightening bill for their tool had four, five, even six times the number of bills. We're saying all these bills were filed by one company, but basically, there are only two companies that rent and sell these aids. Of course, there was a panic, all the more so as a new very comfortable system was allowed and that this area had become a matter of the ministry's heart. Unfortunately, at the end of last year, this regulation and what it entails were not clarified. People were used to knowing that more or less 90% of the cost of the aid they needed would be paid. And we know that children's aids are much more expensive than adults'. Parents still feel that a set percentage was much more beneficial to them. I will give you an example of the prices that changed with the initial invoices. After all, many children need several tools, say, a shower, a wheelchair, and a potty chair. And several tools need to be used in several places: in a wheelchair room and on the street, while several tools are needed at home and at school. In December, such a complex rental bill amounted to EUR 30 was EUR 40, while the new bill that turned into a mailbox was suddenly EUR 130. It was such a shock. The new system seems to lead to price increases for all those who have to use, who are forced to use a tool that is more expensive than the average. The question is, what will be the limit? The companies selling and renting aids claim that the price cap was set a few years ago, a new regulation has been made for a long time. In their view, the thresholds do not currently take account of reality. Sellers also say that the new regulation has created many additional obligations for them and therefore prices will become more expensive. Indeed, innovation means price increases for consumers who have to pay at the average marginal price. Yes, we were talking about a special procedure here, that if anyone really needs a more expensive tool, they can apply for a special procedure. This must be proved to the Social Insurance Board. You need to start explaining and writing letters about why you need it and whether you need it. It'll take 30 working days. We do not know how the special procedure will work; too little time has passed. But, of course, the main question was why the situation arose, why people were not informed in advance. It seemed to us that the Ministry also had the whole problem very unexpectedly, because the Minister did not explain anything on the first day. He met the situation, tried to figure out what was going on. Only then did we get an answer. At first, people were told not to pay the bills, under no circumstances pay the bills. What's the message?! How can a person consume a service but not pay for it? This is outrageous. There was a similar mess with another minister. I think this time the Minister's heartfelt apology to the people involved helped. It is, of course, a pity that the work capacity reform had to start with such a major failure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-22_U169	Thank you. I don't see any more calls. I'm closing the negotiations. An inquiry has been answered.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-22_U170	Let's move on to the next question. This is inquiry 123 and is answered by Mr Margus Tsahkna, Minister for Social Protection. I ask Andres Ammas, representative of the speakers of the Riigikogu Chair, to introduce this inquiry to the Estonian public!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-22_U171	Honorable manager! Honourable Minister, I am pleased to congratulate you on the fact that you can address this important issue here on two occasions. Since some of the points of the two enquiries are essentially similar, although they are completely different in wording, the questioners will not be offended if you go over these questions more quickly in the course of the questioning that is currently being discussed. But there are some things that we have presented in a slightly different way. Above all, we want an answer from you on how things will proceed. It's already been discussed that let's not look back, but how's it going? For example, in your opinion, how could the situation with case managers in the Social Insurance Institute and the Unemployment Insurance Fund be resolved within the Code of Conductor and there are also social workers and family doctors, but their cooperation can often be left to wish or absent altogether? For a person, this still means commuting between several systems, social, health and educational systems. A case manager, as defined by law, is only helpful in certain cases. In our opinion, you could answer more thoroughly the more philosophical question of whether the aid market is still subject to the rules of the free market economy and whether consumers can handle all of this. Is it fair and reasonable to impose an obligation on the family to make a comparison between the price and quality of aids? How can those in need cope with this? Finally, the same question that we have highlighted and examined in a number of previous enquiries: how will the government resolve the issues of interdisciplinary cooperation? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-22_U172	Thank you very much. I ask the Minister of Social Protection Margus Tsahkna to speak to the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-22_U173	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. It is a great honour for me to answer another same question, but in front of the other manager. This response has become very long or we have just hit the right moment. Good heirs! I'm not going to read the questions you've been asking. Or actually, I'll do it, then we'll get a more systematic picture, because the esteemed Andres Ammas added a few more things that we can discuss in the course of our questioning. The first question: 'How did it happen that the amounts of aids for disabled children multiplied in January's rental bills, although the new Social Welfare Act clearly formulates the benefit for disabled children of 90% of the aids still in force? Although the Social Insurance Board has promised to resolve these cases by special procedure, the question remains what will happen next. Will the aid market still be subject to the rules of the free market economy and consumers will not lose? " The fact that at the beginning of the year some parents of disabled children received a significantly higher figure than before resulted in the application of marginal prices to a larger number of aid instruments. I would point out that these major bills, as I said earlier, were still primarily received by the customers of one company and not by all its customers, but specifically by part of them, by 200 customers of the order of magnitude involved in the provision of services for disabled children and their rental. In view of the specific nature of these disabilities, some children needed to use a more expensive tool than the marginal price and consequently their own contribution increased compared to the previous one. For all tools for disabled children, the benefit of the State will be 90% in 2016, as it was before. I would like to make it clear that the limit prices for aid instruments have been set on the basis of the same logic as those used to set the maximum prices for medicinal products where there are several medicinal products with the same active substance and route of administration in the list of preferential medicines. Also, under a single group of tools, products with the same features are both cheaper and more expensive and can be chosen. Limit prices vary depending on the category of aid. For the purpose of calculating the cap prices, the principle is that two thirds of the products on the market within one product group should be included in the marginal price. If the price of the sale of the aid instrument or the rental service is below or equal to the marginal price, the national ceiling, such as 70% of the price of the aid instrument, shall be compensated. If the price of the aid instrument is higher than the marginal price, the limit set by the State shall be taken into account for the group and the person shall pay 30% of the marginal price, the marginal price and the cost of the aid instrument in addition to the own contribution. A person's minimum own contribution is EUR 7, except for diapers and other such aids, as well as for rents where there is no minimum own contribution. In those cases where, due to the specific nature of the person's disability, a person needs a measure which is significantly more expensive than the marginal price, a special procedure is provided for which a person is required to submit an application to the Social Insurance Board. I would like to say that this word of special procedure may seem more special than it really is. In a broad sense, this still means that those who need to receive, for example, a combined assistance service...
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-22_U174	Minister, I'm sorry. Good fellow Jaanus Kariliid, thank you for taking this ownerless phone away from here so it wouldn't just ring. Let's move on, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-22_U175	Minister, I'm sorry. The hearing cannot be held at this time. I guess we can go on now if we're being helped.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-22_U176	That's not my phone.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-22_U177	Thank you. It's okay, we're all people, including members of the Riigikogu. I just wanted to say that the word for special procedure can be a little scary. In fact, if a person turns to the Social Insurance Board because of the aids, the best solution will be found in cooperation with that person. If this requires a so-called separate decision, such as the use of combined aids, especially for disabled children, then the price may be above the threshold, but the solution will be found and the person will not be forced to pay more than he had to pay earlier. I am also talking about what sounded in the speech at the end of the previous question, as we said, that people should not pay their bills. We said not to pay the bigger bills that came to them, because everyone will find a solution in the same special procedure. It's happened too. The decision on the solution shall be taken within 30 calendar days at the latest. The former system, as I introduced here, meant a much longer period of time, which depended on the government's discretion when it held these so-called special procedure meetings. There were very positive examples, but there were also more negative ones. At national level, for example, the Commission met four times in 2015. The system is now becoming much more flexible and faster for people. I stress that a decision must be taken within 30 calendar days, not 30 calendar days. That means it's maximum time. Actually, we'll make these decisions faster. The idea of making decisions is not simply to pay a price above the limit, but to resolve individual situations when a standard tool is not suitable and a more expensive tool than the limit price is needed. If there are similar products on the market with different price levels, the State already recommends considering different options. This will make it possible to use the aid budget more cost-effectively and to provide assistance to a wider range of people. Due to individual needs, the price of more expensive equipment has been raised earlier and will continue to be raised. We also point out that, since the change in the organisation of aid instruments, new providers of aid services have entered the market and competition between companies has increased. This will certainly also affect the pricing of service providers. In order to avoid future situations occurring at the beginning of January, the Social Insurance Board has established an active communication and feedback system with service providers. This has been agreed with all service providers and has been asked to send information about potential bottlenecks to the Social Insurance Board. The last such meeting took place on 5 February. Cooperation with the helpdesk service providers and with the helpdesk vendors has been very positive. Now the question is whether the aid market is still subject to the rules of the free market economy and whether consumers will not lose out as a result. I'm saying it's not a real open market. It is still regulated in the sense that we support it and contribute to it. But it is certainly positive that, firstly, on the human side, it is possible to choose between a significantly larger number of service providers across Estonia, a person is not imprisoned within the borders of his county. Another thing is that new players have also emerged on the market, offering cheaper and better quality services than they have done so far. In any case, competition from service providers is positive. When we talk about medicines, one cannot compare these systems to one, because aids are being invented in the world and there is no limit to the possibilities of bringing them to Estonia, but it is very clear which medicines are allowed on the market. There are very strict regulations around the world and also in Europe. It is possible for aids to enter the market. If we look at the amounts planned, this market is slightly more than EUR 10 million, of which the public funding is EUR 9 million. You will understand that there is still money for which entrepreneurs can make an effort. If you look at people, they will have a real opportunity to find the best solutions in cooperation with the Social Insurance Board, which has the entire information base. I think that a combined free market economy in which the acquisition and rental of tools for taxpayers' money is supported is in any case a more open and transparent system than it was before. The second question: 'What and when has the Ministry under your leadership done to inform the families of children with disabilities about the increase in prices and how have you explained the increase? " In fact, it was an obligation to explain the price increase to its customers by the company providing the aid service; such contracts have also been concluded. However, as we saw in practice, in some cases this was not done. If it had started following the finger and looking for the culprit, it would not have contributed in any way to solving these people's problems. As I explained in the previous point, we now have an ever greater insight into the people who need aids thanks to the new system. We can recommend tools to them and seek the best solutions together. As regards the increase in prices, the company is obliged to notify in advance if it wishes to increase the price. As for any other service, it is mandatory to notify price increases in advance here under consumer protection law. The third question: 'OÜ Invaru has already drawn attention to the weaknesses of the system and the possible increase in prices during the preparation and coordination of the Social Welfare Act. Question: What and when has the Ministry done its part to avoid the bottlenecks referred to by OÜ Invaru? ' With OÜ Invaru, who is one of the largest service providers, and others we have consulted repeatedly. The last sitting, as I said, was February 5. The readiness of the Ministry of Social Affairs to review, for example, in certain groups is there, but so far there is not enough change in the market that we should have done so. But it's only been two months now, so it's a little early to draw final conclusions. We have cooperation and we will try to take into account the proposals made as much as possible. Question 4: "Do you think it is fair and reasonable to impose on the family an obligation to carry out a country-wide price and quality comparison of aids in order to make the best possible decision as an informed consumer in a free market economy, which is also economically feasible, because there is no case manager, but the aid is vital for the child? ' The Social Insurance Institution has been very well informed about the opportunities that exist on the market. The second thing is that I also welcome the initiative of disabled people's organisations to create an information exchange portal where different offers of aids and services can be compared across Estonia. I think that this information is increasingly and better accessible to the helpdesk users. They are not forced to search for different offers and pursue the best prices in Estonia. I mean, the market also regulates it. For example, in Tallinn trams and trolleys from the beginning of the year, we see advertising campaigns for aid companies from 5 January, because they are very interested in offering a more favorable and better service across Estonia. They're no longer chained to one area. The fifth question and then we can go to the debate: 'At first glance, access to social services in the country has improved. Unfortunately, logical links between health, social and educational systems have still not been established. Question: What are the activities in the short term to promote cooperation in different areas so that people with disabilities do not fall into gaps between systems? ' That is the right question. There has been talk of silo towers inside and between ministries, which is why information does not move, and people with disabilities, for example, must go to several institutions and institutions to obtain evidence and documents. This is one of the most important issues that we need to resolve. For example, we have also introduced here in the Riigikogu the principle that we have a single-door policy. Basically, in the future, I will see the social system as being man-centred. This means that a person must receive all information about him from one place, from how he can move around the home, how his help is arranged at home, how he can get out of the home, and how he can work, how he can get a job, etc. This exchange of information, the provision of information on a human-centred basis, is extremely important. Here we are taking steps both in terms of IT solutions and in terms of legislation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-22_U178	Minister, thank you. You have questions. March Sults, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-22_U179	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good minister! I couldn't help but notice that if there's a bigger bill than there was before, there's just no need to pay. I'm just asking for accounting. If the invoice is issued, the issuer of the invoice must pay certain taxes on it. So how was this bill cancelled? Was that bill called back, or what? You don't quite get it from accounting that when the bill comes, you just leave it out of the question. There's gotta be some kind of operation. How were these things solved?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-22_U180	Thank you. For those people who received significantly higher bills at the beginning of the year, our call was such that they should not pay the bill but go to the Social Insurance Board or wait until they were contacted. All of them have been contacted or turned to the Social Insurance Board. We have examined whether the invoice is justified and whether there is an alternative, so that, for example, the bill would be smaller than using another service or tool. It may also have happened that we found during the so-called special procedure that yes, this bill is justified and the state paid so much of it that the person's own contribution did not increase, for him the bill was not larger, even though the bill was nominally larger and the bookkeeping was correct. But it was an urgent procedure to eliminate the well-founded resentment of those people who suddenly got big bills. Imagine a situation where you are the guardian of a child with a deep or severe disability, you have constantly consumed the same services and then you will receive a multiple bill without notice. In any case, it was not our job to start looking for who was then ultimately the culprit, because it would have taken perhaps a month or two, but it had to be resolved immediately and to find a personal solution for each person. So in the end, the accounts matched those amounts.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-22_U181	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-22_U182	Good manager! Good minister! I guess I got the bigger bill when my mother-in-law's help came in. But you said the market was about $10 million, and you told me how you got the tail when people asked for money for the dead, and so on. So how much did you manage to prevent the so-called burning of money?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-22_U183	Thank you for a good question. We only have the first month's data. I'll give you an example from January. In 2015, the average monthly billing amount was EUR 743000, while in January it was EUR 550000. That was an example of a month. Of course we have to watch all year. It's too soon to take stock. After all, we have foreseen EUR 2.4 million in the state budget for this year for a larger system of financing aids and, in addition, adult workers will also receive aids from the unemployment fund from 1 January if they are involved in their work activities. So we have a proper budget for the aid system, actually for the first time. But I myself made it a condition for the Ministry that if we want to get extra money from the government into the budget, we need to reform the aid system. We used to pour money into the system blindly. How can I put it politely? Mr President has already sighed. But we poured more money because there was a constant need for aids. We didn't know where the money was going and how to plan it right. Now we have these levers, and I dare to predict that this year we will be in a position to provide all the resources and services we need with the budget until the end of the year.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-22_U184	Thank you. Monika Haukanõmm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-22_U185	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. In answering the fifth, last question, you said that we have different towers and that they must be made to cooperate better. It seems to me that you have not answered the other side of the question which you have plans to promote this cooperation. If, for example, we are thinking about a disabled child, promoting his or her livelihood, this is where social, health and education have a role to play, but often these areas do not cooperate. What steps are you planning to take?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-22_U186	Thank you. As far as the situation of children with special needs is concerned, here we have, say, a social protection side, a health and work side and, in fact, an education side. The working groups will discuss how we can solve these problems in a child-centred way. These solutions simply need to be found. One concrete example: In 2016, it is planned to develop a system similar to a digital prescription in order to make it easier for doctors to identify the need for assistance. So a man doesn't need any more paper evidence. It's one small step in itself, it doesn't make the system perfect. But I understand what you really asked for. After all, we have the education system, the Pathfinder programs and a number of other programmes, there are municipalities, etc. It's one of the breaking points, and I'm not gonna give you guys huge promises. This is one of the key issues on which we also wondered when discussing the implementation of the labour force reform. Given today's e-state and our capabilities, people should not run, even if simply by filling out papers or obtaining evidence, between several institutions. The new information system of the Social Insurance Board, which has been very much discussed, should also provide solutions here, facilitate cooperation with service providers and allow people to look at their own data more easily. One solution that we want to implement right now in the first phase of SkyS2, which is essentially complete, is that a person can see all the information about himself and all the benefits and services he can get in a single window. We must move in all public administration towards having a human-centred approach. By the way, to say more broadly about the same aid system, it is basically what we have to do in the healthcare system at least at some level: we put the money with the person. Until now, money was distributed on a county-based basis, according to how many people lived in the county, not for people with disabilities and special needs, but for how many residents there were in the county and how much money was distributed mechanically. Now we've lost those boundaries and we've put the money on the move with the human being. No matter which place in Estonia a person lives in and what equipment and service needs, we will find a suitable solution for him. It's a step forward, it's a human-centred system.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-22_U187	Arthur Talvik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-22_U188	Good President! Good minister! Can it be said that before the reform of the aid system, there were two aid providers in Estonia, one in Northern Estonia and one in South Estonia, in essence this system had been monopolised and with this reform you tried to break up this monopoly? Can it also be said that it was these monopolised companies that basically caused this confusion at the beginning of the year?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-22_U189	There are not only two companies offering aids, there are more. But when we look at the service of renting aids, there are indeed two main players, one in North Estonia and the other in South Estonia. There was no substantive competition. Trouble came up with one of them. I'm not gonna throw rocks in anyone's cabbage yard here or how that proverb is. What I'm saying is that this situation just made it possible. Each system will be used as much as the system itself allows. This system was blind, it was closed, there was more money, and obviously there is always a need for aids. What did we do? We let this dark room in basically light, and now everyone is clear what is going on, it is clearer for businesses, actually also for consumers of aids, and above all it is clearer for the country, and we can now better organise this situation. The fact that we lost county-based borders and opened up the market means that time will show what market share somebody has. The data for the first, say, one and a half months show that the market share of many large companies has decreased and that new, small and active companies have developed and have provided a very good service. I believe that, at least in this regard, opening up the market or releasing space for light will work well in the long term.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-22_U190	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-22_U191	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, It's very nice to hear that the direction is a human-centred approach. But can you tell me when you still hope to see the first concrete results? At present, families of disabled children or also of disabled adults are working hard to gather all this information. The second part of the question concerns cooperation with the Ministry of Education and Research. The Ministry of Education and Research is aware of the preparation of a new concept for the organisation of students with special educational needs. How's that cooperation going?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-22_U192	Thank you. The first steps have already been taken. In the sense that information about the availability of aids across Estonia is increasingly accessible to people. The other thing is that the Social Insurance Board treats these people personally. As regards the "movement of information' stages, the Employment Allowance Act has entered into force with all other laws under which the provision of services started to take place from 1 January inclusive. By the middle of the year, the first people will enter a new evaluation system. There we already implement a door policy, i.e. people do not have to go behind the Social Insurance Board door, the unemployment fund door or other doors. However, as regards version No 2 of the Social Insurance Board's Information System, which has been discussed a lot, it is structured on this, like the Health Information System, that the data is still moving along with the person. Here comes the qualitative leap. As regards the organisation of the lives of children with special needs, I must honestly admit that at the beginning of the year I read one analysis prepared for two years. I was not satisfied with the conclusions of this analysis because there were, in fact, only those silo towers that the Ministry of Education is doing what foundations do, what the social security system does and what the healthcare system does. Here I had a common understanding with my partner minister, Jevgeni Ossinovski, although we do not agree very often, we have a good professional relationship, so that not only in the field of these two ministers, but together with the Ministry of Education, we need to review this very seriously, making this system very child-centred. So I can't tell you the date exactly, but as you know very well, foundations and municipalities have resources and public funding. This must be the starting point for putting the system together and for the benefit of children in particular. This job's on right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-22_U193	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-22_U194	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, I will continue with this one-door policy. That sounds very reasonable. But in the introduction to the inquiry, there is a very vivid place that says that when a disabled child turns 16, he or she will have to undergo a series of assessments: assessment of the ability to work, assessment of the degree and type of disability, a couple of other assessments, additional assessments for young people with mental disorders, maybe forensics. There is certainly a close link between vocational counselling and, where possible, professional choice. I ask a very simple question: where is this door, when will it be opened and which specialists will be behind this door?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-22_U195	Thank you, good questioner! This is the process of dismantling silos and making one house, especially for children. My understanding, which I said even when you gave me the mandate to start working as a minister, is that we have to assess his needs from the birth of a person and we have to let him know where he can get help, we must not run him. This system is not very easy to implement. With regard to children with special needs and bringing together the education system, the health system and the social protection system, the analysis is currently underway. The way I see it is that in the case of a school-age child, this place becomes a school, it does not have to run between different public authorities. This is where we get the most information. When you opened this issue, I will say that I hope you will be able to discuss legislative changes here before Midsummer, before the two summer months of contact with voters, which you are actively engaged in. With regard to the issue of early notice, the government is about to discuss a legislative amendment according to which the child is immediately registered with a specific family doctor in the maternity home and, secondly, the mandatory home visits of a family doctor and a family nurse arise, and the parent must show his or her child to the family doctor. Let us look at the new Child Protection Act, the implementation of which has received funding this year. It is up to us to see a child in need as early as possible. Officials start sending information where they need to, parents themselves do not have to spend so much of their feet and waste precious time.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-22_U196	Minister, thank you. No further questions. I'm opening negotiations. The speech chair of the Riigikogu, Monika Haukanõmme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-22_U197	Mr President! Good individual MPs left in this hall! The problem that arose at the beginning of the year with aids once again highlighted the chronic pain of such systems. In fact, people with disabilities and their families must often be more skilled than jugglers in the circus in order to survive in this system and in any other system. They have said that they are like professional applicants for benefits and services, they need to know where to ask, they need to have enough time, resources and wisdom. The daily routine of families of disabled children is unfortunately a constant search for information, sorting and systematizing it and dealing with it. This is done by going to rehabilitation and health care institutions, interacting with family doctors, specialist doctors, schools, kindergartens, childcare providers and social departments of local governments. This list could be continued. Data exchange between institutions is also mostly on the shoulders of a disabled child's family. I very much hope that the work capacity reform and various developments will improve this situation and that the family of a disabled child will no longer be like a letter-dove, who will have to take the papers to another institution. What forces the present system to criticize? The Minister also referred to this and devoted quite a lot of time. The current system lacks the necessary support for the disabled person and his/her family in dealing with matters, as there is no such case manager. Yes, while the new Social Welfare Act entered into force on 1 January, Article 9 of which provides for the granting of aid on a case-by-case basis, it is not sufficient and not all of this aid is received. In fact, there are case managers, such as the Social Insurance Board or the Unemployment Insurance Fund, but once again they have some limited competence. As Mr Herkel also said, when a child is about to become 16 years old, many parents become very anxious because they know that they have a real gauntlet ahead of them, they have to have a huge number of assessments and make a huge number of decisions, often even if they do not really know how to make the right decision. The situation is particularly difficult when a mental disorder or a child with a composite disability is involved. For example, what kind of service a child should receive, what are the queues, when this service would need to be received, etc. These are children and families, who are really particularly vulnerable, often face many difficulties. To cope with the situation, they need a great deal of wisdom and sometimes even higher education. At first glance, there is the impression that there are more services, but unfortunately, the so-called silo system has not disappeared and we still have a long way to go. All of us in this Chamber and in the ministries need wisdom that all the decisions we make in the various towers actually mean the human being and put the human system at the centre and that the systems we create are complete. Today, however, there is a very high risk of a person disappearing out there and one ministry often does not know what the other is doing, which may ultimately cause major problems and also that people are just getting hurt. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-22_U198	Thank you very much, good waitress. No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. An inquiry has been answered.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-22_U199	We're moving forward at a fast pace towards the free microphone. We've come to the sixth question. It is number 137 and is answered by the Minister of Rural Affairs Urmas Kruuse. Please ask Siret Kotka, representative of the speakers of the Riigikogu Chair, who will introduce the inquiry to the Estonian public!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-22_U200	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, who are still in the Chamber! Some time ago, the members of the Central Party Group reported an inquiry to the Minister for Rural Affairs, Urmas Kruus. This concerned the current situation of Estonian pig farming and its future. The African swine fever has already spread almost all over Estonia. Compared to Latvia and Lithuania, there are more plagues in Maarja County. More than 400 pig farmers have had to shut down. Some domestic farmers have ceased their activities because the plague has invaded their barn, while others because of restrictions on sales in the zone, which have caused serious economic damage. It is unclear what the future of Estonian pig farming will be. This means, however, that hundreds of jobs are in danger in rural areas, we do not really know what will happen to these people. Both large and small producers of pigmeat have pointed out that the main cause of the decline in production is the economic constraints imposed in the third zone, which have prevented the disposal of products. According to the Estonian Institute of Economic Affairs, the damage to the Estonian economy already amounts to 36 million euros this year, which is a very large amount. Good friends! If this continues, there is a very high risk that in the future we will not be able to feed the people of Maarja County with our Estonian domestic pigs and that more pork will have to be imported to meet demand. Because of the African swine fever, some 23,000 domestic pigs have been killed and pig farmers have reduced the number of sows in the main herd by a third themselves because of the recession. Perhaps, in principle, one in three sows will be killed. You can guess how many pigs you don't have. The reasons described above have led to a situation where the number of pigs fell by 14% last year, to 300000 pigs, while domestic pig production remained below 15%. According to a research carried out by the Institute of Economic Research, Estonia's supply of pigmeat could decrease to 60.85% by the end of this year. The situation gets worse every month and every day. All of this has led us to have five questions for the Minister for Rural Affairs, to which we are awaiting an answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-22_U201	Thank you. Please ask the Riigikogu's speech chair Urmas Kruuse, Minister of Rural Affairs of the Republic of Estonia, who answers question No 137!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-22_U202	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! The first question: 'Knowing that the outbreaks have not decreased and that every day comes to infected boars, what are the crisis measures for pig farmers in 2016? ' I will answer that question in two parts. First of all, I'm talking about wild boar. Of course, large-scale monitoring continues among them. Sampling for African swine fever shall be carried out on all feral pigs found dead and on the restricted areas taken from approximately 2% of hunted feral pigs. This means that while 9562 cases were examined in 2015, of which 1095 were positive, 3 517 cases have already been investigated in 2016 and 244 of them have been positive. Of course, the crisis measures in the pig farming sector have been linked to the eradication of African swine fever, and there will certainly be additional rules in the control plan. One concerns, for example, how hunters comply with biosecurity requirements. In order to improve overall preparedness, more information programmes are planned, concerning hunters, pig farmers, cereal feed operators and, of course, the population. On the market organisation side of the pigmeat sector, pig farmers were supported by exceptional support at the end of 2015, EUR 2.64 million was allocated to this sector and 106 pig farmers were granted support, i.e. 87517 pigs and 18773 sows. As we had said earlier and negotiated with the sector, the biggest support went to zone three. In 2016, there will be further increases in sows and breeding aid to help this sector. It should be noted that, as seen by the European Union, pig farmers were also subject to a private storage measure, which is one of the market organisation measures in order to temporarily withdraw pig meat remaining on the market and support its storage. In Estonia, 680 tonnes of pork were stored in private storage. Question 2: '2016. The national budget for 2008 provides for EUR 4.6 million, as described in the explanatory memorandum: 'Additionally, EUR 4600000 was allocated to the Ministry of Rural Affairs for national additional payments to farmers. This is an additional national support for the European Union's emergency response to the crisis. The aid granted is intended to be targeted at those agricultural sectors where the crisis is the most acute in the dairy and pigmeat sectors. ' How much does the pig sector receive from EUR 4.6 million? ' As I mentioned earlier, the pig sector was allocated EUR 2.56 million last year. This was due to the fact that last year the European Union's funds, i.e. EUR 7.56 million, were disbursed in one part and EUR 3 million of state emergency aid was disbursed in the first part. Of the 4.6 million of the 2016 state budget, just as we said in the law, an additional EUR 100000 will go into market development aid this year and EUR 50000 will go into so-called farm replacement aid, which will also benefit pig farmers. As I have already said, additional funds will be directed specifically to support breeding and sows. Question 3: 'The producers have proposed that the state should pay a sow premium of EUR 500 per sow. Why has this proposal not been supported? " In fact, there are many reasons. We need to see what the purpose of this support could be. Overall, in today's policy, the European Union considers the pig sector to be a rapidly recovering industry and there are no additional or exceptional annual measures planned. However, as I mentioned earlier, the unit rates for breeding books and breeding registers will be increased by more than twenty percent: from EUR 13,50 to EUR 18,83 and from EUR 22,80 to EUR 31,83 for performance testing or genetic evaluation. This means that if we were to rake this EUR 500 per sow and see how it can be paid out in the first place, it would become clear that if we were obliged to take EUR 15000 into account as de minimis aid in calculating it over three years, one company could receive 30 sows. So it would also be technically difficult to pay out, not to mention whether it would financially fulfil the objective that we actually expect. Question 4: '2015. Of the EUR 12.7 million allocated in 2005 for the slaughter premium, pig farmers applied for only half of the aid, indicating that this measure was not appropriate enough. Have you analysed the reasons for which a large part of the support was not used? ' Indeed, we are looking at how quickly, in cooperation with the sector, we were able to implement certain rural development programme measures and to open calls for proposals, where it was possible to apply for some EUR 12.7 million in total. About half of these requests were granted. It can also be said that these subsidies were split between smaller and larger companies. In our view, at the same time, a number of measures worked. Some operators were able to apply for support to meet biosecurity requirements, i.e. they had decided that they would continue to operate in this sector. Another part of the companies had promised that they would no longer continue in this sector and would receive support in order to start operations in another sector. It is certainly not possible to claim that these measures were used only marginally. However, we must note that we were only able to use this measure for the benefit of pig farmers, which is not comparable to previous measures that were open to the whole livestock sector. Question 5: "Does the Ministry of Rural Affairs intend to develop a separate strategy aimed at pig farming, the aim of which could be to anticipate economic failures and to feed the Estonian people with their pork? ' I am also surprised that the pig farming sector is a sector that does not really have a sector and did not have a strategy at the moment that I became a minister. We have met the sector to plan the strategy, and this year it will certainly begin to debate and do so. However, it must be acknowledged that at these meetings the representatives of the sector themselves have not always been unanimous in the understanding that this strategy should contain. At times, there is a expectation that, if a strategy is put in place, there may also be a record of how much the country could order from the pig farming sector. This is definitely not the right direction. The dairy strategy is also a sectoral agreement to describe capacity in one period or another. This means that, when these strategies are developed, they will not be valid for ten or fifteen years, but will have to be monitored continuously. If the situation on the world market changes, the strategies will have to be reviewed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-22_U203	Thank you, Minister. You have questions. March Sults, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-22_U204	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good minister! The question is, like, two parts. What about ethics? Hunters protest strongly that feral sows must be dissected, and little unborn babies must be buried next to them in order to contain the plague. The unlimited authorisation for the shooting of sows has been granted. Here's the other part of the question. Now, if we go crazy and the pig meat strategy is undeveloped, can we feed our people, for example, in 2020 or 2021? The Muslims, of course, are shouting hurrah, but we would like pork.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-22_U205	Thank you. I'll start at the beginning. You probably meant that the European Union has given the possibility to pay aid for hunting sows in wild boars in the context of swine fever measures. When I've met the hunters, they've expressed themselves in such a way that they're trying to remain completely ethical in it, or observe a certain period of time when it's reasonable to shoot the sows. This concerns certain calving periods. On the other hand, if we really want to reach 1.5 individuals per thousand hectares in the 2017-2018 hunting season, we must consider that one measure or another must be used. I dare remind you of the simple fact that if we in Estonia hunt about 29600 boars by agreement, Finland is worried that there are less than 2000 boars in the forests there. This gives an idea of the concentration of feral pigs in Estonian forests. If we are to combat this disease seriously, we will be forced, either temporarily or over a long period, to make the number of specimens in the forest small.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-22_U206	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-22_U207	Thank you, manager. Minister, thank you very much. Pigs are in a difficult situation. In a particularly difficult situation, farmers whose pig farming stays in zone three. I think they're suffering unfairly. How does the State compensate for the losses in the third zone this year so that these companies can survive?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-22_U208	Thank you. I can say that we have allocated the highest share of support for the third zone, which certainly also took into account the fall in prices, so that the company can adapt or restructure its production to lower losses. It was a decision of principle. If we compare unit rates in the third zone and outside the zone where we only gave support to sows, there is a double difference: about EUR 27 and EUR 13 per specimen. That's one side of it. Second. You may remember the spring questions and discussions. We had the knowledge then that zone three could be valid for unlimited time, because the European Commission had also not made it very clear how long that time could be. Today we are in a situation where we have been able to achieve, in cooperation with the other Baltic States and Poland, that the third zone can be valid for one year, when there has been no more cases of domestic infection, plus that we can move live pigs from the third zone to the second zone, keep them quarantined for a month and make them 'export-free'. Of course, the private storage measure also provided relief. We were certainly opposed to ending it at the moment this measure was discussed in the European Union. We also very much hoped in the last Council, where we raised it again, that the private storage measure would be reopened, because it has been one of the possible mitigation measures. I want to say that in the coming week, the European Commissioner for Health and Food Safety, Andriukaitis, will be coming to Estonia. He's responsible for food safety, and he's in charge of the swine plague. We want to find solutions and prove more scientifically that these restrictions are fair and that the potential risks for producers and consumers are also taken into account.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-22_U209	Siret Eagle, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-22_U210	Thank you. Listening to the Minister for Rural Affairs, it seems that there is not much crisis in pig farming and support measures are sufficient. However, I recall that pig farmers have a very different opinion. If I understand correctly, you said that EUR 4.6 million will become about EUR 50000 for the pig sector. If that is the case, I think you could take into account the opinion of the leading owners of the meat industry that you could give up subsidies for the meat industry and instead channel this money to pig farmers. What do you think about the idea of giving this money to pig farmers instead of industries?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-22_U211	That's an interesting idea. Perhaps an honourable member of the Riigikogu occasionally attends meetings where such proposals have been made. But at some point, it seems that pig farmers themselves do not agree. If we look at the functioning of the economy as a whole, we must admit to ourselves that there are several industries in Estonia that also own pig farms. This actually means that, in one way or another, no matter how we look, this support would in any case also reach the industry. As a minister and a citizen, I very much hoped that the sector would have been more unanimous and that the introduction of imported pigs would not have been relevant for some businesses, but they were nevertheless introduced. Perhaps I will now use the moment and answer the question of the honourable Member of the Riigikogu, Sults, whether the pork will continue for the Estonian consumer. Our self-supply level before the crisis was 100%, but half of it went out as live pigs and products, i.e. 50% of this volume reached the Estonian people's table. This certainly does not mean that the level of self-supply is 75% or 65%, that Estonian pork will no longer reach the table of the Estonian people.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-22_U212	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-22_U213	Thank you, good manager. Good minister! The situation is the same as that of nature conservation, that zones and conservation zones are created, but they can no longer be abolished. What's it like with this third zone, is there a period of time, how long it has to last, is there a procedure, how can the zone be abolished, and so on?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-22_U214	I am happy to answer that question again, although I did so a few moments ago. I said that in spring we had the knowledge that we were not sure when this zone would be abolished, but today we know that a year after there had been no African swine plague on the farms in the zone, the procedure for lifting restrictions could begin. Secondly, as regards the export capacity of operators, there is the possibility of moving live pigs from the third zone to another zone and, if they have been kept in quarantine for a month, they are export-free. We are trying to coordinate and agree similar rules with other Baltic countries. These are the most important initial mitigation measures. We hope and wish that, as a result of these negotiations and in cooperation with scientists, we will be able to make the period of validity of the third zone even shorter, ensuring security both in terms of preventing the spread of the plague and in terms of mitigating the risks of the manufacturer and consumer safety.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-22_U215	Arthur Talvik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-22_U216	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good minister! In the autumn, I remember, you had an argument with a large meat industry precisely because they imported pork from outside Estonia during the biggest crisis. Looks like you've made up with them right now. Is that true? If you've made up your mind, what was the price of reconciliation?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-22_U217	Thank you. I understand that the role you have played in recent months is the reason why this question was put as such. But I dare say that my position today is exactly the same as it was yesterday and will be tomorrow. At this point in time, when we have an oversupply of pork and pigs, there could be more solidarity in the sector. But I understand the behaviour of an entrepreneur whose goal is to make a profit. At the same time, there is always a legitimate question as to whether those companies, who also receive, in one way or another, a share of taxpayers' money, behave ethically. Only time can be estimated.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-22_U218	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-22_U219	Good manager! Good minister! It is clear that the plague is waiting for the blue flower to bloom, just as the refugees are waiting for the cold and stormy sea to get over it. But are you prepared for some kind of black scenario of how many pig farmers can disappear next year when spring starts and the action starts again?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-22_U220	Thank you. Your design, when you compared refugees and pigs, was, of course, extraordinary. What I'm saying is, we're doing everything we can to make sure there's no new case. However, listening to the presentation and opinions of Professor Viltrop of the University of Life Sciences, or to assessments of how the plague got to the farm in one case or another, it must be acknowledged that although there is a plague in the forest, it depends on whether this farm is accessible, mostly and very much from the company, its foresight and ability to implement a security plan that is controlled by itself and VTA officials.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-22_U221	Minister, thank you. No further questions. Is there a desire to negotiate? There's no call. An inquiry has been answered.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-22_U222	Let's move on to the seventh question, number 138. Reply by Minister of Rural Affairs Urmas Kruuse. I ask the representative of the speakers of the Riigikogu's speech chair, Külliiki Kübarsse, to introduce his inquiry to the Estonian public!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-22_U223	Good manager! Good Riigikogu! Good Minister of Rural Affairs! The Ministry of Agriculture left 3089,17 hectares of agricultural land in the public interest in Tähtvere municipality, Tartu County, on the basis of three decrees from the Minister in 1999/2000, on the grounds that this land was necessary to maintain the test base of the Estonian University of Agriculture. This transfer of land was carried out with the assets of 147 former farms, which concerned 260 legitimate owners. At the same time, in November 1999, the Ministry of Agriculture presented a written statement in the Government of the Republic that the real reason for the ownership of the country was the economic benefits of increasing the market value of Tartu Agro. By 2016 no hectare has reached the property, possession or use of the Estonian University of Life Sciences. After keeping the last land units in the state's possession in the summer of 2000, the Ministry of Agriculture decided to lease the land in question by selective means. The Ministry made the lease competition for arable land a condition for the continuation of the agricultural production activity of Tartu Agro. Due to this condition, only one bidder could participate in the public auction and as a result, the Ministry concluded with Tartu Agro in November 2000 an agricultural lease for 25 years with a rent of 10000 kroons per year, i.e. 0.21 euros per hectare. Since 2014, the investigation procedure for this lease agreement is ongoing in the European Commission, as Tartu Agro has allegedly received illegal State aid. How can the Ministry of Rural Affairs today explain to the European Commission that the competition for the land lease described above was open, transparent, non-discriminatory and unconditionally no longer a tender procedure? The Land Office announced in February this year that the rent price was 224.14 euros per hectare in the open competitions for agricultural land organised by the Tartu County Office in 2015. In the same year, however, Tartu Agro paid the Ministry a rent fee of 26.80 euros per hectare. How does the Ministry explain almost ten times the difference in rents? It is also incomprehensible that if the Ministry counts as part of the rental fee ancillary obligations of the lessee (land tax, land improvement and soil improvement costs), why there is no annual documentation in the Ministry to verify compliance with these contract terms and to prove the transfer-acceptance of the works carried out. At the beginning of 2014, the Ministry of Agriculture brought Tartu Agro to court with the application for damages for non-payment of rent due to the lease contract and for the settlement of interest for late payment in the total claim EUR 108629 13 cents. However, after the change of minister, a compromise agreement was quickly concluded in July 2014, according to which only 32060 euros and 72 cents were paid to the Ministry of Tartu Agro. The Ministry of Agriculture, in turn, entered into a compromise agreement to establish a position on the extension of the lease until the end of 2040 in 2015. The Ministry had only announced in its reply to Tartu Agro in January 2013 that their application for the extension of the lease contract had been submitted prematurely, i.e. more than 12 years before the expiry date of the contract, and this topic would not be discussed until the last year of the contract. Why did the Ministry suddenly opt out from an earlier point of view? Why is the Ministry even considering extending the contract to the same tenant, given that the contract is concluded under dark circumstances and below market conditions? It is also unclear why the Ministry is discussing the burden on these countries at all times when the ownership of the land units forming part of the lease contract is still subject to administrative litigation. How do you explain the assessment made in the March 2014 report by the Working Group of experts from the Ministry of Agriculture that there was a significant violation of discretion in the retention of these countries? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-22_U224	Thank you. I ask the Riigikogu's speech chair to be answered by the Minister of Rural Affairs Urmas Kruuse!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-22_U225	Honourable President! Honourable members of the Riigikogu! I will start with very specific questions and I will also try to refute some of the arguments put forward in the inquiry. Question one: '2013. In 1998 an advisory working group was set up at the Ministry to study the lease agreement with Tartu Agro. Please outline the main findings of the Committee of Inquiry. What are the ministerial conclusions on the results of the working group's work? " Indeed, an advisory group was set up on 6 September 2013 and its focus was changed already three days later. In general, it can be pointed out that the working group dealt with a number of issues, including the problems of the lease agreement presented in the inquiry. It was as if there was a presumption that land reform could continue through the renewal of the land ownership procedure. In this respect, it was finally concluded that the investigation did not find any new elements which would have allowed for the renewal of the administrative procedure. Nevertheless, the working group proposed that consideration be given to the renewal of the administrative procedure. So it cannot be said that the Ministry has not established that the State's decisions in the process of ownership of the land would have been unlawful. The Ministry's final findings in this regard were published in Ministerial Decree No 27 of 13 September 2014 and generally rejected requests for the renewal of the administrative procedure. The renewed administrative procedure was closed and the Land in question's ownership of Order No 66 has not been repealed to this day. The second question: 'How has the Ministry ensured transparency, honesty and non-discrimination in the rental competitions repeatedly won by Tartu Agro? " There have been no repeated rental competitions. There have been different processes, i.e. the rental competition took place in 2000 and was won by AS Tartu Agro, which belonged to the state. The second knowledge is that two companies actually participated there. The fact that the other one was not elected was linked to a number of factors. For example, the business plan did not meet the requirements, there was no management decision to participate, the payment of the offered rent was not guaranteed, etc. If the other bidder wanted to contest the rental competition, he could have. The third question: 'Why does AS Tartu Agro pay about 26 euros/ha of rent to the State on the basis of the contract compared to 2015 if the actual market price is more than 8.6 times higher (in Tartu County 224 euros/ha)? Please explain why such a large price difference will occur and explain why this country's adverse option is preferable. " Let's look at the market situation when the rental competition took place. In 2000, the private sector, first, did not have a very high degree of use of written and paid lease contracts, and the value of renting the land was not very high. The highest value was that the owners who had to pay the land tax were exempted from paying the land tax through this transaction because the owner of the land was also paid the tax. Let's look at the dynamics of rent prices, take the years 2000-2004, for example. At that time, the lease fee for cultivated land was EUR 6 to 10 per hectare ± 20%. In the next five-year period, 2005,2009, or after Estonia's accession to the European Union, land rents increased between 10 and 20 euros. Between 2010 and 2014, it was possible to rent the land at EUR 30 to 50. In 2000, Tartu Agro was signed with AS as a result of the competition until 2025. This was clearly different from the contracts concluded on the market both in terms of scope and in terms of obligations. This agreement involved a very large number of ancillary obligations, covering both the improvement of the land and the improvement of the land, and the entire lease initially included a rent payment for the entire land, not just a payment for the land that could actually be used for agricultural purposes. So if we take all the commitments together and add it to the specific rental price, the actual rental price could be about EUR 121. The second thing is that I expect, and I think, that the honourable questioner has taken as the average price the prices in recent times' so-called state rent auctions, which we are familiar with. You brought out, I think, an isolated incident in the county of Tartu. It was a small plot of land, the price of which went, you could say, very, very high. In fact, there was no direct desire for it to be reasonable to manage, but it was a take-or-leave situation. So the reasons why one or the other plot is sold at a high price at auction are very numerous. At the same time, you may remember that in 2001 the shares of a public limited company were sold and privatised, which in the same way brought in additional resources to the state. Depending on the terms of the lease agreement, this price also developed according to the nature of the liabilities. Therefore, it cannot be said that the State has certainly suffered damage to this transaction. The fourth question: 'The Ministry argues that the low price depends on secondary obligations (land tax, land improvement and soil fertility improvement costs). If this is the case, why does the Ministry not have the annual documents proving that the works carried out have been transferred and received? ' The Ministry certainly does not claim directly that the net rental rate depends only on the secondary obligations. Between 2000 and 2009, several agreements were reached between ministerial officials and the company, which included an increase in the net rent rate of the company. This was actually achieved during these negotiations. In the area of land improvement alone, the Agricultural Office, which is part of our ministry's administration, has carried out a total of 23 inspections over the last three years, which have been documented. Question 5: "What will the Ministry of Rural Affairs continue to do with the lease contracts? Negotiations are currently underway to extend the lease to 2040. Is there a call for rent? What are the terms of the rental contest? Who is part of the decision-making committee? ' I can confirm here today, as a minister, that there will be no such negotiations. No negotiations are currently planned for the extension of the lease agreement until 2040 and no Commission has been set up for this purpose. If we simply assess it on a personal level, when we are talking about agriculture in today's situation and the country wants to rent lands in the long term, it must be seriously asked at what point this land can and should be leased again. Let's take a simple example. If, for example, the farm invests in a new dairy farm, this investment is usually carried out in 10- or 12-year-old conditions, where the price is very low, even with a return of 15 years. This means that if we rent out this land for a company through a competition and for a long time, we have to ask whether this company will simply cease its activities at the moment when the contract ends, or if there is a mechanism that will give the new partner the opportunity to take over the obligations or whatever. This should also be taken into account. The state should certainly not act here only in the way that the competition has taken place, the state has gained its profits, and the company should see how it manages. Question 6: How do you assess the unlawful State aid procedure initiated by the European Commission and what arguments have you put forward to the Commission? ' I can tell you that we have not been informed of the initiation of the procedure. The European Commission asked for clarifications to consider whether or not to open an investigation. We answered all the questions, both in legal and economic terms, and also ordered special expertise on the market trend. No new questions have been received. As far as the good questioner is concerned, the possible illegal State aid that you have mentioned is concerned, the question arises as to why, after we have joined the European Union, we should regard the existing contract format as State aid. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-22_U226	Thank you, Minister. You have questions. Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-22_U227	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, I would like to make an explicit assessment as to whether, in time, there was a serious discretionary error in the ownership of these countries. How do you describe the violation of property rights that arose against those legitimate subjects who did not get the land back? The original reason was that this land was going to an agricultural university. None of this has happened. So what happens now? Are you saying that this stupid lease, which is below market price, is not going to be extended by the Ministry?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-22_U228	Thank you. As I pointed out in my reply, as regards the review of a certain procedure, including the privatisation procedure, it would be very difficult to imagine in today's legal situation. But at the same time, I can note that if we look at how much the University of Life Sciences uses as an internship base the existing production base for companies, it is certainly not possible to say that with this unit, the University of Life Sciences has not been able to carry out any research and teaching activities for students. At the same time, we have the knowledge that the University of Life Sciences will continue to be interested in having land on the basis of this unit. If it turns out that at some point it is reasonable for a country to do so, then it can be decided. However, if there is going to be a procedure in Europe, I should rather be right to have no further decisions taken by allowing a possible procedure to be concluded before it is concluded.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-22_U229	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-22_U230	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, We both know that this land once belonged to Jaan Tõnisson and his brothers, and it held a proud fruit farm at the beginning of the 20th century, promoted berry bushes, had a nursery, etc. It has been incomprehensible to me over the years that, although the heirs of this land were Jaan Tõnisson's child and the children of his brothers, who were willing to continue farming, there was a refusal to return land to legitimate heirs because there was a public interest in it, even though the University of Life Sciences did not use any acres there. How do you explain that?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-22_U231	It cannot be argued that there is currently no public interest in the use of this land. Firstly, the state has a public interest in having valuable agricultural land at the disposal of agriculture. That is the case today, nothing has changed in this respect. We look at the scope and size of the strategic agricultural land of the Republic of Estonia. We can say that it could be about a million hectares, with currently 930000 to 950000 hectares. As a minister, I cannot give an assessment of why these decisions were made as such for legal experts and the Estonian judicial system. We know from history that there can always be certain injustices in privatisation, which people usually express emotionally and by turning to court. As a minister and as a citizen of the state, I expect the Court to resolve these issues in compliance with general law, but so that the injustice of citizens is minimal. After all, there were others in the Republic of Estonia at that time where no land or property was returned.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-22_U232	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-22_U233	Good manager! Good minister! A short time ago, the postman placed a title in an article that Seeder placed a skeleton in the Padar's locker. It is a pity that there are no good colleagues in this Chamber right now. It was in mind that he formed a committee in the last days of his ministry to examine how a good colleague, Ivari Padar, had, as a minister at the time, entered into such an agreement that he who offered three kroons per hectare received the land, but he who offered two hundred was deprived of it. Explain now, please, to the wider group that was the point of this matter, that the land was acquired for three kroons a hectare, but the one who offered 200 kroons was lost.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-22_U234	Yeah, you know, juggling numbers like that could lead to that kind of result. I'm trying to recall some of my previous answers. If it was a pure rental price, your construction could be considered correct. Although it must be said that if only one of the two offers was accepted and the other party did not contest it, the question arises as to whether it was an unfair price or a price prevailing on the market and whether the other tenderer knowingly made such a high offer, leaving in place certain legal constructions. It's speculation. But since there were side responsibilities, you can't quite say as you do. What, for example, should we do? Let's imagine you bought a TV three years ago with 500 euros. If TVs can now pay more for one reason or another, although life is the opposite, electronics will be cheaper, does this mean that the seller will come home to you and say that since the TV costs so much more today, he is entitled to recover it from you if you are not willing to pay more? I think that anyone who has come into contact with contracts and tried to draw up long-term contracts knows that certain conditions have been written in. What you called a skeleton, I wouldn't call it that. This is a dispute. The State wanted to increase the rent payment, link it to the subsidies and automatically set a part as the rent amount. This claim, then submitted to the company, was more than EUR 100000. As a basic requirement, there was a bit over the same EUR 32000 that was paid out as a result of the dispute. All the so-called legal experts said that it would be reasonable for the country to reach a compromise in order to get the money. The final result was that the state received the same money that it had proposed when we were talking about some of the subsidies to be received per unit of land.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-22_U235	Arthur Talvik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-22_U236	Good President! Good minister! I do not understand, of course, how the less expensive rental price per hectare does not constitute State aid. It is particularly strange if you claim that the public interest was the reason why the land was rented to one farm at a significantly lower price than the market price and you say that the state is making a profit on it. There are obvious contradictions in what you're saying. But has AS Tartu Agro offered you, i.e. the State or the Ministry, to participate in this company? Has it ever been planned to sell this land for agricultural purposes?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-22_U237	Thank you, Reverend Asker! I cannot agree with the introduction to your question. I cannot agree because, whether it is a state or someone else, contracts must be honoured. Secondly, I would point out that if we are talking about the average rental price of the land in the Republic of Estonia today, when we are discussing this issue here in the Riigikogu, it is actually 48 euros. What a good successor pointed out is an extreme or maximum price that cannot be regarded as an average price. That wouldn't be right. The average price in the Republic of Estonia is currently about 48 euros, according to statistics. At the same time, some farmers also receive free land, or the land can be used simply to ensure that the land is in good order. This depends on where the land is rented, what value it is, what the owner is, etc. But in answer to your question, no one has offered to participate in the ministry. When the lease contract expires, the State will have to decide what it will do to the land, whether it will re-lease it or sell it. In the case of sales, there are two options: whether it sells the land for its own purposes, i.e. agricultural activities on that land must be continued, or whether it will leave the activity free. Personally, knowing how valuable agricultural land is, I think that agricultural activity on this land, on these fertile soils, should continue today, tomorrow and also in a century's time.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-22_U238	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-22_U239	Thank you, good manager. Good minister! It is close to Tartu and there are certainly very valuable plots of land, which, I think, the developers are looking forward to. But my question concerns 2014. As it turns out, two ministers may have very different attitudes in one year. How do you comment on that? Is this good for the Ministry's indoor climate? What is your conclusion: has the decisions of the various ministers within a single government worked reasonably so far?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-22_U240	Thank you. In today's Ministry of Rural Affairs and the former Ministry of Agriculture, many ministers have served the Estonian people at one time or another. Why a minister took a decision to start such an investigation a few moments before the government changed, that's what you should ask him yourself. I've been trying to present the clean and sober facts that are available to me and that are in the contracts. I will not make a political assessment of the behaviour of one minister or another. In itself, I do not see any problem when the legal expertise suggests a compromise, because we have to take this into account at some point. But I am not quite sure that if the claim was more than EUR 100000 and it included interest for one year, the main requirement was EUR 30000, so that the case would then have been won in court in the long term in such a way that the State would have received the EUR 100000. If you recall all the steps that the honourable assembly has taken here, one of the key issues is whether any claims and interest are justified, justified and accepted.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-22_U241	Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-22_U242	Honourable President! Honorable Minister! I feel a little sorry for you for having to answer this question today, because it would be perfectly correct if there were a colleague Ivari Padar standing on the remote. If Ivari Padar at least listens to this debate, it would be dignified to speak of him and at least to explain to us, in a form of speech, why he signed such leases in his time. But I didn't quite understand your answer. You've used the nice expression 'Can't say' many times today. It's been your favorite phrase today. I'll ask you again. As a minister of the Republic of Estonia in 2016, do you consider that the state of Estonia has suffered economic damage or not because of these lease contracts?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-22_U243	Given what the contracts were concluded in the year, what the side obligations are, and also what the average rent in the Republic of Estonia is, I cannot claim today, as a minister, that the state has suffered damage. This argument, whether or not the State would be harmed, is hypothetical. If there has been a competition, an elected committee, a Commission has confirmed the decision, and if the loser or the non-accepted tenderer has not challenged the decision, then as a minister, I cannot get the opinion that this has been a personal competition for someone, such as Mr Padar, who you have referred to. I think it would not be right, it would not be possible or necessary. Secondly, the question arises as to how long the deadlines for the rental of large agricultural land could be in order to enable the company to manage and both sides to be good partners for each other. I don't think the state should have to go over someone's ears all the time. If we look at the behaviour of the state, or ministry, and look at all these years when the lease contracts were negotiated, what do we see? We see that the company's rental conditions are difficult. Because of what? Once the rent has increased, there has never been a reduction or a reduction in secondary obligations. Consequently, I cannot accept this hypothetical argument that the State would have suffered damage.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-22_U244	Ain Lutsepp, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-22_U245	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Mr. Minister! You repeatedly stressed the average size of the rent. For this land, rent depends on many factors. Given that this is a relatively fertile land, it should not always be about average size. But my question concerns one particular matter. You mentioned a country university that can use this land in Tartu Agro as its study base. How much of this country has the University of Life Sciences used as a study base?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-22_U246	I don't remember saying I could use this land. I told you that you can use this company, i.e. you can engage in certain activities on animal farms. I can't tell you how much land is used. The University of Life Sciences has expressed a wish that it could receive some 300 hectares of this land for its activities.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-22_U247	Mark Soosaar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-22_U248	Dear Minister, I very much liked your thinking that agricultural land should not be left out of circulation. For example, it has been arranged in Norway that if the farmer dies, his offspring must move to the farm within six months and continue farming. If they don't, they're gonna have to sell the farm to those who're gonna take care of the farm. Would we not consider, too, that cattle farmers and farmers, for example, would have the right to buy in neighbouring countries if they wanted to get bigger land for sowing or grazing? I know that the small islands currently have a problem that people who are trying to rehabilitate livestock cannot do so because coastal meadows are cut between owners and some landowners want to sell their land to the owners of the cottages instead.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-22_U249	Thank you. In the Republic of Estonia there is a procedure under which land use is determined. You mentioned that neighbours could have preferential purchasing rights or those wishing to continue farming in this country could have an advantage. I think that if this debate comes in our society, it will be very long, because the question arises as to whether there is a willingness in society to understand why certain private interests are being hurt from the outside, if I may say so. I would like to say that the use of agricultural land, and precisely valuable agricultural land, has increased steadily. If we compare land use at the moment we joined the European Union with the present one, we will see that it is on a constant growth trend, otherwise we would not have reached almost a million already. Today, it is rather a question of whether we can use agricultural land for the most efficient activity in a given region. It also needs attention and cooperation with scientists and landowners.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-22_U250	Minister, thank you. There are no more questions. I'm opening negotiations. Artur Talvik, speech chair of the Riigikogu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-22_U251	Good President! Ladies and gentlemen, This theme of Tartu Agro is a very long and unpleasant bearded story. It started after the state transferred land around Tartu with the aim of giving it to "public use," including the use of the University of Land Sciences. It soon became clear that none of this happened, but the same land was rented very cheaply to AS Tartu Agro. Indeed, perhaps at the moment that the rental took place, the rent prices of the land were down, but in Estonia, due to the European agricultural subsidies, the rent prices of the land have increased exponentially. Today, however, we can clearly say that the country has suffered a great deal of damage as a result of this lease. The Minister said that a distinction should be made between the average and the maximum rental price, and he claimed that we did not take secondary activities into account. Yes, we do. As a general rule, the average rental prices for this lease have been used to argue, taking into account countries of different quality. But we must bear in mind that these countries in the Tähtvere region are very high-quality and very good land, not only in view of the agricultural objective, but they certainly want to build an enormous amount of land there. The Minister argued that no new transactions are coming in relation to Tartu Agro and that at least at present this agreement will not be reviewed. That's a shame. As this agreement will not be reviewed, the country will continue to suffer losses and other farms may be placed in an unequal competitive position. We look forward to what the European Commission will say on State aid, whether they will start the State aid procedure and what will happen in this dispute. But there is also the danger that Tartu Agro may plan a new move. We would very much like all the next moves that are made in relation to Tartu Agro to be transparent, publicised and made through public competitions. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-22_U252	Thank you. More calls... are. Please speak to the Riigikogu Chair Jaanus Marrand!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-22_U253	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I was brought here to the premiere by a long-standing political aziotage around this thing. Secondly, there are circumstances that do not reflect the actual market situation, such as the relatively cosmic rental price of EUR 224, which has led to the large losses incurred by the State. In order to understand this whole thing, we need to look back a little bit, indeed, as a good colleague said, to the year 2000. How were decisions made 15 years ago, and what is being done now? When we start looking at these decisions with today's knowledge, it is clear that things are, of course, being done differently now, certainly being done differently. I think that no one is happy about this decision taken 15 years ago, nor are the entrepreneurs of Tartu Agros happy. I've been talking to them, I know their attitude. They're not happy it's gone like this. But the decisions made by the state at the time were also made in the light of a completely different knowledge. When we think today about how we understood things 15 years ago, some of us were boys and girls at the time, part of the market economy, much less experienced men and women. Indeed, at the time, the plan was to leave this land to the school of agriculture, for the understanding was different. There had been once a teaching house in Ülenurme, a large holding, and the institute of animal husbandry and veterinary medicine had entire large farms, including Tartu Agro, a number of experimental companies, such as the Piistaja, which recently, a few years ago, were sold. So, in fact, the idea was absolutely different. It was thought that this 3,000 hectares were still needed, so Tartu Agro did not go to privatisation, it was a state company. But time changed quite quickly. When we talk about the conclusion of this contract, the lease and all of it, then, at that time, really, the rent prices of the land were something else. It was that the landowner was paid for the land tax, and no one really talked about the rent, because then there were quite a few lands that were uncultivated and out of use. It must therefore be assessed in a completely different way. If we are talking today about good countries and current rental prices, then in Tartu, the price is no longer 224 euros per hectare, as is written in the inquiry. This could be the price of one or two deals with some ten or two hundred acres. It is therefore worth looking at the average rental price in Estonia and the European Union as a whole. In general, it is not economically possible that this is higher than the single area payment, i.e. EUR 120 per hectare. After that, it becomes economically pointless to rent land. Small flats can be at such a price if the company needs them in particular. Can I have some more time, please?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-22_U254	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-22_U255	Yeah. Would you like one minute, two minutes, three minutes?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-22_U256	Three minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-22_U257	On this basis, it is worth considering this average rental price. More than 100 euros per hectare, this price is not often close to Tartu either. However, if we look at this whole process in the longer term, I would remind you that this decision has gone through a great deal here by the name of Ivari Padar, it is not the decision of the Minister for Agriculture. The fact that 3,000 hectares of land, i.e. a great deal of land, will be held by the state was a decision of the Government of the Republic. It was the decision of Mart Laar's government, it was not the decision of the Minister of Agriculture. I have examined the verbatim of government sessions: there was no discussion, no one had any questions. The state itself concluded this agreement, but the time changed quite quickly, the Estonian state developed and these terms turned out to be rather poor quite quickly. That's another question. But does the state have to keep its word or not? I think it does. In this sense, the Minister must be acknowledged; he was able to carry out this position. The state must keep its word, even if the word is poor. But if we look at the processes that started in early 2014, then, come on, the same minister had been in office for almost seven years. He knew the government would change. During this seven years, this theme of Tartu Agro had emerged in one way or another. I guess that jurite didn't stand for any change. This was indeed a political move before the change of government. That is why a good colleague, Ivari Padar, is currently twisting these accusations, and I think that is completely unjustified. What happens now? How do we proceed? I think we need to look at two things. Indeed, Tartu Agro was privatized at one point. The price of privatisation was pretty high. I am also a farmer, I know what such companies are paying. In this sense, this rental price, of course, was and is cheap. But if you look further, this company is one of the flagships of Estonian dairy production that can manage the elite herd. How do we proceed? The country has land. Does the state say we're gonna put this company on the ground, we're never gonna have anything to do with him again? When the lease period ends in 2025, of course, a new and quite clearly market-based lease must be made and the land leased. How and for whom, this is the subject of agreement. But I think that if the country wants to make some moves, it has to start thinking about it, because it's not as long a time as nine years to plan for the company. If the state wants to behave properly, it must inform the company relatively early about what it wants. So we really need to start thinking at some point about how to proceed. As for the fact that the University of Life Sciences does not or has not tried very hard there, they are currently taking place on Eerika's experimental farm, where land is also needed, but not 3,000 hectares. The minister mentioned 300 hectares, and I have also heard 400 hectares mentioned, so 300 to 400 hectares of land is needed on this training farm in any case. They also cooperate with Tartu Agro. I know that Tartu Agro is one of the best internships in the vicinity of the University of Earth, because it is, in economic terms, a very advanced holding. But once again, it would not be right to start evaluating the decisions made 15 years ago with the current standard. It's not correct. I don't think that's the way to look at things. There are more and more decisions that may need to be reviewed if we want to do so. Every decision must be judged in the time he was made, right or wrong. And you have to learn from your mistakes, that's all. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-22_U258	Thank you. I ask the Riigikogu to speak to Andres Herkel!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-22_U259	Mr President! Honourable representatives of the people! Dear Minister, I am pleased that at least one former Minister for Agriculture came and said something about this subject, although I might have liked to see two players here. But I'm developing some of these philosophical postulates, for example, that what was done in 2000 cannot be estimated by today's knowledge. However, we should take a step further and acknowledge the mistake when the mistake has been made. Obviously, a mistake was made in keeping the state's ownership, and in addition, many legitimate owners, not just Jaan Tõnisson's family, but many others' expectations and hopes, were still violated, and the ownership reform was essentially not implemented. We can only put this thing in the right context if we look at all of Estonia and see that it has been done more or less everywhere. That would be a very stupid situation. We can see in the context of the debate that this has led to. It's very hard, yes, to judge. But it seems to me that there are some things here that are a little bit of a shift, if we're arguing about whether the difference between the actual rental price and the sum it pays is on the order of magnitude or on the two orders of magnitude, or it's a quadruple. From all these explanations, it seems to me that the difference is at least quadruple. And that's one unspoken weird thing. Next, all this talk about the University of Life Sciences was just like an excuse why this land was not returned to legitimate owners and why it remained the property of the state. It also became clear from the inquiry that the country university may have needed at most a tenth of the entire country, I understood. We were talking about 300 hectares, as the minister said, but there are over 3,000 hectares. This whole thing is too confusing, dim and incomprehensible to accept it. I therefore think that there is a reason to go further on this issue and the questions raised in the inquiry are justified in every way, as is the initiative of Minister Seeder to set up a Commission or study group, even though he made this initiative minister in the last few days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-22_U260	Thank you. I ask for the speech chair of the Riigikogu, Peeter Ernitsa!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-22_U261	The good President and the few colleagues who are still here! I have dealt with this subject for a long time as a journalist, and I have seen it all very closely. For the sake of the stenogram, I have published a long story on 3 April 2014 in the country paper 'Does Minister Ivari Padarist become a coffin member of the government? '. I remember how a good colleague, who is unfortunately not here at the moment, came here as a Member of the European Parliament to become a minister. A letter from Jaan Tõnisson's heirs was sent to the Riigikogu at the time, asking him not to put such a man as a minister. Indeed, impressive figures, every fool realizes that there is a pretty big difference between 3 kroons and 200 kroons. But actually, there's a lot of nuances, and the names that go through here are also very impressive. Mart Laar's government decided that. I am going to mention Siim Kallas. I'm not going to talk about our good colleagues. As Minister of Helir-Valdor Seeder, he announced in 2008 that this land was going to be privatized, but he only formed the Commission to investigate all this just before his long ministerial career ended in 2014. That's why the Postman's title was that Seeder put the skeleton in the closet for Padari. Actually, these things are a little more complicated. If you read this story, you'll understand. Aavo Mölder is in charge of this holding. The costs that a lessee should not actually bear are quite high. I've reviewed these amounts (they're in crowns). Over 400,000 he has to spend on land improvement, 1.3 million on fertilization, 841000 on road side maintenance. That's a lot of money. Indeed, as the current minister explained, 3 and 200 can't quite compare with a shovel here, but the story itself is extremely complicated and, I would say, even sexy, because big names run through here. As we can see, the new minister is also forced to answer such questions. This is likely to continue during the next agriculture ministers, because people are concerned. I am thinking of Jaan Tõnisson's descendants and some other people who are stubborn about their Estonian affairs and cannot be satisfied with such injustices. But my message is that this comparison of 3 kroons and 200 kroons per hectare cannot be done quite well either. It's a lot more complicated than that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-22_U262	Thank you. No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. An inquiry has been answered.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-22_U263	Let's move on to the next question. It bears the number 139 and is answered by the Minister of Rural Affairs Urmas Kruuse. I ask Rein Ratas, representative of the speakers of the Riigikogu Chair, to introduce his inquiry to the Estonian public!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-22_U264	Good manager! Honourable Riigikogu! Honourable Minister of Rural Affairs! Our inquiry concerns the impact of the use of plant protection products on bees. I am very pleased to note that beekeeping is probably more part of the field of activity of the Minister for Rural Affairs than of the Minister for Agriculture. Insufficient regulation of the use of plant protection products, not to mention the misuse of pesticides, which sometimes occurs, has a direct and long-term impact on bee life and beekeeping, as well as on environmental performance in many ways. Some bee families die or are severely weakened after use of pesticides in fields, gardens, railway dams and road beds, as well as on various decorative objects. This causes economic damage not only to beekeepers, but it is much more comprehensive, and direct damage to the environment also arises. The so-called tank mixtures containing several components may be more dangerous to insects in combination than the individual components individually. This interaction has not been investigated, as far as we know, but these studies would probably be very necessary. The serious problem is the lack of measurement or incompetent use of glyphosates, neunicotoids and other pesticides. Good Minister for Rural Affairs, 16 members of the Estonian Centre Party Group kindly ask you to answer the five questions of our inquiry. I've been talking.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-22_U265	Thank you. I ask the Riigikogu's speech chair to be answered by the Minister of Rural Affairs Urmas Kruuse!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-22_U266	Mr President, thank you very much. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! I'll answer the question. The first question is this: Will the use of chemical plant protection products in Estonia increase, decrease or remain on the same level year after year? What are the corresponding indicators? ' If we base the data of Statistics Estonia from 2014, it can be said that about 1.38 kilograms of plant protection products are used on one hectare of cultivated land. If we look at the last eight years as a whole, we can see that the use of plant protection products has fallen from 1.51 kg per hectare to 1.38 kg per hectare. 'What is the extent to which close to nature, biological plant protection products are used in Estonia? ' There is no precise information on the extent of the use of biological plant protection products, but according to the overall assessment it can be said that biological plant protection products are certainly used less often in Estonia. There are also very clear reasons for this from the user's point of view. Alternative control techniques are often more time-consuming, with less efficiency and limited capacity for use. But at the same time, it can be said that there is certainly a very clear growth trend in the use of biostimulators. They help to strengthen the development of adverse growing conditions, for example in the event of drought, or to stimulate plant growth and generally clearly reduce the need for chemical control. The second question: 'How is it justified and how is the compositional and impact-based safety of plant protection products authorised in Estonia ensured? ' Plant protection products in which the active substance has been approved in the European Union may be placed on the market in Estonia and elsewhere in Europe. The placing on the market of a plant protection product shall be preceded by an evaluation of the plant protection product, an assessment of both physical and chemical properties, effects on human and animal health and effects on the environment. Of course, the evaluation is based on both legal requirements and a number of guidance documents from the European Commission and the European Food Safety Authority, which are also followed in other countries of the European Union. As a result of the evaluation, the plant protection product can be placed on the market under certain conditions specified in the authorisation of the plant protection product. The third question: 'How has the safe use of plant protection products been organised: training, procedures, including information for beekeepers, compliance with the farm book, supervision? What and how many claims and good practice infringements have been identified? ' The rules relating to plant protection products and equipment are primarily designed to ensure safety for animal and human health and the environment. Since 2000, aerial spraying of plant protection products is prohibited for safety purposes, including for the protection of bees, under the Plant Protection Act. However, we know that aerial spraying has so far been permitted in several countries, such as the United States or Canada, in certain countries, in exceptional cases such as the United Kingdom, Germany, Ireland and the Czech Republic. As far as training is concerned, plant protection training is the foundation for the safe use of plant protection products. Plant protection training shall be carried out at the Office on the basis of an approved plant protection training programme. In doing so, the Adult Education Act is based on literature. The plant protection training programme shall be drawn up by the training body, taking into account the specificities arising from the tasks and responsibilities of the professional user, distributor or advisor of the plant protection product, and shall submit that programme to the Office for approval. Plant protection training consists of initial training and refresher training and the Agricultural Agency issues a plant protection certificate valid for five years to a person who has completed plant protection training. Several plant protection trainings take place each year, for example more than 16 trainings are organised during the first half of this year. The requirements for the use of a plant protection product are such that the plant protection product may only be used under the conditions specified in the authorisation for the plant protection product and corresponding to the labelling of the plant protection product, i.e. the number of authorised uses and other restrictions must be complied with. When it comes to informing beekeepers, one of us must not underestimate the importance of bees in Estonian nature. The last ten years have been subject to an information obligation between the user of the plant protection product and the beekeeper. Thus, at least 48 hours prior to the start of application of the plant protection product, the user of the plant protection product shall be informed of the identity of the person whose honey tree is located within two kilometres of the field in which the plant protection product is intended to be used. Of course, we would like to find and find better solutions that will help the user of the plant protection product to communicate information more accurately, more conveniently and more readily. In the near future, we will see the possibility of informing also those who do not have the relevant information on their colonies in the register of farm animals. The bee families of not all Estonian beekeepers are listed in this register. This concerns PRIA in particular. At the meetings, beekeepers have found that they are trying to achieve that there is a knowledge of all beekeepers operating in Estonia. When using the card application, it is possible to easily identify the apiaries located in the vicinity of the fields of the plant protection product user before the plant protection work begins. Further development is extremely important; it also puts the so-called 'control', even neighbouring surveillance, in a better position. As regards the obligation to keep records of the plant protection products used, the person who uses the plant protection product for his economic activities shall keep records of the plant protection product used on paper or electronically. It shall indicate the name, period of application, cost norm, area and crop on which the plant protection product was used. In the case of ordering a plant protection product service, the recipient shall, in addition, keep records of the service provider. As regards monitoring, in cooperation with beekeepers, the Agricultural Office has in recent years taken samples of dead bees to identify the causes of the loss. In 2013 and 2014, the Agricultural Authority, when monitoring, discovered five cases in both years where bees had been killed due to the use of a potential plant protection product, and one such case was discovered during 2015. Problems in the absence of a plant protection certificate were related to the non-compliance with labelling requirements of the plant protection product and the non-compliant storage of empty containers. Hence the next question where empty packaging of plant protection products is put. The handling of these packages is subject to the rules of the Chemical, Packaging and Plant Protection Act. Empty packaging must be stored in a storage room in a dedicated container or cabinet until the packaging is delivered to the operator of hazardous waste for reprocessing or disposal. Question 5: "Do you see the issues that need to be resolved in the modern use of chemical plant protection products from a natural and bee-keeping point of view? If so, what should we do? ' It is certainly possible to give more comprehensive recommendations to the farmer on the aquatic environment and the use of safer plant protection products by pollinators. This year, in cooperation with the Estonian Plant Production Institute and the Agricultural Board, we would like to pay more attention to this issue. It should also be noted that the reduction in the use of these funds is linked to better consumer awareness. None of us, the consumer who uses these foodstuffs, nor the environment which is under excessive pressure by these means, will certainly benefit from their excessive use. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-22_U267	Minister, thank you. You have a lot of questions. Rein Ratas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-22_U268	Thank you. Good minister! Should there not, however, be an obligation in the Plant Protection Act, if we do not have better legislation to do so, to compensate beekeepers and other persons for the damage caused by the use of pesticides, or should it be the creation of a compensation fund or insurance fund? I've been talking.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-22_U269	Thank you. The question you put about beekeepers can also be made a little wider, and precisely in relation to the possible formation of an insurance fund. We have been discussing several losses in the Committee on the Environment, including possible natural damage. In cooperation with beekeepers, we have discussed these topics and are developing strategies so that beekeepers can feel better in the Republic of Estonia and their opportunities, rights and activities are better protected. I cannot assure you today that such a change of law can be taken out of the drawer immediately. But also looking at the benefits that bees bring to pollinating farmers, I think that, in the long term, it should be possible to reach such agreements so that any damage, if proven, can be compensated in one way or another. But in what form, this is where I owe the answer right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-22_U270	Mark Soosaar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-22_U271	Minister, thank you very much. We've had a lifelong war here, and now I think we're going to have a war on farmers and beekeepers. In any case, when I spoke to the beekeepers and farmers in Pärnu County, I realized that they are doing the same thing and that they are actually friends in the field, because the oilseed rape does not grow without bees. There are plenty of farmers who use plant protection products very carefully at night after sundown, so in the morning bees can fly around there free and there are no problems. If a farmer violates these good practices, would it not be possible to impose some of the same penalties as the PRIA? If you have one goat unmarked or one haystack uncleaned for autumn, you will lose all support for maintaining a seminatural community. Perhaps it would help to correct those farmers who are ruining good practices.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-22_U272	Personally, I am in favour of sensible negotiations based on mutual understanding. Only one such case was identified in 2015. Maybe we missed a few cases, but we'll get a better overview of all beekeepers with registration and information technology. Currently, beekeepers are probably also carrying people who, for one reason or another, are not interested in being on the register. This system is successful when we have an overview of all beekeepers and we know where they are. If these data can be found quickly, I think that cooperation will improve further. I am indebted at the moment to the answer on the imposition of sanctions, because I have not taken part in the discussions where this issue would have been addressed. But beekeepers' round tables are actually very active. I very much hope that we will be able to find good solutions for beekeepers there and also propose solutions for the agricultural sector and for the whole rural area. It should certainly be noted that, as far as nature conservation is concerned in the wider sense, water law and other laws are trying to reduce the intensive use of such chemicals in the long term.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-22_U273	Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-22_U274	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. It has been said that if bees disappear, it won't be long before humans disappear. Well, it's not that bad yet, but it's quite sad to see Chinese honey on sale in stores. I would not say that Estonian honey is too little, and what is the subject of the register is certainly very right and justified. Indeed, many beekeepers are not in the register and, apparently, when a swarm or family is destroyed, information about it is not available. But if good practices don't work, maybe there's something to be added to the law. Since the Riigikogu has also established an honorable support group such as the Bee Support Group under the leadership of Rein Ratas, then suddenly it would be possible to include members of this group in these round tables?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-22_U275	Thank you. I am, of course, absolutely convinced that beekeepers will enter the Riigikogu in one format or another. You referred to the quality of honey. At the last round table I attended, beekeepers were also concerned about their own member of the organisation, because the quality requirements, what we call honey at all and what it should look like at one point or another, are certainly extremely important. The second question is what the imported honey we sell looks like. I also believe that these issues will be resolved through the cooperation that has begun today. This intensive desire for cooperation, say, beekeepers, ministry and other stakeholders is extremely important, as it is also partly about how to get more valuable and high-quality Estonian goods from the shop, be it honey, milk, meat, etc.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-22_U276	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-22_U277	Good manager! Good minister! The health of Estonian bees is somewhat crippled. By spring, on average a quarter of them are dead, and in the event of rape fields expanding, there is a risk of no more bees and pollinators. In addition, bees will be brought in by spring from elsewhere, such as Italy, but there will be a little beetle like a little hive beetle that can also get here and do a lot of bad things. Has the Ministry considered that apart from the use of pesticides and pests, you should be prepared for the arrival of a small hive beetle?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-22_U278	Surely we should be prepared not yet to know what is coming, but having seen these first round tables and meetings, I can tell you that this ampoua is very wide. The wintering of bee families and their potential deaths depend on a number of factors, not only what has happened in the field, but also on climatic conditions, feeding, etc. It's all connected. One issue I am sure is that of bee diseases that require attention. I very much hope that, if the Ministry supports beekeeping more in one way or another, there will be more cooperation and understanding as to why it is reasonable to stand up for common things, to come to the public and to be a member of these organisations.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-22_U279	The next questioner on bees is Hiiumaa, Saaremaa and Läänemaa. Jaanus Karilaid, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-22_U280	Thank you to the manager. Good waitress! Beekeeping organisations have been interested in developing export capacity for many years. In the meantime, an Asian country was interested in our pure honey, but then it turned out that we did not have the ability to guarantee stable quantities. The cooperative side is weak and it turns out that environmental conditions are fluctuating. What, then, can we do to improve our export capacity just as far as honey is concerned?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-22_U281	In fact, there are also signs in beekeeping that beekeepers are concentrated and are trying to reach the consumer with a very specific product of stable quality. I think beekeepers have been very clever, finding all kinds of by-products besides honey that are put in jars and consumed by people in a classic way. One thing we do in the Ministry of Rural Affairs is the different market organisation measures and subsidies that beekeepers could use to export. This, of course, does not only concern beekeepers, but also other farmers. In the previous period, however, this use remained very weak in Estonia. In Lithuania, these measures were used for more than EUR 20 million; we barely had more than one million. Even taking into account the different size of the countries, we have too little of this amount. We have offered cooperation organisations in several sectors the possibility that if they have questions and there is a lack of advice on how to prepare applications, we will be ready to direct them. We hope that our farmers, including beekeepers, will be active this time. But your question applies very well to all cooperative activities in the Republic of Estonia. The biggest challenge is how to ensure the uniform quality of large lots, which is certainly complicated in beekeeping, more than in any other sector.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-22_U282	Let's move on. The question of the use of plant protection products now comes from Northern Estonia, Harju and Raplamaa. Arthur Talvik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-22_U283	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good minister! When driving down roads in the summer, you can see very clearly how in those places where lawn mowers or other lawn mowing equipment cannot or will not be used, dry spots around traffic signs etc. It is known that it uses a glyphosate-based herbicide called Roundup to limit plant growth. It's the Road Administration. Has it been said in the government that the state agency could set a positive example and not use such glyphosate-based herbicides? Glyphosates are known to be one of the main causes of bee diseases.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-22_U284	If you answer directly, this has not been discussed specifically in the government. However, if we look at the consultations between the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications and our Ministry, we want to hand over any such investment in ditches to the Ministry of Rural Affairs. I cannot rule out that this issue will be under discussion in the same way soon, but I agree with you in principle that, on some point, the state could set an example. Where such items are used, they must comply with the established procedures and the notification should in any case be carried out.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-22_U285	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-22_U286	Thank you, manager. Minister, thank you very much. I am sure that intensive agriculture is creating these problems, and it is probably not the way it should be going everywhere. I hope farmers and beekeepers have a respectful attitude. I am trying to buy honey where there is no intensive agriculture, i.e. from Haanja or Rõuge. But my question is wider. Should we not get to the stage of informing not only bee owners but also villagers, for example, before they start spraying plant protection products? If Elion or Eesti Energia begin to remedy any malfunction, they will warn in advance. It is not very difficult to send a message, for example, to those who live by these fields so that they do not have a picnic or a children's party that day. There could be some good practice to let them know.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-22_U287	Thank you. When we think about the technical solution to this issue, it agrees that we could and should have a certain information technology portal where we could easily enter this data. That's the first thing. Certain information security and protection issues can probably be taken into account there. The second thing is, of course, that agricultural activity in its objectivity requires the use of a certain plant protection product, but on a human basis, I understand your question. In urban conditions, it is usually the case that if someone invites visitors, the neighbor decides to start making a smoke, but he won't let you know. I think that this question is currently unanswered. We will also discuss this if we start to develop this system further in terms of information technology.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-22_U288	Minister, thank you. No further questions. I'm opening negotiations. Riigikogu speech chair, Rein Ratas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-22_U289	Good manager! Honorable Riigikogu and respected Minister for Rural Affairs! A plant grower through its nectar producing crops and a beekeeper through its beebirds are intrinsically great allies operating in mutual benefit. Bees collect their prey from rape and rape, clover and other crops, both garden crops and wild plants, including most flowering weeds. The honeybees greatly increase the yield of cultivated plants through their diligent pollination. 84% of plant species and 76% of food produced in our region are dependent on the activities of bees and, in turn, on the activities of their insect allies, such as bumblebees and bee companies. Not only crops, but also natural plant communities increase their vitality as a result of the work of this insect pollinator society. To control pests, such as giant beetles, we process our fields and gardens with insecticides. In order to better capture seed crops, both butterflies and cross-flowered fields are treated with defoliants before harvesting, although the lucerne, for example, is still booming at that time. Defoliants are also exposed to semi-natural flowering plant communities on agricultural and forestry edges using modern spraying techniques and are debilitating biodiversity there. The impact of pesticides on bee colonies is long-lasting, as bees continue to run on contaminated flowers for several days after spraying. That is why we need safer management and more effective monitoring of the use of plant protection products for the promotion of domestic beekeeping and environmental protection. To a certain extent, the combined effects of beekeeping and pesticides are only covered by the Law on Plant Protection. By the way, there is also a apiculture law in the Kingdom of Denmark. We could have a law like that, maybe we should. Let's think about it. That is the case, the birth of one new law or another depends primarily on the will or will of the minister in power. For example, in the Republic of Latvia, agricultural books are required to be completed on the day of application of the plant protection product, immediately, but we must do so within ten days. I don't know what such a stretch is. We are the masters of our own country and the organisers of our own lives. Beekeeping requires much more support in the Riigikogu than in the past for our good beekeepers, true enthusiasts and wise people. A bee support group has just been established in the Riigikogu. As a little bit of clarification, it is led by Peter Ernits and Mark Soosaar, the speaker here is a private of this working group. I've been talking.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-22_U290	Thank you. I ask the Riigikogu speech chair Mark Soosaare!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-22_U291	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good minister! Ladies and gentlemen, For a dozen years in my life, I have also been keeping bees, moping honey at night, and having been worried in the spring when the bees are dead, and finally giving up because I couldn't stand up to varroatosis. This meant three or four times the volume of work. But about ten to fifteen years ago, documentary films from the United States, France and England began to appear. There was talk of concern that bees would simply disappear. Hypotheses were very different: either cosmic radiation or earth's magnetic field or don't know what else. I still haven't heard from the scientists. Plant poisons are probably not the only reason bees disappear. Once they actually disappear, of course, it's serious because if most plants cannot be pollinated, our dining table will also become so narrow that maybe a species like man will disappear from this earth. Beekeepers don't think so, but farmers think that maybe beekeepers themselves are causing bees to disappear. The question arises as to what they feed their bees for winter food. Is it still possible to survive the winter with sugar to replace vitamin and protein-rich bees' own food? The more we contribute to the exchange of information from the Minister's mouth, we heard that round tables are already taking place, and I very much hope that our support group can also contribute a little here, so that beekeepers and farmers can give each other a more friendly hand, the more this may help to get out of these problems in Estonia. But the problems are probably much bigger than just plant protection products. What can we learn from bees? I have talked about this several times in various associations, but I have not yet done so before the Riigikogu. You see, bees have an information society, and the bee family can only survive if they provide very operationally adequate information. If a bee comes from the harvest and dances to the rest of the family to fly so many metres and so many minutes in that direction and then turn there like this and there's a field with lots of nectar, and the bee family follows this information, then it'll gather enough prey for the winter to survive our hard winter. If the information is wrong and the bee family flies to where the field is poisoned or something else is wrong, it will not be able to gather as much prey as it needs, and the winter will not survive. That goes for people, by the way. If the information that comes to us in this Riigikogu or government or family or wherever it is, is authentic, honest and accurate, then we will live on, if it is wrong, then we will die. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-22_U292	Artur Talvik, speech chair of the Riigikogu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-22_U293	Good President! Ladies and gentlemen, Good minister! The problem of bees is certainly linked to intensive agriculture and the huge amount of chemicals used by intensive agriculture. There's no doubt about that. But right now, I'm not going to stop so much at this intensive farming, I'm going to go to a well-known and notorious herbicide, or roundup based on glyphosate. It is known that Roundup or glyphosate is not only toxic to bees but also causes cancer in humans, not to mention other mammals and fish. The French Government recently banned the use of Roundup in the sphere of widespread use. This is one positive example, and it is not the only government that has made such moves. My appeal to our government is also to set an example first and prohibit the use of Roundup in government-subsidised occupations, such as the Road Administration, which uses it in those places where it is uncomfortable to mow hay or grass. Secondly, and this is already a more radical call, the Estonian Government could propose to ban Roundup in the consumer sector. These are two positive steps that can set a good example in our attitude toward bees. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-22_U294	Thank you. No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. An inquiry has been answered.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-22_U295	We're moving forward from the thigh to the free microphone, but before that there's another question, the ninth one, bearing the number 154. Rural Minister Urmas Kruuse answers the question. I ask the representative of the Speakers of the Riigikogu, Peeter Ernitsa, to introduce the inquiry to the Estonian public!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-22_U296	Good President and few enthusiastic colleagues in the Chamber! The inquiry is about the Estonian dairy industry. This is an inquiry into the members of the Central Party. It should be clear to everyone that the Estonian dairy sector is experiencing a severe crisis. Many dairy farmers are in a very difficult situation because 22 cents per litre is awkwardly low. In fact, the dairy farmer has to pay extra from his own pocket; milk production makes a loss. As a result, it is no wonder that the number of dairy cows is decreasing. According to PRIA, there were 2311 dairy cows in Estonia at the end of 2014. In one year, the number decreased by 387 or by 17%. During the last three months, the number of dairy cows has decreased by 169. So far, there are about 1900 dairy cows, and if we keep going at this rate, I can't tell you how small the number of dairy cows is going to be. The reasons are clear. Last April, milk quotas were abolished, but farmers, of course, had already made commitments that had to be fulfilled. The result is that the situation of cow farmers is extremely difficult. When you turn to the bank to get a loan, the bank says, "Come to us when the price of a litre of milk has risen to 30 cents," so far, see how you handle it. Eight cents is the difference, which means you can't knock on the bank gentlemen's door. I'm not going to read the questions. We have a number of them for the Minister, five questions, and I look forward to the answers of the Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-22_U297	Thank you. Please join the Riigikogu's speech chair by anyone other than Urmas Kruuse, Minister of Rural Affairs of the Republic of Estonia!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-22_U298	Honourable President! Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! The first question: 'Last year, the government did not find EUR 2.8 million in exceptional support for dairy companies, while the European Commission officials made it clear that each Member State could add its own contribution to EU support measures. The Estonian state did not do so. Is there an exceptional plan to support dairy farmers this year and to what extent? ' I expect the honourable questioner to have in mind the first European Union emergency aid last year, which was EUR 6.87 million and could be provided with additional money from the reserve. There was a specific time limit for proceedings. I was no longer able to implement it in this situation. But the current government has added EUR 7.6 million to the EU's 7.54 million. In addition, it has taken a number of support measures to alleviate the difficult situation in the pigmeat market. Of course, when it comes to what the honourable questioner meant, that some cow farmers and entrepreneurs have disappeared, our aim has also been to support up to a hundred cow keepers by means of the rural development plan and these measures, in order to guarantee the size of certain units across Estonia. But speaking of this year, this year, the dairy cow farmers will be paid EUR 4 million. It should reach them by the end of this month. The second question: 'What measures is the Ministry of Agriculture planning to take to alleviate the situation in the dairy sector? 'On 14 March, a package of possible additional measures and measures will be discussed in the Agriculture and Fisheries Council. At its meeting, this issue was already very seriously under discussion. In Europe's dairy industry, it is now absolutely amazing that the price of milk is falling, but production is increasing. It can be treated as a closed circle. We also met last week with representatives of the dairy sector, today we met with representatives of the pig farming sector to draft proposals for possible additional measures for the European Commission by the 25th of this month. We are well under strong pressure from the European Commission, because if milk cannot be sold within the European Union, export markets will become very important. We also intend to design various measures through the RDP measures that will help this sector. However, an additional EUR 30 million is actually open to the milk and meat sector as a incentive to facilitate entry into third country markets. I very much hope that the entrepreneurs will be able to participate. Question 3: 'Different ministers have made efforts to reach the Chinese market for Estonian dairy products. A year and a half have passed since the introduction of the import ban, but there is no indication of results. What is the state of the opening up of the Chinese market to Estonian dairy products and what products and potential volumes are we talking about? ' I, as Minister of Rural Affairs, had the opportunity to attend an official visit in Beijing at the end of last year. A memorandum of cooperation was signed, according to which China recognises the organisation of food and veterinary supervision in Estonia. This is the first administrative step in the People's Republic of China in communicating with any country in order for food and food products in that country to enter the Chinese market. We are working today at this pace and rhythm so that we can sign a protocol in April that recognises the so-called milk production requirements. It is a rather bureaucratic and long-term process, but we intend to go through it. Once general recognition has been achieved, sectoral recognition can begin. If we get this protocol signed in April and if the Chinese side considers it necessary, it can inspect again those companies that intend to export from Estonia to the Chinese market. Although these additional controls may seem uncomfortable for one reason or another, they are part of the bureaucracy of the People's Republic of China that needs to be taken into account. We have forwarded the final version of the so-called certificate to the Chinese side for approval, but have not yet received a reply. Question 4: 'The raw milk produced by Estonian milk producers is known to be transferred to Lithuania and Latvia because of the shortage of Estonian dairy processing companies. What is the export of raw milk to Latvia and how much to Lithuania? " Lithuania was transferred in 2015 to 89000 tonnes of raw milk for EUR 21 million, Latvia totalling 45000 tonnes for EUR 11,6 million. In 2014, Lithuania received 156000 tonnes worth of EUR 54 million, while raw milk went to Latvia for 28500 tonnes of EUR 10 million. Question 5: 'Estonia's Rural Development Plan 2014-2020 funds can be used to support cooperative activities EUR 18 million. Are there any and which cooperatives have been interested in the possible use of this support? How does the state plan to use this money? If the support for cooperative activities in the value of 18 million euros cannot be used, can the state of Estonia direct this money to other support measures or will it not be used? ' It should certainly be noted in the introduction that this 18 million so-called "major project' measure is only part of the measures. If we look at the support for setting up and developing a producer group, which provides for EUR 6 million, and the investment aid for processing and marketing of agricultural products in a producer group, which provides for EUR 9 million, plus joint action training and other training programmes, then it can be said that indirectly and directly more than EUR 35 million will certainly go into action. The conditions for major project actions are currently being developed. It works in partnership with partners, I am thinking of both the representative organisations of the agricultural sector and other representatives of the sector. In any case, we want to open this measure this year. It has been proposed from the sector that the measure should be open longer than planned, but these discussions have not yet ended. If this draft measure goes to the coordination circle, the public will be able to make proposals again. If, for one reason or another, there is indeed a situation that this money is not being used for any reason, we will be able to use this money up to 2023 under other measures of the rural development plan. It is now evident that certain groups are working intensively to find common ground for the creation of a possible cooperative in order to launch and be eligible for this project. But when the projects come, it's too early to say, because there's definitely some business secret or ignorance here. Once the measure is open, it will be clear how many participants in this project will be and who will be the winner. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-22_U299	Minister, thank you very much for your answers. You have a lot of questions, too. Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-22_U300	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, The decrease in the number of dairy farmers is certainly very sad, but I am asking about milk processing. One question was about transporting raw milk to Latvia and Lithuania. It seems to me that they have gone further in processing it and have managed to go better on the eastern market than we have. We could have more potential for processing. But what's the reason we're missing our Southern neighbors here? Is there a need for strongerly developed brands, or is there something wrong with marketing? What is the reason why Estonia itself cannot deserve the production of already declining milk production while processing here?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-22_U301	Thank you. When we talk about purely technical processing possibilities, we have guaranteed capacity, in some parts there may even be under-burden. But the fact is, when we talk about the reconstruction of factories and the formation of new factories, Lithuania is ahead of us. This is not a minister's fiction, it is a statistical fact. For objective reasons, they are clearly weaker than us in the production of milk, but not in its processing. In Lithuania, land reform has not been carried out in the form that was carried out in Estonia. There's a lot of one-off guys out there, if you don't mind. This is why Lithuania has been buying milk in Estonia at different times, because ultimately it is cheaper to get out of here than to visit these small units. On the other hand, when we lost around 4% of milk production last year, despite the current conditions, it has increased in recent months when we compare it with a year ago. This is a general trend which is a cause for concern throughout the European Union, because the price is pressurized and in decline if we are unable to export to third countries. The third important thing is that, if Lithuanians have used some EUR 20 million of so-called promotional measures, they have been able to add value to certain products both domestically and in terms of exports. This comparison is quite simple. If you put ten kilograms of milk and one kilogram of cheese side by side, you can see the final price you can get for the milk. The production of cheese deserves milk better than the sale of raw milk, the latest data being at 24 euro cents per kilo. When we talk about cooperative activities, some farmers have started to sell raw milk directly to the consumer, others have started to produce curd, thirds are going to produce cheese, but here are the important brands and marketing. The main thing is that we produce twice as much milk as we consume. The proportion of urban milk we consume is not 100%, there are other proportions. Domestic competition is extremely strong for us. I dare say that at a certain point we have been poorer salesmen, but I am not talking about the Eastern market, because there is no outlet there at the moment. If we go with our products to other European countries and beyond, we must bear in mind that it is difficult to move dairy products to remote areas, unless it is a long-ripe cheese. There are cheese-making warehouses in several countries. But when we talk about exports to countries farther away, we probably have to talk mostly about milk powder or whey powder. These prices, however, are not pressured upwards but rather downward in terms of value added. This means that everything we can create in this country as added value is ultimately reflected in the price we receive for milk kilos. Experts have pointed out that if a new plant was established, it could already give three cents in the technological process, which could be shared in one way or another.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-22_U302	Andres Metsoja, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-22_U303	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, Agriculture is an important part of rural life. However, the oil shale industry is important in Ida-Virumaa and it is very important in the industrial sector. I dreamt that the Estonian state was going to help the oil shale sector. That's where my question comes from. It seemed to me that the Minister of Agriculture was rather nervous in this dream; he found no reason or justification why he did not need to help the farmer. How can we explain this to the farmer in this situation? Could there be a reason for my dream, and if so, how would you explain it to the farmer?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-22_U304	Thank you. Yeah, I know a lot of shows where dreams are explained and they're trying to find answers. I'm definitely gonna be stuck here. But in the short time I've had to be a minister, I don't have much time for dreams, even though sleep is very important. Maybe I haven't had as many visions as you, a good questioner. But these specific decisions are still born of a sense of need to support. We were talking about this emergency support. As a minister, I did not want to go into this trap to try to give a reputational signal to the agricultural sector that we are now giving them the top-up, but we decided that with the emergency measure, or national emergency support, the farmer will receive this money the fastest. If you ask what this statistically means, it means that half of the countries have not even paid out their emergency support. We have paid out the European Union's exceptional support and we will also pay out EUR 4 million this month in national emergency support. We believe that the agricultural sector is of particular concern. However, despite all these subsidies this year, there is more than EUR 300 million in the budget for the subsidies we distribute in this sector, the most important question is how much and which consumer will pay for this production. This is also an existential issue when it comes to rural and urbanisation, because if we are unable to add value and increase the average income of rural people, this pressure will in any case remain high. Large farming will structurally reduce the number of jobs based on efficiency, but we want to achieve, through the rural development plan, at least one agricultural job with an average income in each smoke. It's an addition to all of this. I am not the opposite of large-scale production and small-scale production, everyone has a role to play in terms of what is necessary for society. I hope that I, too, will have more positive dreams of how farmers can be supported. But right now, I hope that cooperative activity will also be an additional incentive to survive the crises. We must recognise that in the European Union, we can see where this will provide relief for the crisis.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-22_U305	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-22_U306	Good manager! Minister, thank you very much. The situation in the dairy sector has not been made this way by the long-term activity of our government, or rather by inaction. If we compare ourselves with our neighbours, such as Latvia and Lithuania, we will see that we are still a light year away from them, if we look at what kind of subsidies these countries provide to the farmer and what kind of subsidies the Estonian state has granted. For example, since we do not pay the top-up, farmers will lose 100 million euros of the circa during this period. All countries are trying to help their businesses and may not always use the authorised methods. If we add here the fact that we have a 4.7 times higher electricity excise duty than in Latvia and Lithuania, there is already a 10-cent difference in diesel prices today due to the rise in excise duty, and it is still growing, it is clear that this is unfair competition and the loss of competitiveness. That's the bad result.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-22_U307	Thank you. I very much hope that a good member of the Riigikogu did not mean that the Estonian state should use illegal techniques to support one sector or another. But first, if the activities of Latvia and Lithuania were to be so successful, their industries would not have to buy any kilos of milk from Estonia and their agricultural sector would not be in worse difficulty than us. Milk is cheaper with its neighbours than in Estonia. Secondly, if individual sections are removed from the tax base, such structures can indeed be developed. That is why we have tried to communicate with our Latvian and Lithuanian colleagues in order to create clarity here. If you look at the single area payment unit, you can certainly not say that they are more supportive. As a minister, I can say that, when negotiations start this year, the Minister for Rural Affairs will talk about this top-up issue, but the Minister for Rural Affairs has certainly not allowed the top-up to be paid directly in his electoral talks, although other political parties have done so, which is not important to me. What matters is whether and how much taxpayers' money we can give there. But the key question is still not in this money, one cent in addition to the price of milk is not helping today. We need structural changes so that we can create products and add value to raw milk under conditions when we produce it twice as much as we consume. That is why I am doing as much as I can to open up new markets so that businesses can export.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-22_U308	Arthur Talvik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-22_U309	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good minister! My question concerns this major project. The draft regulation on the move sets out the basic requirements, i.e. 25% of the daily production was required in one sector. But the aim is to motivate joint action. However, the draft regulation does not specify, for example, what the minimum number of members of the cooperative should be. Why is there no such requirement in there? Very few large producers can meet this 25% requirement, but the aim is to unite as many Estonian producers as possible to cooperate. Does this major project concern dairying only today?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-22_U310	Thank you. That 25% you mentioned is just a minimum program. The higher the percentage, the more you can get the bonus, I mean the evaluation criteria. Secondly, it is not excluded that the number of producers is also important, because some partners have indeed considered it important, so that the producer could also receive an additional bonus on the number of members of the cooperative, which we cannot exclude. But in any case, no matter where we look, we need more milk to get together. It has been suggested that at least 60% of milk should actually be collected for this new plant in order to make it run at a reasonable level. So there are different opinions, but certainly there is this principle in the project to be able to process more milk and have more cooperative activities, whether it be expressed in the number of members.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-22_U311	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-22_U312	Good manager! Good minister! What would you say to comfort those cowmen who are now taking their herd of cattle to the meat combinate?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-22_U313	Thank you. First of all, I state that some animals are exported to other countries in any case and not always linked to the crisis, but to a certain extent to such a small side branch. But the meat combinate, to be confessed, goes unfortunately with most cows who have stopped milking. If we look at the decline of the herd, it's a problem on the one hand. Yes, when we are talking about the time of the Republic of Estonia, we have had more than 300,000 cows, but the average productivity was 2,000 kilograms. If we look at the fact that we had 100,000 cows and, in the last period, some statistics have shown that there are only 92000 of them, but productivity has increased, it is clear that this is not about the number of cows, but rather about what we can do with this milk. After the discussions and meetings with representatives of the sector, I have been doing a third round for Estonia. What's the eye? Indeed, some producers have lost productivity, some reduce the size of the herd, some leave the sector, some do not change anything and some buy more. These decisions are made at a very individual level; it is very difficult for the Minister to say what should be done. But we can see that solutions are being sought. Some sought solutions even before the crisis deepened, and they have in some ways been easier. However, I am reassured by the fact that farmers generally sell not the best part of their livestock, but nevertheless these animals are considered to be very valuable in another country, because the productivity of the Estonian dairy herd is at the top of Europe. In this sense, I agree with the point of your question.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-22_U314	Arno Bridge, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-22_U315	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. You mentioned that at the moment the dairy producer receives 22 cents from a litre of milk, but the banks will only talk to him when he receives at least 30 cents. What is the Ministry's forecast this year, how can we stop the sale of a full-scale dairy herd abroad or also the meat preparation? Farmers, dairy farmers, should have the confidence that they will continue to do so in the spring, whether they will continue to dismantle the herd, or whether they will be able to stop it. What is your estimate of how much our dairy producer should get for a litre of milk this year? Surely, in our milk production, the bottleneck is precisely the money received by the dairy producer. Okay, long-term prospects, it's all very nice when we start developing joint action, but a bottleneck is still the price of milk production.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-22_U316	Thank you. I may have mentioned that the price of a litre or a kilo of milk is less than 24 cents now, but I can tell you two things. Firstly, dairy farmers and farmers have said that this extraordinary support, which came from both the European Union and the Estonian state, helped some to postpone such a negative decision. It has been precisely a question of cash flow. This was the reason why we made an effort to be able to pay out most of the aid at the end of the year, including the single area payments, which were still under attack in the spring, because it was feared that statistically no payments would be made. The second part of the answer relates to the issue of merit. If we also assume that the price of raw milk will increase very much in the perspective, it certainly cannot rise to the extent that it can be compared to the situation when we make the product of this milk ourselves. This means that this cooperative plant would help bring greater value directly to this primary sector in the supply chain. The third point relates to whether the whole chain of trade and production also offers the right and fair price to the milk producer. This issue has been increasingly on the table. The European Union in these very Councils is discussing whether anything can be achieved here. This is a topic that will certainly come more seriously on the table in Estonia. The question here is whether potential trade agreements are not too unfair and the farmer is not always a loser in the end. As far as the cost is concerned, it must be acknowledged that the way in which someone can manage at today's price is very different. This depends on whether the undertaking has only milk production or has mixed production and whether it has been able to pay off the investments before. As far as this 30 cents is concerned, some banks have granted loans to milk producers on the basis of a business plan which provided for a price of 30 and more cents for milk. Now the question is whether it was not taking the risks into account. Indeed, for 40 cents, four months could take milk to Lithuania, and maybe it made it feel like that for a long time. So the measures are different: possible grants and promotion and marketing. The point of production is to be able to sell. The point of production is not that this product is not needed by anyone. There is a crisis situation at present and, unfortunately, the supply of milk within the European Union is not helping us very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-22_U317	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-22_U318	Thank you, good manager. Good minister! Perhaps it should be considered whether the so-called "mass product enhancement" is not a loss of time and what should be considered is niche production. In my opinion, the question is whether and how much we are contributing to the development of cooperative activities, which, I think, can be quite effective in marketing. The sector is certainly also being cautious about what is currently happening around the Hello dairy industry. Have you not considered not only the support measures for cooperative activities but also the state guarantees that could provide certainty for Estonian capital, for example, in the case of Hello? I know there's a little bit of fear of a stronger arrival of foreign capital, even through Valio.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-22_U319	Thank you. Valio must have said today through the public media that he has no interest in buying this factory. But first, we have so far been based in Estonia on the fact that capital does not have a nationality, i.e. investments in the agricultural sector are welcome in one way or another. Secondly, if we produce almost twice as much as we can consume ourselves, a certain mass production is essential. This mass production is reflected in the production of either milk powder or whey powder. It can also be successful at one point or another, and some companies have proven it. I referred to the fact that we have support from certain producer organisations. They are also intended to enable cooperation in the production chain to generate added value. I know there are entrepreneurs who want to participate in this promotional measure. This is very simple: up to 80% of the costs incurred to promote a product in one country or another are paid for. In my opinion, this is a reasonable moment. You could ask me when you're going to be if you're not right now. As a result, producer organisations are also working on common quality standards and show this quality niche. A small producer can succeed both domestically and abroad. Yes, the honest answer is that quantities may remain small. The question is that if 80% of the turnover in the Estonian country is also generated in chains of commerce, it is a fact that must be taken into account. This means that you must be able to offer a uniform quality even in the case of high production volumes. These conditions could become easier. In fact, when I go shopping, whether in Selver or elsewhere, I see small-scale manufacturers' products that have appeared more and more on the counters. The question arises as to whether all the conditions imposed on them there are quite fair. But there shouldn't be such an emotional sense of injustice here that it's all over now. We know the experiences of other countries, where there has been the same concern. If market forces become too large, it is difficult to cope with this. But if you ask what this additional measure is, we have about four times more resources for research cooperation with the agricultural sector. Here we want to promote a number of aspects. Yeah, we talk a lot about efficiency, but often it's kind of a bad taste, that it always means big production. Absolutely not. Effectiveness also means actually taking advantage of the entire chain in small production. The whole process and all that comes with it must be used as much as possible to obtain money, or added value. New products must also be developed in cooperation and the best technological solutions that we deal with every day must be found. If you could say that the Russian market was, by its very nature, known and well-known market because of our historical experience and because very many Russian residents were accustomed to the taste of our products, they knew which products came from Estonia, then the new markets have completely different rules. One or the other product might be suitable for the whole of the European Union, but at some point it turns out that some additional aspects need to be taken into account in a particular country. It's all expensive.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-22_U320	Thank you, Minister. No further questions. I am pleased to open negotiations. Let's move fast from here. I ask the Riigikogu speech chair from Tarmo Tamme in south-eastern Estonia, Valga-, Võru- and Põlvamaa!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-22_U321	Manager! Ladies and gentlemen, This topic does not surprise me today, because stories about equal treatment and competitiveness between Estonian entrepreneurs and farmers have been spoken in this Chamber for years. This concerns, in particular, our farmers' subsidies. I have to admit, it's the trouble now, because no one's listening to what we're saying. So what's the most important thing now? Will you start to think again about how to get jobs in the country and how to set up businesses? The dairy sector is, in my opinion, one of the Nokiai of the Estonian state, which should have been supported in certain cases with borderline possibilities, because from milk production we are at the absolute peak and our potential was quite high. But unfortunately, it's all going to fade away. On one thing, I agree with the Minister: the price of a litre of milk on this day is no longer confirmed or imposed by the government; it is created in an honest market. But in order to help our farmers compete in this market, the government had a lot of opportunities, and there are opportunities today. Even this year, for example, Estonian farmers, unlike our neighbours, are not paid top-up. Actually, these are depressing numbers. 387 dairy farms are shutting down and the number could be boldly multiplied by 10. This means 3000-4000 jobs, which are lost in this respect. The question arises as to which is cheaper, whether to support in time, to help businesses survive difficult times, or whether it is cheaper to let them go free. It's all about fair competition. One thing is top-up, which we were stubbornly reluctant to pay or want to pay in the future, but the other thing that hampers the competitiveness of our companies is excise policy. This also affects farmers, such as electricity excise, we have 4.7 times higher than Latvia and Lithuania, where the European Union has a minimum rate of 1. What is becoming more and more squeezed by farmers is the rise in excise duties on fuel. This year, the price difference for diesel will be quite significant for us, compared to Latvia and Lithuania. But, as we know, the legislation adopted will also increase excise duties in the next two years. I don't know where we're going. One sad thing that has not been resolved so far is the export of raw milk to Latvia and Lithuania. We're like a developing country pulling out raw materials. I think this is a matter of lack of organisation. Do not think that Latvia and Lithuania are buying milk from us because they lack milk in their internal market. It is not so, they are probably just better merchants than Estonians and they are probably better politicians. I can tell you quite clearly that Latvia's ice cream, for example, has long been exported to China. It can be said that Estonian milk, which is being processed in Latvia, is entering the Chinese market. All right, they have links with Belarus or somewhere else, but this is partly the unfinished work of politicians, because it is also the task of politicians to open foreign markets. It is sad in itself because, as a result, we are losing jobs again, it is damaging the country's trade balance and the country's purse is thinner, but the cream is being stripped by the Latvian and Lithuanian governments. There's a serious point of thinking about whether it's possible to keep this ship on course, or whether all possibilities have been irreversibly lost. But I hope it's still possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-22_U322	Thank you. I request the speech chair of the Riigikogu Artur Talvik!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-22_U323	Good President! Ladies and gentlemen, Good minister! It's kind of hard to talk about dairying late at night. But when it comes to the agricultural policy of the Free Party, we believe that in agriculture, as elsewhere, things should be balanced. Today we have the feeling that there is no balance, the system is leaning towards the big producers. If agriculture is a sector in which subsidies are granted, it is through them that the distinction between the large industry and the medium and small industries could be reduced. Another major problem in Estonian agriculture is that there is indeed little joint action. We are looking at the neighbouring countries or the old countries of the European Union. We see that farmers are strong there, precisely because they are involved in collective action. Today there is a so-called "major project" for joint action. In this, too, I see small danger points. The draft regulation for this major project, which is currently on the move, defines a minimum production requirement of 25% as the base requirement, but these basic requirements do not include the minimum number of members of the cooperative. How many producers should the cooperative have at least? This situation could once again lead to a handful of large companies putting their backs together and receiving this money for collective action. Yes, indeed, the volume of their production is such that they may be producing 25% of their production. But then the great goal of motivating Estonian farmers to work together remains unachievable. So I have a huge request to the Minister that the minimum number of members of the cooperative should be included in this regulation, not in the evaluation criteria, but precisely in the basic requirements. This is the place of discussion as to what this requirement should be, whether this cooperative should be made up of 40% of all producers or even, as the Minister said earlier, 60%. The more members of the cooperative, the stronger it will be, the more opportunities we will be able to balance agricultural policy and keep medium-sized milk producers alive. Once again, my appeal to the Minister is that this aspect of the regulation and this project should certainly be taken into account. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-22_U324	Speaking chair of the Riigikogu, Peeter Ernitsa, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-22_U325	Dear President and nine colleagues of agricultural interest! I think we're 10 or 11 with me, plus the minister. I'm not a farmer. I have three geese and a bunch of chickens, but there are no cows. But I'm embarrassed to meet farmers who do this every day. They should be comforted if the Estonian state has not done what it could and should have done. I will not repeat what Mr Tarmo Tamme has said. Do you remember those 101 tractors that clogged Toompea's place and get here? What did they want? They wanted equal treatment because the market is one. As the walls in Europe have fallen, the price of milk must be managed. There is, of course, good news, as you know. Well, the good news is, if you send a bunch of meats to a meat combinate, the average ejaculate will increase. Yes, indeed, if the Estonian governments have failed to bring us to the first five countries of Europe in terms of prosperity, then the iron farmers have managed to bring the milk production of our cows to the first five. These are real iron men and iron women who have come through the grey stone and developed their own production, but they are in a very sad state now, despite what the Minister has told us here that he will allow us to design this sector in the future. In 2015 there were 2311 herds, in 2016 there are 1924 herds and if so goes on, then in 2017 there are about 1000 herds. The fact that in many municipalities there are no keepers of one or two cows long ago is elementary. So thank you to the few interested people who are worried about Estonian farmers and have stayed in this hall late at night, and thank you to the Minister. I hope not all is lost.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-22_U326	Thank you. There's no more calls. An inquiry has been answered.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-22_U327	Now, good fellows, this is a long-awaited moment. Anyone who wants to sign up for a performance in a free microphone after the hammer hit, please! Since there are no requests, I wish you safe passage home and strength! The sitting is adjourned. Closure of the sitting at 10.25 p.m.
