ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-09_U1	Dear Riigikogu, good afternoon. Question Time. Incoming check, please! There are 51 members of the Riigikogu. The following members of government participate in the Question Hour: Prime Minister Taavi Rõivas, Minister for Social Protection Margus Tsahkna and Minister for Economic Affairs and Infrastructure Kristen Michal. Last day, eight members of the Riigikogu announced their wish to ask questions, so I will give one additional question for each of the main issues.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-09_U2	The first question is for Prime Minister Taavi Kõivas. Mailis Reps, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-09_U3	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! You have just returned from the Council meeting, where the topics quite vividly presented are certainly important to the people of Estonia as well. This is where I have this broader and more general question for you. Very many interpret negotiations with Turkey as an attempt by Turkey to extort support from the European Union for holding refugees in their own country. Do you think that this kind of concession, sometimes the novel visa waiver regime and the large amounts that Turkey is proposing can be interpreted as a concession to blackmail? Or is it an objective basis for cooperation?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-09_U4	I am really sincerely grateful for this opportunity to explain these issues to you. When we look at the map of Europe and its immediate regions, it is quite logical that when people move from Syria to Europe, they do so through Turkey. Geographically, Turkey is directly against the northern border of Syria, and it is therefore clear that one of the most important migratory routes from there to Europe is through Turkey and from there to the Greek islands. This, in turn, has led to a situation where it is most sensible to find a sustainable solution to this crisis in cooperation with Turkey. Turkey, for its part, has expressed its willingness to cooperate. We have discussed these issues with Turkey before, and now, indeed, Turkey has made rather strong proposals. I believe that, at least to some extent, they are also motivated by the fact that the European Union itself has taken a number of steps to ensure that the Western Balkans route is better controlled. It is suggested that it should be closed, but it is early to discuss in detail. In any case, steps must be taken to ensure that the Western Balkans route is closed. For this reason, this issue has become even more topical for Turkey. If you're asking me if it's blackmail, I certainly can't agree with that. In my opinion, it is still a shared interest of both partners, Turkey and the European Union, to resolve this problem. And from the perspective of the partnership it is also being discussed, and from the perspective of the partnership there are also proposals that I believe are quite balanced.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-09_U5	Mailis Reps, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-09_U6	Thank you, Mr President. Good Prime Minister! We are taking this refugee crisis in Europe. Estonia has not yet found the ideal refugees, although there are a huge number of them, hundreds of thousands. As Prime Minister, you are certainly very well informed about what is happening in Europe at large. Do you share the fear that society still has? Currently, Estonia is not the destination country for the first wave, but Estonia can become a buffer zone if, on the one hand, people are sent out and more borders are closed. Germany will also start reducing quotas in the long term, but these people will not go back to Turkish camps or home. Now the question is, are we going to be a buffer country, and if so, how much refugees could come here?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-09_U7	Based on both Estonian experts' assessments and sober logic, it is not very likely that Estonia will become a buffer zone or a destination country for large-scale migration. This is largely due to our geographic location. If Estonia were in south-eastern Europe, of course this would be more likely to happen. There are a number of countries in south-eastern Europe, as well as in Central Europe, from which even thousands of people have travelled a day. Indeed, in these countries, there is a risk that if a neighbouring country closes the border, they will become a country of destination from the country of transit and that a buffer zone could emerge there. But it can only logically take place in south-eastern Europe or Central Europe, but not here, on the other side of Europe. But I will come back to your previous question, which I think is very important. I am simply pointing out that Turkey has proposed an agreement for the European Union, and that is what we will now be discussing in the EUAK and, hopefully, in the Council. Turkey offered an agreement, the content of which is that Turkey undertakes to withdraw all people who have moved illegally to the Greek islands, while at the same time the European Union takes concrete steps in return. Indeed, there has also been talk of greater financial support, but it has not been said that the agreement entails an unconditional visa waiver for Turkey. The aim is to speed this up, but the conditions that have applied to Georgia and Ukraine, for example, should of course also apply to Turkey.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-09_U8	Marika Tuus-Laul, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-09_U9	Thank you. Mr Prime Minister! The issue of refugees has become quite hot here in Estonia, too, and people are quite different about the migration crisis. Or rather, refugees and refugees are treated in the same way, but the invasion organised by economic refugees and refugees of convenience is quite different. Do you think it would be appropriate to conduct a public survey, a referendum, so that people can express their opinion? After all, the people are our highest authority.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-09_U10	Thank you. If we are talking about the movement of people because of employment and education, then indeed, this is a much wider issue, at least in Estonia, where so far very few refugees from different countries have arrived. About 1,500 people from third countries came to Estonia last year to study and work. Of these, 62%, most of them, come from Ukraine. Of the nearly 1,500 who came to Estonia last year, a large proportion of highly skilled workers were highly qualified, but there were also top specialists and entrepreneurs. So many of those who come to work are more likely to contribute to the Estonian economy and contribute to the creation of more gross domestic product in Estonia, that we are paid more labour taxes and that is how pensions can grow. In itself, there is nothing negative about the movement of people who are actually completely daily in Estonia. We don't even notice that 900 Ukrainians arrived last year. I believe that there will be no reason to pettyly reject it in the future. In addition, I find it very positive that Estonian universities have become increasingly international and are actively cooperating with very different countries, with very different universities. I myself have been abroad several times with rectors, and I know that they will do everything in their power to enable Estonian students to study abroad and foreign students to come to Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-09_U11	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-09_U12	The next question is to Mr Tsahkna, Minister for Social Protection. Monika Haukanõmm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-09_U13	Mr President! Good minister! The first phase of the work capacity reform was launched at the beginning of the year. In autumn 2014, a commitment was made that at least a thousand people with partial employment capacity will be employed in the public sector in the coming years. This means that the public sector should be a benchmark for the private sector. On the other hand, a state reform has been launched which provides for a tightening of the public sector. These controversial objectives have been repeatedly highlighted and criticised in this Chamber. But you have always replied that this is not a contradiction; these objectives do not interfere with each other. My question is how many jobs have been created in the public sector over the last year and a half for people with reduced capacity to work. And please specify in which areas they are created.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-09_U14	Good questioner! The same Chamber of Riigikogu approved the laws in which it was written in order not to create a thousand new jobs for people with special needs, but during this period a thousand people who have special needs or disabilities will be employed in the public sector. One of the objectives of the employment capacity reform is that people who are currently away from the labour market should also be employed because they have a special need and, for example, they cannot make sufficient use of services or facilities, because some jobs are not adapted. I admit that when this topic was discussed in the previous Riigikogu, I was quite critical of setting this goal, and I dare say it here as Minister of Social Protection. It sounds a little bit like some sort of campaign we make big promises, although it is not clear whether or not we can meet them. However, the entry into force of the employment capacity reform was postponed and it was decided that it would enter into force in a logical order by parts. As of 1 January 2016, the Social Insurance Institution and, in particular, the Unemployment Insurance Fund began to provide these services to pensioners in order to enable them to integrate as actively as possible into society. On 1 June this year, new entrants will be assessed according to a new methodology and on 1 January 2017, those who are about to expire will receive a new assessment. How many people have come to work in the public sector and how many there are, there is not yet an accurate picture of this. That is the goal that has been set for many years.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-09_U15	Thank you. Monika Haukanõmm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-09_U16	Thank you. Mr. Minister! I will take your answer immediately and ask you the next question. Indeed, the aim of the work capacity reform is to bring into the labour market all those people with reduced working capacity who are able and willing to participate in the labour market. In addition, it is very important that we also keep those in the labour market who are now there. Some bottlenecks have also emerged in the first months of the start of the work capacity reform. One of these concerns the travel allowance paid by the unemployment fund. Unfortunately, as of 1 January, only disabled people who have a permanent contract of employment or work in the public sector can count on this state's assistance. In all other cases, for example, when a person works as a self-employed person, he or she can no longer rely on the state to help him or her get to work. But he used to. Why does the state not treat people with disabilities equally, regardless of the form of work? It is important to work, not to work in what form and under the contract.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-09_U17	Thank you, good questioner! This problem has arisen because we lost the employment allowance paid by the Social Insurance Board. It seems like a very scary decision, even one that gets a lot of noise. However, let us remember what the employment allowance paid by the Social Insurance Board was and how many people used it! It was one month's €7 subsidy, which was used by just under a hundred people across Estonia. Therefore, this has had no real effect. At the same time, it is important that we have created a whole range of services, including employment, placement and transport services, in place of this €7 unemployment allowance. They are with real effect and are essentially unlimited, everything depends on people's needs. We have stipulated that local authorities already have an obligation to provide social transport services. From 1 January, people will now be able to get into work either by receiving transport support or by being provided with an escort to help them get to work. Such measures have been launched. The fact is that there are interpretation problems, for example, whether people who work as self-employed can apply for these services from the unemployment fund and whether a person must work full-time. We know that self-employed people are self-employed and that it is difficult to measure their full working hours. That is why we have given a very clear guide to the unemployment fund and also to the Social Insurance Board to interpret it more broadly. This issue will also be in the debate next week in the Committee on Social Affairs. Our aim is to help all people who, due to their special needs, have problems in order to work actively.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-09_U18	Thank you, Minister. Heimar Lenk, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-09_U19	Thank you. Mr. Minister! I understand you're in a difficult situation. You need to implement an incredible work capacity reform that few people believe is possible at the moment. Few people believe it will ever matter. But the author is on your left hand, in Taavi's garment sitting there. Is he also satisfied with how you have managed to implement his project? I do not know of any positive examples of this reform. When would you start to see that many people with disabilities are happily driving to work in the morning, next to the chaperone, and in the evening they go back home singing the song, next to the chaperone again? When, for example, will this time come in the Õru municipality of Valgamaa?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-09_U20	Thank you, good questioner! I have a suggestion. You don't have to make fun of people with disabilities, people with special needs and mock them. That's one. Secondly, the objectives of the work capacity reform, as I have said in this Chamber during the discussion of the draft, are very meaningful and a change in the whole philosophy is very necessary. With the previous system in place, we gave a relatively small disability pension to a person, and he remained under his own responsibility and his loved ones' responsibility until the end of time. Now, however, the Social Insurance Institution and the Unemployment Insurance Fund have prepared a very large number of services to help these people into an active social life. How many of them can actually work depends on how we can implement the work capacity reform. After all, this reform will not be fully effective until 2018-2019. This is a very major fundamental reform that we are doing. And there have already been people who have used the services of both the unemployment fund and the Social Insurance Board since 1 January. I wouldn't make fun of these people. I wouldn't start telling you that now all 100,000 disability pensioners are going to work on the day. These issues are serious. However, the system is flexible and we have the ability to find a personal solution for everyone, if there is even the will of the people themselves. The reform of the same system of tools, which started on 1 January and was criticised, has already shown in the first two months that we have made the right decisions. People have been offered personal solutions. So don't joke about it, we'll make it happen!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-09_U21	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-09_U22	Mr Kristen Michal, Minister for Economic Affairs and Infrastructure, will answer the question. Raivo Põldaru asks the question. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-09_U23	Mr. Chairman! Minister, thank you very much. Four years ago, the Supreme Court declared invalid and contrary to the Constitution the provisions on the basis of which the owners of technical installations still pay the farm fee. The question is this: when will landowners be able to get a fair fee for the maintenance of technical facilities?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-09_U24	Good questioner! Indeed, it is. In general terms, the obligation to withstand technical networks is primarily aimed at ensuring overall electricity, gas and other connections. In 2012, the Supreme Court did indeed declare, as you stated, unconstitutional and invalid the coefficients on which this fee was paid. In 2015 the Supreme Court specified the conditions for the payment of remuneration for both new and old technical networks. I can say, for example, that in our area of administration, Elering took the decision in 2015 to pay the landowners who tolerated the technical facilities a farm fee within the scope of the land tax protection zone and to exempt landowners from the direct cost of such land ownership. Elering pays 2,5% of the tax price of the land. This means, then, that in business land, this remuneration is higher and in social land, as you probably can imagine. Elering paid EUR 9901 in 2013, EUR 8811 in 2014, but almost EUR 45000 in 2015. So there has been a significant increase, landowners have been paid much higher benefits. The new law and the whole framework, the whole programme for the development of this regulation, is drawn up by the Ministry of Justice. It's the Justice Department's jurisdiction.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-09_U25	Raivo Põldaru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-09_U26	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Minister, thank you very much. Are you saying that the tolerance fees for "elementary" landowners have also increased? I seriously doubt that because I myself have had some experience with it and the annual fee is still 2 cents to compensate for the existence of power lines. But that's it. Does such more payment really suggest that Elering, who makes a nice profit, increases network charges?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-09_U27	Thank you. You now had a number of questions and arguments together. Then I'll start by saying, sure, when the payout increases, they go to the landowners. That is the answer to the first part of your question. Secondly, as I mentioned, the amount that Elering paid as farm charges is EUR 45000. With Elering's overall amounts, this is not a very high figure. How this fee will affect the economics of the company depends on the future regulation of the Ministry of Justice. However, as I said in the previous reply, Elering has actually chosen such a methodology to pay this fee to landowners in as simple and understandable a way as possible and to ensure that a slightly higher fee is paid for the inconvenience associated with the technical facility.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-09_U28	Mark Soosaar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-09_U29	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear Minister, My family is a landowner in Pärnu County and I know this problem pretty well. These cents of the tolerability fee paid will in no way compensate for the land tax that has to be paid tens of times more for this land. I wonder how the country, or, say, the owner of this network, has so much money that he can spend more than that support on manipulating this tiny little support. Wouldn't it be a simpler solution for all those who have to put up with the situation that they can't do anything in their country, just to be freed from land tax, and that's all?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-09_U30	Thank you. Again, I'm starting again. The Ministry of Justice is currently drawing up a plan for development and then offers a comprehensive solution. What, for example, has Elering done? As has been said, he has actually come to meet landowners and gone this way to burden landowners as little as possible with all this administration and, in fact, determined how he will pay it. However, I would point out that there is no attitude taken that these technical installations are something that exists in the individual interest of someone. It is an obligation to withstand a technical plant built in the public interest. The idea is still to enable consumers to use a certain benefit in terms of electricity, gas, heat, water and sanitation. This does not, however, exempt the owner and users of these networks from paying for it. So once again: the methodology has changed, the amounts paid have increased, and according to good legislative practice, the Ministry of Justice is now preparing the intention to develop first and then presenting a comprehensive solution.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-09_U31	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-09_U32	The next question is Prime Minister Taavi to Clothes. Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-09_U33	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Prime Minister! I have asked you several times about the excise policy of the Estonian state. I dare say today that the excise policy of the Estonian state is in a dead end. I will give you a concrete example of the difference between excise duty on diesel: in Estonia this rate is EUR 447 per 1000 litres, in Latvia EUR 341 and in Lithuania EUR 330. So over EUR 100 per 1000 litres, we have a higher excise duty on diesel than our neighbours. Or we could have an electric excise. The European Union's minimum rate is EUR 1 per megawatt-hour and Latvia and Lithuania follow it, but in Estonia it is EUR 4.47. We will lose in competitiveness, purchasing power, growth and jobs. Does the government have a plan to change excise policy? It is now known that excise duty will increase significantly in Estonia in the next two years.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-09_U34	I think you're stuck with your question again. You are already asking the same question several times, and again and again I can cheer you up and comfort you, confirming that although in Estonia not only excise duties on fuel, but also people's incomes and many other figures are higher than those in Latvia, this has only partially affected the price difference between the two countries. The last time I visited Latvia myself, I studied very carefully the pricing policy of one of the biggest gas station chains operating in Estonia, probably even the biggest one. I compared Riga and Tallinn prices and learned that petrol 95 is about 4 cents more expensive in Riga, although excise rates suggest the opposite. Of course, it must also be taken into account that VAT is higher in Latvia, but only by one percentage point. However, diesel was indeed more expensive in Tallinn. But the differences were relatively small, even smaller than in the various filling stations in Tallinn. The same is also interesting to note for other excise goods. For example, we had big news stories about how beer is much cheaper in Latvia. If we look at excise policy, then indeed, in the case of a bottle of beer, the total impact of excise duty and VAT on the price is 12.5 cents, which means that taxes have to cost 12.5 cents more in Estonia. But at the same time, we know that the real price difference is much higher. So the price difference is also caused by many other components, not just excise.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-09_U35	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-09_U36	Thank you. Prime Minister, not only have you succeeded in going to Latvia. I recently went to Latvia and saw a completely different picture. In the case of diesel, the price difference is 10,1 5 cents. It's only enough to cross the border, and from 300 meters away, diesel gets 15 cents less. More than 100 euros will be won on a thousand litres. The difference between the price of strong alcohol and the price of strong alcohol is 10 to 12 euros per litre. You can read it in today's paper. And if we take electricity excise duties that directly affect the competitiveness of businesses, it is clear that such an excise policy is neither constructive nor sustainable. I don't know if you'll be happy to see me personally happy that Latvian shopping centres are full of Estonian cars on weekends. Estonians go to Latvia to buy, jobs in Valga and other border areas, both gas stations and shops are killed out. How do you justify it, and are you happy about it?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-09_U37	Instead of taking a trip to Latvia that requires quite a lot of fuel, I would recommend that your wallet be more devastated than the potential savings due to the lower rate of excise duty in Latvia, to explore the pricing policy of different filling stations here in Tallinn. You will find that the price differences at Tallinn filling stations may be greater than those at Tallinn and Riga filling stations, for example. I, too, have noticed that there is a price difference. I checked the statement on TV news that vodka is a lot cheaper in Latvia. Indeed, as you said, 10, 11 or 12 euros per litre is the price difference. I calculated the difference between the excise duty rate and Latvia and got exactly EUR 3.5 per litre of vodka. Simple mathematics, therefore, says that the difference between the price difference you have mentioned will come from something else, not the excise duty. Whether there is a very different pricing policy for merchants or there are other reasons, we can only assume that for the time being. You ask me why excise duties exist at all, why excise duties are applied at all. It's very simple. Alcohol excise duty is intended to reduce the consumption of alcohol as a harmful commodity. The high price is daunting for people who tend to exaggerate alcohol, to drink themselves drunk in rural languages, as well as for children and young people, and I hope that it will affect them more and more in Estonia, who have little money. However, no tolerance should be allowed when it comes to drinking young people.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-09_U38	Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-09_U39	Honourable President! Honorable Prime Minister! I went to Latvia too, but that's not what I want to talk about. I also do not want to focus on excise duties related to these harmful habits, but on electric excise duty. It has been a pleasure to read that the government is discussing possible incentives for large companies. But do you not see the possibility of conducting regional policy more widely in Estonia using differences in electricity excise duties?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-09_U40	I think Latvia still has to go, and I think that Latvia has a lot of positive things to discuss in this Chamber too. But it is not their excise policy that is positive, rather other things. By the way, the Latvian Prime Minister visited Estonia and found that there are many things that are done well again in Estonia. So you still have to visit your neighbors. As far as electricity excise duties are concerned, I see in principle the possibility of allowing certain differences for very, very large consumers. This is an issue that we will certainly discuss in the government office in the near future with the Minister responsible for energy sitting on my right hand. But we are really talking about very large consumers, for whom some other countries have also implemented certain differences. I do not consider the introduction of different rates of excise duty on a regional basis to be quite reasonable, as the main objective of the excise duty is to prevent excessive consumption, and this objective is topical both in Setus and in the island. So there is no specific regional policy aspect involved in this. In addition to my visit to Latvia, I visited your country in Läänemaa. I know that there is a very topical idea to build a data center, which is now possible because the state is making huge investments in the electricity grid through Elering. The core network has been significantly strengthened and further enhanced. In this regard, we could talk about various benefits, but this is still such a theoretical idea and, of course, the expected impact of its implementation must also be assessed. None of these steps are without influence.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-09_U41	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-09_U42	The next question is the Minister for Economic Affairs and Infrastructure, Kristen Michal. Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-09_U43	Good manager! Good minister! Two Ministries was proposed last year by the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications and the Ministry of Finance so that, by 1 December, all companies could express their views on zero bureaucracy. This concerns, for example, the review of reporting and data transmission, etc. By 1 February, the results were promised, but if Googled, we will still find formulas that will be analysed and so on. No results. I ask if you have been able to review these answers and other feedback. If so, what are the results of your analysis and how do you think this form of involvement has justified itself?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-09_U44	I'm sure I can answer you in such a way that you'll be happy. It's been better than we thought. When we discussed this idea last summer, Taavi Kotka invited a number of people from different ministries and other institutions, as well as companies, to our house. We started looking for solutions, and this is what started this zero bureaucracy project. One part of this is really about reporting. Now, if you look at this project, I would say that there are many components of its success. First, not just two ministries, but four ministers managed to get on the team immediately. In addition to me, the Minister of Enterprise, the Minister of Finance and the Minister of Public Administration also put on my shoulders. I'm sure I'm also congratulating the Ministry of the Environment. In addition, strong support from business organisations was very important in collecting proposals. Both the Chamber of Commerce, i.e. employers, and many other organisations took the matter seriously. When it was initially estimated that there would be 50 proposals, 252 proposals were actually received. If you want more information on this, I've also shared it on social media. On the website of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, all information is available in sub-sections, as a summary table, as a percentage and for each ministry, which is realizable, which is a policy change and which is not. I could talk about that for a long time. If there's any particular interest, I can introduce you to the project. It is now the case that, within three years, 164 bureaucratic demands will be abolished or relaxed. 65% of all proposals made and 80% of proposals to cut red tape will be implemented. So when you ask me how it looks like it went, it looks like it went better than we dared to wait.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-09_U45	That's what the Hatter's asking now. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-09_U46	Thank you, manager. Pretty much right! Of course, my next question was what is the action plan, but I would ask two questions. How will these proposers be able to take part in this process? Are there any thoughts on continuing? I think this is a good example of how target groups could be involved. The second question is that, in fact, we have another minister, the Minister of Justice, who also has his own plans and ideas on how bureaucracy could be contained and over-regulation dealt with. What kind of contact and cooperation do you have with him, or are these two separate projects?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-09_U47	The point is that it is not just a one-off action, that we are taking on state reporting and reviewing all these fields. The goal is still to change a certain way of thinking. I would say that it is also very important to have a signal that goes from country to country to different places that collect various reports. This message is actually very simple. Every report, every report field, is behind somebody's work and time, and that's what we sensed when this project was launched and implemented. Some agencies came up with feedback that okay, they realize that this might be the case and that they are already not making some reports. So first of all, this understanding. Secondly, I mention the Ministry of the Environment, who said that not all of their proposals were included in the report, but they have their own project that they are working on within the framework of this idea in order to avoid excessive reporting obligations and not to demand data that has already been asked for. One important topic that we have constantly addressed in Estonia and set an example for the rest of the world is the once-only principle. If any data has been requested, it will not be repeated. Members of the Riigikogu occasionally see it when they complete their declaration of interests and wonder why some data is asked again, after all, they are there. But that's it. What do we do now? Actually, that information's upstairs. We will continue to do this in such a way that the proposals that came not directly on cutting red tape but on policy change will be reviewed by both ministries and businesses, and we will reconvene and discuss them at the beginning of the summer. In addition, we will set up a task force that will coordinate everything and deal with it all the time. When there are proposals, we will collect them and, at a certain frequency, about half a year or a year, we will again grab the rake in this committee of crocodiles and cut the red tape. When it comes to the attitude of the Minister of Justice, it makes perfect sense. Perhaps this is also due to the fact that I, as Minister of Justice, also dealt with a project called 'Good Lawmaking Practice'. Perhaps this has raised the question of whether everything needs to be resolved by law or other legislation. I think the Minister of Justice is certainly on the right track in this regard when he analyses the volume of legislation.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-09_U48	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-09_U49	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Minister! It is very nice that you are dealing with the zero bureaucrat, but my question is whether you are planning other and larger business-friendly steps. I am aiming, in particular, at removing the right of members of company boards to receive state aid in the event of unemployment. This issue has been raised by the Chancellor of Justice; the Free Party has submitted relevant drafts. It was a great surprise to us that the government sent a negative opinion with Ossinovski's signature on this matter, which once again goes behind the argument that there is a need to analyse the effects. Tell me what your position as Minister for Economic Affairs is on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-09_U50	It seems that today the wishes of the Free Party have been granted to be fulfilled. The Prime Minister next to me says that tomorrow this topic will be discussed in the Cabinet. So you're having an extraordinarily good day. We'll discuss tomorrow, and then you'll hear what wise decisions have been made.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-09_U51	I will conclude with a broad consensus on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-09_U52	The next question is Prime Minister Taavi to Clothes. Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-09_U53	Mr. Speaker! Prime Minister! You have already mentioned, in answer to the first question, that the Balkan migration corridor is closed or is about to close. It was also said that you do not consider it very likely that this migration flow will reach the Estonian border. For example, the Norwegian Ministry of Foreign Affairs appreciates this risk both as well as your party partner, one of the potential presidential candidates Urmas Paet has said that there is this danger, immigrants can reach our borders. We know that Hungary, Macedonia and Bulgaria, too, have erected a barbed fence and put riot police and army on guard back there, but nevertheless people have been able to get through it. We know that there is no fence or manning on the Estonian border. I have a question. Please do not speculate on how likely this is, but explain what the government's plan of action will be if, in a month's time, there will be hundreds and then thousands of people on our borders and will illegally cross it?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-09_U54	Thank you. I understand you're very fond of fantasizing with all sorts of horrible scenarios. To date, your initial story of intimidation is that, through a quota or other similar regulation, refugees are coming mass, air is completely released, and now you have chosen a new scenario: that thousands of people arrive at the Estonian border. All right, that's your choice. I believe, however, that the people of Estonia will see through this rather simple intimidation of yours and will understand that behind it is not a noble desire to offer solutions, but rather to profit themselves, to reap political popularity. But this, I believe, is going to be a pretty short-term benefit, if that's what it is. As I have already said, and not only on the basis of my own opinion, but also on the basis of the opinions of Estonian experts, it is not very likely that people who come from all over Europe will find a ring road, where the best place to enter the European Union is Estonia. This probability is small enough, which does not, of course, mean that Estonian authorities should not be prepared for scenarios such as those with very low probability of starting. For example, our people have gone to Slovenia to help and have gained valuable experience from it.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-09_U55	Martin Helme, a more specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-09_U56	Thank you. I don't know if I don't speak Estonian or what's wrong. I asked a completely specific question, and I did not get any answers, I just heard a smart talk about the fact that we were never right. On the contrary, we have always been right. And indeed, we really need to know what our plans are. I will then ask one more specific question. Assuming that the plan is still to bring additional troops from the riot police, the Defence League or the Defence Forces to the border when the situation arises, is the government prepared to give them permission to use lethal force to prevent mass border crossings?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-09_U57	I really wonder how persistently you ask the same questions, even though you have been repeatedly told that, despite your bravular confidence, you have not always been right. In this way, you are not right to assume that Estonia will become a country of destination for mass immigration. I would point out that you've been talking about this for over a year, but until now, no empirical fact can confirm your story. Those things you haven't been right about are, of course, still. For example, you are not right that Estonia needs self-proclaimed criminals to protect order. No, I don't! And I can, Mr Helmed, give you both more examples of where you have erred or tried to mislead or even frighten people. You are now asking me whether Estonia has a fundamental willingness to re-establish border control at any risk and, in any situation, at borders where it does not normally exist. The answer is yes, of course. We can do this very quickly, and we know very precisely how much this will cost. We did this last in 2014 when President Obama visited Estonia. We know how it works, and we're ready for it. But the probability that it needs to be done because of the pressure of mass immigration is still very low.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-09_U58	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-09_U59	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Mr. Prime Minister! It's hard to call you Prime Minister, because the talk you're talking about, the fiction you're squirting at us, is just embarrassing and not worthy of the Prime Minister. We have been right when we have said that Muslims rape women. We have been right when we have said that Europe is threatened by mass immigration. We know that millions of people will arrive in Europe this year, and we do not know how many of them can reach our borders. It should be up to you, as Prime Minister, to stand up for not getting across the border. Finland and Norway are also Nordic and distant European hunks, yet this is already a problem for them. So please behave correctly in this sense and do not accuse us of any fantasies about self-proclaimed gangs. We have not created them, nor have we supported them. So in this respect, too, you might as well have some sense.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-09_U60	Question time is over. The Prime Minister must respond. Please, Javier Clothes!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-09_U61	Indeed, your ability to ask the question without question is worth admiring. But I'm still trying to answer. I don't know, maybe you don't have enough insight into what your younger partymates do. I have noticed that many of them are active members of the Facebook groups, where these self-proclaimed men are supported and involved in discussions on these topics. I'm pretty sure your party mates are very well aware of all this. [[The cavalry.]] If you do not know about this, it would seem that you have gone out of your hands there, done your own business and gone along with an initiative with which a polite political party might not have been practical to go along, all the more so as it is, as it is now in the public domain, people, many of whom have committed very different and some very serious crimes. In my opinion, Estonia does not need to protect such criminal justice, on the contrary. You've listed here for quite a while what you think you're right about. I listened very carefully. You said that you do not know how many people have reached Europe from elsewhere and how many of them have reached Estonia. You're right about that. I don't know how many of them are gonna get here. I can tell you that the probability that a very large part of them will reach Estonia is still very low. I have already spoken of the reasons in response to your colleagues.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-09_U62	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-09_U63	Andres Ammas will also ask the next question to Prime Minister Taavi Rõivas. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-09_U64	Honorable manager! Honorable Prime Minister! Now, let's get back to what's at home. As has already been said, you delighted the people of Läänemaa last week, both with your physical appearance and with optimistic statements. Among them, one was that the Rice Family was a rohuküla railway not an impossible mission. If today is a good day in the Riigikogu, it may be a good day for the Haapsalu railway. Just share with us the knowledge of the state of play. How far are the tests and calculations going? Is the Haapsalu railway getting close, I don't know, to the national budget strategy, for example? Is there any time frame for anything to happen?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-09_U65	I'm glad to hear that my physical appearance made the people of Läänemaa happy. If I'd known, I'd have stayed longer. But I'll be back soon. As far as the Haapsalu railway is concerned, it is now clearly a dream for the people of Läänemaa No. 1 or purpose No. 1. This dream could remain a dream if it were not one of the very clear factors supporting its realization. The fact that very many people in Läänemaa work in Tallinn. Pendel migration is quite extensive in Läänemaa, and it also gives some hope for this project, which may otherwise seem completely sci-fi. As far as I know, the negotiations and discussions between the local people and the subordinates of the Minister for Economic Affairs and Infrastructure have been very constructive and constructive. Possible solutions will be sought jointly, including, as far as I know, schemes such as the private sector taking on a considerable share of risk, responsibility and funding, and the state will find a way to provide a prudent guarantee that this project will be subsidised over a period of time. At least it seems worth serious consideration. I cannot say today, without the government having discussed it in detail, that this idea will certainly materialise. But I am much more optimistic about the realization of this project now than I was two years ago, for example. In the meantime, the people of Läänemaa have been able to do a lot of positive things.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-09_U66	Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-09_U67	Thank you. As you know, this large project also has the so-called pilot project Riisipere-Turba, which is expected with the initiative of private operators. Is there anything more specific about this?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-09_U68	I have a friend from a member of the Riigikogu with whom I work out with every once in a while. And I don't think I've been able to do any running training with him without him telling me that it's time for this Rice family to complete a 6-mile section of the Turba. He's given me a lot of information about these detailed plans. In principle, it is conceivable, of course, that in the first stage this paragraph will be used as an experiment. But at the same time, I think we still have reason to look together for an answer on how real the project as a whole is, that is, the desire to get out of Haapsalu. I am absolutely certain that a pilot project for the people of Läänemaa, a railway section between Rice Family and Turbah, is not the solution. If I remember correctly, the distance between Turba and Haapsalu is about 50 kilometers, or 47 kilometers. So this little cut isn't gonna help much. One fact that the people of Läänemaa have been able to surprise me with is how many people drive between Haapsalu and Tallinn every day. This figure is significantly higher in proportion than the number of passengers from other cities to Tallinn. This is a nuance that may make this project more real. But in an attempt to answer your question as accurately as possible, I say that, as far as I know, what is currently being discussed is the first pilot project, the first 6.3 kilometers. It also provides the first statistics, on which it may be possible to move on to a large project. That's one approach. However, I believe that this issue will be on the table of the government sooner or later, and we will then be able to discuss more in detail whether to implement the idea through the pilot or immediately as a whole, or whether it is possible at all.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-09_U69	Martin Helme, a more specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-09_U70	Thank you very much. I have to compliment the Prime Minister. If we can ask questions where there is no question, it pales apart from your ability to answer questions so that there is no answer. If you have much time to explore the party status of people belonging to groups on Facebook, you will be aware that there are also a number of reform parties among Odin's soldiers. I don't know what you're gonna do with them now. When I was here listening to your heartfelt mutual compliments with the free party, I remembered a piece of a Hollywood movie to go and get a room. But I'm asking about the railroad. As you know, this railway dam has been privatized. What's the plan, is it going to make aside a new oak or an old oak to buy back or rent back?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-09_U71	Thank you. First of all, I have not surfed around the odinian group, but it has been brought to my attention that a few members of the Riigikogu from your political party are also active participants in such groups. I believe Martin Helme knows who I mean. Well, it's finally your choice, of course, which groups you're in, which wealth you're blessing with your support. But as a Prime Minister and as a common citizen, I say that if such gangs think that, despite their criminal past and despite many of them not qualifying as assistant police officers because of their criminal past, they consider it possible to ensure order in Estonia, we do not need this pseudo-security. Rather, they reduce the security of the Estonian people. As regards the Haapsalu railway, which you have finally asked about, it is true that part of the under-rail dam has been privatized. As far as I know, talks and discussions also include an attempt to reach an agreement with the current landowners. Of course, when assessing the realistic nature of the investment decision concerning the Haapsalu railway, all such circumstances must be taken into account. However, the success of this whole project requires that landowners are willing to cooperate with the state. It's perfectly clear.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-09_U72	Honourable Riigikogu! The Riigikogu Question Time is one minute away. I'm a little embarrassed to understand that Mart Helme would be able to say something to the Prime Minister in one minute, but the Prime Minister wouldn't be able to answer that question. So there's nothing to do, Question Time's over.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-09_U73	Honourable Riigikogu! Let's start the Wednesday hearing. Transfer of pre-claims and enquiries. Arthur Talvik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-09_U74	Good Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, I am handing over the draft decision of the Riigikogu, the content of which is that the committee of inquiry, which investigates possible corruption in the Port of Tallinn, wishes to extend the deadline for the final report by bringing it from 1 May to 16 June. The reason is that we have not yet had enough time to hear the parties involved. I am talking about people who have precisely political and also leadership responsibility. The Committee of Inquiry has achieved today, one can say, a victory in connection with the handover of the icebreaker Botnica's case to the prosecutor's office and was accepted by the prosecutor's office. But it took us a long time unexpectedly. At the moment, the Committee of Inquiry holds two or three-hour sessions twice a week, but nevertheless we do not have enough time. So, on behalf of the Committee of Inquiry, I will hand over the draft decision.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-09_U75	Jaanus Karilaid, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-09_U76	Ladies and gentlemen, The representatives of the Estonian Conservative People's Party and the Estonian Centre Party in Parliament have an inquiry to report to Kristen Michal, Minister of Economic Affairs and Infrastructure, concerning the acquisition of the icebreaker Botnica. MEP Juhan Parts has called the Committee of Inquiry a pointless, incompetent and misguided investigative unit. Consequently, if one politician thinks so, we should instead exercise parliamentary supervision over the decisions that were taken in 2012 at the time. And in 2012, the then Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications signed a decision ordering the Port of Tallinn to buy an icebreaker up to 50 million euros at the price of Botnica, provided that a ten-year contract with the Maritime Administration was previously signed, which is a pretty interesting approach to public administration. In this case, it also turns out that the board of a state company is in a very helpless situation. They comment that such a decision is incomprehensible and opaque for them, why the Ministry did not organise public procurement. We should somehow come up with a situation where the board of a large state company is so helpless that it is unable to make sensible, transparent and understandable decisions. In this regard, we have five questions, we hope that Kristen Michal will be able to give them adequate answers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-09_U77	Monika Haukanõmm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-09_U78	Thank you, Mr President. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! I have the honour to hand over the draft Act amending the Equal Treatment Act on behalf of five members of the Riigikogu. In order to promote life in Estonia, it is important that every Estonian can study, work, parent and participate actively in society. We must care about the welfare of every human being. Equal treatment means that we treat people in equal positions equally and people in different situations differently, while supporting them where necessary. On Monday, the Government of the Republic handed over to the Riigikogu the same draft law amending the law, which prohibits discrimination based on the nationality of a Member State of the European Union. Unfortunately, the current Equal Treatment Act remains discriminatory and unfair. The current law treats persons living in Estonia unequally on the basis of the basis of discrimination. The current law does not prohibit discrimination on grounds of religion, age, disability or sexual orientation, for example in social welfare, health care, social security, education and the provision of public services and goods, including access to housing. At the same time, discrimination on grounds of nationality, race and colour is prohibited in these areas. What about our own people? Our parents, children, disabled relatives, etc.? We Estonians are few and everyone counts. The aim of the draft is therefore to eliminate the unequal treatment of different social groups and to ensure uniform protection of all persons from discrimination. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-09_U79	Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-09_U80	Dear Speaker of Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, Nadia Savtshenko is a member of the Supreme Bank of Ukraine and the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, who has been illegally imprisoned by Russia for 632 days. He has been held in so-called so-called so-called so-called so-called so-called so-called so-called so-called so-called so-called so-called so-called so-called so-called so-called so-called so-called so-called so-called so-called so-called so-called so-called so-called so-called so-called so-called so-called so-called so-called so-called so-called so-called so-called so-called so-called so-called so-called so-called so-called so-called so-called so-called so-called so-called so-called so-called so-called so-called so-called so-called "so-called Five days ago, Nadia Savtšenko started a hunger strike without water and food, protesting in such an extreme way against illegal legal proceedings and demanding her extradition to Ukraine. I believe that we know quite well in Estonia how important international support and pressure are in this situation. We also want to show it by Parliament. Russia has violated and is in violation of international law, including the Geneva Convention of 1949 on the treatment of prisoners of war, as well as the agreement concluded in Minsk on 5 September 2014, paragraph 5 of which provides for the immediate release of all hostages and persons illegally detained. On behalf of more than 60 Members, I will hand over a statement where we express our deep concern for the fate of Savtšenko, call for his release, and we also call for sanctions against officials of the Russian Federation responsible for the capture, imprisonment and illegal trial of Savtšenko, namely the ban on entry into the European Union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-09_U81	I have adopted three drafts and one inquiry. All of them are dealt with under the Home and Working Procedures Act. Incoming check, please! It's 89:12 to the benefit of those present.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-09_U82	Clarification of the agenda: yesterday we were in the middle of a debate, a recess was taken before the final vote when the Riigikogu's decision to propose to the Government of the Republic was discussed. Break has been taken, so now the final vote will come. Since this bill requires a majority of its component members to be adopted, please let us re-examine the presence. 80 in position, no 21. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the draft decision 'Proposal for the Government of the Republic' 147. Please take a stand and vote. There are 33 members of the Riigikogu in favour of adopting the draft decision, 20 against, one abstention. The decision was not taken.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-09_U83	The next item is the first reading of the draft law amending section 4031 of the Law of Obligations Act. Olga Ivanova, waitress for the starters, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-09_U84	Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable Members of the Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-09_U85	Excuse me, honorable waitress, just a moment. Honourable Riigikogu, we are discussing Bill 106 and you are faced with Olga Ivanova, the representative of the initiators. Honor him and honor yourself! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-09_U86	Thank you. European countries depend on sustainable consumption. Credit is an economic driver and basis for consumer welfare. Taking credit is a common practice in today's society, as it allows consumers to improve their quality of life. It will also boost the economy and help countries to emerge from the economic crisis. However, no one is protected from the fact that the credit burden becomes intolerable for one reason or another and that there is a high risk of over-lending. This implies an inability to cope with fixed costs. This is therefore a situation where families are unable to pay one or more debts, but they will be collected. However, the easy-handed issue of credit is one of the causes of over-indebtedness. Following the 2008 financial crisis, the share of private debt in EU countries has increased compared to gross domestic product. While the indebtedness of Estonian households is lower than that of many Western European countries, it is one of the largest in comparison with other Central and Eastern European countries. The state could have held back the increase in these debts if attention had been paid to the European Commission's 2005 report 'Towards a common definition of public European over-indebtedness', which showed that 32% of respondents in Estonia had difficulty paying their home expenses as early as 2005. As the State did not develop measures, many families lost their homes and were poorer than ever after their home acquisition transactions. According to the bailiffs and the Chamber of Bankruptcy Administrators, since 2008 more and more acts of sale of immovable property have been prepared. In 2008, 326 such acts were drawn up by bailiffs; in 2011 this figure was already 486. In many cases, neither the debtor nor the creditor, but the debtor's family, bear the cost of the loan. Just as often, the social welfare system and therefore society as a whole are responsible for the costs. However, over-indebtedness can also have cross-border consequences. This is when persons move to another country to hide their place of residence and ignore the creditor. While the country has cleaned up the credit market over the last two years and tried to protect the consumer more than before, the steps taken are not enough to help people who have lost their jobs and are in serious trouble because of debt. In order to prevent such cases, credit institutions offer solutions such as agreed payment leave and loss-of-job insurance. However, these solutions do not help the consumer for more than six months, which is too few in most cases. In the longer term, aid will be sought in an alternative way, and in many cases existing debts will be paid through new debts, which will put the debtor in an even more difficult situation. According to Eesti Pank, at the end of 2014, housing loans had been issued as collateral for real estate in Estonia in total 154333 and the loan balance was 5.8 billion euros. During 2014 alone, a total of EUR 775.8 million of housing loans were issued under the real estate guarantee. According to the Financial Supervision Authority, at the end of 2014, housing loans accounted for 86% of all loans to private individuals. Based on the results of the financial and saving behaviour study prepared by Emor, 40% of families had a loan commitment in autumn 2014 and 21% had a mortgage loan. According to the draft, a solution would be possible if, in a situation where the borrower could not cope with the payment of the loan, it could transfer to the credit institution the assets secured by the credit and cover all the credit. In essence, this means that the person is solely liable to the credit institution for mortgage-backed credit and the borrower is able to waive both the assets and debts at the same time. Such a measure is not new in the European Union's judicial area. In Latvia, amendments to the Consumer Protection Act entered into force on 1 March last year, obliging creditors and credit intermediaries to offer two types of credit agreement to the consumer in the case of mortgage-backed credit. One possibility is that the borrower will only be liable to the credit institution for mortgage-backed credit. The amendment of the law has not changed much in Latvia's housing loans. Although there are almost twice as many residents in Latvia as there are in Estonia, the turnover of new housing loans in recent years has been smaller than in Estonia, according to Eesti Pank. People who want to borrow will do so now, after the law has been amended. The Latvians are pleased that the legislative amendment adopted last March offers an alternative option. In the first nine months, according to the Banking Association, 176 loans had been issued in the amount of just over EUR 6 million. It also shows that Latvian residents are trying to prevent defaults and to dispel the risk of over-indebtedness that arose during the financial crisis in 2008. Our government has sent its opinion on the draft supplementing the Law of Obligations Act initiated by the Estonian Central Party Group, with which we wish to supplement § 4031 of the Act in such a way that creditors and credit intermediaries also offer consumers a mortgage-backed consumer credit agreement. Unfortunately, the Government of the Republic does not support the draft. The opinion was very general and supported mainly what the government has done and is planning to do in the future. At the same time, the Government of the Republic itself acknowledged that the situation is not very good and that consumers really need greater protection. The government found that the regulation in force in Estonia does not sufficiently protect customers who have entered into mortgage loans under normal conditions from default. The option we have proposed would address this legal deficiency by giving prospective housing loan applicants the opportunity to choose between two alternative offers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-09_U87	Thank you, good waitress. You have questions. Viktor Vassilyev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-09_U88	Thank you, Mr President. Good colleague! I support the idea of your bill. In my opinion, it is very right to give borrowers the opportunity to return the keys to the so-called bank. People often find themselves in a difficult situation, and it is not always to blame. Yeah, if someone puts their head in the lion's jaws, they'll think the lion is the bad-bad one, and the lion will finally be shot. But if a person is willing to do so, it is wise to keep the lions and people away from each other by certain rules, at least on the other side of the cage and on the other side of the labels, too, so that it is forbidden to feed and to be blamed. But how did the Latvians do it? How many such loans have been concluded in Latvia and how has Latvian society adopted this legal provision?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-09_U89	Thank you for your question. As I mentioned in my speech, in nine months 176 loans have been issued for just over EUR 6 million. This shows that Latvians have taken advantage of the opportunity offered. If the family is failing and unable to repay its credit, then the fact is that the mortgage-backed assets go to the bank, to the creditor.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-09_U90	Siim Kisler, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-09_U91	Thank you. Good waitress! According to your statistics, Latvia's experience is that the alternative method has been used by six fewer than 20 borrowers, which is a relatively small number on Latvia's scale. Let me get this straight: while you would oblige the creditor or the credit intermediary to make two alternative offers, there is no way to deprive the creditor of the possibility of proposing a contract on clearly worse terms in the form of this alternative. In summary, it is simply not worthwhile for the borrower to take advantage of this option.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-09_U92	Indeed, as I have already said, there are considerably more people living in Latvia than we do, but housing loans are taken more modestly there. For some reason, people in Latvia are afraid to take a mortgage. As far as your question is concerned, yes, the idea of this draft is to oblige the creditor to make two offers to the client. One is the usual offer now received by all people who turn to a bank or other creditor for a mortgage application, while the other would include the possibility of securing all the credit with only one asset. For example, a young family turns to a bank and does not have any other security, or does not want to risk any other assets; it wants to borrow exactly that much. If young people are unable to repay this loan, they may at some point waive it and provide the creditor with the assets covered by the guarantee. They will certainly lose the first deposit and the repayment of the loan they have made during a certain period of time.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-09_U93	March Sults, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-09_U94	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good waitress! Here's the question. While in 2008 it was a sharp recession and redundancies and the number of unemployed increased at an enormous rate, so many borrowers had to give up their housing. The bank evicted them from their apartments. Can you tell me how many auction acts there were in 2009, 2010 and 2011 to sell people's apartments to be evicted?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-09_U95	In 2008, bailiffs produced 326 acts, 413 acts in 2009, 461 acts in 2010 and 486 acts in 2011.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-09_U96	George Adams, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-09_U97	Dear waitress, The key word in your bill is the transfer of property. I have to admit, I don't know what you mean by that. Will property be transferred, estate transferred, property transferred, property transferred, both property transferred, or the right to rule will be transferred? For example, a minor's property is dominated by a representative. Or does that key word have any other meaning? Could you explain to me exactly what you've been thinking?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-09_U98	This was also asked in the Commission. We fully agree when the first reading is closed, to propose that the second reading be supplemented by a disposal transaction. In order to transfer the property, an entry must be made in the land register. We agree to complete the draft with this amendment. By handing over the property, however, I still mean that the property that the family has is given to the creditor who has granted the loan for the acquisition of the property.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-09_U99	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, Of course, the purpose of the bill is noble: to protect borrowers. At the same time, the loans are granted by banks which are private companies of commercial interest. The proposed regulation may lead to a tightening of the lending conditions. This means that a lot of people who can get a loan now can't get it anymore. Have you analysed what this change would mean for the Estonian credit market? How much is the availability of loans still deteriorating?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-09_U100	Monika Haukanõmm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-09_U101	As I said, there are two options: there will be the possibility of borrowing under the normal conditions currently in force and, alternatively, the client will receive an offer from the bank stating that the bank will share the risks with him. As a result, for example, the amount of the first contribution may increase and the percentage of the loan may increase, but this is the choice of a person. If a customer fears that anything could happen in 15 years' time and wants to secure his family a little in case they are unable to pay their mortgage, then at least he has the opportunity to get rid of his debt after he has given up his home. Yeah, they're gonna lose their home, they're gonna lose their first deposit and the payments they've made in the meantime, but they're not gonna get much debt. In 2009, the most problematic thing for people was that they had to sell their apartments or other housing, but the market price had gone so low that they could not repay the entire loan to the bank and still owed large amounts. Our aim is to avoid such a situation. Yes, the terms of the loan may be different. Latvia's experience shows that in the case of SEB, the loanor's own contribution may amount to 30% of the real estate value and interest rates may in some cases be, for example, 2% higher than usual, but banks say that it is purely up to them to decide how much to charge to a specific client. They shall assess the performance of each client separately.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-09_U102	Siim Kisler, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-09_U103	Thank you, manager. Honourable waitress! I have a question about the explanatory memorandum to this draft, specifically on the two sentences. The bottom paragraph of the first page of the explanatory memorandum states that during the 2009 economic crisis, social and health expenditure amounted to 47% of gross domestic product, while in a stable period it was more than three times lower. Can you explain that? Are you really saying that the share of social and health expenditure in gross domestic product varies more than three times over the years? Is that really possible, and is this 47% right, or have you lost something here?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-09_U104	Thank you for your question. I think it's fluctuating. However, I really need to clarify whether that is the case. But if that's what it says, I think it's right. I don't have my explanatory statement on me right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-09_U105	Good waitress, thank you! No further questions. I now ask for the speech chair of the Riigikogu to be presented by Valdo Randpere, member of the Legal Affairs Committee!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-09_U106	President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, The Committee on Legal Affairs has been pushing for quite a while to discuss this draft. For the first time, we had this on our agenda on 24 November. But since the waitress who just appeared here could not participate, we postponed it and discussed the draft on 7 December and again on 15 February. On 7 December, Olga Ivanova presented to the Commission the content and purpose of the draft law supplementing § 4031 of the Law of Obligations Act and the Commission also heard the views of the Government of the Republic. We had some questions, too. Olga Ivanova was asked how many people or how many cases this law might affect. Since the rapporteur did not have this information on 7 December, we have postponed the debate to February this year. In February, Olga came to the trial with data from bailiffs and insolvency practitioners. As has already been said today, there were 326 cases in 2008 when bailiffs realised debtors' real estate. In 2011, there were 486 such that in four years this figure had increased by 160 cases. However, I am not only suspicious, but I am pretty sure that the statistics are not entirely adequate from the point of view of this draft. This statistics also includes housing that may not be mortgaged at all. Owners may have a debt to a building management company, for example. When you look at the apartments and other housing sold by bailiffs, we see that a very large part of it is indebted to the building association or to someone else. This key-back draft, as you might call it, would not save them. So there are no actual data, and I suspect that this number is significantly less than ♪ much, which none of us know for sure. In view of Latvia's example, it can be said broadly that we want to kill mosquitoes with a bill like a cannon. If 176 people in Latvia used this opportunity in nine months, borrowing 6 million euros, this is 0.01% of the total volume of real estate loans in Estonia, which is still a very small figure. The Commission also concluded that the draft is quite time-typical on the one hand. We have a tendency to increasingly reject responsibility for people's actions either to the state or to our fellow citizens. If such a model were introduced, and if it were to be popular, it would affect bank interest rates and bank loan conditions for everyone. This means that we would all jointly and severally pay for the cost of throwing this key over the counter if it were to happen. It is such a matter of political choice. Do we want to teach people and still raise them in the direction that they are responsible for lending, we have forced credit institutions to deal with responsible lending, or do we want to tell them that there is no need to fear great responsibility for themselves, whether the state or your fellow people are taking a blow for you? I think this is the wrong approach in this sense. I did not miss this in the Commission either. The Commission discussed this draft, as has been said, twice. Twice there was a substantial and quite long debate and the Commission's decision was as follows. At the sitting, the proposal to close the first reading of the draft was put to the vote, but it was not supported. Consequently, the Legal Affairs Committee proposes that the Riigikogu plenary session reject the 106 draft at first reading. A decision was also adopted to ask for this draft to be placed on the agenda of the plenary session on 8 March. It was a consensual decision. The decision had already been taken to appoint Valdo Randpere as rapporteur for the Commission, and that was also a consensual decision. Oh, I see there are questions for me!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-09_U107	Thank you for helping with the chair. And thank you for your presentation. Let's get to the questions. Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-09_U108	Thank you. Good colleague! Mrs Ivanova said that the number of acts of auction of real estate produced by bailiffs is still increasing. This shows that the problem persists and that no solution has been found for today. How do you comment on this situation?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-09_U109	First of all, the number of real estate realised by bailiffs has increased. First of all, these numbers are still relatively small, but the order of magnitude is the same. If we start with the 2008 statistics, according to which there were 326 cases, and we end with 2011 when there were 486 cases, the difference is not very big. The gap in Estonia's scale is negligible. And another thing, as I said, this statistics doesn't exactly show the cases that this bill means. This also reflects to a very large extent the realization of real estate that owes to either the building management company or somebody else, not the bank. It wouldn't change anything for them to return the keys to the bank in itself. And once again: this number is not very large, I would say it is rather very small.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-09_U110	Andrei Novikov, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-09_U111	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, In your speech, you mentioned that this bill could result in the responsibility of the person who took the loan being shifted to others. Does it not seem to you that this contradicts the liberal world view of your party, according to which the creation of additional opportunities, on the contrary, increases the sense of responsibility for borrowing? It is precisely in the draft that, in addition to the existing possibility, an additional opportunity will be created for the borrower, while imposing an obligation on the other party. But the borrower gets another chance to play through.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-09_U112	I have to admit, that's a very bright question. Indeed, there should be nothing against choice in itself. At the same time, it is also a question of how much we are imposing on the private sector that we are making something more mandatory for them. To them, we do not give them choice, but oblige them to make a variety of offers. I think people have different opportunities in today's credit market anyway. It is possible to choose variable interest rates, it is possible to fix interest rates and there is a pretty high spread between different options. People can make a choice based on their economic situation and future prospects. Basically, I think we can go no matter how far we stick our noses in the industries as a country, writing very strict rules for them. In this regard, in the light of good legislative practice, I must say that the opinion of the Banking Union has not been sought on this draft. The representatives of the Banking Association were not invited to either approve or criticise the draft. If the representatives of the banking union had been asked for their opinion and they would have clap their hands and shouted hurrah and said that a very good proposal, I might have changed my position.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-09_U113	Erki Savisaar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-09_U114	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, In its position, the Government of the Republic pointed out that if this 'keys back' draft was adopted, it would lead to more self-financing and additional guarantees for the consumer. I cannot agree with this in any way, because there is still a question of essentially 30% of the guarantee or own contribution. What could be the reasons why banks would require even more guarantees or self-financing after the adoption of this bill?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-09_U115	It wasn't as bright a question as the last one. Think for yourself: 30% is now being demanded, as you say, so there is room for improvement of 70%. The banks are clearly in a position to demand more, which in itself means a higher risk to the lender. However, the lender no longer shares this risk with the borrower but assumes this risk in principle. Of course, he will raise the price of money in this regard, and not just in the case of a specific contract. I am pretty sure that if this possibility of borrowing turned out to be popular, it would certainly affect the entire credit market. We must get used to all this once in Estonia. In most cases, even in this Chamber, we all find capitalism nice that the capitalists are fine, but still somehow we want the capitalists to turn off the screws, even though we live in a market economy and understand that it is an overwhelming economic system compared to others.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-09_U116	Olga Ivanova, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-09_U117	Thank you. Dear Valdo! You were talking about us putting somebody's responsibilities on people, and so on. How do you know that banks will certainly increase the percentage of required contributions or the interest rate on loans? We know that there is almost the same regulation in the United States, for example, and now in Latvia, too, and this has not led to a huge increase in interest rates or an increase in the initial contribution.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-09_U118	Good Olga, do Latvia and the United States always have to set an example for us? I really don't have any statistics, like you don't. Since you didn't involve the Banking Association in the debate on the draft law, there are no official statistics on the Committee on Legal Affairs. In fact, the draft was already under discussion four or five years ago, I remember that in some form it was initiated, and then I spoke to the people of the banking union and that is where my knowledge came from. But I'm just saying it by my own personal logic. If I were a banker and the state pushed me into such a system, I would, of course, raise interest to hedge my risk. I don't do charity, okay? At the same time, it is also clear that if the risk is concentrated on one person, it will be too much for him. That's how we get to the philosophical thought that we're sharing the risk in such a thin layer on the whole sandwich. But why and to what limit should proper borrowers and payers feel solidarity with other borrowers who simply are not or cannot be as responsible?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-09_U119	George Adams, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-09_U120	The rapporteur for the Committee on Legal Affairs! Since this bill is about a consumer credit agreement, would you be so kind as to say what makes a credit agreement a consumer credit agreement? How do we recognise that this is a consumer credit agreement?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-09_U121	Good questioner, since this issue was not discussed in any way in the Committee on Legal Affairs, I cannot answer you right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-09_U122	Andrei Novikov, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-09_U123	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, You mentioned that the banks would certainly increase the risk charge, which I think would also be natural. But doesn't it seem to you that they consider the other option, where the keys are returned to the table, to be, in a sense, an unethical limit? If it were to be incorporated into the law, the loan would be used more boldly, since the greater freedom of contract would allow an agreement to be concluded under all circumstances. Otherwise, we will simply reduce the opportunities of both the company and the borrower.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-09_U124	As I have already said, the problem is that the initiator did not involve the other side of this debate, from the banking side. You didn't ask for the Banking Association or anyone else's opinion, so basically... [[Cell phone's ringing.]] The phone, too!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-09_U125	Please turn your phone off or put it in silent mode!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-09_U126	Yeah, I did.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-09_U127	Way to go!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-09_U128	For the first time in my life, this happened. But what were we talking about? We were talking about whether the banks would take this opportunity more boldly. I say that we do not know this because the representatives of the banks, the representatives of the banking union, were not involved in the debate process. That's basically how we speculate, like the blind leads the deaf. I do not know what they would say, but I repeat once again that if the representatives of the Banking Association had taken a positive view of the proposal, it would certainly have affected my point of view. However, in this case, I do not like the fact that we go as a country and write down to some part of the private sector exactly how they have to do business. There could be something left to regulate the market itself.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-09_U129	Erki Savisaar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-09_U130	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, I still don't get it. At present, banks already have this 30% cover. How big should this cover be to make the banks happy? I think 30% is already enough. However, what I am asking is that in the United States, as a leading country in capitalism, such a system works extremely well and does not seem to be a problem. How is it possible that such a scheme would not work in our small Estonia? What fundamentals do we have differently from America?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-09_U131	This issue was also not discussed in the Commission. I could say very briefly that we did not address this issue. But basically, I'm saying one thing against. If you do not consider the problem of the collapse of the American financial market in 2008 largely due to this 'keys back' system, I think that caused them a small problem.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-09_U132	March Sults, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-09_U133	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good waitress, Valdo! I have studied the political economy of the socialist economy in my education and have studied the political economy of the capitalist economy. You used the words that we live in conditions of capitalism. Maybe you can define the kind of special capitalism that Estonia has in some way?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-09_U134	Thank you, March! As this issue was not discussed at the committee meeting, I will not talk to you about the advantages of a liberal market economy compared to a socialist or communist plan economy.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-09_U135	Aadu Black, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-09_U136	Thank you, Mr President. Good Valdo! You can't live in history, but you have to learn about history. I'm always hearing stories about how the crisis was, what was wrong. The people really were a little crazy, and the country didn't protect people enough because the drowner would save himself if he could. I am actually interested in how the Commission believes that progress should be made. Does the State intend to protect its citizens against possible similar bank traps? This has, by the way, been entrusted to the State in both highly capitalist and less capitalist countries. I guess we should have it that way.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-09_U137	Thank you, Aadu! That's a very good question. Although this issue was not discussed in this very sitting of the Committee on Legal Affairs, I will still answer you because it has been discussed quite several times in the Committee on Legal Affairs over the last year and a half. This has led to the result that is voted through in this Chamber, probably with your participation. A number of provisions have been adopted to strengthen the provision of credit, which has increased the responsibility of banks to provide loans responsibly. If you remember, the operating conditions of Estonian fast-borrowing companies have been greatly changed, they are subject to the supervision of the Financial Supervision Authority. That was not the case before. So actually, the country has done quite a lot. Is enough, I can't tell you, but there's a line going somewhere, from which the country no longer needs to intervene in detail in the forms of action in one sector. This, of course, is provided that this sector acts responsibly. These standards, of course, must be put in place by the state. I think the country has learned well and acted quite purposefully.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-09_U138	Viktor Vassilyev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-09_U139	Thank you, Mr President. Good colleague! Why are you opposed to this draft if its main objective is not anti-state nor is it directed against the financial sector? The main objective is to protect our Estonian people, to protect people, including your voters, and it is not excluded that some of them will remain your voters. The aim is to provide them with an alternative option alongside the current options. Why are you against this bill?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-09_U140	I've been trying to talk long and wide about why I'm against it. In fact, this is perhaps not the most important reason why I am against or in favour of it now. What is important is that I represent the Commission's position here. The Commission has brought the draft to this Chamber and the Commission did not support the completion of this first reading. There were several reasons. Like I said, I think there's a line somewhere that people from the country have to take responsibility for themselves. And once again, to refer the answer given to Aadu Black by the foreman: the country has done enough. After all, the country is also you and I, who have adopted quite a number of laws in this very Chamber over the last year and a half, which will tighten up lending and make the situation a little more regulated than it was before the 2008 crisis. I think that's enough.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-09_U141	Good waitress, thank you! No further questions. Do you want to open negotiations? I'm opening negotiations. Please ask Jüri Adams, representative of the Group of the Estonian Free Party, to the speech chair of the Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-09_U142	The Free Party Group kindly gave me the opportunity to talk about this draft. The author of the draft act is a member of the Riigikogu who probably has no experience in drafting drafts. Perhaps it would have been better if he had approached the legal department of the Riigikogu and asked for a draft with the desired content. There are two problems: one is the question of the respective political will, the other is the form of the law and what to write. Since its adoption, the Law of Obligations Act already contains the term "consumer' and also the term "consumer loans', instead of the term "consumer credit' in this draft. What does consumer credit mean? This means that the borrower is not a professional borrower; he does not do it every day in his professional capacity; he is likely to have a few or none of these experiences in his life. As a result, European directives provide lenders with a series of obligations aimed at ensuring that a person with little experience in borrowing does not make false decisions. The most important thing is that such a person is given a very large package of various information that the law prescribes. The other thing that matters about a consumer creditor is that once he's signed a contract, he's got two weeks to go back to the lender and say I changed my mind, I don't want to borrow from you, and it doesn't cost him anything. This is analogous to the fact that when we buy goods from some shop, we are consumers in the same way, we do not have to be specialists in this business and we can return what we buy. Since the Law of Obligations Act has been in force, part of the Consumer Credit Agreement has increased substantially in the law. There are dozens of paragraphs here. I see that it has been supplemented in 2010, 2011 and 2012, so in the meantime new European Union directives have been drawn up in this area. Paragraph 4031 of the Law of Obligations Act is entitled "Pre-contractual information'. So this is the information that the lender, this bank or someone else, must give to the person who comes to him to ask for the loan. It says a lot of points about what you have to tell him. Among other things, the types of credit that a particular creditor offers to the consumer have been mentioned. The idea of this draft, as I understand it, is to add another species, which the draft calls a mortgage-backed consumer credit agreement. On the one hand, this name is likely to be misleading, because I think all major consumer lenders are offering a mortgage-backed contract anyway. However, on the other hand, and this is more important, this particular section of the Law of Obligations Act does not deal at all with the types of contracts. Which types one creditor offers is his internal matter. Therefore, it is not the right way to introduce an amendment to this paragraph, even if there were political support for this idea. Why not? The problem is that laws must clearly prescribe prohibitions and commands, not give clues about them. Here, however, hints are made about the obligation that a professional lender, in addition to being engaged in lending, should also set up a department to take over the real estate provided as collateral for defaulted borrowers. A little extra time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-09_U143	A little? Three minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-09_U144	If so, it should probably be some kind of subsidiary. That would be a pretty serious problem. As far as I know, all professional lenders, especially banks, would be very unhappy if they really had some kind of mortgage property to run. In general, they do not know what to do with this asset, and they try to plant it as quickly and cheaply as possible, often causing harm to themselves. It's none of their business. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-09_U145	Thank you! I now ask Olga Ivanova, representative of the Estonian Central Party Group, to present the speech chair of the Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-09_U146	President-in-Office of the Council. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! Perhaps as a remargina, I say to previous performers that yes, indeed, steps have been taken in recent years to protect borrowers, but this mainly concerns those who have taken fast loans. Nothing has been done for the borrowers of the mortgage. I also say that, indeed, in the Committee on Legal Affairs, we were in the process of a draft law supplementing the Law of Obligations Act, which was the result of the European Union directive, but unfortunately we were unable to join forces. This would in itself have been very necessary for the young people of Estonia who are currently the main customers of the banks. You mentioned that within 14 days it will be possible to withdraw from this agreement. It's not like that. It is clear from the European Union directive that 14 days is the longest possible time to withdraw. Our government has proposed that it may only be seven days after the signing of the treaty. To conclude, however, I would like to point out the main reasons why the Government of the Republic refused to support the draft. The members of the coalition told us that such regulation does not need to be introduced in Estonia, as it is possible to conclude mortgage-backed loan agreements under the law in force. I dare doubt whether the average person knows about such regulation, which is why I think it is necessary to supplement the law of the law of debt in such a way that the bank will certainly offer people an alternative option. As housing loans are long-term loans, more protection should be given to borrowers in order to prevent the financial crisis in the years of 2008, for example. Nor is it justified for the Government of the Republic to believe that these agreements would necessarily lead to greater self-financing and additional guarantee obligations for the consumer. For example, according to the Latvian Swedbank branch, the amount of the first contribution may be up to 30% in the case of credit secured by all consumer assets. Not to support our draft simply because self-financing can be increased is not justified in my opinion. By supplementing the law, we would protect future borrowers from what happened during the 2008 financial crisis when many lost their homes. I call on all members of the Riigikogu to support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-09_U147	Thank you. There's no more calls. I'm closing the negotiations. The Steering Committee has proposed to reject the 106 draft at first reading. Let us begin with the preparation of the vote on this proposal. Dear colleagues, I would like to put to the vote the draft proposal of the lead committee 106 to be rejected at first reading. Please take a stand and vote. With the result of 50 votes against 28 and 7 abstentions, 106 have been rejected at first reading and are excluded from the procedure. The second item is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-09_U148	We will move on to the third item, which is the third reading of the draft law amending the Rail Act and the Public Transport Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic. Do the representatives of the political groups wish to open negotiations? We do not recommend opening negotiations, so we can go to preparing the final vote. I will put Bill 129 to the final vote. Please take a stand and vote. With the result of 62 votes against 4 and 1 abstention, the draft law amending the Rail Act and the Public Transport Act initiated by the Government of the Republic has been adopted as 129 laws. The third item is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-09_U149	Let us move on to the fourth item on the agenda: 'Criminal policy trends until 2018'. 2015 Implementation Report'. Before we go to the proceedings, let me briefly introduce the procedure. First, the presentation by the Minister of Justice is up to 20 minutes, then any member of the Riigikogu can ask an oral question to the rapporteur. After that, there are negotiations involving representatives of the political groups who have spoken. As usual, at the end of the debate, the Riigikogu will not take a decision. Mr. Urmas Reinsalu, Minister of Justice, give a presentation. If I may, Mr Padar and Mr Reinsalu, I would like to ask the Minister for a presentation of the chair now.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-09_U150	Mr President of the sitting of the Riigikogu. Dear Members, Let me give you an overview of the developments in criminal policy last year. Last year began with the legal changes made as a result of the review of penal law. It can be said with certainty that the reduction in criminal regulation in society did not have negative consequences. However, there is reason to confirm that the law is fairer and that people are treated in a better way in accordance with the severity of their actions. A year ago, my predecessor, Andres Anvelt, focused his presentation on issues relating to violence, the topicality of which was due to the development of a strategy to prevent violence and to the focus of domestic violence. In this year's presentation, I will first give an overview of the crime situation in 2015 and focus on the treatment of victims of crime, juvenile offenders and hardened criminals who pose a serious threat. I stress that a particularly important objective of criminal policy must be to reduce repeated crime in the near future and to strengthen the establishment of a country against hardened criminals. It is not honest people who need to be afraid in public, but hardened criminals who are dangerous to society must be afraid. Repeatedly committing a dangerous crime must be a particular threat in criminal policy to be rejected. In recent days the Estonian society has been shaken by a brutal attack in the city centre of Tartu. This was done precisely by persons who have been convicted one in four and the other five times in the past. Thus, the behavior of hardened criminals leads to more serious consequences. In this case, there were a number of aggravating factors: the act was committed in a group and the child saw everything. This crime can be punishable by a maximum of five years in real imprisonment. My message is one and clear: the country must react vigorously to the arrogant acts of violence that break public security. Criminals must be afraid, not honest people. In 2015, nearly 2,000 people were released from prison, almost 70% of them were released without any supervision, which means that they are highly likely to commit a new crime. In the case of dangerous relapsers, it is more appropriate to apply a more extensive post-punitive behavioural check, where the sentence is passed to the end of the prison and then probation continues after imprisonment. Effective expulsion of criminals who are foreign nationals is also important in reducing repeated crime. To this end, the Ministry of Justice intends to develop a spatial special prevention programme in order to reduce repeated criminal offences as additional penalties through expulsion. I would like to emphasise that there must also be a constitutional possibility for certain criminals of danger to the general public, such as terrorists, serial rapists and paedophiles, to be detained beyond the normal limits of punishment. In 2015, 32575 crimes were registered by the investigating authorities and the prosecutor's office, which is statistically 14% less than a year earlier and 37% less than ten years ago. The trend in the number of registered crimes has been constant in Estonia. The significant decrease in the number of registered crimes, as I pointed out last year, was primarily due to the substantial changes in the Penal Code which came into force at the beginning of last year. The main impact of the reduction in criminal registration was the increase in the minimum daily rate of financial penalties, which has resulted in the treatment of most of the minor damage thefts and other crimes against property now being misdemeanours. At the same time, the aggregated total number of offences and crimes against property offences decreased by 3% in 2015 compared to the previous year 2014. With the opposite effect, i.e. the change in the number of registered crimes was primarily that systematic driving without the right to drive was turned into a criminal offence in the Riigikogu instead of a misdemeanour during the Penal Code procedure. Thus, last year the number of such cases increased from zero to 737 cases. There is a positive general trend that the number of drink drivers has started to decrease, but the problem remains very serious. The heavy drinkers are particularly concerned. According to our calculations, the chances of a drunk driver getting caught are less than 1%. The most serious problem is that we have not been able to influence the most dangerous part of drunk drivers by conventional sanctions. Even this spring, the Riigikogu will receive proposals that will expand the possibilities to influence the behaviour of the most dangerous drunk drivers. We must give a clear signal to society: it is not a man's business to drive a drinker; it is a great danger to all decent road users. Once it has been established that a person is addicted, the penalty system must provide treatment and counselling to prevent further violations. However, in the case of drunken drunken drivers who are caught nearly 500 a year, there is also a need to consider the possibility of shocking without any room for parole as a sanction. If a person is prone to relapse, shock deprivation should be a general rule. We are also planning legislative changes to contain the so-called Randys, who even take the wheel as a probation worker. If a drunk driver is a probationary and commits another similar crime, then the probation for such a person must stop and he must go back to prison. There were no major changes in the number of violent crimes in 2015. Statistics show that almost 7900 violent crimes were recorded in the year, of which 38% were reported in domestic violence cases. Essentially, one in ten crimes being processed in Estonia is related to domestic violence. The Minister of Justice and the Minister of the Interior has agreed that the main attention of the police and the prosecutor's office must be directed towards cases of domestic violence where children are victims or witnesses. The most important indicator for violence is the number of killings. Last year, according to preliminary data, 40 people lost their lives as a result of violence, which is two less than a year earlier. Compared to 1994, the number of killings in Estonia has decreased ten times, which is undoubtedly a major change in the positive direction. But we are still far from considering the situation as "normal" as a notional term. We would achieve an average European level if there were no more than 20 kills per year. For the next ten years, this should be our goal. The protection of victims of crime is one of the most important issues in this year's criminal policy development. We stand at the threshold of a new era in this area, and it is thanks to the fact that last year the Riigikogu adopted a package of amendments to the Criminal Procedure Act to protect victims. Previously, the role of the victim and witness in Estonian law has traditionally been secondary. From the point of view of the judge dealing with the case, this is a source of evidence which is underlying in the penal system and whose interests have been secondary to those of the State. We are used to the fact that the crime is primarily a violation of the law. This situation must change, the victims must be supported more. The dignified treatment of the victim, taking into account the victim's perspective, avoiding secondary suffering, for example in the form of repeated interrogations, are the main measures here. There must not be a situation where the victim of rape turns to the police and gets admonished for mistakes that led him to such a situation. It must not be the case that we do not even inform the victims of the trial in which the crime involving them is being discussed. Nor must it be that we do not wonder what happens next when a violent man returns to his family, even if the victim accepts it. One of the most important principles to be taken into account by legislative changes is the obligation to inform the victim fully. All must be explained to the sufferer in a clear way, he must receive comprehensive information and he must also be given additional measures in the proceedings. In addition, it is important that both police and prosecutors receive separate training to enable them to take better account of the victim's feelings and the victim's situation. I mentioned at the beginning of my speech more forceful implementation of the spatial special prevention in the Estonian penal system. By this it is meant that if citizens of other countries decide not to show respect for local residents in the territory of Estonia in the form of law-abiding behaviour and commit a dangerous crime, it is our duty to ensure that these people do not stay in Estonia. The bill, with which the Ministry of Justice will soon come out, expands and simplifies the possibilities for the expulsion of persons who have committed crimes. Our taxpayer does not have to pay the costs of keeping the subjects of other countries captive or help them to re-enter society in a country where they do not belong after they have served their sentence. Release from prison is another important issue on which we want to take a major step forward. As I said, nearly 2,000 people were released from prison last year, but only 31% of those expected to be released by the probation worker. But the smoother the process of getting out of prison, the safer it will be for society, and it is expected that such a person will commit fewer new crimes. There's a clear statistical link here. In addition to the process of safe release from prison, the content of imprisonment is also affected by the reversibility indicators. Our principle is one and clear: in prison, the prisoner has to work. Estonian law imposes on prisoners a duty to work, which a significant proportion of the money earned goes to cover the claims of the victims. However, it is a serious concern that we have not been able to provide employment for all prisoners, and most prisoners, unfortunately, are sitting idle in their time. As an important issue, I would like to emphasise the prevention of juvenile delinquency and, in particular, the reduction of juvenile repeat criminal activity. However, it is likely that if a minor has committed dangerous crimes, he may become a hardened criminal. Statistics also show this. I would like to stress that at the moment the situation is that if the minor who committed the offence is sent to report on his or her actions to the juvenile commission, in most cases this admonition by the group's adults will take place months after the act has been committed. It's obviously too late to react. It's like reacting to a child's domestic trouble three months later by warning him. It is also important to change the policy of punishing minors when these offences are being committed. Today, one of the most common forms of punishment is a financial penalty. But who's gonna pay for it? It is paid by father and mother, and its real frightening influence is, unfortunately, relatively small. In the case of minor infringements, the primary objective must be the educational effect of the sentence, which we can apply in particular through communication and influence measures aimed at ensuring that the young person himself is responsible for the act he has committed. It is emotionally harder to explain and take responsibility for what you have done to the victim than, for example, to dissect a case before a juvenile commission. However, as the studies have shown, its impact on preventing new infringements is much greater. We intend to extend considerably to the range of measures that the justice system can use to treat juvenile offenders. I'm calling house arrest, bail, community service. The third aspect of the treatment of minors concerns the most difficult cases of young people who are in the middle of a school, a broken family, who abuse different substances and who often no longer have anything in their lives to keep and protect or to work for. Fortunately, these young people have become less and less in Estonia due to the strengthening of the social system and inclusive education. Unfortunately, the damage they cause is quite serious. Today, we are dealing with the most complex cases of minors quite similarly to those of adults. The penalty system is gradual. In the case of minors, we want to influence not only the young person but also the environment around him. Last year, we are implementing the MDFT programme, where it is also very important to achieve changes in what its loved ones do, for example, as a parent, as a teacher, as a trainer, or people who have some important role in the child's life. It is a very complex project, but its resultivity or effectiveness is invaluable in keeping one person on a positive path to life. This year we have started a revision of the Code of Criminal Procedure, which focuses on simplifying procedures, cutting red tape and saving resources. With the results of the first stage of the revision, or the draft, we want to come to Parliament in the first half of next year. This year, human resources reform of the prosecutor's office has also begun, with the aim of ensuring that prosecutors can focus on their main work, i.e. the prosecution function. To this end, additional amounts have been allocated to hire consultants who can help the prosecutor in carrying out his more technical duties and thus will certainly improve the speed and quality of the procedure, as the prosecutor's office can be considered a key player in the criminal justice chain. Modern prison conditions also play an important role in reducing recidivism. Harku and Murru prisons will be closed this summer. A contract has been signed for the construction of a new prison in Tallinn and we are moving on a schedule that will allow the depreciation of the prison building by the end of 2018. In the Government Agreement, we are committed to ratifying the international agreement on preventing and combating violence against women and domestic violence and to increasing the protection of victims of trafficking in human beings. Among other things, we want to ban the purchase of sex services from victims of human trafficking. The draft is scheduled to be sent to the coordination round in spring. I would like to point out that as early as 2010, the Riigikogu, confirming developments in criminal policy until 2018, considered it important to stress that criminal policy must take into account potential future risks and be prepared to respond to problems of almost non-existent racial, ethnic or religious background in Estonia, such as forced marriages, honour killings, cases of human trafficking. The amendments to the Penal Code resulting from the ratification of this international convention are a concrete step in this direction. I would like to stress that my aim as Minister for Justice is to ensure that criminal policy legislation is more thoughtful and clearly needs- and knowledge-based. In this way, it is the easiest way to achieve an increase in security in Estonian society, that there are fewer crimes. Punishment policy must be knowledge-based, based on society's values and confidence that the criminal policy tools that the legislator has put at the disposal of national prosecution and punishment authorities will be used to condemn society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-09_U151	Minister, thank you. You have a lot of questions. Let's get started. Marika Tuus-Laul, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-09_U152	Thank you. Dear Minister, Please tell me, how do you explain that we have a settlement procedure for more than 80% of the procedures? Is it not the fact that Estonia does not trust our judicial system? In fact, over 99% of the ordinary rules end in conviction. Obviously, the system is not trusted either because we do not have so-called competing legal proceedings, where both parties, the prosecutor and the lawyer, would be equal, would have equal access to information on which the defendant is accused or suspected. In the world, it's called the principle of equal weapons, which we lawyers say we don't respect. Why do we still not have equal opportunities for a lawyer, and why do people overwhelmingly opt for a settlement procedure?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-09_U153	The whole purpose of criminal proceedings is certainly to find out the truth and, on the basis of this truth, there must be a response from society, a conviction and an adequate subsequent sentence or acquittal. After all, the general logic and principle of the settlement procedure is based on the desire to reach this truth in the most effective way. Looking at the general interest of society for the legal order to work, as well as the interest of all parties to proceedings, the aim is to achieve solutions as effectively as possible. That is also the purpose of the accused, unless he has come to regret his actions and wishes to alleviate the punishment by accepting the blame. But what I want to say is that, as far as the principle of equal weapons is concerned, this balance is not currently shifted in the sense that the position of the representative of the state charge and the representative of the accused is not equal, I think that Estonian procedural law also ensures quite well the fundamental rights of the accused, but that there is one other party to the whole procedure. I also drew attention to this today: namely, we have a secondary victim, a victim, a person who has actually been through something bad. Society has sought a solution to cases in order to prevent them from happening again in the future and to ensure legal peace, but the victims have been left behind. We want to correct it. The first major step is a legislative amendment that came into force at the end of last year.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-09_U154	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-09_U155	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. We were distributed today with books on criminal policy research. They contain interesting information about crime in Estonia, also in the last ten years. For example, here is the fact that no crime has been recorded in some small islands. That is very positive news. But I'm asking you this. An idealist yearns for a society where crimes are not committed at all. The realist knows there's never gonna be a perfect situation like this. What do you think are the most necessary steps to ensure that children and young people do not get in the way of crime? You mentioned a number of things in your speech, but if you take a few of the most important steps, thank you very much!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-09_U156	Thank you. Crimes, bad deeds will always be committed in mankind, that's the fact. At the same time, we have seen that the general development of society has also reduced crime in Estonia. As I said, in the case of young people and minors, it is important, above all, not to focus on mechanical penalties for misdemeanours, which have little impact. Research shows this, and common sense also says this: If a fine is paid by a mother or father, it will not work. Influence methods must be chosen to help a young person stay on the right track. A young person is very prone to influence, both bad and good. Hope is based on the fact that he is more prone to good influences than, for example, a 50-year-old person who has been repeatedly sentenced for deliberate murder. The fact is that, just as in the wider Western societies, we are developing a trend that is getting narrower and narrower in the circle of those who are sentenced to one end of the sentence. So to say statistical reversibility, we have just under 40%, but when we talk about reversibility in the long term, we can say that it is very likely that nearly 70% of people who have already been in prison once will be in prison again. Consequently, when we talk about the need to reduce the number of the most dangerous, hardened criminals who hurt society's sense of security, they must be dealt with with with particular care. There is a toolkit that the Ministry of Justice wants to propose this year to reduce the proportion of these most dangerous criminals in society. There are also possibilities for regrowing and turning hardened criminals on the road to recovery, but the aim is above all to reduce the risk posed by these individuals.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-09_U157	Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-09_U158	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. The number of crimes related to close-up violence, at least the number of related appeals, has increased. This is good because they didn't turn around before, but now people know that they're dealing with these things. Former Minister of Justice Andres Anvelt signed the Lisbon Convention and its ratification is scheduled for 2017. Perhaps it would be possible to do so in 2016?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-09_U159	I am sure that Andres Anvelt has also been to Lisbon, and Andres shakes his head, but the convention on this subject bears the exotic title 'Istanbul Convention'. It must be said, however, that the inclusion of a catalogue of criminal law in the current law would not be a problem in ratifying this convention. We are going to bring about, as I said, penalty law changes on this subject before the Riigikogu this year, so that they can be enforced and incorporated into our law. However, in addition to providing for an adequate assessment of violence against women by the state, this convention also includes very high social responsibilities. This competence now lies with the Ministry of Social Affairs. When the government's work plan was discussed, the Minister said that he was prepared to allocate his financial resources to this end by the end of 2017. If the Ministry of Social Affairs is prepared to start it faster by optimising the use of its resources, it is great, but I do not see any need for this international commitment to be made before we are ready. I agree that there is no point in taking a fictitious commitment, so let us take it so that we actually ensure it. Punishmentable things we can do first, there is no obstacle to them.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-09_U160	Liina Kersna, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-09_U161	Thank you, good manager. Dear Minister, I will continue on the subject raised by Helmen Hunter. You also said in your speech that the proportion of domestic violence crimes in violent crimes is 38%. I see it's increased by 10% in the last three years. At the same time, we know that only one in ten victims of domestic violence in Estonia asks for help. My question is: what do your ministry experts predict how much this proportion could increase before it remains stable?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-09_U162	It's a sensitive subject. We imagine the psychological barriers of a victim of violence that prevent him from seeking help. It is, of course, very important to inform people, to encourage people, and first of all to confirm that the victim is not guilty, that violence is never justified, no matter how extreme the relationship is. I would like to say that although the official number of cases of domestic violence has increased, this does not mean, as Mrs Kütt rightly pointed out, that last year the family people in Estonia became exponentially more violent. In this sense, it is an upside down positive trend that people dare to ask for a little more help. We'll see that this trend continues. Obviously, however, hiding will continue to be very large, and this is also the case in other types of societies. At the same time, we may consider that the rate of this violence will still increase by at least 20 percent in the coming years. We don't have any exact predictions, but people are already turning to get help. A study has also been carried out on sexual behaviour and illegal sexual activities of minors. This was organised last year by the Ministry of Justice. It turned out that in only 10% of cases, minors dared to turn to adult police, teachers, and other people for help, even though these were obvious sexual attacks. In this case too, young people and real children have a strong psychological barrier ahead, helpless and defenseless. The most important thing is that we deliver a message that they are not alone. No victim must feel alone in our country.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-09_U163	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-09_U164	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you for your review. There were many interesting examples in your presentation, as well as estimates. I am asking about this claim that we certainly have a direction for such a value-based penal policy. If you put aside this very shameful and unfortunate incident in Tartu, in light of this, is there really reason to believe that a value-based penal policy, especially for such hardened criminals, justifies itself? After all, this is a case where, in summer 2014, even the financial penalty had been replaced by social work. What has happened to our law enforcement agencies in the meantime? Punishment is set, but a man will soon be on the street again.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-09_U165	First of all, in the case of Tartu, I want to acknowledge this brave man who did not hesitate to discipline the villains. I would also like to point out that in the case of value attitudes, we need to distinguish between two types of legal responses to crime in the larger picture. One approach is that, if a person has wronged in criminal law, the most important thing is that his or her actions are identified. Society strives to ensure that a person understands the consequences of what he has done and assumes that in the future he will no longer engage in unlawful conduct. The second approach is for those whose danger to their fellow citizens is greater than the legal peace of society. These are hardened criminals, whose handwriting clearly indicates that the likelihood of committing new crimes is enormous. And in the case of these individuals, society must implement a much stronger and more rigid criminal practice and not, above all, to turn them on the path of redevelopment. Of course, it is very positive if such a person understands the consequences of his or her bad actions, but in the case of these individuals, their criminal scheme forces them to assume that this probability is extremely low. Consequently, the central task for society is to take this threat down, and one way to do so is to isolate these people from an honest society for a sufficiently long period of time. And by the time they're released from prison, there must be some sort of control mechanism to keep an eye on them. At present, the paradoxical situation is that people who have been released from prison before the deadline are subject to probation because they are expected to pose a lower risk. The opinion of society is that it is more rational to keep them under probation and that it is possible, let us say, to have a positive influence on people by re-growing. The most dangerous criminals will be released from prison without any follow-up. There is a theoretical possibility of this in the law, but in reality it has only been applied a few dozen times. This is the practice, and I think it has to change. Not in the direction of releasing the so-called less dangerous persons currently under probation. To them, this punitive political pattern has justified itself in every way. At the same time, we need to start applying a more systematic rule rather than an exception to groups with extremely dangerous recidivism so that they know: the state will keep an eye on you. You've been freed, but that doesn't mean you're free to commit crimes again. I must admit that this has also been practiced in different countries, for example, in the case of relapsed drunk drivers. This is one of the proposals proposed by the Ministry of Justice to the government traffic commission. If you are a relapsing drunk driver, i.e. you have committed a crime while driving, the state could remind that person every year that we know you have committed a crime, and we know that you can probably do it again. Consider this: Next time you get caught, the country will react a lot harder and you will actually go to jail.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-09_U166	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-09_U167	Thank you, good manager. Good minister! I am dealing with economic crimes, and I wish that the next time we have this fine grey book, there would be at least three lines in this figure 64: registered economic crimes, resolved and so-called forced cases, whether due to expiry or something else. In fact, it seems that economic crime has not been a national priority. We know that there are only eight people in the prosecutor's office to do so, and there have been two increases in the threshold of when an economic crime will ever be dealt with. It's a little schizophrenic. How do you think that we could move towards more detection and resolution of economic crime? And how much damage has the country suffered because it is unable to deal with this issue?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-09_U168	This damage is very serious, for example, tax debts caused by bankruptcies. Very many bankruptcies are malicious bankruptcies, where tanks and such have been used. This loss amounts to EUR 40 million. The revenue the state receives when it confiscates the criminal proceeds grew exponentially last year, on a few occasions. The order of magnitude is EUR 20 million. As far as the investigation of economic crimes is concerned, they come together with the eight consultants and prosecutors that come to this year, are additional places, and the priority of these people is precisely to deal with economic and hidden crime. The State Attorney General has said that his priority is two things: a green line or an ambulance line. These are crimes committed against children or children in a different way and, secondly, economic crimes. Last year, a separate Bureau of Economic Crimes was set up in the Central Criminal Police. We had a very serious discussion at the beginning of the year with the heads of the Central Criminal Police and representatives of the tax administration and the prosecutor's office. We wanted to summarise the whole chain of state units involved in the fight against economic crime in different roles. We have put together a package of additional proposals to make this chain work more evenly in practical work. There are two things that matter. Firstly, that the Office for Economic Crimes of the Central Criminal Police does not begin to deal with complex matters in such a way that one detective has one thing, one file, and he investigates the matter for a long time because his performance is low. And then he'll do the next thing. But what do honest entrepreneurs expect from researchers about economic crimes? People are actually thinking, damn it, I want my resource back! Second-rate is even if the mush is punished, but they want what they've been deceived to get back into their pockets because they own it in good faith. We have set out that, as in the case of corruption crimes, research groups will be formed in the case of more complex economic crimes. They're going to work. Secondly, it is very important that these things do not disappear between the Central Criminal Police and the Precincts. The priority chain of the Central Criminal Police is those major economic crimes that are listed in the long catalogue, but there is indeed a rather high financial threshold. What is important is that the capacity to investigate economic crimes in the prefectures is not reduced. It's important to keep it. The broader question with regard to economic crimes is that there is a certain transitional area that the prosecutor's office needs to identify. For example, this is a civil dispute case where someone has been deceived and there has been civil damage, but from some point of view, it is going to be a crime. The central change must also be that, when it comes to insolvency law, bankruptcy law, when one of the factors is the creditor and the other the debtor, the weight of the creditor in good faith would clearly increase. Of course, there are always possible special cases, you can't draw everything with a single line, but I'm saying that the bona fide creditor is too weak for us. Bankruptcy matters are launched too late, and they will end in decline when, in fact, the property has already been carried out. To conclude, in parallel with the capacity to investigate economic crimes, we must ensure that people can also effectively protect their property by means of civil procedural means.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-09_U169	George Adams, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-09_U170	Mr. Minister! At the end of the previous composition of the Riigikogu, your predecessor and his party associates achieved a truly stakhanovic victory. There was, in fact, a very large cluster bill, bearing the number 770 and the title 'Law amending the Criminal Procedure Code and other laws'. It was dealt with in an unusually short time and was adopted figuratively five minutes before the Riigikogu was dissolved. The Estonian Attorney General has recently pointed out that a number of changes, which were introduced as a result of apparently superficial discussions, are not guaranteed due to the lack of frame and other preparations. The law can't work from September 1st. My question is this: are you going to do something about the situation and if you are going to do something about it?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-09_U171	I would like to say that on Friday there will be a court administration council, which will also discuss this issue. The Attorney General has raised these problems both in public and in my opinion. I certainly want to assess this issue from the point of view of both the Attorney General and the court administration council. This law really should enter into force on 1 September this year. However, there are two central issues that the Attorney General has highlighted. Firstly, the so-called judicial clearance level will be significantly increased both in the case of the extension of the arrest period and in the case of searches. It is clear that one thing is the allocation of additional resources to resource economics, as the law forces national prosecutions and other judicial authorities to deal as a priority with further proof in order to further protect the fundamental rights of accused or suspected persons. I would like to say that in the case of the choices that will be made in this case, the legislator needs to know clearly whether it is possible to foresee additional resources next year, as this will be considered a priority. Or the system itself must decide that it is a priority, and that means that in other areas of justice, performance must be tightened or things must be timed. There should be more than 20 people in both the judiciary and the prosecutor's office who need this extra workforce alone. Another serious issue brought to the attention of the Attorney General is that in certain cases the detection of truth by means of surveillance procedures can, for example, be subject to a search risk if there is an absolute court authorisation requirement. Often, the court's permission may be in practice. The judges are independent and, of course, are doing their best, but they must rely on their "job choices" and working time opportunities. We certainly cannot allow and tolerate the fact that, because of some really well-designed additional procedural requirements, there may be inherent danger of finding out the truth, which is the whole point of this system. Of course, the system also has other objectives, such as protecting the rights of persons, but the central objective must be to find out the truth. From this perspective, all choices must be made. But on this long story, I will conclude by saying one thing: I will certainly listen seriously to the views of practitioners and, if necessary, make my proposals.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-09_U172	Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-09_U173	Honourable President! Honorable Minister! What do you think is currently the capacity of the Office for Corruption Crimes of the Defence Police and the Central Criminal Police to investigate corruption crimes? I have not had personal contacts with these officials, but I have heard from some colleagues that, at least in private conversations, these officials have complained about the lack of resources and expressed hope that they will receive more support in the future.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-09_U174	Corruption is defined on the basis of several aspects. If there are executives involved in corruption, it is more dangerous corruption for the public. There is also the possibility of security-related corruption and it is one of their five priorities for the prosecutor's office, the Defence Police Department and the Police and Border Guard Board. The procedural resources must be shared internally by these organisations so that they can also be used to investigate major corruption crimes. At the same time, the entire chain must be kept in order. Traffic still has to work, there's always driving on the Narva Highway, it's just an ambulance that needs to get through faster. I believe that resource pressure is everywhere, in all public authorities. It's natural. All these organisations simply have to keep priorities in mind when making choices about resources. Last week, the Minister of the Interior and I discussed the priorities for this year. There were also police leaders behind the table, and I did not get the impression that they were not going to take priorities seriously in practice.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-09_U175	Monika Haukanõmm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-09_U176	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. Looking at the statistics for the last ten years on the number of prisoners, i.e. the number of prisoners, it is good to see that this figure is now 35% lower. Remarkable! At the same time, it is saddened that Estonia still ranks fifth in Europe after Russia, Belarus, Latvia and Lithuania, which is not an honorable place. What do you think might be the reason we have so many inmates? Is this our too harsh penal policy or the deviant behaviour of our people?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-09_U177	What do you say to that? Firstly, the overall direction has been taken, the country has largely chosen such a penal policy that we have particularly dangerous persons in prison who have committed very serious crimes. This direction is also taken into account by practitioners within the limits of their procedural freedom, assessing the circumstances of a particular case. To go to prison, a crime must be very serious. There are a large number of people who do not go to prison, but are punished or otherwise affected. For example, probation is an example. As I said before, the group of people who are orbiting prisons is more or less the same. Sadly, their recursive plot, or the plot of hardened crime, has developed. As I said, they account for about 70%. It is very likely that they are always orbiting within the system, and in this case there can be no exponential decline in the number of detainees. A jumpy decline can occur when a large number of such people leave Estonia. They do not do so voluntarily for some reason, but we can tell them if they are foreign citizens, that they are not welcome in Estonia. Understandably, there are limits here too, as can be seen from the case law of the European Court of Human Rights. It is possible to influence people, but, as I said, it is difficult to tilt those who have already hardened criminals and have been repeatedly imprisoned for various crimes. The probability that they will turn to recovery is smaller in size than in the case of young people who may have committed a less dangerous crime for the first time. I would argue that our penal practice and our penal policy are, in large measure, on average strict than compared to any other Europe. I dare say that, when assessing, for example, the treatment of our drug crimes, it has also been argued as a certain political argument that we have a highly rigid policy. No, it's not! When we compare the policies of European countries, we see that there are countries that are more liberal than us, and there are countries that are drastically stiffer. But, on a large scale, our penal policy is on average strict and we have further optimised it. I referred to 1 January last year, since which some acts are no longer so seriously criminalised. Our direction must be a reduction in the number of prisoners, but it must not become a closed target, which we are paying a fee for the security of society and national security in pursuit of. A person gets captured for a serious crime, a prison is a serious leverage. In addition to incarceration, we would like to practice this more in the case of short periods of imprisonment, an opening prison, which is a kind of combination in which a person's connection with society is not completely interrupted.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-09_U178	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-09_U179	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Good Minister of Justice! Explain to us what has changed significantly last year! For example, insulting a public authority, taunting the memory of a dead person, cruel treatment of an animal and taking bribes have sharply decreased, but sexual intercourse with the offspring, making child pornography, serious violations of public order, taking bribes and unfair use of the identity of another person has increased sharply at the same time.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-09_U180	I am not going to evaluate these specific crime formations one by one, but I will explain that this may be a kind of statistical distortion, which is the result of the revision of the Penal Code. I am not saying that these are specific cases, but certain acts are now found guilty under other paragraphs and therefore, clearly, there are distortions in the 'transition phase' of statistics. The second thing, there is nothing to say, is that almost a hundred paragraphs on crime formations last year were not practiced at all, so-called 'no criminal offences' were committed. In this case, some major case may have a large impact on statistics. Take, for example, a case involving a paedophile who took advantage of a large number of children in order to abuse them sexually. All these cases were taken into account in the statistics. The guilty were one, but the statistics recorded dozens of criminal cases and could give the impression that this type of crime has grown exponentially in society. In reality, one person was caught, just a large number of things involved him.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-09_U181	Arno Bridge, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-09_U182	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Minister, thank you very much. In your report, you claimed that a relatively small proportion of the inmates had been put to work. What are the main reasons why this situation has not been changed in order to put it to work as much as possible? And are there plans to change this situation?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-09_U183	This problem of job implementation also relates paradoxically to the shortening of our sentence periods. What do I mean? There is a separate institution, a prison industry company, which, as a state company, organises prison work and has done well in general. Understandably, the prisoners are certain auxiliary workers. They do cleaning and other relief work that can be done in prison. The problem is that their work should not be, figuratively speaking, just digging a hole, digging a new hole and putting the soil in the previous hole. There's gotta be an idea at work, but the prison is still a closed facility. In addition, many people require some qualifications to work. It is good to have an order for some completely unqualified work, but there are few opportunities. In prisons, metal work is also done, but the problem is that you are teaching a prisoner and that is in itself a very positive person gets a specialty and can earn bread with his own hands, but soon he gets out of prison. I mean, the deadlines are getting shorter. Persons who have acquired a specialty in three months or six months may be freed in a year's time and therefore new people need to be trained. At the same time, maybe this person will return, we hope not to return, but perhaps in five years' time he will return to prison, then he will be able to be used again in metalworking. In short, we're looking for those opportunities. Tallinn's new prison also provides for its own workshop, where people can first earn a reward to compensate their victims and country, and second, acquire a work habits and some occupation to earn bread with their own hands. This would preserve or create a work pattern necessary for socialisation. Language learning is also an important factor. Prisoners who do not speak Estonian should be strongly motivated to learn Estonian. Just recently, I went to Tallinn in the current prison to get to know the language class and there is nothing to say; grown men sat there and studied the Estonian textbook with great effort. This is certainly important in order to facilitate their socialisation.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-09_U184	Andres Anvelt, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-09_U185	Thank you, President of the Riigikogu. Good minister! You spoke very nicely about an important matter, namely how foreign citizens should react to the crimes in Estonia. This is really right: if a person does not behave in Estonia as our laws require, one way is to get him out of the country proactively. The second problem concerns dangerous physical abuse that we do not yet know. Examples include forced circumcision and criminalisation. However, in our country, if you get beat up in public because they want to take your wallet away, it's a robbery, but if you get beat up for being a different race or another religion, it's a violation of public order. We're talking about hate crimes and hate speech crimes. Does the Ministry of Justice plan to criminalise such an act, as the government plans to do?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-09_U186	Penalty treats victims in a neutral way against the background of a person. There are only differences in the case of minors and, in a certain context, aggravating circumstances may be involved. But if a man of any race is kidnapped, the state must react in a uniform manner, as well as when there is a serious violation of public order, i.e. such an arrogant attack as recently in Tartu. As far as aggravating circumstances are concerned, they must be considered seriously. For example, self-interest is an aggravating factor in committing a crime. We can imagine what that means. It's understandable. A low motive is also an aggravating circumstance. This concept has been framed differently in criminal practice, with a wide scope for interpretation. Certainly, a low motive is also involved when it comes to the expression of hostility due to certain characteristics, whether it is a person of a certain nationality, or a woman, for example, is attacked. It doesn't matter who's specifically victimized. If the judge is able to qualify the act as such, this is a serious point of consideration and the Ministry of Justice will also analyse this problem. If such a'social hatred' has been expressed, whether it is an act of personal or property crime, it could be, as I said, an aggravating circumstance. So if there is an act of feud, a real attack against the person, or an attack against his property, this hatred should certainly not be a mitigating factor. I imagine that in practice today, too, this is unthinkable. In view of the low motive in the wider picture, this should rather be an aggravating factor.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-09_U187	Raivo Põldaru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-09_U188	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Minister, thank you very much. The problem of life itself. It is certain that under 14 years of age is not yet mature enough to make decisions about sexual activity and the consequences thereof. Parents and boarding schools often approach the police because a child under 14 has had sexual intercourse or has been attracted to it. The problem is, it's forbidden to have sex conversations with a person under 14 years of age, but the laws allow young people to have sexual relations. Paragraph 179 of the Penal Code provides as it were. I understand that if a 17-year-old is with 14-year-olds with his consent, this may well happen.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-09_U189	Question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-09_U190	Is that what it's meant to be? It seems very strange. How does the legislator think that?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-09_U191	There's a lot of things and there's plenty of room to think about. The first thing is that when an adult person, over 18 years of age, enters into sex with a child under 14 years of age, it is an unambiguous crime in Estonia. Second, if an adult person with a certain influence over a young person is a school principal, an employer or a close person, this leads to psychological control of the minor, then intercourse with a person under the age of 18 is also considered a crime. It is not the case that a sports coach seduces young boys or girls and society does not respond adequately. The problem is, indeed, that our penal law, which sets the limit of 14 years, does not consider sexual intercourse to be a crime if both are minors. Your example was also designed so that what to think about when it comes to a child aged 10 to 14 and a young person under 18 who is also a minor. I think this problem needs to be analysed, and the Justice Department is working on it. The second issue is that, in some of the countries around us, this limit is also higher than 14 years. The fact is that young people seek such closeness among themselves is the natural way to grow up, to discover one's own identity. It's about the attitude of society. Let's imagine that there are, figuratively speaking, Romeo and Julia, two young people who have found each other. Even if this young man is 19 years old and she is much younger, we may still find that is not a question. But if we imagine a 40- or 50-year-old man looking for physical intimacy with boys or girls around 14 years of age, that's a question that society should seriously discuss. If there is a large age gap, where it can be assumed that an already mature person has succeeded in gaining control of young people, then the question arises as to whether a second age limit should be imposed. This is a subject that the Ministry will certainly analyse based on the study of sexual behaviour of minors.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-09_U192	Ain Lutsepp, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-09_U193	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear Minister, You confirmed in your report that the truth had to be found out. I mean, with my question, that we should address all possible motives for committing a crime, social, economic, educational, family, etc. But these are my questions. Are the penalties imposed for the crimes committed commensurate with the dangers of the crimes and the expectations prevailing in society for the imposition of penalties? And do we have enough protection for the victim's rights here and now?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-09_U194	First of all, on the rights of the victim, I have already said that I believe that they have not been sufficiently protected. This is also why we have to take a number of steps following the accession of the European Union to the directive on the protection of victims. Some countries did not have to change much in their legislation because they had these guarantees in their legal order. We gave additional rights to the victim in criminal proceedings, and now it is important that the social system, the support system, should be followed this year. And more importantly, police and prosecutors must also be sufficiently trained and able to understand their social therapy and psychological function. Indeed, studies show that a very large proportion, an unacceptable majority of victims sense, during the proceedings, the'second victimisation' victims sense that they are guilty of something and that they are being wronged by it. It's understandable that there's more trauma. Now the question of victims' rights. There are, of course, very different regulations in different countries. For example, in some countries, a victim's consent is also sought for a criminal offence against a person if a criminal is to be released before the deadline. The victim or his loved ones should say whether they think the perpetrator has been sufficiently punished and whether the perpetrator has acted in such a way as to make it clear that he regrets what he has done. It is precisely in the case of the most serious crimes against the person that the victim may have lost his life that such feedback is very important. However, it must be taken into account that this must, of course, be the right of the victim, not the obligation. Maybe he doesn't want to survive the new trauma. You asked if the sanctions were in line with the people's perceptions. I think there's a pretty big correlation. After all, society proceeds from this, and so it must be that the most important, most basic legal benefits must be protected more vigorously. Is it the life of a person, is it the freedom of the Estonian state, our common freedom, is it the immunity of the weakest, or children, of all of these protected by the strongest means. Of course, there is controversy as to whether one nor the other should be changed. But I think that compliance with the general perception of society's values must be ensured in penal policy. It gives us faith that we will make righteous decisions after we have established the truth. At the same time, it is certainly important not to lose sight of the principle of evidence. There is a risk of overreacting, such pressure in society is always there. Not only do humans rationally argue, but they also have strong emotions. Feelings are of course important for the people's self-expression, but penal policy must be based on reason, not only in deciding on a particular case, but also in order to achieve a lower overall number of crimes.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-09_U195	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-09_U196	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Minister, thank you for this presentation and also for the statistical material. The Information Office has today made public its analysis of the security environment, and this is the basis for my question. Is international cooperation in the area of our criminal policy sufficient, or is there a need for further legislative or other action? There was talk of crimes committed by foreigners and their specificity in some way today, but there are also such nasty new threats as cybercrime, international terrorism, etc.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-09_U197	This cooperation is certainly well needed and, in justice and home affairs, cooperation within the European Union is very close. If we were not a country of the European Union, we would certainly have very serious problems and challenges. However, within the framework of the European Union there are formal networks, such as Eurojust, all national prosecutors in the European Union exchange information with each other. Let's say that Poland is being asked to carry out a procedural act in Estonia in connection with a criminal offence relating to Poland. This cooperation is extremely effective. With regard to new types of crime, new potential threats, we must base ourselves on the principle of not being ashamed and exploring the experiences of our partners. It is clear that we will not escape the problems of radicalisation. This is a fact, and denying it would simply mean not taking into account probability theory and reality. We need to examine what has been done by the countries that have been wrestling with these problems one or two generations before, which we should do faster than they are, which more effectively and above all, what we should do in order to prevent these problems. Prevention is the most important thing for these so-called exotic, unconventional types of crime.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-09_U198	Thank you, Minister. No further questions. I'm opening negotiations. Toomas Vitsut, on behalf of the Centre Party Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-09_U199	Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu! Minister, thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Good criminal policy should keep crime under control and, in addition to the consequences, engage in crime prevention activities. Our reduction in crime compared to the early 1990's is unlikely to come as a surprise to anyone. However, the annual problems that have not disappeared and require greater attention from the judicial authorities must not be overlooked. Crime statistics, as such, can only be spoken of on the ground that has become known to us through law enforcement agencies. However, many crimes remain unknown to us, such as family violence and rape. The biggest problem in today's society is that many acts of violence never reach the authorities because people are ashamed or afraid to report such incidents to the state. The large number of latent crimes is undoubtedly an Estonian problem and more should be dealt with by those who fail to report crimes. Crimes are most committed in Tallinn and Ida-Virumaa. This is in many respects the result of social problems, and seeing what is happening in Ida-Virumaa, people's dissatisfaction with the lack of security in a particular region is likely to increase. Ten percent of the inhabitants of Ida-Viru County are afraid to move outside in the dark and have therefore completely abandoned going anywhere at night. In the last ten years, the number of killings has steadily decreased, while the number of reported violent crimes has increased. It is the number of cases of domestic violence that has increased every year in Estonia, compared with 2011, which was 55% more in 2015. The main perpetrators of domestic violence are men and the victims are mainly women, in at least a quarter of cases a child witnessed or witnessed or injured. The number of sexual crimes increased by 35% last year compared to 2014, with the highest rate of underage sex purchase and child pornography production and provision. The signs of violent behaviour should be addressed at an early age, especially in the school environment. Physical abuse grew the most from the offences of children in 2015. Most of the time it was hitting or beating another child. The number of traffic offences increased by 21% compared to last year. May I ask for more time?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-09_U200	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-09_U201	On the one hand, this increase was due to the introduction of a new set of crimes into the Penal Code when systematic driving without driving rights was criminalised, accounting for 18% of all traffic offences. At the same time, however, the majority of the total number of traffic offences consisted of drunk driving of a motor vehicle. In 2015, 84% of the crimes related to physical abuse were settled. In most cases, domestic violence was involved. We cannot view this percentage as a positive indicator, for reconciliation may have resulted in the victim's fear that judicial proceedings would take a long time and that he would have to testify repeatedly about what had happened. What I see behind this is rather too much procedural economics, is that the state is trying to save the costs of a trial. All too often, agreements are made in court proceedings, counting the crimes as a triumph. However, this may not be the case. Finally, I congratulate the Government of the Republic, as well as us here in the Riigikogu, who took over the Victims' Directive of the European Union, which hopefully will significantly improve the position of victims in Estonia in the future. So far, the victims have not been given much attention; now, the legislative amendment guarantees them timely social and other professional assistance. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-09_U202	Raivo Time on behalf of the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union. Three minutes extra time. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-09_U203	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, Criminal policy is a part of life and, like life itself, Estonia's criminal proceedings have also undergone reforms in which the protection of fundamental rights and freedoms of persons subject to proceedings has been given great attention. The civilian control capabilities of surveillance authorities have been improved. For the second year now, the Chancellor of Justice is monitoring this in addition to the special committee of Parliament. At the beginning of last year, substantial amendments to the Penal Code came into force, resulting in a reduction in the criminalisation of offences. Over the years, the total number of crimes has decreased by 14%, while 3% has decreased by the number of most mass offences, i.e. crimes against property. The reduction of even the most serious crimes against individuals, namely killings and murders, has been continuous and significant over the years. Since it is necessary, in many cases, to substantially restrict the fundamental rights and freedoms of persons in pre-trial criminal proceedings for serious crimes, it is entirely justified for the legislator's initiative to pay particular attention to the protection of these same rights and freedoms. This interference must take place strictly in accordance with the principle of proportionality and ultima ratio. At the same time, we must take into account the fact that, just as the whole world is changing very fast, there is a criminal world. There's a constant race between criminals and law enforcement. And this race goes on several fronts: technological, organisational, but also legislative. While law enforcement authorities have very clear frameworks for organising their activities, the opposite party does not have them and this advantage is actively used. It is therefore the duty of the legislator not only to ensure the protection of the fundamental rights and freedoms of persons subject to proceedings but also to pay equal attention to ensuring the analogous rights of other parties concerned. § 13 of the Estonian Constitution states that everyone has the right to the protection of the state and the law. In today's world, terrorism, other crime, and quite often the special services of non-democratic countries are closely interlinked. In these circumstances, we must consider everything particularly carefully if we put in place a legislative framework for law enforcement in the fight against crime. One example, and unfortunately rather a negative example, is the amendments to the Code of Criminal Procedure, which will enter into force on 1 September. Who happened to read an interview with the state's attorney general, Lavly Perling, from yesterday's Eesti Päevaleht is familiar with the problem. While the Code of Criminal Procedure currently allows searches to be carried out with the permission of the prosecutor and on the basis of a court order and, in exceptional and extremely urgent cases, on the basis of a procedural authority's own regulation, the new procedure provides, as a general rule, for a search of the order by a court and only exceptionally by the prosecutor's office. The question arises as to whether the current regime has been abused in any way and whether there has been maladministration by the procedural authorities. What do the statistics show? In 2014, 1252 search warrants were issued, of which 273 or 21% were issued by the investigating authorities themselves and 113 or 9% by the courts, while 866 or 69% were issued by the prosecutor's office. It seems logical that in all cases where the search could be planned, the relevant authorisation was requested from the prosecutor's office or the court. And those 21% of cases were likely to be reasonably urgent, such as the search of a drug dealer's vehicle stopped during the raid or the location of the perpetrator on hot trails. On the basis of the same statistics, the courts will need to issue an additional 1100 search orders from 1 September. To this end, courts must ensure that applications are processed 24 hours a day and they must be prepared to contribute an additional 3000 hours. The same problems need to be resolved in part by the prosecutor's office, as only the prosecutor can apply to the court. Also, a supportive and functional electronic information system has not yet been developed. If all of this remains so, we will inevitably be faced more often with examples such as those that happened in January this year, when the search warrant procedure took ten days in court, or another example, when it took one week for a house paying EUR 1.8 million to be arrested. Anyone who understands the nature of criminal proceedings understands the consequences of such cases. One legislative amendment, which will also enter into force on 1 September, which is essentially correct and aimed at guaranteeing fundamental rights, is related to the time limits for arrest in pre-trial proceedings. Under the current rules, the suspect or accused person may be held in custody for a maximum of six months, but according to the Act of entry into force, for a maximum of six months in the case of a first-level offence, for a maximum of four months in the case of a second-level offence and for a maximum of two months in the case of a minor. As I mentioned, this is a step in the right direction. But in this case, taking a step is one foot longer than the other. It is not considered and the resources do not insure the institutions concerned, which must ensure that they are in place. Since the general principle is that the prisoner has the right to be present when the circumstances of his detention are discussed, there is also an additional need for resources to organise police convoys, as there are generally no technical facilities for the video bridge in the courthouses. In addition, it is important that, together with the deadlines for holding custody, the deadlines for conducting expert assessments of the EKEI, or forensic institute, are also shortened, but currently, the experts involved in more serious crimes are taking fingerprints, firearms, DNA, three to four months. Priit Pikamäe, President of the Supreme Court, also drew attention to these important problems in his speech at the court assembly on 16 February. In summary, I would like to say that the legislative changes made in the best faith must certainly go through a very thorough impact analysis, and it is also essential to listen to the authorities of the executive authorities who have to implement the regulations in real life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-09_U204	On behalf of the Group of the Kristjan Kõljalg Reform Party. Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-09_U205	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Good Minister and ladies and gentlemen. First of all, thank the Minister for a meaningful presentation. The objective of criminal policy is to ensure the security of our society. One good indicator of how safe life in our country is is how much our people consider crime to be. There is no doubt that we have taken a significant step towards a safer country in recent decades. For example, in 2005 and 2006, 43% and 45% of the Estonian population considered crime to be the main concern facing the country, but by autumn last year their number had fallen to 5%. A few days ago, however, his father was beaten up in Tartu before the eyes of a small child, and this shows how easily the perceived sense of security can turn to disadvantage. There is no doubt that the police and the prosecutor's office will do everything in their power to bring these beatings to justice. Any such attack must inevitably end with the identification of the attacker and his punishment. At the same time, the parents of these young beatings, and they themselves, should look in the mirror and ask what went wrong that they had grown into people of such perverted values. I agree with the Minister that we must intervene with particular force in cases of domestic violence where the child is the victim or witness. Just to hit a dragonfly in a chain of violence beyond generations. Apparently, any policeman can give examples. I myself, as an assistant police officer, have been at the scene where one parent had stabbed the other, while there were children. You can imagine the effect that this has had and will continue to have on these children. We are faced with a number of problems that are not the easiest to find a solution for, and where solutions that seem at first glance to be correct may not be the case at all. I am pleased that we are increasingly using evidence-based programmes to prevent offences in our activities. At the same time, the local government, the local level, should be increasingly involved in the prevention of offences, as there is a much greater chance of interference with its own people, and the sooner it is possible to intervene in the development of the offender, the less society needs to deal with it in the future. Administrative reform and the implementation of criminal policy are certainly intertwined here, and stronger authorities are also able to channel more resources into this prevention work. A newly published study shows that one in three inmates in Estonia are addicted to drugs, while we have some small number of prisons operating in drug treatment. After closing the prison doors behind you, a drug addict is likely to be on his own again and will look for the next dose. Thus, criminal policy is closely linked to social policy and, in addition to the health of addicts, it is also in the interests of society's security that we have a proper system of treatment for addiction disorders. The consistent implementation of evidence-based programmes and stable funding are the path to building such a treatment system. In creating a modern and safe Nordic country, it is important that all Estonian people also focus on preventive activities. Preventing offences is always cheaper than dealing with the consequences. The creation of security begins with us and our willingness to cooperate, and all Estonian residents are welcome, in cooperation with the police and under the direction of the police, to ensure the security of our people, for example, as an assistant police officer. Dignified treatment of victims and witnesses in criminal proceedings will increase people's trust in the law enforcement system, help prevent secondary suffering and mitigate the harm caused by the crime. We have shaped the principle of developments in this criminal policy into a law in this Chamber of the Riigikogu when we transposed the so-called Victims Directive into our legal order. Now the ball is in the hands of the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of the Interior, the prosecutor's office and the police: the perpetrators must be given tools and skills that provide support to victims and enable them to understand the procedure better. This cannot be a one-year project, just as a one-year project cannot take the fundamental rights package, which will also be implemented this year. These are fundamental changes that need stable funding, and the ministers responsible for these areas will certainly be responsible for ensuring that these expenditures can be included as part of the basic budget for these administrative areas. The objective of criminal policy is to ensure the security of our society. However, security is created by specific people. On behalf of our group, I would like to thank all those who work every day to ensure our security, whether prosecutors, police officers, assistant police officers, prison guards, judges or people who intervene when they see an offence. Thank you for listening.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-09_U206	Andres Anvelt on behalf of the Social Democratic Party Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-09_U207	Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu! Good minister! First of all, I would like to thank Mr Reinsalu and the Ministry of Justice for a clear and understandable overview for me. I dare say that the review of criminal policy is not just some bureaucratic paper. It will certainly have a far-reaching effect, and it will also provide the country and society with long-term clear guidelines on how we ensure a normal life, how we defend our values. Consequently, it is very important that the implementation report clearly reflects what has been set out for a longer period of time in the trends and for which a societal consensus has been reached. I certainly share the view of the current Minister of Justice that we have moved towards a safer society, but there is still a long and long way to go. Yes, the number of killings has always been one of the best measures for criminologists to measure the level of violence in society. It's statistically the most specific, almost no latency. And the number of killings has indeed decreased more than ten times in Estonia over a few decades. However, incidents happen from time to time, as was the case with Tartu, which reveals that we still have a very long way to go to prevent violence. This is not just about policy-making, but about shaping the attitudes of society at all. If we neglect this, the same gentle success that we have achieved in reducing the number of killings could disappear again. One important change in doctrine is dealing with the victim and the victim. This will help to reduce the level of crime and thus reduce the overall crime. Leaving the victim on his own, without the support of the state, it is water for the mill of violence, and he will gain confidence in new acts of violence. From this point forward, I would like to highlight the very important issue that I have always considered to be important in my political activities, namely the prevention of domestic violence, which the Minister of Justice also spoke about. Of course, this has not been my subject just because it is included in a strategy to prevent violence somewhere, but simply because policies against domestic violence are one of the most important preventive measures to increase the safety of society as a whole when the chain of violence is cut off. The interruption of the family violence chain will reduce in the future the number of cases we saw recently in Tartu, as well as school bullying, school violence and also the next generation of family violence. It is the job of the Minister of Justice to keep an eye on the areas that are causing problems in society and to ensure that everything is also given wider attention. Therefore, prevention of domestic violence is not limited to drawing up a strategy. Both present and future ministers have a responsibility to ensure that this strategy is actually implemented and meets its objective. I believe that the strong collective of the Ministry of Justice can fully contribute to these goals and change the situation. I would certainly like to emphasise here the need for ratification of the Istanbul Convention, which is very important for preventing and combating violence against women and domestic violence. Preventing violence is not an issue that ministers and politicians can discuss with each other. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-09_U208	Please! Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-09_U209	There must be a breakthrough here and there must be no delay. I certainly do not think it right that an internationally recognised package of preventive measures is intended to link other areas, not directly related to it. I'm thinking about banning a burka right now. This is not the subject of the Istanbul Convention and this important issue could be discussed in society outside the ratification process of the Istanbul Convention. Only in this way will we ensure that developments in criminal policy are followed. I recall that the foundation of a successful society and, at the same time, both the prerequisite and the permanent goal are peaceful coexistence and the mutual elementary respect of members of society. A statesmanly attitude urges all of us to act in such a way that the peaceful life of the Estonian society does not leave life together. Unfortunately, the fermentation process has begun and we all have an obligation to intervene. At this point, I would like to come to a subject such as the fight against hate crimes and hate speech, which in no way means stifling criticism. There must be very clearly defined limits in our country and society, from which normal constructive criticism of politicians and politics or social circumstances becomes a threat to society. If the borders are not in place, then none of us can be sure that we ourselves will at some point not prove to be in an attackable minority. The provision of hate speech and responsibility for it must never become a weapon for the majority against the minority. In the rule of law, banning hate speech gives the minority a shield against criminal attacks. Why are we punishing a person on the street when he did it in the name of a wallet or a pack of cigarettes, tougher than an attacker whose motive was human skin colour, disability, religion, sexual orientation, all that creates his identity and gives him human dignity? Think about it! Four years ago, the process of amending the Penal Code, which had barely begun in the Ministry of Justice, and criminalising hate speech and hate work reached a substantive social agreement last year. The April 2015 government agreement also declared this an urgent task. Unfortunately, this process has slowed down. Now the Ministry of Justice and the Minister have the ball. I believe that all of us, including the Minister of Justice, have a duty to intervene proactively in hate speeches and acts. We in the Riigikogu expect the Minister of Justice to present us with a draft on this matter in the near future so that we can discuss it in the Riigikogu and make decisions. Finally, I wish the Minister of Justice strength and success in achieving the big goals. There is no room for criminal activity in Estonia. By acting with determination, we arrive at the fact that we have a new prison in Tallinn, which corresponds to today's circumstances, that we have corruption in both the private and public sectors, and that our children and women are protected, as well as the victims in their difficult circumstances, if they have to contribute to helping criminals take their punishment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-09_U210	Thank you. There's no more calls. Agenda item 'Criminal policy developments until 2018'. The 2015 Implementation Report has been discussed.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-09_U211	We will now begin the second reading of Bill 146 on the amendment of the Penal Code initiated by the Government of the Republic and the related amendment of other laws, which will increase the fine unit. Waitress Raivo Aeg from the Committee on Legal Affairs, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-09_U212	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, The Act 146 on the amendment of the Penal Code and the related amendment of other laws, increasing the amount of the fine, has reached a second reading. The draft law was initiated by the Government of the Republic on 23 November last year and the first reading took place on 20 January this year. The deadline for submitting amendments between the first and second readings was 27 January. By this time the members of the Riigikogu tabled four amendments by Külliki Kübarsepp, Andres Ammas and Jüri Adams. Amendment 1 proposed to amend § 1 (1) of the draft and to provide for a fine unit of EUR 5 instead of EUR 8. The proposers agreed that it would be possible to review the amount of the daily fine from time to time, but considered the double increase foreseen in the draft to be too rapid. The Commission rejected the proposal and justified it by the fact that the amendments to the Penal Code, which entered into force on 1 January 2015, raised the minimum daily penalty rate for criminal offences from EUR 3,2 to EUR 10 and the current draft proposal aligns the minimum daily rate with the daily penalty rate. Amendment 2 proposed deleting subsection 1 (2) of the draft text. In order to clarify so much that, according to this point, a person who is younger than 18 years of age must base his calculation of the fine on a maximum of half of the fine, i.e. halving the maximum amount and starting to impose a penalty, except where the punishment of such a person is already provided for in a particular law. The Commission also rejected this proposal. Amendment 3 proposed that § 2 of the draft be deleted at all in order not to restructure the functioning system. The content of the proposal was as follows: Paragraph 2 amends the Traffic Act. Paragraph 262 of the Traffic Act provides for warning penalties for infringements of traffic requirements in the written warning procedure. In accordance with paragraph 1 of this section, if the maximum speed is exceeded, a warning fine shall be imposed, the amount of which in euro is the number of kilometres exceeding the authorised speed multiplied by three. This is then § 262 of the current Traffic Act. However, according to the draft under consideration, the increase in the overall fine is also expected to be accompanied by an increase in the warning fine, i.e. multiplied by five instead of three. As a result of the above and given that speeding is still the most widespread traffic offence, the Commission rejected the amendment tabled by the members of the Riigikogu. Amendment 4 sought to move the entry into force of the amendment to 1 January 2017. The amendment was, in itself, appropriate in some respects, as the date of entry into force of the original draft proposal of 1 March 2016 is no longer real. At the same time, the Commission did not consider the reason given by the author of the proposal that the increase in the fine should not lead to the budget for the current year and that the earlier entry into force of the amendments would be too sudden for the addressees. On the basis of the above, this amendment was not supported by the Commission either. Continuing with the substance of this point, as I have already mentioned, the date of entry into force of the Act on 1 March 2016 would be unrealistic. Therefore, the Commission proposed to postpone the date of entry into force of the legislative amendment to 1 May 2016. This amendment, together with a new deadline, has also been agreed with the relevant officials of the Ministry of Justice, who consider that by then all obstacles can be removed. If the draft law passes the third reading, it is possible to implement this deadline. Finally, the Commission decided to submit the draft to the Riigikogu for a second reading by 9 March and proposed that the second reading be completed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-09_U213	Questions for the waitress. Please, I beg you, Hatter!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-09_U214	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! Did the Commission also raise the question that we have had a penalty unit rate since 2002, which is that in those years someone has failed to do the job? So why are they double-pushing for this now? Is there an answer to that?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-09_U215	Thank you, good questioner! This was not specifically discussed at the Commission meeting, which has failed to do the job, but it was indeed recognised that this fine has been unchanged for many years. I also pointed out that, from 1 January last year, the level of financial penalties for criminal offences in the Penal Code was increased from EUR 3.8 to EUR 10. Now we would take the next step to bring between ourselves the proportion and balance of financial penalties for both crimes and misdemeanours. It should also be noted that, according to the current procedures, the daily rate for misdemeanours is EUR 4 and EUR 3.8 for the crime. This was also the case in the past. Now it is EUR 10 for crimes and, in this sense, there is a correct correlation here too that the daily penalty for misdemeanours is EUR 2 less than the penalty for a crime. In this sense, a normal balance arises.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-09_U216	Monika Haukanõmm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-09_U217	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, Paragraph 47 of the draft law provides that the perpetrator of an offence under 18 years of age is to be fined at half the fine rate. Now, in view of and wanting to maintain a common system of fines and to ensure legal clarity in the criminal policy, this distinction remains incomprehensible. It is not likely that minors themselves will pay these fines, it is their parents. Is it intended to influence people under the age of 18 in any way, to direct them to more legitimate behaviour?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-09_U218	Thank you, good questioner! Indeed, as you have already answered in principle in your question, mostly people under the age of 18 do not have an income and these misdemeanours must inevitably be fined by parents who themselves have not participated in the misdemeanour. The only thing that can indirectly be blamed on them is that perhaps they have failed to do anything to raise a child. It is precisely because the person who committed the offence does not actually pay the penalty himself, but it must be borne by someone else, that is the result of the decision not to apply the full rate to the minor.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-09_U219	Thank you. No further questions. I'm opening negotiations. Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-09_U220	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, Indeed, there was a discussion of this draft in the Free Party Group, and the speaker, Andres Ammas and Jüri Adams, considered it appropriate to mention some important issues. It was already announced here that the fine unit rate in Estonia has not been changed since 2002. This shows that the country lacks a comprehensive vision of the fine policy and the issue is simply left standing. That is why we do not consider a double fine justified. According to our proposal, it would make sense, even every year, to raise this rate by a few euros, so that the rise is smooth, not too jumpy, which could lead to misunderstanding and murmuring. We believe that any change in a reasonable and clear unit of fines is justified. Secondly, the very subject of minors. Both the Minister and several officials have said that children, young people, do not pay this fine, that it is a matter for parents. Then the question arises as to how parents view their children's upbringing, who are responsible for it. I think it is primarily the home that is responsible, not the educational institution or any other institution. Making distinctions like saying parents, come on! The third amendment concerns traffic cameras. According to the current law, the number of kilometres exceeding the speed allowed for calculating the amount of the fine is multiplied by three. Our assessment is that the traffic cam system is working. Of course, there is an x number of traffic hooligans who are not shaken by one or the other amount, but they are not affected by this bill anyway. Rather, people who, let's be honest, may have a pedal a little harder in the north at one point, but they don't do it intentionally. We therefore believe that it is justified to maintain the existing system. The fourth theme we've marked. Fines should not be a means of implementing the current budget, but it would be reasonable for them to be taken into account at the beginning of each budget. It would be just as if there were an order in the institution that we needed to achieve this objective and that we were so short of resources. This practice is absolutely unreasonable. These were our four theme sets. There are certainly other questions here, but we were based on the view that everything that is reasonable can be done, but at a reasonable pace. Indeed, the substance of one amendment and the other did not make any sense. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-09_U221	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-09_U222	President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, Today, quite a number of arguments have been put forward as to why there is no reason to be very satisfied with raising fines by law. Let me point out something. Yes, the claim that fines have not been increased for a long time is true, but it is also true that the current fines are large and very many people are unable to pay them. When we look at statistics, more and more people have turned to the County Court every year to ask for a financial penalty to be replaced by a community service or another form of punishment simply because they cannot pay these fines. In 2012, 1464 applications were made, 3410 in 2013, 5910 in 2014 and almost 7000 in the previous year. It shows that people are in trouble, they can't afford to pay those big fines. And if we now exponentially raise the fine rates to the level that the government has planned, then the number of people who do not pay them will certainly increase further. I do have a suggestion that such fines should not come out, or, if so, only in such a way that they are gradually increased. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-09_U223	No one wants to talk more about the legitimate expectations of road traffic offenders. I'm closing the negotiations. Let us review the table of amendments containing four amendments. The first is presented by Külliki Hatter, Andres Ammas and Jüri Adams. The Commission has not taken account of the proposal. Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-09_U224	Thank you. Since we are of the opinion that fines should not jump, but move moderately, the Free Party Group is asking for this proposal to be voted on.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-09_U225	Okay, let's do it. Please, Raivo Time!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-09_U226	Five minutes of recess, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-09_U227	Break five minutes. Let's proceed 17.10.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-09_U228	Mr Riigikogu, the President apologizes. This was my mistake and was caused by the fact that I did not know that Raivo Aegis was not elected as chairman of the group or vice-chairman today. I promise, if such doubts arise in the future, I'll look it up on paper. So, with your permission, let's read this five-minute break for the chairman's break. Thank you. Honourable Riigikogu, I will put to the vote Amendment 146 No 1, tabled by Külliki Kübarsepp, Andres Ammas and Jüri Adams, which has not been taken into consideration by the Commission. Please take a stand and vote. There are 24 members of the Riigikogu in favour of the proposal, 40 against, no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 2 has been tabled by Külliki Kübarsepp, Andres Ammas and Jüri Adams. The Commission has not taken account of the amendment. Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-09_U229	Thank you. I am asking for this motion to be voted on.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-09_U230	Please! Let's get to the vote. Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on Amendment 2, tabled by Külliki Kübarsepp, Andres Ammas and Jüri Adams, which has not been taken into account by the Commission. Please take a stand and vote. There are 23 members of the Riigikogu in favour of the proposal, 40 against, no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 3 This has also been presented by Külliki Kübarsepp, Andres Ammas and Jüri Adams, and this has also not been taken into account by the Commission. Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-09_U231	That, too, is what the Free Party Group is asking for to vote on!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-09_U232	That's what we do. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on Amendment 3, tabled by Külliki Kübarsepp, Andres Ammas and Jüri Adams, which has not been taken into account by the Commission. Please take a stand and vote. There are 13 members of the Riigikogu in favour of Amendment 3, 42 against and no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 4 has been tabled by Külliki Kübarsepp, Andres Ammas and Jüri Adams. The Commission has disregarded the proposal. Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-09_U233	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. So that this increase does not concern the current year's budget, we ask for a vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-09_U234	That's what we do. Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on Amendment 4, tabled by Külliki Kübarsepp, Andres Ammas and Jüri Adams. The Commission has not taken account of the proposal. Please take a stand and vote. There are 24 members of the Riigikogu in favour of the fourth amendment, with 38 abstentions. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 5 has been tabled by the Committee on Legal Affairs. The Commission's proposal is to conclude the second reading of draft 146. The second reading of Bill 146 is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-09_U235	We will begin the second reading of the draft law amending the Law on Medicines and Health Insurance initiated by the Government of the Republic. Social Affairs Committee waitress Liina Kersna, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-09_U236	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, To remind you that the purpose of bill 154 is to establish a legal basis for the conversion of the Register of Medicinal Products and the Code Centre into a single register. The Register of Medicinal Products has become technically and functionally obsolete and almost entirely repeats the functions of the Code Centre for Medicinal Products. Connecting the two registers will create a register that is technically newer and also linked to the digital prescription system. The Ministry estimates that annual maintenance costs of EUR 12000 will be saved when these two registers are merged. The one-off savings are EUR 80000, which would otherwise have been used to update the obsolete Register of Medicinal Products. The Committee on Social Affairs discussed the draft for the preparation of the second reading twice. On 22 February, Mr Dagmar Rüütel, Adviser to the Commission's Department for the Development of Digital Capacity at the Ministry of Social Affairs, and Head of the Department for Medicinal Products, had been invited. The representatives of the Ministry of Social Affairs answered questions from the members of the Commission. Firstly, the question was whether it would be reasonable for two controllers to remain on one register, both the Agency and the Ministry of Social Affairs. We have been assured that the tasks are very clearly regulated and there is no duplication. Secondly, the members of the Commission raised the question of whether the implementing acts of the law could be signed in due time. Ministry officials confirmed that since this bill has been prepared for a very long and thorough period, implementing legislation is also ready. We agreed that before sending the draft law to third reading, implementing acts would be sent to the coordination circle. The Commission unanimously decided to send the draft to second reading today and also proposes that the second reading be terminated. We discussed this bill on Monday this week, and the Legal Adviser of the Ministry of Social Affairs, Kersti Berendsen-Korzets, was also invited to the meeting. The Commission decided to propose one amendment harmonising the terminology used in the draft. The word'medicines' is added to two places where only products are currently spoken. So in the future there will be a'medicines and products', a very technical change. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-09_U237	Any questions for the waitress? Thank you, Liina Kersna! I'm opening negotiations. There is no wish for negotiation. The Committee on Social Affairs has tabled one amendment to draft 154, which has been fully taken into account. The second reading of Bill 154 is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-09_U238	We will begin the second reading of the Act on the Grant of International Protection to Aliens initiated by the Government of the Republic and, in connection with this, the Bill on the Amendment of Other Laws 81. Mart Nutt, waitress of the Constitutional Commission, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-09_U239	Mr. Chairman! Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! As regards the draft Act 81 amending the Law on the Grant of International Protection to a Foreigner, it can be said that the beauty of a long time has been made. Tomorrow it will be six months from the beginning of the procedure. The draft has been launched on 14 September last year, in 2015 and the first reading took place on 14 October. The original purpose of this draft was to harmonise Estonian law with the European Union Directive. This could have been done in a relatively short period of time, but unfortunately what has happened in Europe is what we all know. The migration crisis brought about the need to address the issue in greater depth and therefore the Committee on Constitutional Affairs had to complete the draft. By the time of the meeting of the Constitutional Commission on 10 November, 42 amendments to the draft had come from the three political groups of the Riigikogu: the EKRE, the IRL and the Centre Party. The Commission discussed the draft six times: last year on 10 November, 19 November, 24 November and 8 December and 23 February and 7 March. As invited, I will read out everyone who had been invited to the sittings, rather than start mentioning them separately at the sittings by the Minister of Interior Hanno Pevkur, Chancellor of Justice Ülle Madise, then Head of the Department of Citizenship and Migration Policy Janek Mägi, Head of International Defence Policy of the Ministry of Social Affairs Triin Raag, Representative of the EKRE Group Henn Põlluaas (EKRE does not have a member in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, therefore a representative of their group was invited to participate separately), Adviser of the EKRE Group Anti Poolamets, Head of the Legal Order of the Office of the Chancellor of Justice Heili Sepp, Representative of the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees, Andrei Arjupin, Representative of the Refugee Organisations Round Table Eero Janson, Adviser to the Department of Citizenship and Migration Policy Ly Pärn, and current Head of the same department Ruth Annus and Adviser of the Public Law Service of the Ministry of Justice Mirjam Ranula. Representatives of the Chancellor of Justice, ministries, the United Nations Refugee Agency and refugee organisations, as well as the views and proposals of the political groups, were heard at the meetings of the Commission. The Supreme Court also presented its proposals. As the debate took place at six meetings of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, I will try to give a systematic overview of the debate and the amendments and to sum up these discussions, not to adhere very rigidly to the specific protocol. The proposals presented were discussed at the meeting on 10 November, but no decisions were taken, as a very large number of proposals overlapd in substance. It was therefore appropriate to look at them together and to try to harmonise them. In particular, it focused on the proposals made by the EERE, as there were so many of them that it was not possible to review all at one meeting at the same time. At its meeting on 19 November, the Chancellor of Justice presented his proposals. These concerned, in particular, the right of appeal of the applicant for international protection. At its meeting on 24 November, representatives of the United Nations Refugee Agency and refugee organisations presented their views. The debate focused on the compliance of the draft with international asylum law and EU directives. At its meeting on 8 December, we will continue to be in the 2015 Annual Committee on Constitutional Affairs, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs made decisions on the amendments proposed by the EKRE and the Centre Party Group. At its meeting on 23 February this year, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs continued to examine the amendments. The proposals of the IRL, as well as those of the initiators, were examined, mostly from the Ministry of the Interior, but also from the Ministry of Social Affairs and the Ministry of Justice. Also, procedural decisions were taken on 23 February 2016. I may be running a little ahead of time and talking about the procedural decisions before the amendments, but I will also repeat them at the end of the report. The decisions were as follows: to conduct the second reading on 9 March 2016, to conclude the second reading, to appoint Mart Nutt as rapporteur and, if the second reading is completed, to carry out the third reading on 16 March 2016. All these decisions were taken by consensus, i.e. there were no votes against in their decision-making and no abstentions. On 7 March, the last of the proposals that had come from the Supreme Court were examined. The proposals of the Supreme Court were on international protection and concerned deadlines and priority order. Now, on the amendments. Since there are 77 in total, I certainly cannot introduce them one by one, and there is no reason for this, because many others are also covered by some of these proposals. However, I can assure you that, as far as possible, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs tried to take into account all the amendments which reflected the wishes of their authors. The text has changed a great deal, and therefore several proposals, which can be read in the table that have not been taken into account, have been taken into account in substance. It is simply the part of the text on which the proposals were made that has changed so much in the course of the procedure, or has gone away, that the proposal could no longer be taken into account. In order to find a common section, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, in cooperation with the initiators, has formulated several amendments on behalf of the committee, inspired by the proposals of the political groups of the Riigikogu. In the interests of harmonisation of the text, this has been inevitable, as is often the case with large-scale drafts and many proposals. In doing so, a number of proposals from the political groups have been taken into account, either in substance or in part. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs has also taken into account the proposals of several other organisations, the Ministry of Social Affairs, the Ministry of Justice, the Chancellor of Justice, the United Nations Refugee Agency and refugee organisations when drafting amendments. There are 77 amendments in the table of amendments, as I said. I will try to highlight the basic things that have been done in the draft through amendments, without going into very detail when describing the proposals. First, the Riigikogu is involved in the decision to grant international protection. This is the highest level that can be involved in the resettlement and placement of asylum seekers in Estonia. The mechanism is designed in such a way that the Government of the Republic must coordinate this Riigikogu with the European Union Affairs Commission before taking a decision. If there is no coordination, the government has no right to relocate or relocate to Estonia. This mechanism is strong because it ensures that decisions are public. The opposition parties are also involved in the decision-making process and the public will have an overview of who will come to Estonia, how many there are and where they will come from. Parliament-level decision-making, as far as I have examined it, is not planned in other countries of the European Union, i.e. Parliament is not involved. In most countries, these decisions are made at the level of government, some government agencies, or even just a few individual officials. Secondly, the Police and Border Guard Board establishes by law a list of safe countries of origin and persons from these countries are not granted asylum in Estonia, as security is sufficiently guaranteed in the country of origin. Thirdly, it is planned to speed up judicial proceedings in a situation where the person has not been granted asylum and is to be deported. The current court proceedings tend to linger and, at times, for so long that the person who has been decided to be expelled cannot be expelled. The Supreme Court submitted its proposal to this effect and this is reflected in Amendment 69, according to which the principle is that the matter of international protection is examined by the court as a matter of priority. International protection includes both a decision refusing international protection and an injunction to leave Estonia with it. They cannot be regarded as a separate decision, but as a single decision. As a result, both will also be considered as a priority. Procedures relating to relocation and introduction into Estonia are generally carried out outside Estonia. This means that permission to move to Estonia will only be granted after background checks and security checks have been carried out and the procedure holders have come to the conclusion that the person is indeed either a refugee or a war refugee and needs protection. The law clearly states that an alien established in Estonia must observe constitutional order, respect a state based on freedom, justice and law, and respect the values, language and culture of Estonian society. If the person does not do so, they shall also serve as a basis for revocation or refusal to renew the residence permit. It is clear that in all such cases the revocation of the residence permit will not be possible, but the basis for refusal to renew is that. Beneficiaries of protection must not have an advantage over other residents in terms of social benefits. The draft therefore states that their social benefits will be brought to the same level as the other Estonian residents. In addition, the state finances only language training and translation services, which are indisputably in the interests of the Estonian state itself. From the state budget, the beneficiary of international protection is granted housing allowance only for the costs of a one-off contract, rather than for continuous support. The costs of language training and translation services shall be covered for up to two years, no longer. A person enjoying international protection must participate in an adaptation programme. If he does not do so, this is the basis for not extending the residence permit. A person who has received international protection must study Estonian during his/her stay in Estonia, and during one year he/she must have acquired A1 level, A2 level for two years and B1 level for five years. Anyone who does not acquire Estonian must return the costs of language learning to the state. The beneficiary of subsidiary protection is granted a residence permit for a period of one year, the refugee for a period of three years. Here was the EKRE's proposal that no one should be granted a residence permit for more than one year, but unfortunately, according to the 1951 Convention on the Status of Refugees, a three-year residence permit for a refugee is guaranteed. That is why we cannot set a second deadline. In the Commission's view, this will make it possible to verify effectively whether the person has fulfilled the obligations imposed on him or her by law and how his or her adaptation has taken place in Estonia. It follows from the principle that international protection is temporary and is due to an unsafe situation in the applicant's country of origin. When the situation in the country calms down, the protected person returns to his own country. I will repeat the procedural decisions: the second reading will take place on 9 March 2016 and, if the second reading is completed, the third reading could take place on 16 March. a. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs made all decisions by consensus. Predictably enough that the adoption of this Act requires a majority of the composition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-09_U240	Questions for the waitress. Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-09_U241	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable waitress! I would like to congratulate this long-term procedure. You have well identified the main lines of the amendments. In the explanatory memorandum, perhaps the most illustrative table on pages 11 to 12 shows very clearly where the claim that the social guarantees of refugees are greater than those of our own people is made clear here in wood and red. During this process, did the executive power, who undoubtedly participated in this work with the Commission, realise that to give better signals to society, this work should have been done before this draft was put into Riigikogu proceedings? This topic really caused a lot of nervousness in society.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-09_U242	Thank you. The executive understood that very well. Where did these excessive bonuses come from? They did not arise during the procedure of this bill, but they were in the current law, which was adopted, if I remember correctly, in 2006, when this problem did not exist. Therefore, the original draft did not contain any amendments to these provisions, but in the Commission we quickly reached agreement with the executive authority and resolved this injustice.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-09_U243	Ken-Marti Vaher, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-09_U244	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear waitress, My question concerns one provision that has been included in the Aliens Act. This creates an additional distinction when granting a temporary residence permit if the person has been in Estonia long enough, etc. With the permission of the Director-General of the Police, it is possible to grant a temporary residence permit on a specific basis to a person by way of a large exception. How do you assess the practical application of this provision in practice, especially given that the legislator's will was clearly in both the working group and the Commission that it could be an exceptional provision. Could this even create an additional burden for the police director-general? On what grounds should he start making such decisions, and what could be the longer-term consequences if this provision was written into Estonian law?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-09_U245	Thank you. Any additional work is a burden, no doubt about it. Yeah, in the bill, it's an exception to the so-called exceptions. In the past, this provision did not really exist in Estonian law, i.e. there were no "humane considerations" on the basis of a residence permit. I do not think that nothing would happen in itself if this provision of humane considerations were not included in the law. However, the Ministry of the Interior considered that such an exception is necessary for persons who, for various reasons, cannot be expelled from Estonia and who do not actually have any other grounds for obtaining a residence permit. In some countries such a provision has been abused and, unfortunately, I think that if this provision is being abused, then it is evil. Why have we introduced this so-called Director-General's provision and the right of appeal only up to the Minister? Why not give this decision to the Minister? At least in the Commission and also in the working group where we discussed it, the Director-General of the Police Department seemed to be the most effective filter. Why not the minister? The Minister is a political person and it is easier politically to influence the Minister than an official. This means that if, for example, there is some kind of political pressure in society to grant a residence permit to a group of persons, it is much more difficult for the Minister to defend himself than for an official who is simply a legal person. If there is an exception, there is an exception. At the same time, this level is high enough, i.e. the Director-General of the PBA is the level official who needs to explain to the public why he is making one decision or another. I think that in Estonian society it is a sufficiently functioning filter and I see no reason to be very concerned about it. I think nothing bad will actually happen because of this provision.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-09_U246	Enn Frontland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-09_U247	Thank you very much. I will try to apply the provisions of the bill to the potential people for whom they are created. Did you also discuss in the Commission the possibility that when we have people coming from an exotic country, they also have very different levels of education? Often written from right to left and some people can't write at all. Is achieving this A2 level in two years, which, as far as I know, corresponds to the language level of some grade 9 students, suitable for such people? Do you consider this realistic, and what is the Commission's opinion?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-09_U248	Thank you. Of course it was discussed. But when we look at it, achieving A2 level is five years away. It's a long enough time for every person who doesn't, let's say, medical disability. And that, for example, from the Arabic or Somali language environment, it would be harder for a person to learn Estonian than a person who came from the Russian or German environment, I don't think. I think Estonian is nothing mysterious. The Estonian language is actually a perfectly normal, ordinary European language. The Commission generally maintained that the acquisition of a language at this level is entirely feasible for everyone.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-09_U249	Ken-Marti Vaher, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-09_U250	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! As an amendment to the law, the obligations of the recipient of international protection have also been well written into the law, in particular the obligation to comply with our Constitution, respect our values, Estonian culture and language. Could you explain to the House in a few words the importance of these values? Perhaps you are also talking about the meaning of the value declaration, which should then be signed by any relocated, resettled beneficiary of international protection.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-09_U251	Thank you. Values are extremely important. They are extremely important precisely in order for people first to be aware that they are located in another cultural environment. They must take into account the standards of the cultural space in which they have settled and must also understand that if they do not like these values, they simply do not fit into our society. That is why this declaration, to which you referred, entails legal obligations. By doing so, a person declares that if he does not respect these values, he or she can count on not simply extending his or her residence permit. So signing the declaration is voluntary, but also moving to Estonia is voluntary.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-09_U252	Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-09_U253	Good manager! Good waitress! Would you be a little more specific about how long the beneficiary of international protection will be granted a residence permit? You claimed that in all countries you have to give three years...
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-09_U254	No, I didn't.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-09_U255	Maybe I misunderstood. That's why I'm asking you how we have this situation. Many countries in the European Union have decided that one year will be granted and that family members should not be taken with them. How do we read exactly about the law now, how long a residence permit is granted in Estonia and can all our children be taken with us?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-09_U256	Thank you. Estonia is exactly the same as those countries which grant a one-year residence permit and do not allow relatives to be brought with them. But we know the difference between the categories of persons who arrived in Estonia. When we talk about war refugees who are either beneficiaries of temporary or subsidiary protection, they are granted a residence permit for one year and cannot bring family members with them. Let's say it's a category of Syrian war refugees. The second category, which receives asylum or who is entitled to asylum in accordance with the 1951 Geneva Convention, is refugees, they are not war refugees. Refugees are persons who have left their home country for fear of repression and have fled from the terrorist regime there. In this category, Estonians were in Sweden in 1944; they could be war refugees and refugees at the same time, but they were definitely refugees. This means that the return of these people to Estonia would probably have resulted in inevitable repression against them. Refugees are entitled to a three-year residence permit in accordance with the Convention, as well as to call for family members. These are two separate categories.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-09_U257	Thank you, Mart Nutt! No further questions. I'm opening negotiations. Please, March Sults!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-09_U258	Honorable Chairman! Honourable colleagues! That's what I'm talking about. It was about two years of language learning and all kinds of numbers, C's and A's, first, other and third, coming to us and learning the language in two years. In my previous life, we opened the direction of immersion in the Tallinn Art High School in Russian at a school in Estonian. The assumption was that the child who was taken to the first grade would certainly be from a full Russian family, where Mom and Dad speak Russian and the home language is Russian. That was a prerequisite. It's been six years. The story that an Arab learns the Estonian language in two years is an illusion and a dim one. If a person does not have the will, motivation, or passion to learn the language of the country he came to live in, he will not be able to do so if he does not have the vital need to learn it. In the fifth grade of the immersion of my school, children who quickly acquire all kinds of new things have more or less received the level of the Estonian school. They can speak and write in Estonian and understand the technical or functional description. But it will take at least three to five years. I'll put three points between here. When we started the immersion, our good neighbors Finns boasted that they taught the Turks Finnish in two years. We made a landing in Finland to see how it was possible for the Turks to put their Finnish as well as their own in two years. When we arrived there and started studying their methodology, the Finnish educators said very calmly that it was a small bluff to interest them that it was not conceivable for less than four or five years. We have two nations in the middle of the class, no, not a nation, but a language group, Estonian and Russian. The Finns had a long and long list of the nationalities in the class. In the class there were seven and eight ethnicities, seven and eight language groups. There were girls with dreadlocks who didn't speak a word of Finnish, even though they went to school there for the third year and so on. In Finland, the school system is a little more flexible, but at the same time very, very compulsory, because certain things cannot be obtained without language. We've got as much as we can. Honourable authors of this bill or future law, take very much into account the experience of practitioners who are working on this matter from morning to evening! Two years without fear of death or with no physical or mental need is a little utopian in language learning for a category. When there's a very urgent need, a person learns. If these factors are not taken into account, if the people who come to us here, whether refugees or war refugees, no matter what we call them, are not placed in such a strong frame that they simply cannot be different, then we can talk about learning the language in two years. If we don't, I'm sure this will fail. It is particularly funny to say just now that money spent on language learning will then be asked back. I wonder what kind of trick these people who have come here are gonna pull together for over a thousand euros. Are they kicking off a truckloader or where they're taking the money to pay back to the state? Let's say that this bill or the future law is well connected to the weak tragic threads. Please consider again, discuss, ask the people who are dealing with this matter from morning to evening! Ask about schools, look around schools, look around kindergartens and then you'll get the right answer, the right result and the right generalisation. If you don't, it's a law for the adoption of the law and just a political farce. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-09_U259	Ken-Marti Vaher, please! Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-09_U260	Dear Riigikogu! This draft is, in my opinion, a very good example of how the problems facing society can be solved with a slight time shift and perhaps unexpectedly. The reality is that when the government handed over the bill, it was a completely different face than the one on our tables today at second reading. I hope that the second reading will be completed today. I am pleased that quite a number of practical steps have now been taken to regulate immigration and to make it more compliant with today's requirements. The Fatherland and Res Publica Union tabled a large number of amendments and I am pleased that a very large number of them were found after long and thorough discussions. In short, I can say that these changes strengthen Estonia's control over immigration and set clear requirements for foreigners, including those who may be relocated or relocated to the Republic of Estonia. It is also a follow-up to a conservative migration policy. I think it is important that the Estonian state itself decides on immigration and on who and how much to receive. And I think that persons who do not respect our constitution and our values should not be welcome to the Republic of Estonia. At the same time, those who value values, who value the Declaration of Value and our Constitution have an obligation to adapt and acquire Estonian language as well. With these amendments and this bill, we will also provide our public authorities with better tools to deal with possible cases. I would like to sum up, as seven main categories, the changes that you see in this large explanatory memorandum and in the table of amendments. First, clear requirements are laid down for foreigners arriving in Estonia. First of all, it is written that an alien who arrives in Estonia must comply with our constitution and appreciate and respect our values. Important concepts such as Estonian language and culture, which must be respected, as well as the obligation to value constitutional values, have also been written in. If you ask what a value standard means, if these obligations are ignored, this may be the basis for not extending the residence permit and, in some cases, for cancellation. All applicants for international protection will be offered a value declaration, which must be joined voluntarily and which is also subject to the obligation to take account of. There is also an obligation to participate in the adaptation programme, if the person has been assigned it, and to use the support person's service. Secondly, the decision to accept refugees is made by the representative of the people, i.e. the Riigikogu, through its committee. This is a major change compared to the original draft that reached Parliament. This means that the decision-making authority is in this house. This means that any decision in this area, including the decision on relocation and resettlement, must be brought by the Government in the form of an individual decision before Parliament's committee, which will appoint a quota of persons and which country of origin these persons come from. If the Riigikogu commission does not give coordination, then the government cannot act, as has been explicitly written into the law. Thirdly, the Police and Border Guard Board will have the right and also the obligation to establish a list of safe countries of origin. Persons from these countries are not granted international protection by Estonia, especially because it is expected that there will be sufficient security and that the person will not actually be in danger, even though he has submitted an asylum application. Fourthly, the essential principle of security is that all procedures concerning the relocation and resettlement process are carried out outside the Republic of Estonia, as far as possible. Such clear provisions must be recorded in the law. A person shall, as a general rule, be granted an entry permit only if all procedural steps have been carried out, his background has been checked and further investigations have been carried out, if necessary. This means thorough security clearance and procedures where the person is located, i.e. not in the Republic of Estonia. Fifthly, there are no preferential grants for refugees. The laws currently in force have some trimmings that need to be abolished. That's what the law does. Social benefits are intended to be exactly the same as for Estonian residents, which means that there is no so-called social pressure to relocate and settle in Estonia in accordance with Estonian law. Sixthly, persons who have received international protection are obliged to acquire Estonian at a certain level. If language training is not provided, the payment of social benefits and other conditions may be limited. Seventh, stronger control of refugees. This means that a person who has been granted international protection can be granted a residence permit for one year. The current law contains a three-year requirement. This gives the state the opportunity to check each year whether the person has fulfilled these obligations and the requirements of the value declaration and how he has adapted to society. It is also possible, of course, if the situation in the person's home country has become quite different, to initiate a return procedure. Finally, about my question to the waitress. This concerned a specific provision on the issue of a temporary residence permit with the permission of the Director-General of the Police and Border Guard Board. I have certain doubts that the decision-maker will be the Director General. We can, in practice, come back to this provision in the coming years. I do not rule out a better decision-making position for the Government of the Republic as a collegial body, as is currently the case for the award of citizenship for special services. According to the current draft, decisions will be taken at the highest official level, at the level of the Director-General. We will see how practice develops, and if necessary, we can come back to this issue. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-09_U261	Oudekki Loone, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-09_U262	Ladies and gentlemen, We're working on some really weird patchwork here. On the one hand, we say that we are simplifying and clarifying things so that we can receive more refugees, because Europe wants this. Let us take it easy on European standards, and let us not discuss them at all. On the other hand, many of the amendments say that we do not want particularly these refugees here. Somehow, they don't want to come here themselves. We make it very difficult for them to receive social benefits and we impose totally absurd language learning requirements. We are thinking of a person who is actually a refugee who comes from a war that is stressed, who maybe comes from a country where there is no structured language training or school arrangements that we are used to. We are making him claims that maybe we ourselves in the Riigikogu would be affordable, but there is no one running from the war. We'll just tell him we have to take you in somehow, but we don't want to. It's not statesmanly, it's... I don't even know what that is. It's hypocrisy. I do not think that we should run quickly to seize such political points. Estonia currently lacks a substantive refugee policy. What we are discussing here today is not a refugee policy. This is the grab of individual points by different people. If we wanted to make a refugee policy, we would say that the reception of refugees is a political decision. It is always a political decision, not a technical decision, that we, as a country, accept refugees or shelter the person to whom no one else shelters. We cannot regulate this in advance of the law. What we can do, however, is say that we give responsibility to Parliament. When Parliament discusses the state budget, it is discussing how much money we have this time to receive refugees and, accordingly, the limit will be how much we will allow in the next year for people who no one else will protect. In that case, we have decided that if we accept someone, we will really help him according to his needs. We provide him with language training, requiring him to attend naturally, teaching him our laws, helping him find a job, if you can see that his country is facing a crisis for a long time, and then we will also help him back when the crisis in his country is over, because refugees usually want to return home. I suggest that we brake this package now, go back to the Commission, do a real, country-manly refugee policy. We acknowledge honestly that the determination of the number of refugees is the political issue that Estonia has to deal with, which the Estonian Parliament has to deal with. How we help refugees, that's after a technical, enforcement issue, that's what the government can do. But what we're doing here... I'm very sad.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-09_U263	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-09_U264	Mr. Chairman! Honourable representatives of the people! Once again, I am quite happy to come here for a change of speaking chair also to say that a committee of the Riigikogu, together with various political forces, has done a good job with one bill, has really taken the time to do so, and has achieved a result that is more or less what we are capable of and prepared for, and with which we are probably calming our society as well. I remember when this bill came into Riigikogu proceedings, Jüri Adams, who is not here to speak, came to the political group and almost took hold of his head with his hands. He said that if we deal with this bill at the pace it seems to have been planned, the consequences are probably pretty bad, because that is precisely the bill that we are solving the practical problems that the Estonian state faces in terms of receiving refugees. When they get here, how many are there, that is a question of their own, but it is clear that the regulations of 2006 were based on how we saw the world at the time. The situation at that time was something other than what we are now facing. I think that the main directions, which have already been discussed several times, were highlighted very clearly by the Commission rapporteur, Mr Nutt. First of all, bringing international protection to a high level, both legal and political. Then that procedures must be carried out outside Estonia before people reach Estonia, especially that the beneficiaries of protection cannot have significantly greater social guarantees or preferential status than their own citizens. Yes, language training and translation services are different, but if you look at what has been in place so far in terms of housing, rent, repair and furnishing costs, it turns out that these costs may amount to around EUR 40000 per person for two years. This is simply not feasible for us, and it is not quite fair to the citizens of our own country. These things can be resolved in a more balanced way. Plus, I'm sure it's the language learning, the values and the knowledge of the Constitution. After all, people seeking international protection come from another culture and this is a very sensitive subject. Of course, they need help, but their values may be quite different, their life experience is different. There is certainly work to be done in this direction. As long as we have not had many applicants for international protection and so-called quota refugees have not yet reached Estonia at all, it can be said in the same way that fear has had great eyes and may have caused too much panic in society, among other things because of the same rental costs and other such things. The tables show where this source came from. On the one hand, it is, yes, so, but on the other hand, if we look at what is still happening in Europe, it is highly likely that sooner or later these problems will also reach us. We must be prepared for this, and I think that this bill will take a good step towards this readiness. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-09_U265	Priit Onion, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-09_U266	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, let me thank the good colleagues who contributed their valuable time to making this draft the way it is in front of us today. The bill has changed radically since the first reading, and now it can also be supported by a person with a more conservative view of the weather like me. It is no longer a surprise to anyone that Europe has been hit by a crisis that is difficult and time-consuming to resolve. Many countries have corrected and tightened their positions compared to the start of the crisis. Therefore, even today, it does not seem to the most liberal person that our proposals are radical in any way. Since Austria's position was taken, the number of those who joined this mindset has clearly increased. We decide for ourselves how many refugees we can help in society, whether in economic or social terms. This draft concerns relocations and relocations in Europe. In the context of the current migration crisis, we are thinking in particular of the people in Italy and Greece. It also means that background studies and decisions on an immigrant's application for refugees are made outside Estonia. We are not going to keep people waiting in Estonia for months or even years. Now back to the draft and the changes that were made between the two readings. I will only mention a few important aspects concerning values and social guarantees. With value standards, we are obliged to respect the fundamental values of the Estonian state and society just as much as Estonian language, culture, customs and customs. Paragraph 75 is supplemented by paragraphs that make the study of Estonian compulsory. An 18-year-old beneficiary of international protection who is of working age or of old age has the obligation to participate in Estonian language studies organised under this Act. Any beneficiary of international protection living in Estonia who has not obtained the language proficiency level laid down in the Language Act within two years of receiving international protection may be required to recover the amounts spent in order to provide language training. The more precise conditions for participation in Estonian language learning, including the procedure for recovering the cost of Estonian language learning, shall be laid down by the minister responsible for the field by a regulation. Another important aspect is the reduction of social benefits to be resettled and relocated. Additional grants have been taken down for beneficiaries of international protection, and now they only receive the social benefits that Estonian residents receive. In addition, language training and translation services are required in response to urgent needs. We have read several times on newspaper columns about how refugees will live in luxury apartments. This was rather a theoretical option, but with this legislative amendment we set clear criteria for what grants and how much they will receive. The amendment abolishes the municipal apartment repair allowance, which may have been up to EUR 4455 per person, as well as the municipal housing allowance, which could amount to up to EUR 1690 per person. The arrangements for covering the rental costs of the dwelling have also been amended. After the legislative amendment, the allowance for the rent of a dwelling is one-off, only intended to cover the costs of starting a rental relationship for those who do not have any money for it. The limit is the same for both the individual and the family. This amount will be EUR 780 in 2016. Finally. The IRL package guarantees the highest decision-making power for the representative society, protects the security of the Estonian state and loses interest in simply coming here for money, or refugee support. The catalogue of additional grants has been cancelled. I am convinced that the clearer the state is in its positions, the easier it will be for people living in Estonia to understand those in need and the courage to help them. Changes to the draft act bring citizens' expectations into the law and make them unambiguous for immigrants. I very much hope that this bill will help to bring down the passions and tensions in society. We're demanding, but we're also helpful. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-09_U267	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-09_U268	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, This draft, which we are currently discussing in this half-empty Chamber, is actually very important. I would like to say in advance that I had to review my position quite strongly. In this hall, you can still do something about it in this house. This is the first such draft, the text which actually required the transposition of Directives 2013/32/EU and 2013/33/EU of the European Union. The discussions we have had in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, the very passionate and long debates, have shown that many things can be implemented. Although I remember very well the Minister for the Interior, who often sat on the table and, in the case of one or another, said that he could not, the directive is ahead. Or, as they used to say, can't, the wolf is in the woods. Turns out there's something going on, but the wolf's in the woods, but there's something. The fact that a sufficiently luxurious catalogue of grants has been removed from the table or, in any case, has become much weaker is certainly the good news. Good news for Estonians. For those of you who could come here, of course it isn't. But we have moved in the same way as many of our fellow Members in other parliaments, who have also started to act much harsher in the face of the craziest conditions of recent times. I am thinking of the Danish Parliament, which has also turned the screws off, but not just him. The situation is actually critical. The spring is approaching, the Mediterranean is getting warmer and less stormy again, people are flooding, and they are probably getting even more here. We have to be ready for this. When I first said that I was positively surprised that it was possible to take a more conservative approach to the matter and to try first and foremost to keep the interests of the people of Estonia in mind, neither is this bill a spectacle stone. Many of the proposals, especially those of the Conservative People's Party, were put off due to the particularities of the procedure. But something has been achieved. Let's just say better half an egg than an empty shell. I am sure that we will have to start reviewing it very soon, when asylum seekers actually arrive here when they arrive. This possibility is growing, as the flood that has arisen in Greece since the introduction of the visa requirement at the Slovenian border is increasing. If there is no one way through the Balkans, other roads will be sought, and these roads may come from somewhere else. They could be coming across the Piusa River from behind our eastern border. And then when they say the mysterious or magical word 'Alyl', we need to get serious about it. Indeed, the current situation is still positive enough. But when you come back to the beginning, the lives of those few asylum seekers or, rather, refugees who have gotten to live in Estonia are really luxurious compared to ordinary Estonian people. I would remind you that there is only one Syrian family in Tartu, a six-member family. They live in a five-room apartment and get... Just a few more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-09_U269	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-09_U270	In this sense, the current draft, which has reached second reading, gives some hope that Parliament will also be able to act in the interests of the Estonians. Finally, however, I would like to say that the idea put forward by the Centre Party to organise a referendum and to ask people in practice what they think about the possible adoption of a large number of asylum seekers or refugees should be seriously discussed in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-09_U271	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-09_U272	President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, I would like to thank the Committee on Constitutional Affairs for its work and for taking account of many proposals. The result is really good. Unlike our Prime Minister, who claimed a year ago that no refugees would come, and who for a year claimed that refugees did not receive higher social benefits in Estonia than our own citizens, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs understood very well that the principle of equal treatment was being violated and quite harsh. If we recall how this bill reached the Riigikogu and the Chamber, then the government did not really plan to go ahead with this law in general, it was just a matter of introducing a couple of directives. But then the amendments came. The largest number came from the Conservative People's Party of 29th. The IRL made many good, meaningful proposals, and some also came from the Centre Party; unfortunately, none came from the others. But that's it. The debate was probably thorough. I myself managed to have only one session in which I presented the views of the EKRE. I am not going to talk any further about the substance of this law, obviously the text that has now arrived in this Chamber has been done at its best and with good will. But when we look at the situation in Europe, when we look at these migratory flows, more people have come to Europe today than in the last six months. The situation is different when this bill was dealt with. As a result of this increasing migratory pressure, very many European countries have also taken up their own, I do not know exactly what they call it, the laws on granting international protection to foreigners and have clarified a number of things. Obviously, however, we would have reason to look to our Western allies, who are already under direct pressure and who have found it necessary to tighten their laws. For example, on how to treat immigrants. They are undeniably different in income, with different levels of wealth. When we start receiving social support, if they meet certain criteria, then refugees and asylum seekers will essentially get it from the first day. For example, Denmark has introduced a law whereby migrants are confiscated from assets exceeding EUR 1340. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-09_U273	Please, an extra three minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-09_U274	Germany has Union republics with a border of EUR 200. The aim is precisely that immigrants must use their own resources before receiving support from the state. Germany, for example, has established or is in the process of establishing the principle that those already granted refugee status will be deprived of that status if they have committed a criminal offence. We originally had the term'serious crime' in the law, and now it was clarified and it is 'the first-degree crime'. But why should we wait until a murder or rape is committed? I think there's a reason to just go over these things when you commit a crime. Many countries have also tightened the conditions for family tracing. There must be a certain standard of living, income, place of residence, etc. So besides what is foreseen in the draft, there are many other things. And in order not to change and supplement the law later, the Group of the Estonian Conservative People's Party proposes to interrupt the second reading of the draft and to give the opportunity to make further proposals. I am sure that the Committee on Constitutional Affairs will be perfectly able to deal with them, and this Chamber of Riigikogu will have an even better law than the present one as soon as possible. I thank everyone! As has been said here before, this law has been approved by all political parties, and I think that together we can make it even better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-09_U275	Kalle Laane, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-09_U276	Honourable Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, When it was said in the old days that long done, beautiful, this bill could be said to be smart, smart. This draft has indeed improved, which has been discussed at length and in depth in the Commission. As chairman of the committee, I am extremely pleased that it was Mart, with his experience, with historian's memory, who was in charge of this draft. However, what I want to say is that it has been very interesting to hear these speeches here at second reading. It is very clear from those who are familiar with the bill, this is, of course, a complex draft and who are not, who have come here to get just a political plus point or a sign behind the number of their calls. I recommend that everyone who wants to speak to the public on these issues, in particular, to clarify concepts that are not the simplest. It is very easy to confuse relocation and resettlement, just as a refugee and granting international protection to an alien. It's relatively complicated. However, in order not to mislead the public, I suggest that these matters be made clear to myself. However, as has already been said several times here, this draft is a good example of cooperation, and I, for my part, thank all those people who worked together to send this draft to second reading and to bake it to such a degree of maturity that the second reading could be completed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-09_U277	Jaanus Karilaid, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-09_U278	Ladies and gentlemen, Whether the bill is good or bad still shows the time when the law has been implemented and the moods in society can be seen. So Kalle, as chairman of the committee, is congratulated on the fact that there has been a great deal of time and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has spent a lot of hours on this draft, but is it really mature and good law now? There are a number of disturbing factors in this draft and there are also a number of positive ones. I start with distractions and end with more positive ones. I agree with what the previous speakers also mentioned that we do not really have a refugee policy. We are talking about the implementation of certain policies, but we do not have the foundations of refugee policy in place. How can it be understood that the Government of the Republic may, each time with an order, establish a limit of the number of beneficiaries of international protection to be resettled and relocated to Estonia, which must not exceed 0,03% of the Estonian permanent population per year? This has taken away one policy instrument from Parliament; decision-making is delegated to the Government of the Republic. However, the idea of the Centre Party Group is precisely that we should give Parliament a decision on the annual limit. This creates a debate in Parliament and also gives Parliament responsibility. At the moment, we have delegated this commitment, which is neither fair nor fair from the point of view of society. It is very positive that we are also increasing solidarity with refugee issues. However, when I look at the table in the explanatory memorandum to the bill, it was probably on page 11 of this book, which sets out how much is going to be spent on housing, what are the problems, what are the amounts of money, I would also like to give examples of Estonian society. We know how much our own people are missing in the housing fund, we know how much language learning money is missing in Ida-Virumaa, we know how many jobs there are in the counties. If, in the example of refugeeism, we could also increase solidarity with our people, then we would take a big step forward. The Centre Party Group will shape the final position on this draft on Monday. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-09_U279	Martin Repinski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-09_U280	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, I want to talk a little bit about my experience. At meetings with the people, it is clear that there are now two of the most topical political problems and issues for the people of Estonia: refugees and the cohabitation law. I ask myself why. For me, the problems of the unemployed in Ida-Virumaa, the problems associated with the agricultural crisis and the concerns of people who have to sit in their unheated apartment in Kohtla-Järve in the winter are actually much more important. I think the answer is that people just feel that his opinion is being run over or that he is often even being lied to. When we look at how the state's management system works in Estonia, we get the feeling that we have only a few smart people called ministers. In this context, the only positive thing is that the number of these wise people is constantly increasing as the number of ministers increases. Although I don't think that's the way it is. People are not as stupid as politicians often think. We don't have to be so afraid of what people think. Not to mention referendums, we do not even allow the people of Estonia to choose the President. Our proposal, or our point, is that it is worth organising a referendum on this subject and on many other issues and asking people what they think. You shouldn't be so afraid of what people think. I don't think people are very anti-refugees. The reason is simply that the people of Estonia feel that no one is asking for their opinion, no one is talking to them. In my opinion, it would be a good start if a dialogue were to be established between politicians and the people again. A referendum should therefore be organised on the subject. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-09_U281	Mart Nutt, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-09_U282	Mr. Chairman! Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! Just a few more specific remarks. I want to cheer up Jaanus Karilaid and Oudekki Loonet. Indeed, there are no quotas in the draft, and that is exactly what you wanted. The decision has been taken on Parliament's level, and without Parliament, no one can make that decision. And I'm sad that you haven't read this bill, you must have read another bill. But that's it. I think this bill is actually in the best possible form we can get to now with our wisdom. I therefore see no reason to interrupt reading the bill. I agree that we may have to return to this matter very soon, because we do not know where the migration crisis is going to lead, but now this is the best draft we can do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-09_U283	I'm closing the negotiations. 77 amendments have been tabled for the second reading of draft 81. The first is from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and is fully taken into account. The second is from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and is fully taken into account. The third is from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and, of course, fully taken into account. The fourth is from the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union and is taken into account in substance. The fifth, sixth, seventh and eighth are from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. The ninth has been rejected by the Conservative People's Party of Estonia, but according to § 106 (2) of the Rules of Procedure Act, the vote is not to be taken. The tenth is from the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union, in substance. 11. is from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. 12. is from the Conservative People's Party of Estonia and is fully taken into account. 13. is from the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union, taken into account in substance. 14. is from the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union and is taken into account in substance. 15 and 16 are from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. 17. is from the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union, taken into account in substance. 18. is from the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia, without regard to the vote. 19. is from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, in full consideration. 20. has been rejected by the Conservative People's Party of Estonia, which is not to be voted on. 21. is from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. 22. is from the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia, without regard to the vote. 23. is from the Estonian Centre Party faction, which has not been taken into account, is not to be voted on. 24th is from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. 25. is from the Conservative People's Party of Estonia, taken into account in substance. The 26th and 27th are from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. 28. is taken into account in full by the Conservative People's Party of Estonia. 29. is from the Conservative People's Party Group, taken into account in substance. 30th is from the Estonian Centre Party Group, fully accounted for. 31, 32, 33, 34, 35, 36 and 37 are from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. 38. is from the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union, taken into account in substance. 39th, 40th and 41th are from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. 42. is from the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union, taken into account in substance. The 43rd and 44th are from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. 45th is from the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union, taken into account in substance. 46th is from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. 47. has been rejected by the Conservative People's Party of Estonia, which is not to be voted on. 48 is from the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union, taken into account in substance. 49th is from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. 50th and 51st have been rejected by the Conservative People's Party of Estonia, which is not to be voted on. 52nd and 53rd are from the Conservative People's Party of Estonia, taken into account in substance. 54. is from the Conservative People's Party of Estonia, disregarding the vote, 55th, 56, 57th and 58th are from the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia, the leading committee has failed to take account of the vote, is not to be voted. 59. is taken into account in part by the Conservative People's Party of Estonia. 60. has been rejected by the Conservative People's Party of Estonia. 61. is from the Conservative People's Party of Estonia, taken into account in substance. 62nd, 63rd and 64th are from the Conservative People's Party of Estonia, not taking into account, not to be voted on. 65. is from the Conservative People's Party of Estonia, taken into account in substance. 66. has been rejected by the Conservative People's Party of Estonia, which is not to be voted on. 67. is from the Conservative People's Party of Estonia, fully accounted for. 68. has been rejected by the Conservative People's Party of Estonia, which is not to be voted on. 69th and 70th are from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. 71. is from the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union, taken into account in substance. 72nd is from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. 73rd and 74th are from the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Association, calculated in substance. The 75th, 76th and 77th are from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. The table of amendments has been revised, but the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia has proposed to interrupt the second reading of the draft 81. We need to vote on this proposal.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-09_U284	Dear colleagues, I would like to put to the vote the proposal of the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia to interrupt the second reading of Bill 81. Please take a stand and vote. With a result of 13 votes to 49, with 0 abstentions, the proposal was not supported. The second reading is closed and the seventh item is dealt with.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-09_U285	We will move on to the eighth item and begin the first reading of the draft Act on the ratification of the Social Security Agreement between the Republic of Estonia and Australia, initiated by the Government of the Republic of the Republic of Estonia. Please present the speech chair of the Riigikogu, Minister of Social Protection Margus Tsahkna!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-09_U286	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good Riigikogu! The social security agreement between the Republic of Estonia and Australia was signed on 14 September 2015 in Tallinn. The agreement will be ratified by the law to be adopted on the basis of this draft and the entry into force of the agreement will be planned at the beginning of 2018. The contract shall enter into force on the first day of the third month following the month in which both parties have confirmed to each other that the legal acts subject to its entry into force have been carried out. The main objective of the contract is to ensure the protection of people's pension rights. According to Estonian law, Estonian pension is paid only in Estonia, in the European Union and in those countries with which bilateral social security agreements have been concluded. We have such bilateral social security agreements with Russia, Ukraine, Moldova and Canada, and negotiations are ongoing with the United States, Belarus and Azerbaijan. Australia is one of the most popular destinations for Estonians, with an estimated 10000 people directly or indirectly related to Estonia. 30 Australians live permanently in Estonia. Thus, the ratification of the Treaty has a major positive impact on people from Estonia. The agreement with Australia guarantees four important things. First, a state pension will continue to be paid if a person moves from Estonia to Australia or vice versa. Secondly, the pension ages of Estonia and Australia can be combined to determine pension rights. Thirdly, each country pays its share of the pension. Fourthly, the posting of workers from Estonia to Australia and Australia to Estonia will be facilitated, as social security contributions will only be paid in the country of dispatch. Therefore, double taxation under the contract will be avoided. After the entry into force of the agreement, people living in Estonia can apply for both Estonian and Australian pensions through the Social Insurance Board. The Agency communicates and exchanges data itself with the Australian authorities, which means that people do not have bureaucratic tasks. It is estimated that in 2018, when the agreement enters into force, about 30 people will receive the pension, 40 in 2019 and 50 by 2020. Estonia's share of pension contributions should therefore be around 80000 euros in 2018, and in subsequent years this amount will increase according to how many pensioners will be added. In order to better guarantee people's pension rights, the Ministry of Social Affairs has developed and sent a draft amendment to the State Pension Insurance Act for approval of the Government, which also allows the payment of Estonian pensions outside Estonia, the European Union and the Contracting States under national law. However, negotiations on bilateral social security agreements will continue, as the agreements will ensure greater rights for individuals than the export of pensions under national law. Contracts allow the state to combine pension periods in the countries of the contract and to pay only its own share. The agreements provide an additional opportunity to avoid double taxation and ensure the exchange of data between countries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-09_U287	Thank you. Dear colleagues, do you have any questions for the Minister for Social Protection? There are no questions. Please report to Helmen Küti, Member of the Social Affairs Committee of the Riigikogu Chair!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-09_U288	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, At its meeting on 15 February the Social Protection Committee of the Riigikogu heard the Minister of Social Protection Margus Tsahkna, the Head of Pension Policy of the Social Security Department of the Ministry of Social Affairs Kristiina Selgis and the Chief Specialist of the Insurance Policy Department of the Ministry of Finance Tõnu Lillelaid. I will no longer provide detailed explanations for the draft Act on the ratification of the Social Security Agreement between the Republic of Estonia and Australia, as the Minister explained its meaning and importance very thoroughly in this Chamber of the Riigikogu. Indeed, it is very important that cross-border mobility can provide people with social protection. A few questions were also asked. It was asked that if they have worked in several countries, such as three or four countries, how the pension will be calculated. The officials replied that, of course, if these are countries with which agreements have been concluded, such as Australia or the countries of the European Union, the stages will be merged. There was also the question of what is the estimated number of beneficiaries. In 2017, it is estimated that 20 people will receive this pension, 30 in 2018 and around 50 in 2020. The Commission made the following proposals and decisions: It was decided to place 9 March on the plenary agenda, to propose that the first reading be closed and that the deadline for amendments be 10 working days, 23 March at 5.15 p.m. All the decisions were consensual. The rapporteur was Mr Kütt, Member of the Commission, who spoke before you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-09_U289	Dear colleagues, do you have any questions about the agreements between the Republic of Estonia and Australia? Looks like there's no questions. Do the representatives of the political groups wish to open negotiations? No, I don't. No negotiations will be opened. The position of the commission is to conclude the first reading of the draft 180. I will set the deadline for the submission of 180 amendments. a 23 March at 5.15 p.m. The first reading of the draft has been completed and the eighth item on the agenda has been dealt with.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-09_U290	We will move on to the ninth item on the agenda, which is the first reading of the draft Act amending the Aviation Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. I ask Kristen Michal, Minister of Economic Affairs and Infrastructure of the Riigikogu, for a presentation!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-09_U291	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! I'm going to introduce you to the draft amendment to the Aviation Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. The amendments aim at increasing the level of aviation safety and aligning national law with EU legislation. It is necessary to amend and clarify the aviation law as a result of the European Union Regulation. It is necessary to establish requirements to ensure an effective occurrence reporting system at all levels. The draft shall identify the competent authorities to be informed of occurrences affecting aviation safety. The proposal designates the Authority and the Safety Investigation Centre as the competent authorities. In order to increase legal clarity, it is specified that the Authority will be informed of any occurrence affecting aviation safety. Accidents and serious incidents must not only be reported to the Authority but also to the Safety Investigation Centre. The procedures for notification and transmission of the relevant data by the national competent authorities shall be specified. Currently, companies use different forms of reporting on safety incidents, mainly a paper-based description of the case, and are sent to the Authority. The amendment establishes a common format for all notifiers. A European-wide reporting portal has been set up to enter case-related information that will move directly to the Authority and, where appropriate, to the Safety Investigation Centre for analysis. The Authority or the Safety Investigation Centre shall then send case information together with conclusions to the European Central Database. The aim of the new regulation is to harmonise the handling of aviation safety incidents in the Member States of the European Union, including reporting, recording, analysis and protection and sharing of information. For example, a common notification culture shall be implemented by giving special protection to the notifier of the case, unless the analysis reveals intentional conduct. Another substantial substantive change will remove the obligation to notify accidents or serious incidents within 24 hours as, in accordance with the European Union Regulation, accidents or serious incidents will have to be reported within 72 hours of the occurrence. The current time limit is contrary to the EU regulation and the inconsistency with the draft is eliminated. This is briefly the content of the draft. Honourable Riigikogu, please support the Commission's decision to conclude the first reading. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-09_U292	Thank you, Minister. You have questions too. Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-09_U293	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, When I read the explanatory statement, I found a sentence in which I really have to admit that I did not understand the content. In fact, at the very end of the explanatory statement there is a sentence: 'We also need attention that the aviation safety reporting culture in Estonia is still rather modest... ' What does that really mean?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-09_U294	Thank you. As I pointed out in the report, the notification culture is whether and how incidents are reported, if they are related to, for example, the flight crew or if someone on the flight crew notices anything. The desire is to promote this culture so that there is an understanding that every incident must be properly reported.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-09_U295	Minister, there are no further questions. Thank you! I ask for a presentation of the speech chair of the Riigikogu, member of the Economic Commission, Jaanus Marrand!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-09_U296	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Committee on Economic Affairs of the Riigikogu discussed the draft law amending the Aviation Act initiated by the Government of the Republic at 161 two meetings of the Commission: first at the meeting on 8 February on the content of the draft, and on 15 February procedural decisions were taken. Kristen Michal, Minister for Economic Affairs and Infrastructure, Priit Rifk, Head of the Aviation and Maritime Department of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, and Tiina Ester, Aviation Safety Advisor to the Aviation Administration, explained the draft at the meeting. As the Minister said here, the central idea of the draft is to improve incident reporting. The requirement arises directly from European Union legislation. A few questions were also asked during the debate. The parties were first asked to clarify the notification procedure. The answer was as follows: the company has an obligation to inform the Authority within 72 hours of receiving information on the incident. The information may be communicated to the company by both the employee and the third party. The Authority shall review the notification and decide on the follow-up activities. For example, should the incident be investigated by the Safety Investigation Centre. In addition, information on the number of notifications was also requested. This information is also included in the explanatory memorandum. Last year there were about 450 notifications. This figure has increased in recent years mainly due to the increase in military traffic. Not all incidents are qualified as incidents, notifications relate either to incidents occurring in the Estonian airspace or to incidents related to aircraft registered in Estonia. At the meeting of the Committee on Economic Affairs on 15 February, the Committee on Economic Affairs also adopted procedural decisions. First, it was proposed to submit bill No 161 to the Riigikogu for the first reading by 9 March. Secondly, it was proposed to close the first reading and, thirdly, it was decided to set the deadline for the submission of amendments at 10 working days on 23 March at 17.00. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-09_U297	Good waitress, thank you! You have at least one question. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-09_U298	Good manager! Good waitress! I ask you, as an aviation specialist, why this bill is needed when the explanatory memorandum states that the law has no economic impact, no significant social, including demographic, and no significant impact on national security and external relations, the living and natural environment, regional development and the organisation of public authorities and local authorities. My question is: is there a significant impact on the security of the person who flies?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-09_U299	Yeah, it's a big influence. Aviation safety is getting better, security is higher. When you read the explanatory statement, there has been talk about perhaps such a very narrow influence, about the financial implications of a specific draft, etc. In fact, aviation safety has a major impact on global policy. We take a plane shot down over Ukraine. Aviation safety has a huge impact on our entire system of things. This question was presented in a philosophical way, which we did not discuss in the Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-09_U300	Good waitress, thank you! No further questions. Dear representatives of the political groups, would you like to open negotiations? No calls, no negotiations. The commission has been confident in its proposal to conclude the first reading of draft 161. I shall set the deadline for tabling 161 amendments. 23 March 2010 at 5 p.m. The first reading is closed and the ninth item on the agenda is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-09_U301	We will move on to the tenth item on the agenda, which is the second reading of the draft Act amending § 34 of the National Defence Act 182. It is a great pleasure to welcome Marko Mihkelson, Chairman of the National Defence Committee, in the Riigikogu Chair. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-09_U302	Thank you. I am just as happy to be here to welcome the Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu and introduce you to the preparations made for the second reading of the draft Act amending § 34 of the National Defence Act in our committee. I would remind you, ladies and gentlemen, that this draft amends the so-called general mandate regulation contained in the National Defence Act in two very important aspects. First of all, the position of the National Defence Committee of the Riigikogu will be increased in the event that the active troops of the Defence Forces are sent to a specific international military operation within the framework of a general mandate granted by the Riigikogu. The draft then makes the opinion of the National Defence Committee mandatory for the decision-makers to send to the operation. Another very important point is that, according to the draft, the decision to participate in a specific operation will no longer be taken by the Minister of Defence, in coordination with the Minister for Foreign Affairs, but by the whole government, on the basis of a general mandate. The National Defence Committee discussed the draft before submitting it to second reading at its meeting on 7 March and unanimously approved the text of the draft second reading and the explanatory memorandum. No amendments were tabled on the draft by the deadline of 4 March. The Government of the Republic was also asked for an opinion on the draft and the Government supported the draft as proposed. At its meeting on 7 March, the National Defence Committee decided by consensus to propose that the second reading of the draft be terminated.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-09_U303	Dear colleagues, do you have any questions for the waitress? There are no questions. Thank you! Do you want to open negotiations? It's what you want. I'm opening negotiations. Riigikogu speech chair Oudekki Loone, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-09_U304	Hello, ladies and gentlemen. For the second time, I stand before you today in a much happier mood, although there is no real reason for it. Because today we are commemorating all those who lost their lives, their homes or loved ones in the bombing of March 72 years ago, and at the same time we are discussing how we ourselves are willing to go to war. This is a very appropriate time to think a little more about this bill, because today reminds us that such decisions must not be made carelessly and that the winners will also destroy lives. § 128 of our Constitution clearly states that the Riigikogu decides to use the Defence Forces in fulfilling Estonia's international obligations. That sentence isn't there by accident. The fundamental question, which decides Estonia's participation in the war, has been handed to the representatives of the people on purpose. If we defend the Riigikogu's decision to make such a decision, we will defend the right of the people to be part of the decision-making process when we are going to war because we are going to war ourselves. Some ladies and gentlemen may protest that we are really talking about war in this bill, that maybe it is only a matter of a couple of defence forces who are going on a mission, hopefully they will defend peace there and act to ensure that it is not really a war, and that in this case we have to react very quickly. Perhaps some respected critics think that this Riigikogu is a very clumsy institution, that we really need to come together and decide that it would be better if the Minister could do it quickly. That's why I'm talking about the Constitution. If we give such decisions to one or two ministers, it means that we have allowed authoritarianism through the back door. That is why it is very, very important that we are processing this draft today, that we are discussing it today, and I hope that we will also adopt it, because with this law, with this amendment, we are defending democracy in Estonia. Control of where our defence forces are putting their lives at risk and how many they are must be as broad as possible. Today, with this amendment, we are giving the right to the National Defence Committee of the Riigikogu, where there are people who are constantly engaged in defence mathematics and who, at the same time, have a mandate for the people who have been sent here by the people and who can control it, nor does one minister exercise too much power. I hope you agree with this change. I also hope that we will continue to pay the same attention to all the small finests that are trying to take democracy away from our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-09_U305	Thank you. I ask the Riigikogu speech chair Madis Milling!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-09_U306	Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, The coalition politician inside me is a little confused. I have nothing to argue with opposition politician Oudek. I don't have any moments that I should somehow iron him out as a opposition politician or twist his words a little bit just because he's a opposition politician. You know, it's not, and hopefully it won't. I will stick to the words I have said on this board: I am indescribably pleased that there are so many good thinking people in the Committee on National Defence, for whom national defence is a serious matter. Yes, it may seem that in this lavender of draft laws and draft decisions that hits us day by day, some things are missing or some things are slipping over, but this draft we are currently discussing, despite the fact that there was no heated discussion in the Chamber, is a serious draft. A good colleague, Oudekki, told me about the war. I wouldn't spend much longer on military terminology. It is true today that war does not begin with the declaration of war, and where there are even two of our staff officers, our flag is down. And that decision, where our flag is, must be made by Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-09_U307	Thank you. It seems to me that Jaanus Karilaid was able to request the word first. I ask Jaanus Kariladi Riigikogu's speech chair and Ain Lutepal to prepare for a speech of up to two minutes on the spot or a speech of five minutes from the Riigikogu's speech chair. Please, Jaanus Karilaid!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-09_U308	This is such a rare moment when it is possible to commend the Reform Party, the IRL, the Socialists, the EKRE and also the Centre Party for achieving such consensus. We also concluded a gentlemen's agreement that if we make this amendment and give the National Defence Committee the'veto' right, no one will go overboard in the political hasard that next time it will be proposed that Parliament should be the one who has the right to veto. Many parties had a huge urge to go along with this hasard, but they didn't. And the kind of behaviour that has been agreed once and is respected, and that is an oral, not written agreement, is the political culture that we really need. So thank you very much to all parties.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-09_U309	Thank you. I now ask the Riigikogu to speak to Ain Lutsep!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-09_U310	Mr. President! Honourable Riigikogu! Having been a member of the Committee on National Defence in the process of dealing with this draft, I welcome what we talked about, how we talked about and how we overcome the difficulties we encountered. It was about thoroughness and listening to each other. Just as it is with all the drafts being discussed in this Chamber, the effectiveness of this bill is demonstrated by the time that someone said it was going to be. We'd like time to show you that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-09_U311	Thank you. There's no more calls. We will not examine the amendments because they have not been tabled. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the second reading of the draft 182. The second reading is closed and the 10th item is on the agenda. Good fellows, thank you. Our trial today is over. I wish you strength in your work! Have a good night. Closure of the sitting at 19.09 a.m.
