ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-11_U1	Honourable Riigikogu! Honourable ambassadors! Good guests! We will start the 4th working week Thursday session of the 3rd plenary session. First, those who have a desire to submit drafts or inquiries will come forward. Mikhail Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-11_U2	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the members of the Central Party Group, I would like to address the question to Minister for Economic Affairs and Infrastructure, Kristen Michal, about piracy. In May 2015, Uber, a company providing the service of driving distribution through the application, came to the Estonian market, whose service, however, resembles the taxi transport provided for in § 3 (2) of the Public Transport Act. Unfortunately, most of the vehicles offered do not have a travel card or a service card. Under the Public Transport Act, it is a provision of pirated taxi services. In the same vein, the Director of Transport and Traffic Services of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications considers that drivers providing the service of driving should have the same licences and licences as normal taxi drivers. Those drivers who do not have a taxi driver's license are engaged in illegal activities. Yesterday, Estonian police also announced their position on Uber's activities and declared it illegal. On this occasion, Kalle Palling, member of the Economic Committee of the Riigikogu, announced that in cooperation with the Ministry of Economic Affairs, a draft law has been prepared to bring the driving-sharing service into Estonian law. The draft is due to be launched by the members of the Riigikogu at the beginning of next week. It is expected that this method of initiation has been chosen in order to avoid the coordination circle envisaged by the government and to avoid increased debate and transparency. In this regard, we have a number of questions for the Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-11_U3	Monika Haukanõmm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-11_U4	Good morning. Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! Honourable Minister of Foreign Affairs! On behalf of the seven members of the Free Party Group, I will report to Mr Tsahkna, Minister for Social Protection, on the question of the fulfilment of international obligations in the field of persons with disabilities. In 2012, the United Nations Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities entered into force in Estonia, the ratification of which committed the State to continuously improve the rights of persons with disabilities. The Convention is unique because for the first time it lays down the obligation for the State to set up a so-called independent monitoring mechanism, as described in Article 33 (2). The establishment of an independent mechanism has been discussed since ratification. It has been analysed in one way or another; it has been done by the Estonian Chamber of Disabled People and solutions have been offered by the Centre for Political Studies in Praxis. So far, however, the issue has unfortunately not been resolved. The best option would, of course, be to set up this mechanism with the Chancellor of Justice, which is not real. It is considered real that this monitoring could be with the Gender Equality and Equal Treatment Commissioner. Unfortunately, however, we have not reached this point either, which means that we have not fulfilled our international commitment. In this context, we want to know from the Minister for Social Protection when and how the Ministry will formally and essentially comply with the international obligation that was adopted four years ago. We also want to know where we can find this institution, which corresponds to the principles of Paris, which is referred to in the absence of coordination. Thirdly, where is the committee that is promised in the country's report? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-11_U5	Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-11_U6	Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the central group, I will report an inquiry to Mr Marko Pomerants, our Minister for the Environment. Our questioning concerns the future of oil shale in the light of the Paris climate agreement. Last December it was written that the Paris climate conference set the goal of reducing greenhouse gas emissions by 80% by 2050. The long-term objective of climate policy is to make society more sustainable, productive and less carbon-intensive. Mining and use of oil shale accounts for 4% of Estonia's gross domestic product, while generating more than 80% of all Estonian emissions. The Paris Agreement therefore has a strong impact on this sector, and in this light it is necessary to review the future of oil shale in Estonia, because oil shale is one of the most polluting energy sources. At the same time, oil shale means economic engine for Estonia, energy security and thousands of jobs in Ida-Virumaa. The government has approved and yesterday we have already discussed the oil shale development plan for the next 15 years in this hall, which determines the principles and direction of development of the sector. The aim is to increase the efficiency of the country's use of significant mineral resources, promote oil shale R &amp; D and reduce negative environmental impacts. This means that all the things I am talking about need financial resources. I believe that the five questions we put to the Minister for the Environment will clarify where we are and what we will do in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-11_U7	Kadri Simson, please! The final inquiry was carried out on behalf of the members of the Central Party Group, according to verified data.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-11_U8	Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen of the Riigikogu! Have you noticed that sometimes people tend to say that the law has been passed once the government has agreed to it? The fact that the law has three more readings in the Riigikogu does not seem to interest anyone. That is not quite the case, the Riigikogu is not a rubber stamp. The same is true of the decisions of the Riigikogu. If the Riigikogu takes a decision and imposes an obligation on the government, it is not just a paper that the government can ignore. But that is what has happened to the draft decision adopted by 61 members of the Riigikogu. This decision was taken last year and provided for the establishment of a national institution, the National Support Fund. The task of the Foundation is to ensure that child maintenance is paid on time at least at a minimum rate, which according to the Family Act is half of the minimum wage determined by the Government of the Republic, i.e. 215 euros today. This decision obliged the government to launch a maintenance fund by 1 January 2016. It's been six weeks, but there's no fund. 61 members of the Riigikogu expressed their will, but it does not matter to today's government. Consequently, on behalf of my 22 colleagues, I will forward an inquiry to Mr Tsahkna, whose task should have been to comply with this decision. We ask why, as a minister, he has ignored the Riigikogu's decision to withdraw from his promise to guarantee payment of at least 215 euros and to reduce this money to 100 euros in the work plan. We want to know what the reasons for delay and postponement are for people who have to wait at least a year to get their livelihoods to be supported by the state. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-11_U9	On behalf of the Bureau, I have adopted four inquiries, all of which are subject to a review under the Home and Working Procedures Act. Incoming check, please! There are 86 members of the Riigikogu, no 15.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-11_U10	Our agenda is about discussing foreign policy as a key national issue. § 153 of the Home and Rules of Procedure Act provides that this is to be done on the basis of a plan to be approved in cooperation with the Management Board of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the Riigikogu. I'll remind you of that, because maybe everyone doesn't know. First, the Foreign Minister Marina Kaljuranna will be speaking for up to 30 minutes, then the Foreign Minister will be able to ask questions within up to 60 minutes. Then Sven Mikser, Chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, will be present for up to 20 minutes and can be asked questions for up to 30 minutes. A member of the Riigikogu may ask an oral question to each of the two rapporteurs. After the presentations and questions have been answered, negotiations will be opened and, at the request of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, we will first give the floor to the representatives of the political groups in the negotiations. The Riigikogu will not take a decision to close the discussion. That's the order. Let's start the debate. Please, Minister of Foreign Affairs Marina Kaljurand!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-11_U11	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Members of the Riigikogu, diplomatic corps, guests! Ladies and gentlemen! Security was the subject of last year's foreign policy presentation. Today, Estonia's foreign policy is also a priority in terms of global security, regional security, and above all the security of the Republic of Estonia. That is what I am talking about today. The political unity of our NATO allies and a common understanding of the threats and needs facing the alliance have been and is very important for Estonia. It is gratifying that in 2015 the visible assurance of Estonian security continued with the help of our allies, our allies shared our threat picture and understood us. As stated in the basic document of Estonia's security policy, NATO's transatlantic collective defence is the cornerstone of the security and national defence of Europe as a whole, therefore Estonia. The presence of the Allied forces is an additional guarantee of our security, and we are grateful to those who contribute to our security with their presence. At the same time, the work on strengthening NATO's eastern wing is far from complete. The security situation in Europe, also in our region, is still unstable and will remain this way for an unpredictable period. We are pleased that the United States plans to quadruple defence expenditure aimed at increasing Europe's security, thereby increasing the US presence in Europe. I am also pleased that Britain has decided to send additional warships and additional military units to the Baltic Sea. It is important that these abilities are directed to where they are most needed now. The main driving force behind the decisions of the previous NATO summit was the immediate reaction to Russia's aggression against Ukraine. The next NATO summit in Warsaw must take a broader and longer-term view. NATO needs to determine how to deal with the challenges of both the East and the South. How to act unitedly in a new, uncertain and, as I said, unpredictable security environment. I also mention enlargement and partnership when I talk about the future of NATO. The effort to achieve membership will provide an additional momentum for development in the candidate countries. We therefore consider it very important that NATO's open door policy continues. It is positive that military cooperation with NATO's closest partners, Finland and Sweden, has increased. NATO membership remains the most important element of security policy for Estonia and work on strengthening NATO remains a priority for the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Our security policy does not end with the allocation of 2% of the country's total production to national defence. This cannot be measured solely by the number of soldiers of defence forces and allies on Estonian soil and by the number of armed forces. Security is a much broader concept. This includes, for example, energy security. The direct investments made in Estonia, the number of tourists visiting us, our trade, or our economic relations, are directly dependent on the security environment. Our wider security includes our entire global position and international relations. All Estonian diplomacy is currently working to ensure our security. Paraphrasing one former president: 'Diplomats fight for peace even when the whole world seems to want war. 'Dear Members of the Riigikogu! Estonia's wider security depends very much on our ability to act as a serious cooperation partner on the international stage. Many escalating conflicts once again draw our attention to the situation of human rights and democratic values in the world. I stress: guaranteeing and spreading such values is our main goal in world politics. The most important body dealing with these issues remains the UN and the UN Security Council. This year, Estonia will have 25 years of membership of the UN. During this time, we have grown up and become active in the United Nations, and we will continue our active activities. In 2016, Estonia will perform the duties of both the President of the Office of the United Nations Children's Fund and the Vice-President of the Office of the United Nations Social and Economic Council. In April of this year, Estonia is applying for membership of the UN Committee on Women's Status for the period 2017 to 2021. We are also taking an active part in the UN Security Council's reform of working methods. In 2015, our contribution to UN peacekeeping increased considerably when we decided to participate in the United Nations peacekeeping mission in Lebanon with up to 50 active troops in the composition of the Finnish and Irish Joint Battalions. We also increased our participation in Mali's mission. It is understandable that during the previous years we were very focused on ensuring our security, particularly in the regional dimension. We were very busy integrating into the European Union and NATO. The world has changed in the meantime and global security problems have increased. It's a challenge for us too. We need to work even more to ensure that the UN is able to carry out its main statutory task of maintaining international peace and security. In 2016, we will continue to work to ensure that Estonia becomes a non-permanent member of the Security Council during the period 2020‐2021. A member of the Security Council would consolidate Estonia as an active member of today's world. We want to participate in this decision-making process to contribute to peace and security in the world. We want to stand up for the spread of human rights and contribute to mitigating the situation of people affected by conflicts. I think it is time for Estonia to deal with equality issues also at international level. The objective of UN Security Council Resolution 1325 'Women, Peace and Security' is to take gender perspective into account in resolving all conflicts. As a result of a change in the nature of military conflicts, most of the victims of conflict are civilians. Women and children are the most vulnerable of them. It is positive that promoting equality, involving women, enabling education for children, including girls, and improving the situation of women and children in both conflict situations and post-conflict situations are also priorities for Estonia's development cooperation. I am pleased that, as a country, we were able to work for the promotion of human rights during the period of membership of the UN Human Rights Council in 2013-2015. Human rights and the rule of law issues on the Internet have also set Estonia as its main topics for the Presidency of the Committee of Ministers of the Council of Europe from May to November this year. Dear listeners, In foreign policy terms, 2015 was extremely difficult for Estonia and Europe and 2016 will not be easier. There was an increase in instability at the borders of the European Union. It will soon be two years from the occupation of Crimea and the beginning of the war in Eastern Ukraine. Two years will pass from the day one country decided again to violate the security regime based on international law and international principles. We know that one country cannot repeal international law or international legal order. But one country can undermine international security and create uncertainty. We also know that our actions and omissions must be held accountable. Europe forgave Russia in less than a year of Georgia's war. Our task is to ensure that the occupation of Crimea and military activities in Ukraine do not go either. Such behaviour must not become a normal practice. It is therefore very important that the international annexation of Crimea is not recognised, just as the occupation of the Baltic States was not recognised. The sanctions imposed on Russia bear the message that there is a price for breaking international rules. There has been talk in recent months about the restoration of the Western-Russian dialogue. Estonia has never opposed a dialogue with Russia. I myself met my colleague, the Russian Foreign Minister, in September. There were political consultations between the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in Tallinn in November, but I am convinced that we must put the most difficult issues at the heart of the Western Russian dialogue. The launch of cooperation must be made conditional on compliance with the Minsk agreements, on the return of Russia to respect for the principles of European security. As long as the commitments made are not met, the pressure on sanctions must continue and Ukraine must remain at the heart of Europe's attention. Sanctions are not an end in themselves, but by combining their effective implementation with diplomatic efforts and other foreign policy instruments, common European foreign policy objectives can be achieved. It is important to find a solution to the conflict in Ukraine that respects and guarantees the sovereignty and territorial integrity of Ukraine. In the near future, the aim must be to comply with the Minsk agreements. We must not forget that Ukraine is the victim of Russia's aggression. As a result, over 9,000 people have died. Humanitarian aid is estimated to require more than five million people. 1.1 million people have already left Ukraine, with 1.6 million other internal refugees. This is the price the Ukrainian people have paid for their freedom. This is the context in which the Ukrainian Government is trying to implement reforms. We must also remember that the events in Maidan two years ago began because the Ukrainian people wanted to live as a free nation in a free country. They wanted to do what they didn't actually do 20 years ago. The Ukrainian people expressed their wish to create a society that respects European values and rights. The Ukrainians' efforts to integrate towards Europe are a great recognition for the whole of the European Union. This proves how strong the image of Europe is as a bearer of democratic values. The second Maidan also committed to the Ukrainian leadership. Ukraine's future will not be decided first on the battlefield. The future of Ukraine will be strengthened by successful reforms. Significant progress has been made in the economy, banking and energy sectors. I understand the difficult situation in Ukraine, but I would still expect more from the Ukrainian Government. If Ukraine fails to break free from corruption and to create a rule of law, the reforms will fail. Estonia is ready to continue supporting Ukraine in implementing its reforms. Ukraine is a long-term and priority development cooperation partner country for Estonia and we will continue to support it this year. Estonia's three priority areas for development cooperation with Ukraine are the development of democracy, the introduction of good governance and support for the business environment and education this year. I stress that development cooperation is an instrument in Estonia's foreign policy thinking, which has a directly security-related character. The European Union's Eastern Partnership policy is also unambiguously linked to the assistance of Ukraine. This has been and will remain at the heart of Estonia's foreign policy. Today we can also talk about success stories. For two years Moldova has enjoyed a visa-free regime with the European Union. Georgia and Ukraine are also moving in this direction. All three countries implement the Association Agreement, which is an important roadmap for the reform process and brings these countries closer to Europe. Estonia's view is that the European Union must continue its open door policy. Integration with the European Union is the only policy that will ensure progress in the Balkans and Eastern Partnership countries. All nations who are able to meet the criteria set must have the opportunity to integrate with Europe if they wish. We have not been able to come up with a better neighbourhood policy than this so far. We must also be prepared for temporary stagnation or even for setbacks. We must not get tired. Our support for the democratic reforms of the Eastern partners and for the integration of the European Union must be firm, systematic and consistent. The last few years have not been easy for Moldova. In 15 months, six governments have changed in Moldova. The current government took office on 20 January. a sent out protests with tens of thousands of participants. The Moldovan Government has promised to continue reforms, fight corruption and complete the resolution of the banking crisis. Yesterday I met the Georgian Foreign Minister, who thanked Estonia for its support for both political and financial support. Estonia is a lively example for Georgia that democratic reforms are being carried out when politicians listen to the people and elevate the interests of the country and the people from personal, including commercial, interests. In addition to Moldova, Georgia and Ukraine, it is important to continue developing relations with other partner countries, Belarus, Armenia and Azerbaijan, who do not want to associate with the European Union, but are interested in sectoral cooperation. Each country must be free to choose from. The European Union must make a more and better distinction between national policies within the Eastern Partnership and offer individual opportunities for cooperation. The new crises in Europe and its neighbourhood have brought attention to other problems that appear to be more important at the moment. In this context, it is essential to continue to implement the Eastern Partnership as an appropriate policy, as it is also part of the security of the region. European attention must be paid to the Eastern Partnership countries and integrated into the rule of law. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! We like a strong, growing and expanding European Union. Five or six years ago, it seemed to some that this is what the European Union is now and always. Unfortunately, since the last major economic downturn and the euro crisis, the challenges have steadily increased. 2015 will go down in history with brutal acts of terror in the heart of Europe in Paris, January, attacking the editorial office of Charlie Hebdo, November attacks at the national stadium, the Bataclan theater, the streets and the cafeteria. These attacks very cruelly and bloodyly reminded us that terrorists have no mercy on anyone or anything. Their aim is to achieve political goals through violence and to sow fear and hatred. For the first time in the history of the European Union, a country, France, requested assistance under Article 42 (7) of the Treaty of Lisbon, which concerns the use of military, political and civilian means by the countries of the European Union, in order to assist the Member States against which an armed attack has been committed. In response, the Member States, including Estonia, expressed their solidarity and offered assistance to France. Daesh, a terrorist organisation responsible for the attacks in Paris, has declared a caliphate, conquered approximately a third of the territory of Iraq and Syria and is attempting to expand its activities to Libya. Terrorism has no justification and terrorism must be combated globally and in a coordinated manner, using all possible instruments, including military, anti-terrorist financing and social media. Estonia participates in the 65-member international coalition led by the US. Estonia is a member of the military assistance working group of the anti-Daesh Coalition. We have supported the fight against Daesh with weapons and ammunition. We intend to participate in training the Iraqi Armed Forces with military instructors. It is very positive that the countries of the region, including the United Arab Emirates, Saudi Arabia, Jordan and Morocco, have joined the Daesh coalition. It is extremely regrettable that Russia's military activities in Syria have created additional suffering for the Syrian people and put the peace negotiations into a deadlock. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! It is up to us whether we let ourselves be influenced and intimidated by terrorists. It is a lucky thing that so far no one of our countrymen has been victimized by terrorists. I call for submission not to terrorists, but to live, work and travel as we are accustomed to doing so. At the same time, I call for vigilance and caution. I call for an equal sign not to be drawn between terrorists and war refugees, terrorists and all Muslims. I call for every attempt to incite hatred and hatred and not to become tools in the hands of terrorists and other inciters. We will do our utmost to prevent terrorism from becoming a new normality. Freedom and human values are more powerful and stronger than terrorism. The risk of religious radicalisation and terrorism is greatly exacerbated by the increase in the number of failed countries in recent years. Religious extremism would not have such an opportunity if political, economic, religious and ethnic conflicts and confusion were not to be created for the spread of radical ideologies. As of today, it is difficult to predict when direct conflicts could end in Syria, Iraq, Yemen and Libya. The Iranian nuclear treaty creates prerequisites for the beginning of the political process. This agreement is undoubtedly a victory for international diplomacy in recent years. However, nothing predicts a rapid and effective political process in this region. Achieving an already effective ceasefire in Syria would be a major breakthrough in itself. This means that instability in the southern neighbourhood of the European Union will not diminish in the coming years. The European Union must pay serious attention to these conflicts. For the time being, it would be a success if the number of failed countries did not increase. Stability in the neighbourhood of the European Union also means instability and pressure on the borders of the European Union. Last year is marked by a flood of growing refugees. More than a million migrants reached Europe. Such figures were last seen in the times of the Balkans crisis. However, the migration crisis must be put in perspective. This is not just a problem for the countries of origin and Europe, it is a global issue. Today, there are 250 million people in the world who are defined as international migrants. 86% of them are in developing countries. Those who speak of mass immigration here in Mary's Land are either mistaken or misleading. The Syrian civil war has produced more than four million refugees. But this is not an insurmountable crisis for Europe. For the EU with a population of 500 million, one million refugees are 0.2% of the Union's population. By comparison, in Jordan, the number of immigrants caused by crises of various times is 56% of the population, while in recent years the Syrian crisis has resulted in a further 20%. If, a few years ago, boat refugees from the Middle East and Africa to southern Europe were the concern of individual European Union countries, the migration crisis is now a European issue. Twelve years as a member of the European Union have taught us that if we are to be heard and supported on issues that concern us, we must be ready to listen and support our partners in matters that are important to them. Now is the time when we too are expected to help. We must show that we are an equal part of Europe. It is regrettable that the European Union has failed to implement political decisions on the relocation of refugees. It is a disgrace that we have managed to relocate fewer than 500 war refugees. It is irresponsible for refugees who are fleeing, fearing for their lives, who seek peace and whose only desire is to raise their children in a peaceful place. Here are some concrete examples that we consider to be important in dealing with the migration crisis. It is important that decisions already taken in the European Union and with other parties to the migration crisis are implemented quickly and effectively. Let us mention, for example, the availability of primary reception centres and the issues of relocation of arrivals. We also consider it important that, apart from addressing the immediate consequences, return and readmission policies should be stepped up and a clear message given to third countries: those who do not need international protection will be returned. This does not mean closing the doors of Europe, including Estonia, and turning its back, but following the rules in force. We have always received persons who wish to come to Estonia to work, visit or study, and we will continue to do so in accordance with the current procedures. Neither Estonia nor any other Europe can be closed and xenophobic in nature. In managing the migration crisis, it is important to prevent criminal networks that threaten human trafficking and people's lives. We therefore support the next stages of the European Union military maritime operation EUNAVFOR Med Sophia in the Central Mediterranean. Today, NATO defence ministers are discussing how NATO can contribute to the fight against human trafficking in the Mediterranean Sea, the Aegean Sea. The greatest challenge for the unity of the European Union in the context of the migration crisis is the strengthening of common border protection and the preservation of the Schengen Agreement. I understand the countries' desire to temporarily close their borders in order to get migration under control. However, this can only be a temporary solution if we do not want the Schengen system to collapse. The Schengen Agreement is one of the symbols of the European Union, symbolising free movement between 26 European countries. However, the Schengen Agreement is much more than that; it has irreplaceable practical value. Every year, people cross the European Union's internal borders about 1.3 billion times. Each year, some 57 million trucks carry around EUR 2.8 billion of goods across the internal borders of the European Union. We must therefore do everything we can to prevent the collapse of Schengen. If necessary, we must be prepared to amend the Schengen Agreement if it is the price of free and secure movement. The European Union's external borders must start to function and withstand any illegal border crossing. We therefore support the rapid promotion of the new border agency initiative. We also support the creation of additional border guards in the European Union. We responded to Slovenia's request for help when they asked to send police officers to deal with the refugee fire and to ensure order. We also sent reinforcements to Greece through Frontex. As a whole, we participated in 15 Frontex operations last year and, to the same extent or, if possible, to a greater extent, we wish to continue to participate this year. Together, we must secure the European Union's external borders, stop criminal trafficking in the Mediterranean Sea and find safe homes for war refugees. We have solidarity with Europe. Europe also faces an additional challenge - integrating refugees into our societies. In Europe, for some reason, it is often thought that others are somehow adopting our common values and principles. It's supposed to be natural. Our own experience teaches that integration can be a very long and complex process. It takes patience, respect, but also perseverance. This is a very serious challenge in a situation where European economies do not grow very quickly. In my search for solutions to the refugee crisis, I stress cooperation with Turkey as the last important factor. Estonia has always supported closer ties between Turkey and the European Union. Now this cooperation must reach a whole new level. We need to move forward here, both in terms of curbing uncontrolled migration and in terms of Turkey's European integration. In addition to Turkey, we and our European partners must work towards mitigating and resolving the refugee crisis in Lebanon and Jordan. On the subject of the refugee crisis, I consider it one of the most serious challenges ever faced by the European Union. Combined with other problems, it is clear that Member States will have to make very difficult decisions very quickly over the next few years. So far, we have managed to cope with Europe's problems only because we have managed to maintain European unity on the most important issues. I am optimistic about Europe's future today. This is due to the knowledge that European leaders are actually conscious of what is at stake. Reaching the current principles of action of the European Union has been a major effort. Wise people and leaders can appreciate it. Remember what Europe was like before 1945 or 1991. When the euro crisis broke out, many claimed that the euro could not be saved. It was a simple economic calculation that did not take into account Europe's ability to manage processes. But it was thanks to the will of the decision-makers, and certainly also to the support of the majority of the people, that the euro was preserved as a functioning currency. I see that the will to continue with the European Union clearly exists here. That is why I am saying that we are still coping with the challenges. It is impossible to overestimate the importance of unity in critical times. We have been united in Europe and Estonia not only by fighting against something but also by standing up for values. It was symbolic when the whole of the European Union stood for the release of our citizen, Eston Suitcase.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-11_U12	Good minister, do you need more time?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-11_U13	Can I ask you another question? Yes, I'm asking for more time!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-11_U14	Let's do it. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-11_U15	Thank you. In order to preserve European unity and the future, it is very important to avoid the emergence of processes that break down the European Union. Let us not forget that the European Union is, above all, a common economic space that can only function and develop on the basis of common values. For Estonia, Britain's departure from the European Union would be a sad event. The referendum is an internal matter for the United Kingdom and it is for the people there to decide. However, Estonia certainly does not want one of its most important security policy partners to leave the European Union. On the issue of Greece and the euro area, we want Greece to succeed in the future in monetary union. For Estonia, it is important that no crisis is resolved at the cost of the unity of the European Union. A united and strong European Union is the vital interest of Estonia. Against this background, let me remind you of what President of the European Council, Donald Tusk, said to the European Parliament a year ago: 'Europe is not old, exhausted or barren. Europe is young, dynamic and viable. Our continent is the best place to live in the world. " We should remind ourselves more often that Estonia is part of the best continent in the world, whose economic performance is our business for both good and bad. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! Estonia's cooperation in the Baltic Sea region is very important in strengthening our regional security. Much of this cooperation remains within the framework of the European Union. Our diplomacy and foreign policy will continue their efforts to develop regional projects and bilateral relations. Baltic cooperation is and will always be special to us. I am convinced that it is in the interests of all the Baltic States to have even closer relations with the Nordic countries and Poland. The Baltic Sea region is the most important economic space for us. The Nordic region is historically known as a region using innovative and modern technologies. The implementation of e-solutions would be one way of reducing bureaucratic obstacles to cross-border economic interaction and cooperation. This would significantly accelerate economic relations between countries and provide additional momentum for economic growth in the region. The security of Estonia depends on many other components, including Estonia's reputation, the success of the Estonian economy, effective foreign trade policy, well thought out energy policy, development cooperation, business diplomacy. Estonia has always been and will always remain a supporter of the liberal market economy, a supporter of the free trade agreements of the European Union, Canada, the European Union. Our security also depends on how we view democracy and the rule of law, human rights detention and tolerance. European values are that no one is discriminated against on the grounds of their nationality, religious beliefs, gender, race and sexual orientation. For Estonia, the main thing is to build on a value world where rules and agreements apply and respect human dignity is respected. Good listeners! When I conclude my first foreign policy speech here before you, I would like to emphasise once again the most important thing I wanted to say to you. Firstly, the next few years will require the Estonian External Action Service to work towards the stability of our security environment. We are working for the further strengthening of NATO. Secondly, the Russian-Ukraine conflict remains at the heart of our attention and we consider Ukraine's support for territorial integrity and sovereignty to be our greatest priority. Thirdly, our priority for the coming years will be to manage and resolve the migration crisis in Europe. Estonia has been successful because our foreign policy priorities have been clear and firm. We have not allowed internal policy to influence our foreign policy course and have not sacrificed foreign policy to domestic policy. The first Estonian foreign minister, Lennart Meri, has said that despite all the difficulties, Estonia has learned one important truth: if you want to be treated as a state, you must also act as a state. I would add to this: if we want to be treated as a reliable and responsible country, then this must also be done. This is what the people of Estonia expect of us, as our allies, partners and friends expect. Only in this way can we guarantee our security, only in this way can we ensure that we will never be alone again. Only in this way can we give our children a better Estonia, a better Europe, a better world. Thank you for your attention and I apologize for going over time.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-11_U16	And now the questions. Valdo Randpere, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-11_U17	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Minister, thank you very much. These big issues and the great foreign policy priorities became very clear to me. But I have a few little questions. Since I can only ask one question, I chose the most important one for myself. I'd like to hear a little more explanation from you about what happened to our shipguards in India. Since I have already become unclear about what they were arrested for, for which they were convicted, for which they were acquitted or in reverse order, and what happens next. Of course, I would like to finally hear the assurance that the Estonian Ministry of Foreign Affairs has done and will do everything in its power to get the Estonian shipguards back home quickly.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-11_U18	Member of the Riigikogu, thank you for this question. To begin with, I would like to say that the protection of the rights of Estonian citizens and our compatriots, their representation abroad, is and will remain Estonia's priority, the priority of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, there is no question of this. We deal with basically four consular cases every day. If you come to this particular case, then indeed, 14 of our citizens are in prison in India on the basis of a conviction. The process has been going on for nearly two years. During this time, different courts have convicted them, acquitted them, and then convicted them again. With regard to the judgment that has been handed down, I have already said publicly, and I repeat this also now, that we were looking forward to a more positive decision. This was based on an assessment by our lawyers who said that Estonian citizens, shipguards, were not guilty of the crimes in which they were accused. The reality is that they were found guilty under the most complex section of the ship's possession of a weapon without permission. What happens next? Our consul communicates daily with the ship's guards who are currently in prison. He makes their lives as comfortable as he gets there, starting with the transfer of mattresses and ending with additional food, medications, etc. and communication with his loved ones. The ship's guards have said they're gonna appeal the verdict. Their lawyers have prepared an appeal, and now they are waiting for proceedings at the next court office to which they appealed. At the same time, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is preparing other solutions. Other solutions may include pardoning, for which a prayer must be made. This request may be made by the Minister of Foreign Affairs and may be made by the ship's defences themselves, but it is important that the judgment has entered into force by that time. In this case, this cannot be done because they appealed. The second option we are preparing is the agreement on the exchange of prisoners. Yes, I say the agreement on the exchange of prisoners, because according to the initial analysis of the Ministry of Justice, the same crime is punishable in Estonia. If this act had been committed on the territory of Estonia, in the territorial waters of Estonia, the detention penalty would also have followed. We have essentially agreed on an agreement with India on the exchange of prisoners, and at some point we are offering it to our countrymen. That's one choice. It is up to them to decide whether they will continue legal proceedings, the outcome of which is virtually impossible to predict, the duration of which is impossible to predict, or whether they agree that they can come to Estonia and bear the missing penalty share in Estonia. But I want to reiterate that we communicate with them and with their loved ones every day, inform them of what is happening. We now know that they have appealed the verdict and their lawyers are preparing an appeal to a higher court. Whatever they do, whatever decision they take, we support them and help them. We have so far helped them with a non-guaranteed loan, i.e. we have issued them with a non-guaranteed loan of EUR 120000, which is an extraordinary thing in Estonia's practice. But we have taken into account the exceptional nature of this matter: 14 Estonian citizens are far from home, culturally and in very difficult circumstances. Our aim is to do everything we can to enable them to return to their homeland.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-11_U19	Imre Sooäär, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-11_U20	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Honourable Minister of Foreign Affairs! Unfortunately, the time limit does not allow all subjects to be discussed, but you also mentioned the global Estonian in your written review. In fact, according to various data, there are now nearly 100,000 Estonian citizens in the world. No one knows the exact number, because they are not obliged to register at foreign offices. However, our community in the world has enormous potential to contribute to Estonia's success. Through these networks, we would have the opportunity to win new markets, introduce Estonia as a travel destination. All this diplomats don't make it on their own in our foreign missions. What is the Ministry of Foreign Affairs planning to do in order to better involve the external Estonian community in the service of the Republic of Estonia and give them the opportunity to do so? In the past century, they played an important role in contributing to Estonia's independence, and now they expect new challenges. Do you personally think that Estonian citizens and their descendants living abroad could retain Estonian citizenship? It would give them even more incentive. Latvia has already done so by allowing double citizenship for certain countries by choice...
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-11_U21	Thank you, Imre!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-11_U22	Why can't Estonia do this?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-11_U23	Member of the Riigikogu, thank you for this question. Yes, indeed, it is estimated that there are currently 120000 to 200000 people from Estonia living outside Estonia. This is very estimated because we can formally rely on the population register data and no one really has an obligation to register. I very much agree with you that Estonians and our compatriots living abroad have a great potential for introducing Estonia, introducing Estonian culture. In today's global world, where more and more people live abroad, this potential is particularly high. Our embassies are constantly communicating with the organisations of the external state. Our embassies have their own lists for people living abroad to provide cultural information as well as very practical information, whether related to a passport or an ID card or other activities. If we look around, who has made Estonia internationally known? These are mostly Estonian cultural figures, athletes. They are believed much more than diplomats when they speak about Estonia. I always call them the ambassadors of the Republic of Estonia in the countries where they live, where they work and where they introduce Estonia. What do we do now? At the moment, we are still working on global networks. In the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, we have started to create networks where people would already be made more interested: business people, people who want to invest in Estonia or do business with Estonia, cultural people with whom we can exchange more cultural information. We have supported Estonian schools, doing so in cooperation with the Ministry of Education and Research and the Ministry of Culture. Our role is also to introduce foreign Estonians, compatriots living outside Estonia, what are the opportunities to come to Estonia to study Estonian, learn Estonian, etc. I believe friends are never too many. I have seen a wide variety of Estonians living abroad. I have seen second generation Estonians who no longer speak Estonian. I have seen the fourth generation of Estonians, who are the largest Estonian patriots, who hold the Estonian language and culture. I think that, yes, we must give citizenship to Estonian citizens after birth even if they live outside Estonia, just as more and more countries in the world do. It would rather be double citizenship than no citizenship at all. As a small country, we must especially appreciate every person who is our friend, our citizen, our countryman, who will help us introduce to the world, who has already done an excellent job and will continue to do so.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-11_U24	Aadu Black, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-11_U25	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable Minister of Foreign Affairs! You spoke very sympatheticly about the Eastern Partnership programme, which is also one of the priorities of the Estonian Presidency. As I understand it, it concerns not only the activities of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs but also other areas, such as the direction of scientific cooperation. It is in this area that Estonia has important prerequisites, capabilities, if you wish, mission feeling and results. But give good advice on what to say, for example, to some of the leading officials in the field of the Ministry of Education and Research, who will inform their subordinates, who have carried out a traditional Eastern Partnership programme in cooperation with Georgia, Ukraine, Moldova and other countries, that they are moving in the completely wrong direction, that they must be released on the day, and that they should immediately have their resignation on the table. It's a story about life itself. Does this show that there are several policies in Estonia, or does some authorities conduct their foreign policy?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-11_U26	Member of the Riigikogu, thank you for your question. I don't know how to comment on this particular case. I can simply say that the Eastern Partnership is important to us. It is our moral duty to help and support those countries that want to carry out democratic reforms that want closer relations, integration with Europe, just as we have been helped. We would not have made progress if our neighbours and other democratic countries had not supported us financially in the early 1990s, with experts, with advice, politically. You just mentioned Georgia. I met yesterday with the Georgian Foreign Minister who said that he did not know any areas in Georgia where he would not cooperate with Estonia. So I very much hope, and I know that Estonian ministries will cooperate. Development cooperation not only means the Ministry of Foreign Affairs; development cooperation also means the involvement of other ministries. For example, Georgia is taking over our tax system in close cooperation with the Ministry of Finance. For years, the Ministry of Agriculture has supported Georgia in implementing the FTA and building structures necessary for food safety. So I dare confirm once again that the Eastern Partnership is important to us, we are working on it, we are continuing to deal with it and we call on everyone to participate in the development cooperation competitions launched by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, where everyone can present projects and implement their ideas on how to help the Eastern Partnership countries better.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-11_U27	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-11_U28	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister of Foreign Affairs, There is one such saying that international relations are, in fact, doing their will to the other party, whether voluntarily or not. Powers, or this last option, do not belong to the arsenal of Estonian foreign policy. What are the strengths with which a smaller country, often a faster player, can carry out its own will in international relations? One more question, too. You're a very experienced diplomat. It is certainly interesting to hear what personal qualities help to assert themselves in this increasingly complex global world. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-11_U29	Member of the Riigikogu, thank you for this question. That's an interesting question. Estonian foreign policy or foreign communication has often been accused of having little meaning to carry out. I absolutely disagree with that. The methods with which we implement our foreign policy have changed. Yes, we no longer have the objective of joining the European Union and NATO at the beginning of the 1990s, and I very much hope that these goals will never come back. But what we can do and how we can implement our foreign policy is to work together with our allies and partners. That means 28 votes instead of our vote. This is also the reason why our actions are aimed at finding compromises in the European Union and NATO. We are oriented towards ensuring that the European Union and NATO remain united, strong and deliver a coherent, understandable, clear message. That's what we work for every day. When I look at how the European Union and NATO have viewed the current security situation, when I look at the allies on our territory, when I look at the very same attitude of the European Union towards the sanctions imposed against Russia's aggression, I dare say that we have been able to explain our situation to our allies, partners and friends. And we will continue to explain this, diplomacy is a daily job. I think that the golden rule is this: when we view the problems of others with sympathy, try to solve their problems with others, we can assume that if we have problems, if we have problems, we will be helped. The European Union and NATO have shown this most vividly.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-11_U30	Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-11_U31	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Thank you, Minister for Foreign Affairs, for my part, for this meaningful report. You also said in your presentation that the Baltic Sea region is the most important economic space for us. Here we have our most important export partners, and the success of our economy depends on our exports. Our companies are certainly ready and able to export competitive products beyond this economic space, towards Asia, towards Africa. As we are about to organise the network of foreign representations and review the compositions, have you also considered how to increase the role of existing foreign representations, particularly in supporting our companies in export markets, entering them, creating contacts...
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-11_U32	Question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-11_U33	What are the opportunities to strengthen the role of embassies in supporting exporting companies?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-11_U34	I thank you for this question, honourable Member of the Riigikogu. Yes, indeed, in the near future we will review both the functions and structure of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. The fact is, we need to think seriously about closing the embassy. So far, we have opened embassies, but given the current international picture, given the financial resources and people working at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, we feel that we are no longer able to maintain such an embassy network. What will be an embassy network, with this plan I will come to the Riigikogu Foreign Affairs Committee, I will also discuss it with other members of the Riigikogu and, of course, with members of the government. What is important, however, is the protection and representation of the economic interests of Estonia, and it remains our priority, as it is and will remain our priority to protect our citizens. Yes, perhaps the concept of an economic official will no longer be used in foreign affairs, or if you look at a telephone book, the name of an economic official is behind the name of an individual diplomat. However, this does not mean that the embassy does not engage in business diplomacy and promotion of economic interests. This is done by every Estonian foreign representation, the ambassador, the diplomats who work in this foreign representation. Our diplomats will, of course, do so in cooperation with EAS. Some very strong supporters of economic interests are honorary consuls, who we have in 83 countries in total around 200. Better use of these will also help to promote the economic interests of Estonia. It is very pleasant to see that Estonian entrepreneurs increasingly turn to our foreign offices. Let me just give you a couple of numbers. In 2015, 1500 queries were processed in our embassies, which were submitted by Estonian companies. The export of food, agricultural products, IT and timber products was mostly interested. How successful our companies are in foreign markets is also very much dependent on the companies themselves. The better they are prepared, the better they have done their homework, researched the market in an interesting country, the more successful they can be there. The better they have done their homework, the better we can help. Very much depends on the question of where the embassy is asked for, how specific this question is, whether it concerns a specific area or an economic region, a particular state in the United States, whatever it is. I therefore also call on businesses, before they go to the foreign market or turn to embassies, to do their homework, to study as much as they can, to help us, and our answers are much more comprehensive, more practical and help businesses much more. But what I want to hear is that business diplomacy is and remains Estonia's priority. Even if the embassy does not find a diplomat whose name is written 'economic official', it still deals with economic matters, so does the ambassador or some other diplomat.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-11_U35	Mark Soosaar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-11_U36	Dear Minister for Foreign Affairs, Marina Kaljurand! Listening to your excellent talk of world peace, I was thinking of the nations of the world whose folklore may be impossible not to find a subject where goodness, honesty and wisdom will conquer evil and violence. And then I thought that maybe Estonia's destiny would also be a better relationship with its eastern neighbour. The fact is, the presidents haven't made any state visits so far. What do you suggest to the new president, who will be elected shortly, should he also make a state visit to his colleague's eastern neighbor? If the new president were to be you, would you have the courage to do this?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-11_U37	Member of the Riigikogu, thank you for this question. I can say right away that it is in Estonia's interest to have good neighbourly, respectful and mutually beneficial relations with all countries, including our neighbours, including our eastern neighbour. Our relations with Russia today are not what they might be, but unfortunately, the key to improving relations in Estonia is not. This key is in Russia. The relations between Russia and the European Union are similar to those between Estonia and Russia. Cooperation has been suspended in some areas, with contacts still in some areas. As I said, dialogue must be held, communicated and spoken to everyone. But what is important in this regard? What is important is that until Ukraine's integrity, Ukraine's independence has been restored, we cannot restore normal, normal relations with Russia. We cannot repeat the mistake made when the war in Georgia and Georgia's occupation were forgotten in a year. As far as contacts and relations are concerned, yes, I have met my Russian colleague. We discussed all the issues of our bilateral relations very constructively with him. If he wants to see me again, I'm always ready to do it. I think it does not matter whether I meet him in Tallinn, Geneva, Brussels or anywhere else, because dialogue, especially between diplomats, must take place, especially between foreign ministers and foreign ministries. With regard to high-level visits, I cannot imagine that such a visit could take place in the current situation, where Russia is still unpredictable and aggressive, still does not respect the rules of democracy or take into account the security situation in Europe.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-11_U38	Kalle Laane, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-11_U39	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Good Minister of Foreign Affairs! First of all, thank you for your speech and your meaningful answers. My question concerns the preservation or non-preservation of the Schengen visa space. The European Union's think tanks have expressed the view that, if border control between countries in the region is restored, trade will fall by 10 to 20% of GDP, or EUR 100 billion, or 0.8%. Of course, this can also be compared to the introduction of a 3% trade tax. Some members of think tanks have also thought that perhaps those Member States that are unable to control the external borders as Schengen border countries should be excluded from Schengen. What do you think of that?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-11_U40	Member of the Riigikogu, thank you for this question. I think it is in the interests of Estonia and the European Union to maintain the Schengen visa space with all the countries that are currently Schengen members. In my speech, I spoke about the euro zone, the crisis in the euro zone. There were speculations, too, that it might be easier for a country to leave the euro zone and we would continue without that country in the future. I would draw a parallel with Schengen here. Right now, we can do everything we can to keep Schengen from collapsing. If, for example, some provisions need to be amended to change the Dublin rules, then I think we need to be prepared to discuss it, to discuss it. And if the cost of maintaining Schengen is to change the rules, then I think we need to take a positive view of it. The free movement of goods, the free movement of persons, is one of the fundamental values of the European Union. It is one of the cornerstones on which Europe remains, on which Europe has been proud. If Schengen should collapse, it will be a blow to the image of the European Union, and, as you mentioned, it will also have economic consequences. I certainly don't support that. I see that we still have a chance to save Schengen, and we have to do that. If some countries decide to temporarily close the border and introduce border controls now, I think it needs to be seen with understanding. But it can be a temporary measure, it cannot be a permanent measure.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-11_U41	Liina Kersna, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-11_U42	Thank you, good manager. Honourable Minister of Foreign Affairs! I would ask about Central Asia. Central Asia is an important area for the European Union in terms of energy policy and security policy. The stable and democratic development of this region is certainly also in the interests of the European Union, including Estonia. Prime Minister Andrus Ansip attended his term of office in almost all Central Asian countries. One of the reasons for his moves was that the Member States in this region believe us more than the leaders of the old Member States of the European Union, because we have a shared history in part. How do you see Estonia's role in relations with Central Asian countries?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-11_U43	Member of the Riigikogu, thank you for this question. Yes, indeed, Central Asia is important to the European Union, and also to Estonia, precisely from the aspects you mentioned: security policy, taking into account even Afghanistan's neighbourhood, and energy policy. Yeah, it's important. I think that a few years ago we did not have that much time or did not have the capacity to deal more seriously with Central Asia. After entering the European Union, the picture changed, and as a Member State of the European Union, we are, if you could say so, one of the experts in Central Asia and perhaps some of the spokespersons. The countries of Central Asia really prefer to communicate with the Baltic countries, because whether we like to remember history or not, for 50 years we shared a destiny and therefore know each other better than perhaps other countries. Prime Minister Ansip did indeed visit the countries of Central Asia. The immediate result was also that in 2011, we opened the region's first embassy in Astana, so we have an ambassador present in the region. As of today, we will cover all Central Asian republics through Uzbekistan's Riga. Similarly, the Central Asian countries have appointed their Estonian ambassadors. They are not located in Tallinn, but in other capitals, but non-resident ambassadors are mentioned, and this is always very important for the development of bilateral relations. We must listen to what the countries of Central Asia want from the European Union. They do not expect membership; they do not expect association agreements, but each country has its own interests. We must listen to them and help them again as long as they want to carry out democratic reforms as long as they want closer cooperation with the European Union. Estonia has very close cooperation with Kyrgyzstan today. Kyrgyzstan has asked us for help in introducing e-government, e-services and ICT services. We have done a number of projects with them, both within our development cooperation and through international organisations. So, yes, we have to deal with the Central Asia region even more. The Central Asian region is important for Estonia and the European Union at large.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-11_U44	Kristjan Kõljalg, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-11_U45	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Minister of Foreign Affairs! First of all, thank you for the excellent speech that praised the value-based foreign policy. As we know, the Estonian Police and Border Guard Board was also able to make one value-based decision and to grant one family a residence permit in Estonia. Do you think it would make sense for such humanitarian reasons to grant a residence permit in the future? The second issue that you could talk about a little bit more about is our priorities during the Presidency of the European Union.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-11_U46	Thank you for this question. Yes, I believe that we must have the opportunity to be more flexible in order to enable people to come to Estonia for humanitarian reasons and stay in Estonia. I know that the corresponding amendment is currently under preparation and procedure at the Ministry of the Interior. Humanity is once again one of Europe's fundamental values. But humanity does not automatically mean opening all borders, but it means granting protection under certain rules and issuing residence permits or visas. If our turn is a little rough, then yes, it needs to be changed. And as I said, the Ministry of the Interior has prepared a draft which provides that people may be allowed to live in Estonia, issue a visa or residence permit for humanitarian reasons as well. As far as the Estonian Presidency is concerned, indeed, the Estonian Presidency is approaching and preparations are under way. As far as the Presidency's priorities are concerned, they can be finally agreed in 2017, when we see where the previous British Presidency has reached. When we see what are the issues where we can reconcile the interests of all the countries of the European Union and what are the issues where we can further develop the interests of the European Union. The discussions are already underway. I am now saying that our topics are innovation, the economy, the digital market and digital services. The theme of the Eastern Partnership, which is and will remain our priority, will certainly not disappear. The current Presidencies have shown that we must also be prepared for unexpected events. Thus, in 2018, there may be some kind of theme that we may not be able to see yet as much as we can or cannot mention in our priority. So flexibility stays. But right now, as I said, we are working on issues such as the economy, innovation, digital services and the Eastern Partnership. The plan also includes engagement events where civil society can play a part, members of the Riigikogu can participate. We can finally say what our Presidency priorities are and present them at the end of 2017.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-11_U47	Maris Lauri, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-11_U48	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister of Foreign Affairs, I was very pleased to hear from the previous responses that economic issues are important and especially export. I'm going to expand the question a little bit. Businesses usually move to markets that are well-known to us. It's clear that we have foreign missions there. But you should look a little further. Are there any solutions for these entrepreneurs, especially small businesses, who would like to go a little further than Finland and Sweden, but at the same time perhaps do not look at exotic markets such as China or such? What solutions could be available to them, or what support could be provided by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-11_U49	Thank you. Thank you for this question. In fact, we have foreign representation in quite a number of regions. Before we open a diplomatic mission, we'll always see why we open it. One reason is Estonia's economic interests. That is why we are in India, that is why we are in Shanghai, and why we are in Brazil, these were the places where entrepreneurs wanted the Estonian state, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the government to pay more attention and help them go to these markets. We consider both opening and closing the offices that the economic interests of Estonia will be represented as much as possible. Our businesses will certainly also receive help from other representations of the European Union. When we talk about the European Union's representations outside the European Union, there are European Union delegations with both economic and political officials. My advice is always to contact them. Where there is no representation, there is a representation of the European Union. The representative of the European Union also represents us and helps our entrepreneurs. On the basis of my current practice, I can say that, as a first step, Estonian companies should still go to another market in the European Union's internal market, try themselves there, especially when it comes to micro- or small enterprises, and only then look further, to third countries, I mean China, the United States of America, Canada and other such countries. What else can the State Department and the government do? We can create favourable conditions to promote business diplomacy, be it investment protection agreements or double taxation agreements with third countries, i.e. to establish a legal base. Businesses can then go to other countries and consider that they will be legally and contractually protected if they encounter problems there. Always recommend taking all risks into account. The further the market is, the more you have to learn about it, the more you have to learn about the advantages and disadvantages and make a decision on it. However, in Tallinn, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is the Department of Development and Foreign Trade, so that in today's globalised, connected world we can provide a great deal of advice and assistance from Tallinn as well. I would also stress that not only is the Ministry of Foreign Affairs here, but we are cooperating with the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, the EAS, the TSI, our honorary consuls. In fact, this network, which can and will help our businesses, is very broad. So you have to figure out who's in this network and who can help.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-11_U50	Eerik-Niles Kross, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-11_U51	Good manager! Good Minister of Foreign Affairs! This is about the situation in Syria. In recent days, the crisis has deepened there, it is a total humanitarian disaster. Even Washington and Brussels have begun to say that Russia's bombing is essentially supporting ISIS, not to mention that it is causing a new flow of refugees. How does Estonia see this situation? Are there any indications of how Europe is going to react to the Russians trying to bomb us with the lifting of sanctions? What do we do in this situation?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-11_U52	Member of the Riigikogu, thank you for this question. That is a very difficult question. Indeed, if, a few weeks ago, there was hope that representatives of the Syrian regime and opposition representatives would meet together and negotiate the future of their country, this process has now stopped again. I don't want to use the word 'in traffic', but this process certainly stands. And this is regrettable because the future of Syria lies in the hands of the Syrians themselves, the future of Syria cannot be decided by other countries over Syria's head and cannot be decided by military means alone. In this sense, the European Union, including Estonia, supports a non-military solution in Syria. We very much hope that all parties with influence over both representatives of the Syrian regime and representatives of the opposition will do their utmost to make sure that all parties come to the same room, come to the table and start discussing it. As regards the Russian air force's bombings over the last few weeks, it is indeed regrettable. Today, 250,000 people have died in Syria, half of the Syrian population, or 11 million people, are basically war refugees. They have not all left Syria, some have left their homes within Syria, but many have come to Turkey, and many have moved to the European Union. Now, after the last bombings, we can see that the flow of refugees is increasing. It's unfortunate what's going on in Alepo right now. From the international picture, we see how the weakest children, women, are basically starving because the aid does not reach them. And some people can't leave. Yes, it is regrettable that Russia sees its role in the fight against terrorism as it is today, i.e. by bombing most of the moderate opposition. There cannot be a solution in Syria if there is no cooperation. I'm not talking about new coalitions, I'm talking about basic information exchange and one goal. The aim must be to destroy terrorists in Syria, but not to bomb a moderate opposition or to cause even greater suffering to the Syrian civilian population. The solution must be peaceful, the solution can come through peace negotiations. In this sense, we fully support, have supported and will continue to support the work of UN Special Representative Staffan de Mistura. He's done a great job. It is regrettable that the negotiations that were supposed to start a week ago have not begun. At the moment, there is a stagnation in the peace negotiations in Syria.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-11_U53	Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-11_U54	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear Minister of Foreign Affairs, First of all, thank you for this comprehensive, very competent and comprehensive overview! Two years ago, I asked the then Foreign Minister, Urmas Paet, a question concerning the Indian shipguards. No one believed that after two years, the subject would still be on the table. You gave a very thorough overview of what the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has done up to the point that financial support and assistance have also been given to those people in very extreme and difficult circumstances. But my question is that since these men's children, women, mothers, fathers live in Estonia, are there such inter-ministerial cooperation? I am thinking, above all, of the Ministry of Social Affairs. These families also need support here and perhaps psychological support, not so much financial support. Finally, I would like to say that the recognition of all the officials, honorary consuls, ambassadors and representatives who are holding the flag and Estonia's good reputation all over the world.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-11_U55	Member of the Riigikogu, thank you very much for your nice words about diplomats. As far as shipguards are concerned, we are really working with both the Ministry of Social Affairs and local authorities, where shipguards are either registered or where their families live. As a result of this cooperation, some local authorities have also supported families. Yes, they are not very large sums and they do not last for years, sometimes they are symbolic support of a couple hundred euros, which a child does not have support for a family for years, but some kind of help. I would take this opportunity and call on all local authorities to look once again at how these families live and, as far as possible, to help them. The Ministry of Social Affairs has offered psychological assistance to relatives of shipguards, and so have we. So far, relatives have not wished for this, but we meet them regularly and talk to them. It is important to keep them informed, and it is important to repeat to them that the Republic of Estonia has not forgotten their husbands, brothers or sons. We are working on it so that they can come to Estonia. I really want to congratulate both the Ministry of Social Affairs and local authorities here, who have already helped, and I call on others to see if it is possible and how families can be assisted.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-11_U56	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-11_U57	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, I will continue with Mr Kross's question. In fact, I noticed from your report that the consequences of Russia's aggression in Ukraine you have read in quite detail about 10,000 deaths, millions of refugees, etc. In the case of Syria, however, you said that Russia's military activities have created additional suffering for the people, and afterwards you said that this is regrettable. It gives me the impression that if the murders are further away, the formula will get a little softer. It shouldn't be like that. It is certainly possible to highlight the contribution of the so-called Russian murder export in this humanitarian disaster, and that is quite large. What are the assessments of international human rights organisations? Isn't that an insolently soft expression?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-11_U58	Thank you for this question. I certainly do not want to say that the suffering of Ukraine is greater than that of anyone else. Every human life that is lost is a sacrifice, every human life that is lost is suffering, every woman, every child, every civilian who suffers is a great suffering. As far as the bill is concerned, I can't tell you the bill for the last few weeks. The fact that 250,000 Syrians have died, as I mentioned, is actually information from the United Nations. The last information we have is from August 2015. Yeah, it's old. I'm sure it's going to be even higher today, but it's an official figure that I can call it. As far as other figures are concerned, for example, the UN expects an additional 6.5 million people in Syria to be in need of assistance. The population is 22.5 million, 11 million are already refugees, and it is estimated that the people who will still need help in the future could be 6.5 million. They may not be all refugees leaving the country, but they may need humanitarian aid, food, drink, shelter. In 2015, 1.2 million people left their homes in Syria. The United Nations has said that a total of 13.5 million people, including 6 million children, are in need of assistance, and the United Nations has asked for 3.2 billion dollars to help them. According to the United Nations, currently 70% of people do not have access to clean drinking water, one in three cannot get the amount of food they need, two million children do not go to school. When we are talking about the poverty that this conflict has created, I would remind you that the conflict in Syria is going on since 2011, there are four out of five people living in poverty today. What makes it difficult to help is that 4.5 million Syrians live in areas where humanitarian aid is difficult to access and, for example, 400,000 people live in conditions where neither first aid nor the help needed to save their lives can reach them. All the figures I have just mentioned are UN data. Yes, I fully agree with you that the humanitarian disaster in Syria is terrible. If the solution is now asked, then the rapid solution in Syria will probably no longer be able to predict, because even when peace negotiations are opened, it will still take at least a year and a half before you think that there have been changes in laws, elections have been held and the government will be able to work. But these 18 months have not even started. I would consider it a victory to finally start a truce in Syria, and if everyone who deals with Syria on the ground would start coordinating their actions, direct their actions against terrorists, not against the moderate opposition, and do so in such a way as to save the civilian population as much as possible. In the current armed conflicts, the civilian population is the most vulnerable. It is irresponsible to put the civilian population in the position that Syria is currently in.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-11_U59	Arno Bridge, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-11_U60	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Minister, thank you very much. I have a question about the memorandum on the identification of occupation losses signed by the ministers of the three Baltic states. How is cooperation on this subject progressing, and what are the actions of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in this direction?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-11_U61	Member of the Riigikogu, thank you for your question. You must be thinking of an agreement between the Justice Ministers. It is very difficult for me to comment on whether and what the Justice Ministers have done further in this area. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs is not going to do anything in this area. The Prime Minister has said this repeatedly, and I repeat that the current government is not making claims to Russia on the damage caused by the occupation. I understand we all have a past. I understand the past must not be forgotten. But I think that in the current situation, it is time to look to the future and work to ensure that Estonia has a bright, secure, good future.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-11_U62	Andres Anvelt, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-11_U63	Thank you. Dear Minister of Foreign Affairs, First of all, thank you for an interesting presentation and for the answers to important economic and foreign policy issues as well as security issues. I'm going into a more social sphere. Namely, a year and a few months ago, I had the honour of signing the Istanbul Convention on the Prevention and Prevention of Violence against Women and Domestic Violence on behalf of the Republic of Estonia as Minister of Justice. The Government Action Plan provides for ratification of the Istanbul Convention in 2017. At the same time, we have seen at meetings with representatives of different ministries that most of the preparatory work has been done, both legally and on the services side. What do you think is the importance of the Istanbul Convention in the foreign policy of the Estonian state? Secondly, would it be worth making an effort for the Convention to reach ratification in the Riigikogu in 2016, for example, instead of 2017?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-11_U64	Member of the Riigikogu, thank you for this question. It is certainly a very important international convention, an international agreement. There's no question, of course there is. The fact that the Government of the Republic has taken this agenda shows that this issue is important to the Government and that ratification of the Convention is being prepared. As far as the time frame is concerned, the implementation of this Convention is not a matter for the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs formally prepares this point and internationally informs us that we have joined this Treaty and are going to comply with it. Rather, this is a question for the Minister of Justice, which I ask him, i.e. whether they are prepared for faster preparation and implementation. If the Ministry of Justice is prepared to do so, of course the Ministry of Foreign Affairs will not hold anything back and will submit the Convention to the Government of the Republic and the Riigikogu for approval.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-11_U65	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-11_U66	Thank you, manager. Dear Minister of Foreign Affairs, You spoke of the need to have a dialogue with Russia, our neighbour, who is not the most friendly neighbour to us at the moment. Dialogue is always necessary and better to talk than to be in the corner once. But that's what I'm asking. The Centre Party has a cooperation protocol with the United Russia, which is essentially frozen, and it will continue to be blamed on us. At the same time, our government is willing to conclude a border agreement with Russia, which is essentially a single agreement with Russia. Why is foreign policy being selective?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-11_U67	Member of the Riigikogu, thank you for this question. Foreign policy is the place to make choices. Why do we support the conclusion of border agreements? We support the conclusion of border agreements because it is in the interests of Estonia's security. If we can get one question off the table with Russia and finally legalise the crossing, I think, and the government also thinks that this should be done and the border agreement should be concluded. This will allow us to mark a permanent state border, which is more logical, which is easier to guard and which is an additional argument for securing Estonia's security. Each contract may be awarded at a price. I also spoke about this in September with Foreign Minister Lavrov and asked if he wanted anything in return for this agreement. In that case, I would not have proposed this agreement for ratification. Foreign Minister Lavrov said that it is in the interests of both countries to conclude this agreement, both countries want the agreement to enter into force, and Russia wants the agreement to be legally properly formalised and the border finally marked off on the landscape, demarked. This is why we have submitted this Treaty to the Riigikogu for ratification. I think that we would be against our values if I were to be before you today asking for a free trade agreement with Russia or asking for your opinion on the lifting of sanctions against Russia. It would be contrary to our values, it would be contrary to our principles. I think that in its policy, both Estonia and the European Union as a whole have been very balanced towards Russia, on the basis of values, based on their own principles. I hope that both Estonia and the entire European Union will continue this foreign policy.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-11_U68	Jaanus Marrand, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-11_U69	Thank you! Minister, thank you very much. Thank you for your excellent and multifaceted presentation. My question, too, concerns relations between the European Union and Russia. They're in quite a difficult situation for certain reasons. The economic relations between the European Union and Russia are affected to a very significant extent by mutual sanctions. You rightly pointed out that Russia actually has the key to change. At the same time, the Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov stated a few days ago that sanctions would actually continue under the influence of five or six Russophobic states. It is also known that there are indeed quite a wide range of views within the European Union. I am asking how long and how united the European Union can and will be in its relations with Russia with regard to these same sanctions.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-11_U70	Member of the Riigikogu, thank you for your question. Yes, I too read the statement made by the Russian Foreign Minister, Sergei Lavrov, and I find it very difficult to comment on that. I don't know what he's writing. I am attending foreign ministers' meetings in the European Union, I am participating in the Foreign Affairs Council and there has been no other understanding than that Russia must start to comply with the Minsk agreements, Russia must begin to fulfil its obligations under international law and international principles. As long as Russia does not do so, the policy of sanctions will continue. So, yes, I see the European Union as one. As long as this unity persists, I find it difficult to say, difficult to comment. We are working to ensure that the European Union is united on all foreign policy issues. We are working for the European Union to base its decisions on values, solidarity, its principles. And at the moment, I have no reason to believe that the European Union will withdraw from this principle.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-11_U71	Marianne Mikko, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-11_U72	Thank you very much. Thank you, Minister for Foreign Affairs, too, for this comprehensive and meaningful presentation of foreign policy. I am pleased to note that in your presentation you touched on UN Security Council Resolution 1325 'Women, Peace and Security'. That's my question. What has Estonia done for the world in the framework of this resolution or in the world and in Estonia on the other hand?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-11_U73	Member of the Riigikogu, thank you for this question. Yes, indeed this is an important resolution. This is not only recognised by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs or diplomats in their activities, but recognised by the entire Estonian state. We have now prepared, in cooperation with other ministries, a second action plan to implement the resolution and draw attention to the resolution. What's important? It is important to raise the general awareness of what the resolution is talking about. The resolution speaks of women being more involved in conflict resolution, conflict prevention, security policy issues, talking about greater empowerment of women. Practical steps have also been taken here. When Slovenia asked for assistance in resolving the migration crisis and the Ministry of the Interior and the Police and Border Guard sent their police officers there to help, the provisions of resolution 1325 were carefully considered in the decision and there was a woman among the police officers to be deployed. In this sense, I am very pleased to say that this is no longer a topic that is spoken only by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs or a few other individual ministries, but I dare to claim today that this resolution has been widely recognised in Estonia, that all ministries have been informed about it and that, within the framework of their competence, everyone can present this resolution, speak about it or set out their actions according to it. Yes, we have worked with other countries, stressing in particular the importance of the resolution for the military, the Defence Forces and the people on missions. In Estonia, he is already included in university programmes. When we talk about human rights, we also talk about what resolution 1325 means. But there is certainly also a great deal that we can do in order to implement and implement the resolution even better.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-11_U74	Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-11_U75	Thank you, Mr President. Good Foreign Minister, thank you for your presentation. We have discussed Russia's strategy here on several occasions in this debate and how it will be implemented. The information war is part of the geopolitical strategy of the Putin regime. It means quite robust propaganda, spreading lies, information, emotions, manipulating fears and inciting them. Some time ago, at European Union level, Estonia proposed the creation of one such unit at the European External Action Service (EEAS) or the establishment of a readiness to resist and deal with it. Could you share with Parliament the information that this proposal has become, how far it has come?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-11_U76	Thank you for this question, honourable Member of the Riigikogu, good Keit. In fact, Keit was the Foreign Minister who signed one of the four letters from the Foreign Ministers of the European Union, which really proposed the creation of an eastern strategy, a strategic communication unit within the European Union's External Action Service. This unit has begun to work. I am very pleased that Estonia has also sent an expert who has a long experience in working in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and international organisations. This unit has begun to work. At the same time, we also pay more attention to strategic communication in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. We hired someone to watch the Russian media. I'm not saying it wasn't done before. Our embassy in Moscow and the public diplomacy department in Tallinn have been constantly monitoring it and trying to disprove false information where you can, and most importantly, trying to give out the right information. Because how can you fight propaganda? Propaganda can be combated in such a way as to give out true, accurate information, spread it as much as possible. And we are doing this in this strategy unit at European Union level, we are doing more and more in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, as well as internally with the government's communications office and other ministries. It is important for us to provide accurate, adequate and factual information so that people can draw the right conclusions.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-11_U77	Questions and answers were provided for 60 minutes. It's been 61 minutes and four seconds. Thank you, Madam Secretary of State. The next waitress is Sven Mikser, Chairman of the Foreign Affairs Committee. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-11_U78	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! I would like to thank you, Minister of Foreign Affairs, for your comprehensive report. It was so thorough that I can focus on certain specific issues and not repeat a few, certainly important issues. Ladies and gentlemen, Honourable guests! Today, we have been restoring our independence in the Republic of Estonia for a long time than was the time given to our predecessors to enjoy pre-occupied statehood. Estonia's own country has often been called a miracle, but it is not. He's the hard work of brave and visionary people. Both those who laid the foundations for our own country and defended almost a century ago, the weapon in their hands, its survival in the war of freedom, and those who fought their independence without blood and rebuilt Estonia. Today, a quarter of a century after the restoration of independence, we find ourselves in a somewhat dual situation in foreign policy. On the one hand, we love to say that Estonia's independence has never been as well protected as today, when we are full members of the European Union and NATO, we are preparing for the first Presidency of the Council of the European Union and we have plans to stand for non-permanent membership of the UN Security Council. On the other hand, we are seeing a cloud of concern that has gathered above the high vaults of the security architecture of Europe and the world because of Russia's aggression against Ukraine and the atrocities of Daesh in the Middle East. The important fundamental principles of the European Union have shrunk under the pressure of the most serious migration crisis for decades, and both the European Union and monetary union tend to rumble from stitches. Ladies and gentlemen, However, the biggest immediate security threat that threatens the survival and development of the Estonian state is still linked to the deterioration of the security architecture of Europe. Russia's aggression against Ukraine and annexation of Crimea were and are still a challenge to international law and the European security organisation based on it. During the last decade, Russia has twice used military force against its immediate neighbours to realise its great national ambitions. It is likely that the Kremlin leadership will not hesitate to use armed forces to achieve its objectives in the future. In this light, it is here in Estonia that we in particular must take seriously the fact that the Baltic Sea region is the only region in which Russia has the predominance of conventional military forces with regard to NATO, as well as a considerable geographical advantage. It is difficult to predict the behaviour of a large, authoritarian and expansionist neighbouring country; even less can we alone turn it on a new course. Yet, the security that we feel depends on us and our choices. We know that an aggressive neighbor can be intimidated. The collective moral, economic, political and also military potential of ourselves and our allies is overwhelmingly more powerful than that of any challenger. We are not alone in the face of threats to security, our allies and partners are next to us. However, the willingness and ability of the allies to protect us when necessary depends primarily on two factors: firstly, our own credibility in the eyes of our friends, and secondly, the unity of democratic states in NATO and the European Union. Let me first talk about Estonia's reputation as a trusted partner. We can be satisfied with Estonia's image. We are known as a progressive, IT-developed, low-corrupt and responsible partner in the international arena. But this image is not something that would in itself belong to Estonia. For this we owe thanks to our innovative entrepreneurs, professional officials, a dynamic society, but also to the defence forces who fought alongside the allies on foreign missions, and to the political leaders who understand Estonia's role and responsibility. Yes, our good reputation is not self-evident. We've built it ourselves, and we can ruin it ourselves. This is not particularly difficult to do. As Benjamin Franklin has said, it takes a lot of good deeds to build a reputation, but only one bad thing is enough to dismantle it. Even before the restoration of independence in the early 1990s, Estonia took the path towards economic integration with Europe and close integration with the Euro-Atlantic security area. More than mere geography or economic market logic determined our strategic choice of direction to be part of the European value area. We got into the European Union and NATO, but this thoughtful line, which, in the eyes of many Western Europeans, separated their free-grown societies from the peoples dragging after the post-communist burden of Central and Eastern Europe, was very persistent to disappear. It has only just started to feel that this old confrontation is finally disappearing into the waste bin of history, but unfortunately, the European migration crisis has brought this dividing line back to life, whether real or imaginary. And it's dangerous for us. We know that on the battlefield of the information war, Estonia has enemies who would be greatly pleased to see our lack of credibility in the eyes of our allies. However, we also see, unfortunately, that our belonging to European value space has from time to time been called into question by Estonia in its domestic political struggle, ridiculing those who speak of the need to remain true to liberal values even at a difficult moment, as well as those who warn against hatred and intolerance. Unfortunately, we are hearing more and more often that Estonia does not belong to the culture and value of the West or the East, but rather to our own unique Estonian value system, and we are obliged to defend it in the same way, both from the East and from the West, from our foreign beliefs. I fear that searching for such a no-man's land can easily take us back to 1939 for security, morally even deeper into the past. We should remember at all times that, at the time of the singing revolution and the restoration of independence, we directed our eyes to an old Europe, not because of its values, but precisely because of the rule of law, democracy, freedom, tolerance and equality of values. Good listeners! Now, however, the second and undoubtedly equally important factor on which the likelihood of external threats threatening our statehood depends. This is the unity and solidarity of the European Union and NATO. Solidarity can never be one-way. This kind of Estonia, which is prepared to only take the grant from its allies, security guarantees, without being ready to stand by its friends when they need it, be it in a financial or refugee crisis, does not create trust and does not call on the allies to protect us. We have felt the support of our allies at a difficult time. Just a few weeks after the start of the aggression against Ukraine, the air security planes of the Allieds landed in Ämari and arrived at Tapa by the Allied army. NATO's new attitude towards deterrence in Eastern Europe became the first framework for the Wales Summit and hopefully it will be crystallised by the decisions of the forthcoming Warsaw Summit. Understandably, the preparations and analysis of the NATO summit have also been the constant focus of the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the Riigikogu. This new deterrent attitude in our region is made up of many elements: the continuous presence of the allies, pre-location of equipment, regular joint defence exercises, modernisation of defence plans. All of them send a completely unequivocal message to us and to anyone who might want to compromise our independence and integrity. This message is as follows: every ally will be protected and every aggressive step will have an inevitable, immediate and overwhelming response. This firm knowledge is part of the unity and solidarity of the allies and partners with us. The unity of the democratic world is also very clear in the sanctions imposed on Russia for the aggression against Ukraine. But let us remember that the purpose of sanctions is not to calm our own collective conscience for a period of time, but to force the perpetrator to change his behaviour and make amends for the damage he has done. We have so far been able to maintain the unity of democratic countries on this issue. At the same time, we must also bear in mind the warning experience of previous conflicts, such as the war in Georgia in 2008. Understandably, the primary objective of the international community during the war at that time, as in the case of the continuing conflict in Ukraine, was to stop bloodshed as soon as possible. But once this goal has been achieved, if the aggressor is allowed to keep the conquered and return to normal association, this apparent peace will soon become the seed of a new bloodshed, for the aggressor understands it so that a successful predatory will only cause him temporary discomfort. The lifting of sanctions imposed against Russia due to the Eastern Ukraine conflict cannot be acceptable without fulfilling the commitments made in the Minsk agreements. Nor must we allow the illegal annexation of Crimea to fall into oblivion by monitoring the implementation of the Minsk agreements. Let us recall the role played by the non-recognition policy of democratic countries in maintaining the legal continuity of the Republic of Estonia and the strategic patience it required for decades. Next, I will address another topic of the debate in the Committee on Foreign Affairs over the last year, the European migration crisis. Here our partners and allies are waiting and needing our solidarity. Yes, our continent is facing a migration rush that has not been seen in many decades. However, this problem is not entirely unprecedented when we think back to Europe after World War II. At that time, our continent was able to cope with much more people who had to leave its home. At the same time, let us be honest, then Europe was ready to make greater efforts to do so. From this experience, the European Union was born, a project aimed at peace, prosperity and stability in our continent, which, despite the difficulties, has been a remarkable success story. In the light of the current crisis, I fear, too many are too willing to water down what they have achieved at the time. However, the dismantling of a united Europe or the fence of borders within Europe will not solve any of the problems that we are currently facing. Yes, migration flows have put great pressure on the social systems of several partners in the European Union. As the New Year's events in Germany and elsewhere have shown, rapid and numerous immigration also poses new challenges to legal and internal security structures. It must certainly not be ignored that the same terrorist organisations whose atrocities are fleeing from millions of their home countries are taking advantage of the migration crisis in order to plan terrorist attacks in Europe under its cover. It goes without saying that our value system, which I talked about earlier, will not allow us to accept violence, honour killings or sexual crimes, whether the perpetrator of these acts is a local resident or an immigrant. Crime must be punished. However, our system of values does not allow the crime committed by someone else to be punished by the innocent. Nor do our values allow us to be indifferent to those in need, whether it is the victim of harassment in the European city square or the fugitive from the war terrors of the Middle East. Strengthening Europe's external borders is essential so that we can defend the principle of free movement of people within the European Union. Protecting this fundamental freedom of the European Union is a key guarantee of our growth in security and prosperity. Of course, the countries of the European Union must also step up their efforts to prevent illegal immigrants from entering Europe and to send back those who do not have a legal basis for staying in the European Union or who have demonstrated by their actions that they are a threat to security. However, given the scale of the migration crisis, we cannot hide our heads in the sand before the fact that there are thousands and thousands of people who do not have the right to refugee status, but whose return may not be possible in the visible future. It is our preference to help those in need, especially in their home countries and in their neighbouring countries, and to try to resolve conflicts where they arise. The fight with Daesh is also our fight, and I am pleased that Estonia is ready to contribute to this. However, in parallel with the search for a solution to the Syrian civil war and the support of countries facing the main challenge of the migration crisis, we must also help the hundreds of thousands of war refugees who have reached the European Union. To show solidarity with our partners who support us is the least that Estonia can do. Speaking of refugees themselves, solidarity with another human being, as Albert Schweitzer has said, is the first step in the evolution of ethics. The crisis of migration is far from over. It'll be with us for years. In a situation where the Bashar al-Assad regime and its allies have intensified the attacks on Aleppo, Syria's largest city, and hundreds of thousands of people have been trapped in and around the city, it is highly likely that both the neighbouring countries of Syria and Europe will have to prepare for a new wave of refugees in the near future. The European Union has much to learn from its mistakes so far, both in organising the redistribution of refugees and in securing its external borders, but Europe is coping with this crisis. Given that Lebanon, which is about a hundred times smaller, now hosts more refugees than the European Union as a whole, this burden cannot overwhelm us. Ladies and gentlemen, I will now briefly talk about a topic that is already being discussed by several Riigikogu members under the leadership of the Committee on Foreign Affairs. This is the ratification of the border agreements between Estonia and Russia. The four political parties that were part of the previous Riigikogu sent a joint proposal to the government to resume talks for the conclusion of border agreements, and the government also brought these agreements before the previous Riigikogu for ratification. However, our working time ended before the process was completed and so the government formed last spring submitted the law on ratification of the border agreements to the new Riigikogu for processing. The Committee on Foreign Affairs brought this draft to the first reading of the large hall, after having reached the majority of its conviction as a result of previous numerous hearings and consultations that the conclusion of border agreements in the proposed form is in accordance with the national interests of Estonia and our constitution. The common understanding of both the Government of the Republic and the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the Riigikogu has been that the process of ratification of border agreements in the parliament of two countries must take place in parallel. Looking forward to the next step from the Russian State Duma, we know that in September of the year that has already begun, Russia is facing parliamentary elections, which leaves only a few months for the possible ratification of the agreements of the current Duma. I very much hope that it will be possible to complete this long process in the near future, but I also stress that we must be prepared, if necessary, to work towards ratification and enforcement of the border agreements also with the next membership of the Russian Parliament to be elected in the autumn. Whether the ratification of the border agreements takes place at the spring session of the Riigikogu or some time later does not change the basic understanding: a bilaterally agreed border between neighbouring countries is necessary regardless of political differences. It can be said that it is even necessary because such differences of opinion are deep and fundamental in some areas. It is also important to emphasise once again that border agreements only deal with the crossing of the border line and do not try to solve other transnational issues or harmonise different interpretations of history. Ladies and gentlemen, As my predecessor said a year ago, the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the Riigikogu wants to be an important forgery of the Estonian foreign policy idea. Apart from these issues, which have been the subject of our discussions and will continue to be on the agenda, we have consistently kept our attention to developments in the Eastern Partnership of the European Union, in particular Ukraine, Moldova, Georgia and Belarus, at our meetings and hearings. I believe that I am not wronging anyone when I say that the development of all the Eastern partners over the years has meant a bumpy path with many ups and downs. However, no one can claim that the help of the European Union and Estonia to the reform efforts of the Eastern partners would have been in vain or completely ineffective. This work, too, requires strategic patience. Finally. We live in a rapidly changing world. Three years ago, the Foreign Minister in his presentation at the Riigikogu focused on cyber security and was seriously concerned about whether NATO could remain an active player even after the end of the operation in Afghanistan. Two years ago, the foreign minister was obviously focusing on the newly launched war in Ukraine, also spoke about NATO's new role in our region, but the words'refugee' or 'war refugee' are difficult to find in the verbatim of the debate at the time, even though the civil war in Syria had been raging for a long time. All of this shows how quickly processes can be triggered in today's world, which fundamentally change the security picture of regions and continents. Estonia's security, however, has been the subject of our discussions throughout the years. We have talked a lot about the consensus on foreign and security policy. The tightening of the world and the antagonisation of Estonia's domestic policy have greatly reduced this consensus. We know that we will be strong in the international arena if we can find a common position with our allies. I believe that the same principle could also apply in the debate within Estonia on our priorities. The Riigikogu and parliamentary diplomacy play an important role in representing Estonia in the world. But let us not think in this role that what is good for my party must also be good for Estonia. Let us think of it this way: what is good for Estonia is good for the people of Estonia and, therefore, for all political parties. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-11_U79	Thank you, dear waitress. However, ladies and gentlemen, before we go to the questions, we have a vote to take. In particular, the Committee on Foreign Affairs has proposed extending today's session until the agenda is exhausted, but no longer than 14 p.m. I shall put this proposal to the vote. Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on the Committee on Foreign Affairs' proposal to extend the current sitting until the agenda is exhausted, but no longer than 14 p.m. Please take a stand and vote. 44 MPs voted in favour of the proposal, no one opposed, with one abstention. So the proposal was supported, and we're working until 14:00 today. But let's get on with the questions. First of all, my colleague Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-11_U80	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good waitress! I hoped that today it would be possible for all members of the Riigikogu to ask questions to the esteemed Foreign Minister, but I saw the roadblock of colleagues of the Responsible Reform Party run over this opportunity calmly. The first 12 delegates took 39 minutes of the hour for answers. Thank you. But I am now going to ask you a question that I would have liked to put to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Tiit Vähi, the double Prime Minister, has said: 'We have built a thick, impenetrable wall between us and our neighbour, Russia. As long as this wall is so thick and so high it can't get through, so far there's no point in investing in Ida-Virumaa. ' In his statement, the cancer mentioned war hysteria and support for sanctions and asked: 'Who needs to invest in the end of a dead state... '
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-11_U81	Please ask me a question!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-11_U82	The question is this: does two-time Prime Minister Tiit Vähi not understand international relations and speak an anti-state talk, calling Estonia a deadlock and claiming that we have war hysteria and therefore the government is preventing investment in Ida-Viru County?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-11_U83	Thank you, my good colleague.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-11_U84	Thank you. First of all, there were two questions on this issue. Indeed, the procedure in the Riigikogu for processing foreign policy as a key national issue has been relatively similar from year to year. For example, the Committee on Foreign Affairs has proposed that, in the first instance, authorised representatives of the political groups be given the floor, precisely so that all political groups can express their position. If our Rules of Procedure allow this, we may need to consider introducing a similar principle in the questioning phase in the future. This has not proved necessary so far, but certainly no one is forbidding us to improve and rethink our procedures. Now, your second question. I think that if former Prime Minister Tiit Vähi calls Estonia a dead end, he is definitely wrong. Estonia, as the Minister of Foreign Affairs emphasised, is interested in good and good neighbourly relations with all its neighbours, not only with its neighbours, but also with the more distant countries. As far as Russia is concerned specifically, indeed, Russia's own conduct has been violated by the generally accepted principles of international law, it has placed the state in a position that not only Estonia's relations with Russia, but also the relations between the European Union and other Western countries with Russia are very complicated. The sanctions imposed against Russia have also been imposed for reasons you know. The main reason is Russia's participation in Eastern Ukraine and the annexation of Crimea. These sanctions can be lifted once Russia has started to act again on the basis of the principles that it, at least in words as a member of the international community, has considered to be important.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-11_U85	Oudekki Loone, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-11_U86	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, I am very pleased that European values and the socio-economic security of all of us are very important to you. At the same time, Estonia has taken almost the most liberal position with regard to the US-Europe Free Trade Agreement TTIP. This agreement is dangerous to Estonia's economic security and spits on important European values, namely the rights of workers. For example, it includes an extra-country arbitration system that allows large corporations to circumvent national laws. If Estonia decides to raise the minimum wage, the corporations may want the Estonian state to pay for the difference. Wouldn't it be high time we gave up a draft contract that prefers the interests of large corporations to the interests of our own citizens?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-11_U87	Thank you. First of all, as you well know, trade negotiations on behalf of the European Union are being held by the European Commission. Of course, it is extremely important for Member States to be informed and to be able to stand up for their interests in this process. The Committee on Foreign Affairs has dealt with TTIP on many occasions, but, as we know, these negotiations have not yet been concluded. For this reason, I do not think that it is particularly sensible to hunt up fears about a possible end result today. The United States and, in fact, Europe are looking at the calendar. We know that the US administration will change in a little less than a year. Hope and expectation have been expressed that these negotiations could lead to a result during the current administration of Barack Obama. At the same time, looking at the pace of negotiations, we cannot be sure of that. Rather, I think that it may be somewhat doubtful whether we are reaching the result so quickly. These fears, which relate to the overrepresentation of the interests of the so-called corporations in this process or in this contractual logic at all, have been quite much expressed over the years. Several other potential problems have also been discussed, such as different standards, whether in phytosanitary, environmental or occupational protection. The European Union's standards are certainly different in many areas, in some areas they are stricter. But the myth that we are with much stricter standards in all areas, and now we have to make concessions, certainly does not really hold true. So let us follow this process very calmly and say our word where it is possible. Of course, we are interested in Europe benefiting from this process. Speaking of fears, on both sides of the ocean there are different stories about how jobs are going to move, either from America to Europe or from Europe to America. This can certainly take place differently in different economic or business areas. But overall, all analysts agree that this important free trade agreement will give a serious boost to the economies of both sides, opening up new opportunities and new markets.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-11_U88	I don't see my colleague Igor Gräzin. So, Liina Kersna, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-11_U89	Thank you, good manager. Good colleague! I'm asking about double citizenship. Its opponents say there is a security risk. In what ways do you see a possible solution so that, for example, an Estonian and a French child can take both parents' nationality and, at the same time, the fear of security risk is minimised?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-11_U90	Thank you. Quite honestly, when I answer you, I say that these questions have not been discussed by the Riigikogu Committee on Foreign Affairs over the last six months. When we talk about the Citizenship Act and its principles, I think that initiatives in this regard fall within the remit of another Commission. It is well known that there is a certain conflict in Estonian law. On the one hand, we do not allow double citizenship; on the other hand, no citizen born with birth can be deprived of his or her citizenship. So there are de facto people with double citizenship who also legally carry the Estonian passport in their pockets. Security risks must, of course, be taken into account. At the same time, I believe that we could have a more thorough and perhaps not too emotional, but completely rational debate about double citizenship options, because in fact, this picture is not black and white at all. It is not the case that there are only one country's citizenship and only pure double citizenship, but there are certainly dozens of ways in which countries will resolve this issue. We could see if there is something to take over from there that would serve the same interest that people who are loyal to the Estonian state would not only be on Estonia's soil, but throughout the world as much as possible, so that those who know the connection with Estonia and who participate in the decision-making process in Estonia's life, for example, would be as many as possible, but that would not create any security threats for the Estonian state.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-11_U91	Igor Gräzin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-11_U92	Honourable waitress! International relations also include citizens' initiatives, initiatives, etc. The Estonian delegation travels to Yerevan, 1000 people are involved, and soon about 1200 people are likely to go to St Petersburg, MustonenFest is active in Israel and so on. Relations work, Meelis Kubits and all this company, remembering Yeltsin in Tallinn, etc. All of this is generally done free of charge, of good will, and thousands of people from both sides are involved here. The report didn't mention it. Do such events have purely social and entertaining value, or do they still affect Estonian foreign policy? Question 2: Does foreign policy in the Estonian state only run the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, or is Parliament allowed to participate in it a little, say, also in substantive terms? For example, does parliament diplomacy have a place in the structure of Estonian foreign policy?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-11_U93	Thank you. The rules of procedure allow both rapporteurs to have an oral question, but I will try to answer both questions very briefly. The citizens' initiative, of course, plays an important role in all policy areas. In an ideal world, the citizens' initiative and the whole of society should work without the country's very strong financial support. The state should, however, create every opportunity for the benefit of the state to pursue this kind of civic activity and citizens' initiative, as well as in foreign policy. Of course, as I said, foreign policy is about unity and, in a certain sense, about the continuity of our actions. In this sense, the state will certainly look favorably at those non-governmental activities that overlap with the interests of the state and the state's understanding of our foreign policy interests. The second issue was parliamentary diplomacy. The Riigikogu of the Republic of Estonia has been remarkably active in parliamentary diplomacy over the years. We cannot ignore, of course, that foreign policy and security policy are relatively executive policy areas, both in Estonia and everywhere else. We shouldn't try to run past the government here. Secondly, we cannot forget that we 101 members of the Riigikogu have received our mandate mainly from our constituents in their own country, who expect us to solve their electoral circles and their personal problems and to create a legislative solution for them. So we certainly cannot assume that the Riigikogu takes foreign policy as its main task on a daily basis. But parliamentary diplomacy is, of course, promoted by the Committee on Foreign Affairs, the Committee on European Union Affairs, the Committee on National Defence, as well as by many other committees which, bilaterally and multilaterally, communicate with their partners elsewhere in the world and within the European Union. Of course, this is done by the external delegations set up by Parliament, who work in the parliamentary assemblies of the Council of Europe, the OSCE and NATO, the Interparliamentary Union, the Baltic Assembly or the Parliamentary Assembly of the Union for the Mediterranean. It's a very multifaceted job. Trying to create an image that we're just a rubber stamp or a government pickup, definitely not adequate, I think.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-11_U94	Rein Ratas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-11_U95	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable Chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs! It is probably the case that the Russian Government is not going to give up Crimea in any way. Will there be sanctions against Russia and the economic obstacles that result from them, for example, for Estonia, remain in force for an indefinite period of time, or will we, along with our allies, be limited to the fact that we do not recognise the Crimean Peninsula as part of the Russian Federation after a while? I've been talking.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-11_U96	Thank you. That's a very good question. I think that a few years after the Soviet Union had occupied and annexed Estonia, there were many in many capitals of the world who said that this situation, in which Estonia de facto does not exercise sovereignty over its territory, would certainly remain in force for quite a long time and asked whether it was intended to remain in the non-recognition policy for such a long time. Yes, I think that non-recognition policy is important. If we look at sanctions against Russia, this is a package in which some of the measures relate to what is happening in Eastern Ukraine and to the implementation of the Minsk agreements. In extending them, the international community and the European Union will certainly monitor and should monitor concretely the fulfilment of the commitments and commitments set out in these agreements. However, as regards the non-recognition of the annexation of Crimea, I think that here the European Union and the wider democratic world have a matter of thought on how to fill this non-recognition with substance. Unfortunately, it is not possible for me to give you a complex answer from this speaker today. But yes, I think it is important to remain firm on the non-recognition policy. History is longer than the electoral cycle, and our own experience shows that non-recognition policy can still have positive results.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-11_U97	Marko Mihkelson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-11_U98	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Thank you, Chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, for a very substantive and impressive report. Very many of the problems were very well spoken out there. Unfortunately, I did not manage to ask the Foreign Minister a question. But maybe you don't mind if I get into my question two things I'm waiting for an answer to. First of all, I am acting like journalists who, apart from our debate, usually ask how you were satisfied with today's foreign policy debate here in the Riigikogu. What lessons could the Committee on Foreign Affairs learn from today for the future in order to make this debate more substantive? Secondly, very little has been said today about the tensions in Russia-Turkey and their possible impact on our security. Perhaps you can tell us a few words based on your very good experiences.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-11_U99	Thank you. I have already partially answered the first question by answering Mr Ernitsa's question. It is certainly important that this debate be such that the various political forces represented in the Riigikogu can highlight their concerns, ask questions and get answers to these interesting questions. We know that over time the format of this debate has been changed in the Riigikogu. In our time, remember, we held this debate twice a year in this hall. Then we found it too much. Perhaps some of the forgotten old things must be wiped out of the dust and re-introduced when the world changes very quickly, and foreign policy and security policy have a greater role to play in our country's internal politics and our decisions than we thought maybe here while we were waiting for the happy end of history. As far as relations between Turkey and Russia are concerned, the Minister of Foreign Affairs briefly focused on Russia's role in Syria and the wider region. This role has not been constructive and has certainly not contributed to finding a solution. In particular, speaking of the Syrian civil war, it is regrettable that, in fact, it seems increasingly clear that Russia, in its military operation, is quite indiscriminately attacking anyone who is not in an ally relationship with the Bashsar al-Assad regime. It makes it harder to find a solution. Turkey, as we know, is an ally of NATO, with regard to which NATO has made security commitments. That is what we need to do in the border area between Syria and Turkey, as well as what is happening between Russia and Turkey, so that such actions threaten the integrity and territorial integrity of our ally country's borders. So we are definitely here in a strong ally relationship, and we must also plan our policies accordingly.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-11_U100	Valdo Randpere, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-11_U101	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Head of the Committee on Foreign Affairs! I first agree with the statement of my good colleague, Marko Mihkelson, and I regret that for some reason opposition representatives seem less interested in foreign policy than coalition politicians. Well, that's the way it is. But here's my question. I don't want you to interfere in the internal affairs of another country, but you, as a well-known foreign policy expert here in front of us, have unwittingly asked me a question. We have been told and told today that it is a good thing that Finland and Sweden have approached NATO. But can you predict when Finland and Sweden could become a NATO Member State? Just predict without you interfering in the internal affairs of these countries.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-11_U102	Thank you. First of all, good colleague Marko Mihkelson is a good coalition partner for me and for you. I think that those people who put their name on the table but could not ask a question because of the expiry of time are not necessarily less interested in foreign policy, maybe they are just less experienced Members and their fingers aren't so quick to push in the wish to speak. Of course, NATO doors must be open to all countries in the North Atlantic region wishing to join NATO. In short, Finland and Sweden will become members of NATO when the Finnish and Swedish voters, the Finnish and Swedish people, realise that NATO membership is in their security interests. That's definitely not gonna happen until then. I think that in a very large number of heads there is the notion that these countries are highly developed, that their defence forces are also highly developed, and that they can act as de facto allies on the basis of all criteria, military, political, economic and other criteria. It is therefore believed that if they knock on the door, it will open immediately. But why come under the roof in sunny weather, we look forward to it when it rains! The reality is that when it rains, the umbrella has been sold out or their price has increased because of the increase in demand. So I think that for those who want to be under NATO umbrella in a difficult security policy situation, it is certainly reasonable to buy this umbrella for themselves when it may not rain yet.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-11_U103	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-11_U104	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, You mentioned the word pair 'ideal world'. In an ideal world, diplomacy and peaceful relations could prevail. Unfortunately, history is largely the history of wars, rivalry and aggression. Could the 21st century bring about a fundamental change in this matter?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-11_U105	Thank you. Prediction is ungrateful activity at all and the prediction of the future in particular. Indeed, as you rightly said, history has been the history of wars. Looking back on the recent past, perhaps the 1990s seemed very peaceful to us here in northern Europe, and we were almost ready to believe the Fukujama prophecy of the end of history in the way that everyone embraced the principles of liberal democracy and the rule of law. At the same time, there were bloody wars in the Balkans, and there were incidents of genocide in Africa. So the world has never enjoyed a conflict-free state for a long time. As much as I would like to bring such an ideal world to mind in the near future, I think that we must, however, take the worst possible scenario when planning our activities, planning our foreign policy, diplomatic and national defence activities. Then we'll be ready for anything, even if everything goes well. If we base our planning on the fact that things are going well, then we are in great trouble if we do not.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-11_U106	Madis Milling, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-11_U107	Thank you very much, Mr President. Good chairman of the committee! Today, there have been quite a number of talks in this Chamber about sanctions against Russia. I'm certainly not original with my question, but I'm still asking. These sanctions will soon be reviewed in Europe. At the same time, illusions should not be spoiled, because we know how strong the economic interests of the countries are and how strong the countries are in order to convince the governments of the economic lobby. Here's the question: Which wins, values and sense of justice or money?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-11_U108	At the tables where sanctions are discussed, there are representatives of the executive. It would certainly have been more appropriate to put this question to the Minister of Foreign Affairs. But I can say that if people looking at foreign policy with a pessimistic eye two years ago had to answer the question of whether, in two years' time, the European Union and the Western world are united in the attitude of Russian aggression against Ukraine, then probably very many pessimists would have said that oh, where with it, in a few months, this unity will go over, everything will fall into oblivion and go back to normal communication. It hasn't happened. This is exceptionally positive. I think that our representative at any European Union decision-making table stands very firmly for the principle that good and right things must be rewarded, but as long as there remains a gross violation of international law, as long as the damage done has not been corrected, the European Union must also be firm and united in continuing sanctions.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-11_U109	Jaanus Marrand, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-11_U110	Thank you! Dear waitress, thank you for your excellent speech to defend the values of liberal democracy. My question concerns security. One of the cornerstones of Estonian security is membership of NATO. At the same time, NATO's east expansion is one of the main red towels and political conflicts in its relations with Russia. Several countries, such as Georgia and Ukraine in one way or another, have signalled a desire or interest to join NATO. How much political interest and will there be in NATO's future expansion in this difficult foreign policy situation?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-11_U111	Thank you. Indeed, it is said to be like a red towel for a bull. Several observers, perhaps very different from us, have asked whether NATO was right to irritate Russia in this way. If we are thinking about NATO enlargement, then it has always been an expansion based not on supply but on demand. It was not NATO that came to recruit us, but we expressed our desire to be part of this security guarantee, because we found that we belong to the same value zone. Now let's look at history. No NATO Member State has fallen victim to aggression, which shows that NATO's security guarantee is working. If you ask whether membership increases or reduces security, it will undoubtedly increase it. A number of countries that have not made it to the NATO security guarantee have had to cope with more severe events in their recent history. As regards the further expansion of NATO, Estonia believes that NATO's doors must remain open. Of course, there are geographical boundaries here, it is still the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation, but there are criteria for both military capabilities and important political criteria that must be met in order to become a member. Estonia certainly believes that those countries that qualify need to have a very clear membership perspective. However, no illusions should be made, as if there were no political estimates in this decision. There is some enlargement fatigue, there is a fear that some new members may be subject to some additional obligations and tensions. But, of course, NATO has been the strongest, the best military defence organisation in its history. I think that NATO's mission in the future will continue to provide security and security throughout the Euro-Atlantic space.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-11_U112	Uno Kaskpeit, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-11_U113	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. My question, too, was actually intended for the Minister for Foreign Affairs, but since you are pursuing the same foreign policy and you have touched upon these same questions, I am asking you. The damage to our occupation and the countries on the other side of the border with the border agreement, Setumaa, do not consider a necessary or important foreign policy issue. You say it's history. At the same time, the occupation of Crimea took place almost two years ago, in my opinion it is also history. Since when does it become history? Is your foreign policy somehow duplicitous or how to understand it?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-11_U114	Thank you. I certainly do not agree with you that annexation of Crimea is already history and is no longer important. History itself is also important. History sometimes plays a very important role in making foreign policy decisions. As far as the border agreement is concerned, yes, we have, as we know, reached the signing of the border agreements on an earlier occasion in 2005. At the time, the Riigikogu decided by the necessary majority in this very hall that the border agreements and the crossing of the border line are in accordance with the interests of the Estonian state and in accordance with the Constitution of the Estonian state. Then a longer break followed, because Russia withdrew its signature. The previous Riigikogu decided to start this process again, sent a proposal to the government, who did so and brought the border agreements before us. Now, hopefully, in the future, the Riigikogu will once again have to decide whether these border agreements in the proposed form are those to which we are prepared to vote our support. If these agreements result in a two-thirds majority, the Estonian Parliament will ratify them again. I do have faith and conviction that the border agreements and their ratification are in the interests of Estonia's security and foreign policy. I very much hope that there will be the necessary support in the Riigikogu. Looking at the parties that made this proposal to the government during the previous parliamentary term, they are now represented here by even more MPs than is necessary for a two-thirds majority.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-11_U115	Thank you, Mr President of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, for your presentation and your answer to questions. I apologise to those colleagues who could not ask their question. Unfortunately, the time for asking questions and answering them is over. We'll move on to the negotiations. First of all, I would like to ask the representatives of the groups on the floor. Please, Marko Mihkelson on behalf of the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Alliance. Five plus three minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-11_U116	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Minister of Foreign Affairs! Ladies and gentlemen, We truly live in a very turbulencey world. The presentation by both the Minister for Foreign Affairs and the Chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, and the topics they dealt with, very vividly point out that there is very little hope that this turbulence will be significantly reduced in the near future, but perhaps even in the distant future. It is therefore extremely important that Estonia's foreign policy is active and creative and that we are prepared for international cooperation. This year, the Government of the Republic is preparing an extremely important strategic document, the renewal of the foundations of security policy. I believe that this is a good place where, in cooperation with Parliament, priority issues can be addressed, which should refer to the activity and creativity of our foreign policy. In his speech, the Foreign Minister focused mainly on security policy priorities. Let me, as a representative of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union, highlight five very important issues that are undoubtedly crucial to our foreign policy at large today and in the near future. Firstly, we are dealing with a revisionist and very aggressive neighbour, Russia. The issue of sanctions has already been discussed several times today and their involvement in the situation in both Eastern Ukraine and Crimea has been discussed. But let us be honest, in fact, these relations, which have developed more broadly between the West and Russia in recent years, have nothing to do with only and only what we are seeing now in Ukraine or Syria. There is no reason to deny that Russia's current action is aimed at changing the security architecture of Europe. Russia is not satisfied with the free European world that has developed since the fall of the Berlin Wall. When you read the views of top Russian officials and the main points of their strategic papers, however, it can be concluded that Russia sees its relations with the Western countries rather in the spirit of the Cold War. NATO and the European Union have responded adequately to the situation, and both Sven Mikser and Marina Kaljurand talked about this. Perhaps more than NATO's activities, where there is an extraordinarily topical strengthening of deterrence, we should pay attention in foreign policy to the debates that are taking place within the European Union, including what strategy the European Union should implement in relations with Russia or what policy to pursue. It is not just a question of whether or not sanctions should continue in July, but, in fact, of which Russia the European Union would still like to see as its neighbour in the future. Here, I believe, is the opportunity precisely for Estonian foreign policy. Another major issue is the very serious impact of Islamist extremism. Minister Kaljurand mentioned that the Islamic State has spread, not to mention Libya, Syria and Iraq, but we know that it is also active in Afghanistan and in the southern region of Russia in the North Caucasus. Let us be honest, there are individual fighters in our region, not only in Europe, but also in the Nordic region. The Swedish Head of Security recently announced that 110 ISIS fighters who have returned to Sweden are a very serious security threat to both Sweden and the region as a whole. This requires very close security policy cooperation between countries, in fact intelligence cooperation. Thirdly, today's speeches touched very much on the issue of the migration crisis. This is clearly a long-term problem which affects, above all, the unity of the European Union. But when we talk about solidarity, we should not forget Estonia's activities in various fields over the last few years, from international missions in Afghanistan and Iraq, to concrete actions even now, at a time of migration crisis, when we have shown extraordinary solidarity with our allies. It is very important to keep in mind in the long term how we can jointly defend those constitutional values that the free and democratic European Union has prioritised. Here we are undoubtedly facing extremely serious debates with our allies and partners. Fourthly, very much has been said about the unity of the European Union and NATO. Perhaps we have not been so close to the crumbling of the European Union, but it is quite obvious that our foreign policy efforts must be designed to reduce these cracks and strengthen unity. The fifth very important issue, which today has been given less attention for obvious reasons, concerns Estonia's international competitiveness. It's clearly not just the State Department's business. Both the Minister of Enterprise and the government in general should be concerned that our entrepreneurs, despite the difficult times in the farther or nearest markets, will be able to promote Estonia's exports in the best possible way, as well as Estonia's reputation in the wider sense. There is another very, very important concern on which I want to end up spending a minute and a half. Unfortunately, the Minister for Foreign Affairs was unable to present his speech in full and, in my opinion, left out the most important part of it. All these issues are extremely important and we have a great deal to do, but resources are needed. The Minister of Foreign Affairs described his speech in a written version that the number of embassies should be consolidated and summarised and reduced. He referred to the fact that as paradoxical as this is, there are now about as many or even less diplomats in the Estonian External Action Service than in 2003 and the budget of the Estonian Ministry of Foreign Affairs is smaller than in 2003 if we look at the ratio of the total state budget. Is this consistent with the dangers and challenges we face? Therefore, I think that, since diplomats are our primary line in establishing deterrence, the financing side of the External Action Service is extremely important. I hope that Minister Marina Kaljuranna will become the first Foreign Minister to commit seriously not only to foreign policy but also to strengthening funding for the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the External Action Service. I believe that this place, the Riigikogu, is where there are good allies for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-11_U117	Thank you. Enn Frontland, Central Party faction, please! Five plus three minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-11_U118	Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Minister of Foreign Affairs, Still, it's solid and safe to start with some classic thinking. This was proved by today's main reports. If you add a little Hegel, you could say that there is always plenty of facts to support any claim. So I could talk about quite a lot of subjects using the minutes I've been allocated. But I'm only picking a few of those odds. I've always liked the idea that before you rush to drain the world's bogs, make a beautiful flower garden around where you live. Today, too, there are many who are calling for some specially large and large-scale foreign policy goals for Estonia. I think that these have already been achieved by our country's membership of NATO and the European Union. It is now important to behave and act with dignity as a country that has the right to sit at tables and, at least in theory, to participate in the debate on issues that are important in today's world, including foreign policy issues. Estonia is still facing an internationally important Presidency this year. As early as May, Estonia will be holding the presidency of the Committee of Ministers of the Council of Europe for a period of six months. The Council of Europe comprises 47 Member States, including Russia. As political decisions of the Council of Europe are taken within the Committee of Ministers, including decisions on membership and on the budget, it may not be necessary to examine for a long time whether or not the starting presidency of the Council of Europe is important. It is all the more so that when decisions are taken, consensus is always sought, which is what our Foreign Minister is in charge of future debates, and he is responsible for the performance of cooperation, and demands both the skill of the diplomat and the resoluteness of the decision-maker. The Presidency has a great deal of work and issues because the European Court of Human Rights, the Parliamentary Assembly, the Congress of Local and Regional Authorities, the International Conference of NGOs and the Commissioner for Human Rights belong to the Council of Europe. The preparations for the Presidency started last summer. The main areas that Estonia wants to focus on in six months have been decided. The Secretary-General of the Council of Europe Thorbjørn Jagland, who is responsible for the strategic management of the organisation and represents the Council of Europe, will arrive at a visit to Estonia just before the Estonian Presidency begins in May. It was therefore quite creepy to read a recent newspaper article, according to which even the Estonian Foreign Minister's office did not meet the basic security requirements, and two years after listening to a sensitive phone call about Maidan between the then Minister of Foreign Affairs, Urmas Paet, and the head of the foreign policy of the European Union, Catherine Ashton. It would be high time to complete the expansion of the safe house of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs until the last important office. However, the annual budget of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is smaller than the budgets of all other ministries. The redundancies have already started, but at first mainly in the main house, and unfortunately they continue. It is known to everyone that many Estonian embassies are too small to achieve anything even bigger. With current resources, it is difficult, if not impossible, to maintain even the current network of foreign agencies. This means, inter alia, that an in-depth analysis of the priorities of the ministry's fields of activity is needed. The State Department employs just over 600 people. However, the question arises as to whether there are enough of them to be able to deal with everything that has been dealt with to date. And do you have to deal with all this, in a situation where the Ministry of Foreign Affairs' operating costs do not grow this year, little of it, they are just as large or actually as small as the increase in the Ministry of Defence's expenses? However, more opportunities should be given to diplomats before the start of military or defence battles. The Committee on Foreign Affairs of the Riigikogu discusses the activities of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs on an ongoing basis. On a few occasions, we have also analysed the preparatory work so far for this year's Presidency, which requires both ideas and tangible resources. In our own house, here in the Riigikogu, a joint session of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe and the Standing Committee will be held in May, with 120 participants. Of course, we have also discussed our preparations for the Presidency of the European Union in 2018 and have analysed the possibilities to be more successful than Romania in obtaining the status of a rotating member of the UN Security Council. Estonia has the opportunity and even the duty to contribute to the development of a global strategy for the new foreign and security policy of the European Union. As we know, the June Council of the European Union instructed the High Representative for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy, Federica Mogherin, to draw up such a global strategy during the year. The Estonian Chief Coordinator is Erika Ellamaa-Ots from the Political Department of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, with whom we have met and discussed problems both in the Committee on Foreign Affairs and in the Committee on European Union Affairs. Of course, almost all ministries must contribute to the drafting of the proposals for a strategy paper. Mogherini plans to unite the European Union's foreign policy as a whole, which is not easy, because it also needs consensus on the approach to security measures. The strategy should be both global and, more specifically, focused on the EU's immediate regions. Development cooperation is an important part of the strategy based on the established situation. There are several reasons. The most important of these is that there is more verbal solidarity between countries in today's world than unity of action. Estonia's contribution to promoting development cooperation has so far been even lower than the minimum, although investments in this form of cooperation directly serve the security interests of Estonia. Development cooperation instruments should certainly be more boldly brought to business diplomacy; these issues should be found in image-setting projects. There is no need to analyse Hegel's scale to understand how important diplomacy is to ensure national security. Today, one of the main objectives of the European Union's foreign policy, and thus of Estonia, is to maintain and increase unity and balance. The same goes for our transatlantic relations. The importance of the free trade agreement between the European Union and the US and the resulting new opportunities must be emphasised here, among other things. If we are able to succeed in achieving these goals, perhaps when all quick daily work is done, we can also plan the enormous and far-reaching goals to be pursued. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-11_U119	Thank you. Please, Marianne Mikko, the Social Democratic Party Group.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-11_U120	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister of Foreign Affairs! Foreign policy anno Domini 2015 can be easily summarised. I quote William Shakespeare's 'Hamlet': 'Time's run out of joints. " Indeed, nothing is the same as it was yesterday. On the TV screen, we no longer see a picture that is safely familiar to us from the years before. Europe is not the same as it was 12 years ago when Estonia joined the European Union and NATO, nor is Russia the same as it was at the beginning of the millennium. Estonia is celebrating its 25th anniversary of regaining independence this year. There's six months till then. Much that can happen but can be shared with a firm conviction that nothing bad will happen to Estonia in the European Union and NATO Member State. To this end, as a country and a nation, we have made a great contribution to our security. We ourselves, without great compulsion, are one of those minority NATO Member States that have already realised several years ago that our defence expenditure is 2% of GDP. We have increased this number further so that NATO's collective defence on our country's hive is possible and tangible. The final document of the NATO Summit in Wales provided a good assumption that the Allied forces in Member States with fragile security could quickly fulfil the obligation of 'one for all, all for one' under Article 5. Estonia and the other Baltic countries were assured that we would not have to fear being alone at a difficult time. The next NATO summit in Warsaw this year must go on with the deterrence strategy. The North Atlantic Treaty Organisation is not a paper tiger, but the best defence force in the world, where an Estonian soldier fights alongside soldiers from America and other allied states, if necessary. Our Foreign Minister spoke of this unity. Estonia has been practicing its activities with many Allied Defence Forces on several missions. Estonian soldiers are valued wherever we have worked with others, either in the Middle East or in Africa. This is important for all of us to know and to strike down, and it is our duty to commend our soldiers. We really have our security and defence responsibilities very properly, it could be said that we have even been exemplary in NATO and in the European Union, and we are more valued at the moment in the eyes of our allies than perhaps ever before. Estonia's warnings that the wariness of the eastern neighbour would increase were quite acute when Crimea was taken. Our information about what is happening in Eastern Ukraine is very appreciated. Russia. What about everything we see next to him? It seems as if we were back in the 19th century when the Slavophiles and the zapadniks kept asking themselves and each other whether the Russians belong east or west. In fact, it is for the eastern neighbour to decide where they belong mentally, but aggression, be it said, will be counterproductive in the 21st century, if not military, then economic. Sanctions. Both the Minister of Foreign Affairs and the Chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs spoke about them. The fact that Estonia is among the spokespersons for sanctions against Russia earns approval, which, of course, does not mean, as the Minister of Foreign Affairs and the Chairman of the Foreign Affairs Committee stressed that the rules should not be observed. It is not the case that on a square table, one suddenly beats a noisy oak tree, the other tries to continue playing chess. Estonia's foreign policy has been guided by the universality of international law. This means that no country is above the others, but all countries are subject to the same rules. In view of both geopolitical location and our population, Estonia needs to stay on the course of value-based foreign policy both in the European Union and NATO and to keep these organisations on the same footing. Only together can we be strong. This determination is necessary for Estonia in the long term and in view of the big picture. The fact that, if not in numbers, we are large in spirit could apply to Estonia's foreign policy reputation. At this point, however, it must be asked whether it satisfies... More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-11_U121	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-11_U122	Thank you very much. ...to the truth. Events in the Middle East, specifically the war in Syria and the spread of Daesh, have led to migration that has not been seen in Europe since the Second World War. Last year in Europe, more than ever, the idea that kept the European Union together in difficult times was expressed in a single word of solidarity. Not only did we have solidarity with Paris on 13 November, but we have solidarity in the fight against terrorism every day. There is no justification for Islamic extremism in Europe. Migration crisis and Estonia. As the first shock, the Estonian political elite began to fight the European Commission on figures. Estonians had not so much a picture of human tragedy as a virtual number struggle in relation to war refugees. Of course, it was a mistake that politicians have recognised. The subject is now very passionately debated, and the first refugees may arrive. In foreign policy terms, Estonia is moderate on the issue of refugees, but does not ignore solidarity as a principle. It is hoped that Sweden will be grateful to us, as Estonian families were grateful to the Kingdom of Sweden in 1944, when tens of thousands of Estonian boat refugees landed in Sweden and were accepted there. The refugee crisis, like turbulence beyond our eastern borders, has created a feeling in many political parties that they themselves are creating their own Ministry of Internal Affairs, Defence or Foreign Affairs. In the Chamber of Riigikogu, but especially on the streets, there are slogans that some parties are particularly eager to protect Estonians as a dying breed. Such populism is unacceptable to the social democrats. We recall that in security and defence matters, as in foreign policy, Estonia, as a democratic rule of law, has for years followed an unwritten rule that we have a consensus in such strategic policy areas. It is not the case that some parties take the right to start playing with questions that we do not really have the right to play with. When you return to the Foreign Minister's report, the Social Democrats will peacefully sign it. If something was missing or would have wanted to hear more about something, this is the issue of the Presidency in the Council of Europe, which was discussed by my colleague, Enn Frontland. We would have been pleased to hear more and more about the priorities of the Presidency of the Council of Europe and about the example we want to set in six months, when Estonia has the honour of leading almost half a hundred European countries once for more than 20 years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-11_U123	Thank you. Henn Põllaas on behalf of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-11_U124	President-in-Office of the Council. Minister, thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, This discussion of Estonian foreign policy is undoubtedly extremely necessary. I agree with the above opinion that it would probably be worth coming back to this older practice when this debate was held twice a year. Listening once a year to the Foreign Minister's presentation when the views, goals and aspirations of the Estonian state are presented, you are naturally looking forward to a bright note, a saluti. Unfortunately, I have to admit, I had to experience quite a disappointment. We did get an overview of the situation and a description of today's world, Europe and its immediate surroundings. But, as I said, this did not involve in-depth analyses of the causes, origins or development of these situations, we did not hear the specific views of the Estonian state on certain issues, we did not know the goals or the ways to reach our own goals, nor did we hear what our goals or solutions were at all. Throughout today's so-called debate, I did not hear the expression 'national interests'. Do we have national interests at all? Does Estonia have independent interests and goals in foreign policy? We heard a great deal about the aims and objectives of the European Union, we heard a lot about the liberal value system and solidarity, but we did not hear whether it was really worth taking it over without the slightest criticism. Despite this solidarity, do we also have any views and views on what this 'liberal value system' should be unconditionally adopted? Does this mean that we must abandon all our existing value systems? Do we have to abandon family values and national rule? What are these liberal values and will they outweigh everything that has brought us here today and will continue to take us forward in the future? We heard here that those who speak of mass immigration are mistaken or misleading. It is a shame that Europe has not been able to distribute immigrants between countries. In fact, however, it is a disgrace that the European Union has been able to do absolutely nothing to stop these processes. The fact that you don't deal with the causes is a disgrace. We heard about defending the territorial integrity of Ukraine. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-11_U125	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-11_U126	Of course it is important and necessary, there is no doubt about it. But that does not mean that we can at the same time forget to defend our territorial integrity and our own interests. As we have heard today, it is not considered important, it is not considered important. Our foreign policy seems to be running along without principles, forgetting our own interests and ignoring them. Here, a parallel could be drawn with the former foreign policy credo of President Lennart Meri, which consisted in finding a common section between countries and reducing the grey zone. God's right view, there is no doubt about it. But if this foreign policy is to be implemented, the clearer it must be in front of its own national interests, they must not be forgotten. Fredén, a former Swedish ambassador in Tallinn, once wrote that national interests must be the most important and primary for small countries in particular, so that the great powers do not run over them. At the same time, he wondered why Estonia did not have them. This is the same surprise that I am publishing today, because we are about to celebrate the 25th anniversary of regaining independence, but we have forgotten everything that this country was for and what its aims were. We're asking if we have a narrative. I don't think so. But in fact, the narrative is in our constitution. Unlock the Preamble, it states why the Estonian state was created and what its purpose is: the preservation of the Estonian nation, language and culture. The whole of the country's activities, including foreign policy, must be based on this objective. There is no doubt about it. Working with our allies, developing good alliances and strengthening our security with our friends, of course, that is how it must be. But this cannot be at the expense of our own interests, of our own people, of our own sustainability and durability. The question is not whether we have a consensual foreign policy. Thank God we don't have it! Besides concluding a border treaty and abandoning the damage to the occupation, today's government would probably give its signature to what I don't know yet. The question is whether we want to decide our own affairs, to be in control of our own country and to determine the future of our people and country, or whether we want to be merely obedient collaborators, doers of command, promoters of the interests of other countries and nations. I prefer to be the master in my own country, and I am sure that this is what the entire Estonian people prefer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-11_U127	Thank you. Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, Reform Party faction. Five plus three minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-11_U128	Dear Minister, Good manager! Colleagues! Why is the foreign policy debate one of the most important debates in Parliament at all? Because when discussing foreign policy in this Chamber today, we are actually discussing nothing more or less than the question of the Estonian state's survival. Keeping the European Union as a union based on personal and economic freedoms, maintaining a united Europe as a strong and operational player in world politics, is today the most important issue in terms of the Estonian state's survival. The rumors that Estonia and Europe have somehow taken up some new era overnight, where the contradictions between globalisation and its opponents have become the most important, are misleading delusions. Much of this change has not been an unexpected development, but a cynical geopolitical strategy of our eastern neighbour, in which people's fears of an open world and society are merely a means of manipulating attempts once again to change the borders of states and the fate of peoples. Where do these fears come from? In our corner of the world, perhaps some of the painful historical memory, but also the fact that strangers are inevitably associated with a number of very unpleasant events in the capitals of Europe. It is a natural instinct to keep our own country on a high shelf under glass in a box protected from the most unpleasant or potentially unpleasant. After all, those forces that manipulate these same fears and instincts offer seemingly simple solutions to fears, accompanied by torches, until they emerge from the European Union. But now, if you think of three steps ahead, where exactly does this isolation strategy lead us? We cannot actually close ourselves down; our geopolitical position simply does not allow us to do so. The Kremlin's cynical geopolitical strategy has been invested long and steady and has been implemented for years in Eastern Europe, now increasingly in Western Europe. At present, only blind or arrogant can claim that Estonia has been the only one left out of it. It must be said with a clear voice that there are forces in the world and in Estonia whose desire is to push Estonia in the exact opposite direction to the security policy initiated by Lennart Meri and pursued throughout the Estonian era of independence. Their wish is to tear Estonia out of Europe and western allegiance, to leave us in no man's land, leave us alone, in the same position as the then leaders and people of the Republic of Estonia discovered themselves to be before the previous world war. If this eviction of Estonia, even mentally at first, should be successful, can we hope that the result will be somehow different from what was last time? Someone's work to get Estonia out of Europe, the European Western League, is always going on. To do so, lies are divided, aroused, and emotions are aroused. This is done with the power of a stranger, but often with our own support. We're not the only ones. In fact, there are few European countries whose internal policies would not have appeared publicly in recent years alongside pro-Kremlin political parties and politicians from the other side of the political spectrum or, according to external observation, unexpectedly found money vessels, 'fully independent', overnight foundations, NGOs, social warriors. What is it we're facing? There is another question: why is Russia financing extremists in European countries and the spread of false news, if not to transform the increasing pressure of refugees into a general foreign fear, a distrust of politicians in favour of a united Europe of freedom values? Why would he do so, if not to break the European Union into small princess countries with closed borders, which would then be easy to manipulate one by one? Lead the game, divide and rule, get them out of balance, don't let them join. This is what the Putin regime does on every front and every day. Why is Putin bombing the civilian population in Syria, the areas controlled by the Assad regime's opponents, if not so that people who are now fleeing Europe from Putin's bombs, in addition to the terror on the ground, would increase the pressure of refugees? The migration crisis is being used as a political instrument and long ago. Knowing this, does it not seem a bit schizophrenic that, at the same time, there are those in Europe who are talking about melting relations with the Putin regime? Perhaps it would be more appropriate to discuss the response to the appropriate sanctions for the bombing of civilians. There is no doubt that democratic Russia based on European values would be Europe and Estonia's strongest security guarantee, but we have nowhere to take it. Today's Russian autocrats leaders, who do not see Russia's future as a peaceful part of Western civilization, but are still looking at matters with the ambitions of the former empire, perceive a threat in a strong and united Europe. Awareness, observation, and recognition of this are essential prerequisites for ordering our own thoughts and making plans. Estonia's European and progressive reputation among our friends and allies is our real missile shield. This is our cheapest line of defense and our most expensive defense equipment. If we lose it, we won't have much left. This reputation also includes the obligation to speak honestly and openly about what we see as a failure without falling into the trap of political correctness. For some time now, in fact, many people feel that a room called the European Union is an elephant, but when they feel a clear discomfort, they still don't want to say it. What is it I'm talking about? This is that the migration crisis has reached the point where, without changing anything, it will most likely continue in exactly the same way, the result will be something that no leader in the European Union wants to see. The events of last summer, uncontrolled and massive immigration, simply cannot be allowed to happen again. Ladies and gentlemen, A year ago, we were waiting in this very hall for news of the negotiations in Minsk. A year later, aggression is still ongoing in Ukraine. We will not let Ukraine be forgotten and we will never recognise the occupation of Crimea. Yesterday, when the media brokered the Russian Foreign Minister's talk about how someone ordered anti-Russian sanctions, in reality, these sanctions have already been ordered by a man, Putin, since 2014. Let the aggression stop and the sanctions stop! If, in the past, there were occasional fingertips that Estonia should not be too much a country in foreign policy, then I think that these stories should be buried for some time today due to the events in Georgia 2008, Ukraine 2014 and Syria 2015. This one issue is security. Our mission is to be a canary in a mine, helping with our historical experience and hearing about it, to fight for Europe's security and freedom. Our role is to help Europe realise that a soft, soft attitude has never had a chance in this fight, because only the strong are believed in the east. What can we do here in Estonia? To stop playing sandbox games, to think of the world we leave behind for the next generation, to stop shy silence when the people are turned against each other with lies. However, adequate rapid answers must also be given to the security concerns of the people, at the right time and openly explaining to the people what is happening in the surrounding world and how it affects Estonia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-11_U129	Thank you. Andres Herkel on behalf of the Estonian Free Party Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-11_U130	Mr President! Honourable Minister of Foreign Affairs! Members of the Riigikogu! Since the Cohabitation Act took me out of the hall in the meantime, I am the last speaker of this round, at least so far. With regard to procedural issues, the idea arises that perhaps these groups' rounds of speeches might be somewhere ahead, given this dynamic. It's always gonna be a long time for us. But I agree with the previous speaker that this is probably one of our most important debates, especially in the current situation. Looking at the situation where we were in an analogous debate a year ago, it is clear that it is getting worse and worse. There are increasing numbers of tensions, as well as countries in difficulties in building democracy, and there is no improvement here. We have even come to the point that the Minister for Foreign Affairs, in his speech, says that maintaining European unity itself is not only a value but also an achievement. That's right, this unity is extremely important. But it reminds me of the situation that I experienced a few years ago in an organisation where, at the same time, it was not about protecting human rights, but about protecting human rights defenders. This is the kind of knife-deepness where foreign policy is increasingly important. Definitely this center, I agree with both of the main rapporteurs, and for us, we have security. Security is based on Western unity. The NATO Summit is important. What is important is what happens after that from Eastern Europe, what position Poland is in, and we and the other Eastern European countries are in, as well as how we are covering the dangers coming from the south. Now, a few critical remarks. First of all, I will stick to the criticism that we rushed ahead with the border agreement. Yes, we are now faced with the fact that we do not know whether the Russian State Duma will discuss this issue at all during its composition. Rather, it appears from the signs that they are not discussing. Why would we have to go in front of the other half? The question of the Security Council, the desire to be a non-permanent member 2020 A very ambitious plan. However, I think that this has been a little unconscious and unravelled at Parliament level and in the public. However, against this background, the Minister for Foreign Affairs did not say that we had to pull together the External Action Service and that there were fewer and fewer resources. There's some contradiction here about how we're gonna carry it out. I'd like to have a clearer explanation for that. Finally, the Presidency of the Council of Europe. Not a minor organisation, 47 countries, Russia also participates, but it has been temporarily removed from the parliamentary assembly. This is certainly an important thing that deserves more than one sentence in the Foreign Minister's speech. Such speeches must be made by our leaders, I do not quite know, but this choice is usually made between the Minister for Foreign Affairs, the Prime Minister and the President, also before the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. I have noticed a rule of thumb in such performances: the more space left for questions, even critical questions, the better the performer will be accepted. We certainly want Estonia to perform at a level. Now the Russian question. Yeah, I used a dramatic expression like "the export of murder," but that's it. I meant single murder first, we're talking about Litvinenko, we're talking about Nemtsov. We recently saw a scary video, where a member of the Riigikogu had also been picked up. It's scary. Even more horrifying are mass murders, both what is happening in Ukraine and Russia's activities in Syria, which have only escalated the conflict and brought more casualties. What can we do as a country and as a nation in such a situation? A political scientist recently claimed that the Russian question as a core issue of Estonian politics is going to disappear and that some new value issues will come in place, and then, as a long-term, probably the refugee issue. That is why we need to think about where the origin of this refugee issue is and why Russia's attitude towards Cologne's events was more like this...
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-11_U131	Excuse me, would you like some more time?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-11_U132	Yes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-11_U133	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-11_U134	I'll say a few sentences. I don't need that much time, but thank you! This attitude was such that it was not like it had been able to actually conceal the joy of pity. Yes, there are no refugees in Estonia, but the refugee problem in Europe is probably a long-term one. In this regard, the issue of value must be very acute and we must also formulate our national interests, as one of the previous speakers said. But I think that these national interests lie in being with Europe, in European values, not in being adopted by the East in some conflicts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-11_U135	Thank you. There's no more calls. Would the Minister of Foreign Affairs like a word? No. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you all for your active participation, I thank the Minister for Foreign Affairs, the Chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the representatives of the political groups for their very substantial contributions. Today's trial is over. See you next week! Closure of the sitting at 13.32 p.m.
