ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-14_U1	Dear Riigikogu, good afternoon. The 8th working week of the 4th plenary session will begin. Despite everything, it is also possible to pass on drafts and enquiries today. Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-14_U2	Honorable President! Respectable members of the Riigikogu! On behalf of the Free Party Group, I am pleased to hand over the draft law amending the Social Tax Act, the Income Tax Act and other laws with a complex name, but with a simple content. However, the content is very simple: to cancel the planned sharp increase in VAT on accommodation establishments, which is planned to take effect from 1 January next year. The subject has been dealt with several times in this Chamber. I am quite sure that there are fewer or more members of all the political groups to whom this proposed increase in VAT on accommodation facilities has always been a concern. Since this undermines the international competitiveness of the Estonian economy, it is quite clear. The men and women in the Excel table can rejoice once at the end of the coming year that, in connection with the Presidency of the European Union in 2017, the occupancy of our accommodation facilities will be quite good, but it will be a very short pleasure. The amount of economic losses resulting from such a poorly timed premature decision is likely to be revealed only in 2018. Ladies and gentlemen, You and I, together, have the opportunity to fail to make a foolish decision or to reverse it properly.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-14_U3	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-14_U4	Mr. Chairman! Honourable representatives of the people! In order to allow events to proceed more smoothly at this politically difficult time, the members of the Free Party Group reached an agreement with Mr Ossinovski, Minister for Health and Labour, that we would not deal with two inquiries on the agenda today, inquiries No 256 and 258. However, since these are substantive questions, to which the deadline for replying will be exhausted in the meantime, I will refer these questions to the procedure again here. One question relates to unjustified requirements for rural enterprises and the other to the organisation and quality of existing ambulance services. Whatever the Government of the Republic is soon to be, and whoever is not a minister, we hope that we will also have meaningful answers to these meaningful questions, which are expected to have been prepared in the Ministry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-14_U5	Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-14_U6	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of myself and a few other members of the Riigikogu, I will refer an inquiry to the Minister of Finance, Sven Sester. The European Commission published its autumn forecast last week. The forecast shows that the European Commission estimates the structural deficit of Estonia's state budget for next year at 0.2% of GDP. According to the report of the Ministry of Finance, which is also the basis for the state budget for 2017, the budget position is in surplus with 0.2%. At the same time, the fiscal council at Eesti Pank, which only recently presented its assessments of structural balance in the Committee on Monetary Affairs, reached a different outcome from that of the Ministry of Finance. As a result, we have some questions for the Minister of Finance. We ask why the European Commission and the Ministry of Finance differ in their assessment of structural balance? Is it because of different assessment methodologies, different assessment of one-off effects, different baselines and assumptions or something else? Secondly, since the current law obliges the state budget to be drawn up at least in structural balance, the basis is the forecast of the Ministry of Finance. Can the different assessments of the European Commission and the Fiscal Council also lead to changes in the estimates of the Ministry of Finance? Thirdly, if the Ministry of Finance agrees with the estimates made by the Board of Budgets and the European Commission, which state budget expenditure does the Minister recommend to reduce in order to improve the structural position of the state budget in the Riigikogu when dealing with the budget?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-14_U7	As representative of the Government of the Republic, Heili Tõnisson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-14_U8	Mr. Chairman! Dear Riigikogu! The Government of the Republic today initiates three draft laws and submits nine draft resolutions of the Riigikogu. Firstly, the draft law amending the Penal Code and related amendments to other laws, which strengthens the attitude towards drink driving of the vehicle. In processing this bill in the Riigikogu, the Government of the Republic is represented by the Minister of Justice. Secondly, the draft law amending the Law on Maritime Labour and the Act on the Cross-Community Inclusion of Workers. The Government of the Republic is represented by the Minister of Health and Labour when this bill is being processed in the Riigikogu. Thirdly, the draft Act ratifying the Protocol on the Status of the Baltic Defence College and its staff between the Government of the Republic of Estonia, the Government of the Republic of Latvia and the Government of the Republic of Lithuania. In processing this bill in the Riigikogu, the Government of the Republic is represented by the Minister of Defence. And now nine draft decisions of the Riigikogu: firstly, extending the term of use of the Defence Forces in fulfilling the international obligations of the Estonian State in the context of the United Nations peacekeeping mission in Lebanon; secondly, the use of the Defence Forces in fulfilling the international obligations of the Estonian State in the context of the NATO response forces; thirdly, extending the term of use of the Defence Forces in fulfilling the international obligations of the Estonian State in the execution of the peacekeeping mission in Kosovo; fourthly, extending the term of use of the Defence Forces in fulfilling the international obligations of the Estonian State in the first contribution to it by the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation or its Member State, the European Union or the United Nations; sixthly, extension of the term of use of the Defence Forces in fulfilling the international obligations of the Estonian State in the context of the post-conflict peacebuilding mission in Lebanon, Israel, Egypt and Syria; seventhly, extension of the term of use of the Defence Forces and extension of the number of active forces in the execution of the international duties of the Estonian State in the European Union in the context of the European Union peace Mission. In processing all these nine draft decisions of the Riigikogu in the Riigikogu, the Government of the Republic is represented by the Minister of Defence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-14_U9	The 13 drafts adopted and the three referrals are taken into account under the Home and Working Procedures Act. Please, let's do the presence check! 77 members of the Riigikogu are present in the plenary session. From the agenda. As you have already heard, the heirs have withdrawn their enquiries Nos 258 and 256, which were scheduled as the fourth and fifth items on today's agenda. So they're off the agenda. The Committee on Social Affairs has proposed to remove the fourth item from the Wednesday agenda of this week, the second reading of the draft law amending the Health Insurance Act and the Social Tax Act 301. Honourable Riigikogu, with these amendments, I will vote on the agenda for the 8th working week of the 4th plenary session of the Riigikogu. Please take a stand and vote. In favour of 76, there are no respondents or abstentions. The week's agenda is confirmed.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-14_U10	The first item on the agenda is an inquiry by Riigikogu members Andres Ammas, Monika Haukanõmme, Ain Lutsep, Krista Aru, Jüri Adams, Artur Talvik and Andres Herkel. Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-14_U11	Honorable President! Respectable members of the Riigikogu! As many of the questions presented in this Chamber and coming to answer are also questions about life itself, about meetings with people who deal with refugees who have arrived in Estonia as a result of relocation. These conversations have revealed to the interviewers that 100 hours of free language training currently available to such refugees may not be sufficient. In addition, language learning takes place with relatively low intensity for about half a year. If the language is studied a few times a week in a few hours, the acquired person will be forgotten by the next language hour. In no way does language learning allow you to acquire a language at a level sufficient to take up a job corresponding to the experience gained in Estonia and previous education. Simple work may indeed be enough for elementary terms, but in order to do the work that these people could and could actually do in Estonia, 100 language hours will certainly not be enough. There are quite good examples of Finland, a neighbouring country, where immigrants are taught free language for as many as 1,000 hours. This is, of course, very expensive, but the Finns themselves say that longer and more intensive learning reduces the later translation costs and the need for help for immigrants. If we have already been quite conservative here, carefully selected those who come here, and we have not been caught by an unexpected flood of immigrants, then we will be able to act intelligently, thoughtfully and by learning from the experiences of other countries. As a result of all this, the questioners have formulated five questions on which we hope to get good answers from the Minister for the Interior. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-14_U12	Mr Pevkur, Minister of the Interior, will answer the question. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-14_U13	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Good heirs! Then allow me, on behalf of the outgoing government, to answer your question for the last time as Minister of the Interior. To begin with, of course, it must be said that the right addressee of this issue would have been the Minister for Social Protection, because language learning and everything that relates to it are his responsibility. But as a polite person, you have to answer when I'm asked. Let it be said that in the title and text of your inquiry, you have also used different terms, the new immigrant, the refugee, the refugee who arrived with the relocation. I believe you also understand that they are all of different content, both legally and in substance, and in fact the term 'acquired of international protection' should be added. It's not very clear who you want to know exactly about. It must be borne in mind here that, of course, refugees are not only counted among the new immigrants, but the overwhelming majority of them are foreigners moving to Estonia to work, study or live with their family members, both from European Union countries, which last year were 3176, and from third countries, which last year had a total of 4928. And if we now take it more narrowly, the beneficiaries of international protection of this magnitude of 8 000 people who came to Estonia last year, either from the European Union or from outside the European Union, were only 1%, or 78 people. It can be assumed from questions of inquiry that there is, in fact, a desire to ask about the language learning of beneficiaries of international protection. These rules are set out in the law granting international protection to an alien and are the responsibility of the Ministry of Social Affairs and the Minister of Social Protection. At this point, I think it is important to draw your attention to one point that you will perhaps also remember about the following questions. Such an obligation, the obligation to study languages, was, as we know, added to Parliament's decision at the beginning of this year, but to this day, the Minister for Social Protection has not introduced a regulation concerning more precise conditions for the participation of beneficiaries of international protection in the study of the Estonian language, including the procedure for the recovery of the cost of learning the Estonian language. This, unfortunately, has not been established by the Minister for Social Protection, but it would certainly be necessary to establish clarity on this issue. But now to the questions. Why has it been decided to choose a language learning volume of a hundred hours? According to the information received from the Ministry of Social Affairs, the Ministry of Social Affairs, in cooperation with the Asylum, Migration and Integration Fund, has announced a call for applications to ensure language learning, the content of which is the development and offer of training courses in Estonian language level A1 and A2 for persons who have received international protection. At the time, the project was designed to provide at least 150 people with instruction in Estonian until the end of next year. In the preparation of the call for proposals, of course, language training specialists were consulted, who said that, given the long-term experience of foreign language learning and immersion, reaching A1 and A2 levels should be achieved within a hundred hours. It was back then. Then I'll get to what could and should be. The second question: 'What level does a 100-hour course have to reach? How can the learner be helped to move to the next level and reach a higher level of C1? ' As we agreed together in this Chamber, the relocated and relocated beneficiaries of international protection must reach language level A2 which means that, at the end of A1 and A2 level language training, with a minimum of 100 academic hours, the participants will acquire at least A2 level communication competence. This means that they understand sentences, frequently used expressions that relate to important areas such as self- and family information, shopping, home and work, cope with everyday social situations that require direct and simple communication on familiar topics, can describe their family, other people and living conditions and express their needs through simple phrases and sentences. As far as we know, the Ministry of Social Affairs is planning a call for applications or organising a call for tenders to continue language studies up to level B2. Question 3: How is language training for refugees currently organised in more detail, and what conclusions can be drawn? I would like to remind you once again that language training is organised by the Ministry of Social Affairs. The current arrangement is that language training starts at the latest one month after the resettled or relocated arrival in Estonia. In general, courses have so far started within two weeks of the person's arrival and language training is conducted in groups of between three and ten. Training in smaller or larger groups, including individual training, shall be agreed on a case-by-case basis. The density of language training depends on the fullness of the training groups and on the immediate need, in particular the period during which the number of persons required to form a group or the need for individual training will be registered for the training. When it comes to current practice, yes, according to the experts who have communicated with the Ministry of Social Affairs and people, people would also need long-term language training to reach A2 level and the number of hours originally planned should be increased. According to the information received from the Ministry of Social Affairs at the end of the week, as far as I know, they plan to increase the volume of language learning. In the coming weeks, it should be clear how much volume there will be. I would like to draw the attention of the heirs here to the fact that, in addition to the agreed and determined amount of language learning, beneficiaries of international protection will be able to learn the language outside this programme. For example, language training provided by the unemployment fund is available where it is necessary to participate in the labour market on the basis of individual needs. Integration and Migration Foundation Our People organise language learning in order to apply for citizenship. Online learning opportunities can be used individually, for example, there is a website such as language klikk.ee. There is an electronic learning environment for initiators at A2 level and is already working to achieve a B1 level course with electronic learning. Similarly, it is possible to study in language companies and apply for Innove to compensate for the costs of language learning after passing the exam. As far as minors are concerned, they study in general education on the basis of an individual curriculum which allows intensive study of the official language during the first three years. In the first year, the recommended volume of language learning in schools is 8 to 10 hours a week, which is quite intense. Basic schools receive additional EUR 400 per child per year from the Ministry of Education and Research and the minimum allowance for school is EUR 1000. The grant is granted within three years of starting the student's studies. Experience so far shows that the principles and methods of immersion in language lessons and the creation of opportunities for extra-hour socialisation are the basis and prerequisite of success. It is important in itself to have close social contact with peers. Question 4: "How are migrants who have failed or are not participating in language training dealt with? ' Again, in this very hall, I recall the law on granting international protection to an alien, adopted in the spring or early of the year, according to which language learning is compulsory. According to the same law, the money planned for language learning can be collected from a person if a person fails to comply with that obligation. Similarly, the obligation to participate in language training is taken into account when deciding whether to extend the residence permit or grant a new residence permit. Question 5: "Which factors prevent immigrants from teaching Estonian on a larger scale? ' As I said, the Ministry of Social Affairs is planning, as far as I know, to increase the volume of language learning. If you look at where it is financed, it is the AMI Fund of the European Union. From there, this education is currently funded and, in accordance with the law on granting international protection to an alien, the cost of language training for beneficiaries of international protection per person is reimbursed up to a limit of 12 per person. Again, the law has set limits on how much we can now financially teach people language. If you look at how much there are 12 limits on income, this year it will be EUR 1560. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-14_U14	Any questions for the Minister? No, it's not. Thank you, Minister of the Interior Hanno Pevkur! I'm opening negotiations. There is no wish for negotiation. I close the debate on this item.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-14_U15	Our next question is made by Mailis Reps, Toomas Vitsut, Viktor Vassiliev, Aadu Must, Anneli Ott, Jaanus Karilaid, Erki Savisaar, Jüri Ratas, Olga Ivanova, Tarmo Tamm, Enn Eesmaa, Dmitri Dmitriev, Andrei Novikov, Vladimir Velman, Valeri Korb, Kersti Sarapuu, Märt Sults, Marika Tuus-Laul and Kadri Simson. On behalf of the heirs, Aadu Black, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-14_U16	Dear Chairman, Madam Minister! An inquiry is motivated by the events of September. Namely, the Estonian Educational Workers' Association then addressed the members of the Riigikogu and the Ministry of Education and Research with our evergreen problem, i.e. the issue of teachers' pay. Reference was made to the opinion of the Ministry of Education and Research that teachers' salaries were one of the priority issues and, at the same time, resentment was expressed that in all forecasts the planned wage increase was extremely modest. The actual figures show that, despite large measures and much talk, teachers' pay has gone in a negative direction compared to the average wage. Teachers wanted to know whether such an estimated wage increase of EUR 58 really shows that this is a priority issue for the government. The answer to this question today really does create a slightly delicate situation. Some people said that perhaps the answer to the inquiry should have been postponed, as the main originator, Mailis Reps, is concerned with other important national issues. But you can't postpone it either, because then it might happen that someone inquisitors will have to answer it. Inquiry has not become pointless either because the pay of teachers will inevitably remain the central issue in the work of the Riigikogu and the Ministry anyway. It certainly has a purely practical value when we hear today what the Reform Party is thinking about in this respect and to what extent it is willing to accompany this initiative, even in opposition. It's better to have a job like this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-14_U17	Maris Lauri, Minister of Education and Science, must answer the question. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-14_U18	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! I fully understand the dilemma of the heirs, because I too found it somewhat difficult to provide an answer to this question. First of all, I would like to point out that the OECD study referred to in the inquiry does not cover all countries, so we cannot say that we are in a very difficult situation on a global scale. The OECD is known to be a "rich club" and it is clear that Estonia is one of the poorest at the level of income in the rich club. Secondly, the same OECD study makes it very clear that the increase in teachers' salaries in Estonia is very rapid. So we don't just stand out on the negative side. But now to the questions. The first question: 'You have said that education is the basis for the success of every person and country. Do you think that an increase in teachers' minimum wage of EUR 58 is proof that education and teachers are one of the top priorities of the government? " I agree that the salary increase could be higher. But that's just the amount we could afford at the time. I would point out that this estimate, expressed as a minimum of 1 000 and 1,200 averages, is an initial estimate. These are the minimum amounts, the figures may actually turn out to be higher. It is also a matter of priority. In view of the fact that in the 2017 budget, the increase in teachers' salaries is planned to be higher than the increase in wages in other areas of the public sector, teachers and education certainly were and will be a priority. Unfortunately, the financial resources did not allow more. The second question: 'What is the minimum wage/teacher pay for teachers planned for next year, i.e. 2017? Is this above average wage growth? 'The minimum wage for teachers can be raised to at least EUR 1000 and the average wage could therefore rise to at least EUR 1200. Detailed data will be available after the students' data has been specified in the coming weeks. This data set is known to be fixed as of 10 November and is currently under calculation. Teachers' salaries are in a privileged position and the salary fund's budget growth was 3%, plus 1.3% for private schools. This represents an increase of 4.3% in the payroll fund, or at least EUR 11 million. A reduction in the social tax rate adds opportunities, i.e. an increase of 0.3%, with a total of 4.6%. In addition, the Ministry of Education seeks to find additional resources by internal reorganisation of the administrative area. I would also like to talk about the need to be very precise in terms of wages and other such indicators. The minimum level of teacher's pay is the minimum level of pay, and the salary in itself depends very much on the employer. The employer of most teachers is the municipality, not the state. I am very pleased with the authorities that have put their money on public money. At the same time, however, we also have municipalities that do not pay out all the education support, and incrediblely, there are 65. In total, last year, 30% of the municipalities did not pay out all the money for education support. That's a very high percentage. These calculations, which have been made at the Ministry of Education, do not include, by the way, the contribution of municipalities. If, in addition to the amount allocated by the State, municipalities are able to pay more than the current amount, the level of wages will be higher. The current number also fails to take into account the organisation of the school network, which is ongoing and the details of which were also clear only in November. The number of teachers' positions is clear from the current calculations. According to the summer forecast by the Ministry of Finance, the average salary will increase by 5.5% next year. The fact is, unfortunately, that wage growth forecasts prepared by the Ministry of Finance have been modest in recent years and actual wage growth has been faster. If we make a budget, we will, of course, follow the forecasts of the Ministry of Finance, and that means that as optimistic as we want to be, we will inevitably go wrong. In view of all the above, I consider it impossible to say at the moment whether or not the increase in teachers' pay will exceed the average wage increase next year. I really hope this happens, but like I said, I can't confirm it. As an analyst, I'd like you to be careful. Question 3: 'What concrete steps will you take to ensure that teachers' pay will rise to 120% of the national average by 2019? ' Considering the current government is no longer going to continue, I cannot confirm it. This is a question for the next government. I have my thoughts on this, of course, and we have also made preparations in this regard, but I do not think it right to begin teaching the next government or minister here. At the same time, I am prepared to express my opinion and explain myself to the next Minister for Education and Research when he asks me to do so. Question 4: "What results have been achieved by the Teacher Training Scholarship and the starting grant for teachers located outside Tallinn and Tartu? ' The main aim of the scholarship is to value teaching as a teacher and thus to recognise the teacher's profession in Estonian society. This objective is well served by the scholarship. The teacher training scholarship has been awarded since 2008 to 949 students and has recently had an average of 100 scholarships a year. As regards initial teacher support, it was also paid in 2008 and has so far received 579 teachers. Question 5: " Competitive pay would make the teaching profession considerably more popular. However, if executive power fails to ensure that teachers' wage increases are allowed, what are the alternatives to popularising the teaching profession, including among men, and how would teachers who are already working at school continue to be motivated to do their job? " Pay is certainly important, but pay is not the only factor that brings teachers to school and keeps them there. Teachers working solely for pay may not be the best teachers. In my opinion, a good teacher also has a good dose of mission feeling. Undoubtedly, 'normal' income is an important component, but not just as I said. I believe that teachers must have the freedom to organise their work. Of course, there is also responsibility, and this issue of freedom and responsibility is certainly extremely complex. The scope of the study programme should be smaller so that the teacher has time to deepen what he has taught in young people. Teachers should be able to choose specific teaching methods and methods, because it is actually important that students acquire certain skills and knowledge. There are many ways and ways to do this, and I think that every teacher should have the opportunity to make choices in this regard. What matters is purpose. The second thing is certainly that the possibilities for teachers to improve themselves are adequate and adequate. It is also important what the school's working environment is, how teachers get along with each other. It's actually the same thing as any other job. What is also very important is what is said about teaching in society in general, in the press, between people. Each job has complicated situations and difficulties, as well as something positive and pleasant. However, for some reason, I do not understand exactly why this is the case, I have also asked the journalists, but they have not been able to answer me about teaching work in a negative context. They say it's very difficult and complicated. When you go to schools and talk to teachers, it turns out that it's not as bad as it sounds in the media. Such a negative echo certainly does not encourage young people to study teaching and may discourage them from leaving school. How are you still there when a friend or acquaintance tells you that oh, you're a teacher! One more component is certainly that the work of teachers must be recognised. I had the honour of being a teacher of the year at the gala, which is an all-Estonian event, but I know that similar events also take place in counties, as well as in Tallinn. Choosing a teacher of the year is very important to teachers. I dare to confirm this because I saw those teachers who were recognized for this was very important to them, and I saw it in their eyes and in their state. So I think that such events are also important, and informing the general public about them, that events are being transferred to ETV, is certainly very important. How can we bring young ones to the teaching work? On the basis of my personal experience, I think that on municipal day, young people could be given the opportunity to teach some lessons at school. It sometimes takes away the fear and prejudice associated with the teaching profession. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-14_U19	Questions for the Minister. Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-14_U20	Thank you, dear Maris Lauri. Teachers' raises have been made a lot of promise. However, it can be seen that the draft state budget for 2017 does not provide for an adequate increase in the payroll fund. We have also seen for several years how ministries have been told that you will find these resources from internal resources to meet the wage increases promises. A number of rural government leaders have been concerned that the Ministry of Education is trying to find the resources of the teachers' payroll by changing the coefficient of small schools. Has the Ministry of Education had such a plan on the table that the model of the different funding for small schools disappears?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-14_U21	Thanks for asking. No, it's not.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-14_U22	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-14_U23	Good manager! Good minister! You've been a minister for almost two months. In this two months, what did you actually learn about Estonian education?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-14_U24	Thanks for asking. I would say that giving an answer to this question is an extremely large and broad issue. It is very difficult to say in a concentrated way what I have learned specifically. I got to know a lot of things, a lot of jobs being done. There are very positive things. And like I said, the picture that opens up in the media, and the picture that opens up in schools, I think it's so different. That is one thing I certainly do not like and why I pointed out that the picture could be more positive in the public, so that we could talk more about positive things. At the end of last week, I went to a language bath conference. There were people doing a very grateful job, teaching Russian, English and Estonian in a way that young people could learn. And there are so many examples. I saw that the real picture of the Estonian school landscape is much better than we have appreciated. But I'm sure there's still a lot of work to do, so I saw it too.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-14_U25	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-14_U26	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Minister, thank you very much. You're a very serious realist as an analyst. However, I am asking you here today whether you have a bit of idealist about the future of Estonian education. The second, a bit concrete, is that the teacher's salary of 120% of the average wage in the country is not a very idealistic goal. You did talk about it briefly, but now put together the analyst and idealist side that you no doubt have and must have in the organisation of the education system.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-14_U27	Thanks for asking. Reaching a teacher's salary of 120% of the average wage in Estonia is certainly very difficult. If we wanted to do this in two or three years, this would require an increase of 11 to 12% per year. There is certainly a need for additional resources from the government here. This week would otherwise have started preparations for the next year's budget, and if I had continued in my post, one of my three goals would have been to ask for quite a substantial amount of money to initiate a change in the salary increase. But as I did here before, there are still places on which the salary depends, starting from the fact that all salaries are paid out, that teachers have a full load or an average burden of at least 90 to 95%, not 80%. Classes should not be too small, which does not mean that we should move from 10 to 12 students to 24 students, just as it is in Tallinn and Tartu. So let's raise this mean to 15, for example. If education funding were not to be 40% of teachers' salaries, as is currently the case, but 50%, then we would already have a salary level of 130%, with this move alone. At present, the state allocates money to schools to invest and, let's say, to reduce heating costs and too much space. I think this is also one of the places where more resources could be put and improved. Then the money would also be left over for HEVs, for example, to hire support specialists, etc.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-14_U28	March Sults, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-14_U29	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good minister! There was such a thing going through your answer that you can raise your salary by optimizing administrative costs. Does this optimization of administrative costs mean shutting down schools and firing teachers?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-14_U30	Thanks for asking. There are very different solutions. There may be a situation where, figuratively speaking, 20 students have a 2000 square metre school building at their disposal. Perhaps it is possible to arrange for these 20 students, if they are isolated from the countryside, to go to school somewhere on a smaller surface to optimise the use of space a little bit. Perhaps other solutions will also be found. Perhaps a school needs to be shut down, and it is better to take a bus to school every day, for example. After all, all children are driving in Tallinn. Sometimes general education schools are not very far apart. Of course, there are places where the distances are long, but usually they are not so long that the road is not capable of being driven. Maybe there's another way to arrange transport. That's another thing. We keep saying that we are lacking teachers and that many teachers are of retirement age. Indeed, we also have people of retirement age who teach at the age of 70, for example. I have a lot of respect for such vital teachers, but maybe there's a little younger in school. Perhaps it would be possible to make sure that teachers have a greater burden so that a younger teacher or a middle - aged teacher can take full responsibility. Recently, when I signed Tabasalu State Gymnasium, I learned, for example, that it was planned to establish a progymnasium. It is known to be done because it teaches physics and chemistry and some other specialized subjects whose teachers in lower classes of basic school do not fill the load. But that's where they're gonna get it. Transport will also be organised so that all students can reach the school. There are many solutions and I think that local authorities, communities, depending on the specific situation, are able to come up with and propose good solutions.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-14_U31	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-14_U32	Thank you, manager. Dear Minister of Education, There are several options for teachers to cope better. You can raise your salary, but you can also propose, for example, an option to increase sharply the tax-free minimum. As a minister and as an analyst, what do you think would the teachers gain from this significantly? Teachers wouldn't be in that pay group who would lose anything. Would you support this idea, or do you have any objections?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-14_U33	Thanks for asking. Well, it's all about specific numbers. For example, when we are talking about the proposal currently circulating in the media that EUR 500 is a tax free minimum and 28% tax, everyone who earns more than EUR 1600 will lose. I would like Estonian teachers to receive more than 1600 euros.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-14_U34	Thank you, Minister of Education and Science Maris Lauri! I'm opening negotiations. There is no wish for negotiation. The inquiry has been discussed.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-14_U35	The third question has been made by Märt Sults, Jaanus Karilaid, Kersti Sarapuu, Mikhail Stalnukhin, Vladimir Velman, Enn Esemaa, Tarmo Tamm, Erki Savisaar, Anneli Ott, Viktor Vassilyev, Mikhail Korb, Peeter Ernits, Toomas Vitsut and Kadri Simson. On behalf of the heirs, March Sults, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-14_U36	Honourable President-in-Office! Ladies and gentlemen, The inquiry has been submitted in October and, according to the questions raised in October, it has also been formulated. So please, Mrs. Maris Lauri, Minister of Education, maybe you can somehow answer these questions. The inquiry was next. The definition of a regulation on the working time of educators tells us that teachers work a shortened full - time, seven hours a day, or 35 astronomical hours a week. The calculation and remuneration of the teacher's working time shall be based on the position, including all the duties attached thereto. This means that the teacher's load calculation is not based on the number of contact hours entered in the contract of employment, but on all tasks, such as repairing notebooks, etc., e-preparation and all related tasks. The reduced working week should fit in like all teaching assignments. Studies and teachers' weekly experience show that in practice, their working hours consistently exceed 35 hours per week. In addition to giving an hour, it takes the teacher time to prepare an hour, to work as a class manager, but it is now paid to some extent, to fill in documents, etc. According to the 2017 state budget explanatory memorandum, the government's objectives are ambitious. The aim is to increase the attractiveness and reputation of the teaching profession, and to support the objectives of the Estonian Lifelong Learning Strategy, which would allow competent and motivated teachers to work in our schools. However, against the background of these beautiful objectives, 3% will be allocated to the increase in the teachers' wage fund according to the state budget for next year (with 4,6 per cent in the explaining letter). As a result, the scenario that teachers' actual income does not increase despite the relaunched wage growth campaign seems increasingly realistic. Here's a common cross product that can analyze cross product, it knows that changing one number will change the other numbers. Here's why the teacher's load ratio or average burden is 0.8, because the percentage of the load ratio is falling all the time, with every wage increase. Since there is no money in schools, in order for the lessons to be given, the teacher has either 0.8, 0.7 or 0.65 posts, but the work is done exactly the same way, plus the additional work that is written there. I am not going to read all the questions now, but the main thing I want to point out is the principle of equal treatment for teachers. The national strategy provides for the methodical and slow extinction of the municipal upper secondary school. Class coverage in basic school is 24 students, then the class is met. Class coverage guarantees the teacher's pay. The upper secondary school has a standard of 32 students, which is totally science fictional, and 32 students throughout, i.e. in the 10th grade 32, in the 11th grade 32 and in the 12th grade 32. This number must be constant. If you accept 32 students in the 10th grade, you may not have 32 students in the 12th grade, you may have 28 or 27 students left, etc. That's why you have to take the 10th grade, unfortunately, it's more or less the truth of 36, 40 or 38 students. The class is so filled that the first row of children sits against the tablet in the nose, as this ensures the teacher's pay. At the same time, when calculating percentages, a upper secondary school teacher needs to work 25% more intensively to get the same salary as a primary school teacher with 24 pupils in the class. So 24 and 32. It is claimed that in early puberty the child is more active and difficult to raise, a little easier in later puberty with a teenager. I disagree. All children are important, and all children are so-called hard-grown, all of them must be dealt with. You have to motivate them, teach them why not hug them. But 24 is a completely different number than 32. These are the questions that have been asked. I'm asking for answers and at least good will!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-14_U37	Minister of Education and Science Maris Lauri will answer the question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-14_U38	Honourable heirs of the Riigikogu! As you have heard, a number of questions have already been asked in the previous question and they have been answered, but I will answer again. I am about to make a small correction here on what you have also pointed out in your presentation this time: namely, the increase in the teachers' wage fund according to the current draft state budget is 4.3% and, together with the reduction in the social tax rate, it is 4.6% and not 3%. But now to specific questions. The first question: 'The teacher's working time is calculated on the basis of the position of teacher with all his duties. Please explain in more detail on the basis of which the full-time teacher's salary will take place. " The teacher has reduced full - time, 35 astronomical hours a week. The scope of the teacher's duties is determined on the basis of subsection 75 (3) of the Basic School and Upper Secondary Schools Act, which states that the teacher's hours are divided between direct education and other tasks arising from the employment contract, the job manual and the rules of organisation of work or those given by the employer. Thus, the specific tasks and remuneration of the teacher are agreed between the director and the teacher. A teacher working full-time must be guaranteed a gross monthly salary at least at the minimum rate of the teacher's salary, which is EUR 958 this year. The state budget support for schoolkeepers is 20% higher than the minimum rate mentioned for each post and allows the Director to differentiate the salaries of teachers according to the set of tasks. The second question: 'Which formulas and how are used to calculate the teachers' positions that are required for the school? " In fact, the positions of teachers are determined by the school. The Ministry of Education and Research does not calculate which positions are needed for the school. In calculating the teacher's allowance for labour costs, 35 astronomical hours per week, including 21 academic lessons, are considered to be the burden of one teacher's position. These are the two keys on which labour costs are calculated. Of these 35 astronomical hours, academic lessons can be estimated to be left behind, and the rest could then be left behind in other work. But it's all accounted for, as I indicated. The third question: 'If the real burden on teachers in schools is full-time and more, the average workload of teachers is 0.82 (958 x 0.82 = EUR 785), so how is the average wage of teachers calculated this year, estimated by the Ministry of Education and Research, at least EUR 1149 per month? Do teachers have to work more than 35 hours a week to get an average salary of EUR 1149? '. As I pointed out in reply to the previous inquiry, the concepts must be very precise. That's right here. The minimum wage, the estimated salary and the average salary are different concepts. You don't have to work more than 35 hours a week to get an average salary. In fact, it is even the case that permanent overtime is not permitted under the Employment Contracts Act. So if this is done somewhere, then the law is being violated and should be responded accordingly. EUR 1149 is the rate of support for the labour costs of the state budget teacher. This is what the country allocates, the minimum amount of EUR 958 plus 20%. This is the support that will be given to the teacher. The actual average wage during the eight months of this year was EUR 1169. How it's gonna turn out, that's what I was talking about earlier. It depends on the load, depending on the school and the class. It also depends on how much money is paid out by municipalities, as the main school holders are municipalities. This is where the behaviour of local governments plays a very important role. I would also like to point out that if the average burden on our teachers is 82%, then 'over-full load' worked almost 7% and, as I said, it should not be 'at full load', just under 50% of teachers worked, and the rest of them worked under full load. Question 4: "How do you explain the principle of equal treatment in the pay of teachers when the ratio of full-time is 24 and 32 students in upper secondary school? This means that the upper secondary school teacher's hour costs 25% less (taking into account the student's "capital") or the same number of contact hours and at a fee, the upper secondary school teacher has to do 25% more intensive work. Is the upper secondary school performance standard set for 32 students in order to speed up the closure plan for municipal schools? ' I will speak once again about concepts. The estimated class fill is not the rule of class fill, there is no such thing. On the basis of the occupancy of the calculated class, the state budget contribution shall be allocated. It is not correct to assume that funding at different levels of education is exactly the same. In upper secondary school, education is course-based and teaching is significantly more flexible than in primary school. Greater flexibility means being able to do hours with, for example, more or less students, depending on the subject or the content of the hour. When I visited upper secondary schools, I sometimes saw a situation where there were a hundred students in the lecture, which means that if necessary, group lessons can be done again. It all depends on the substance and what you want to do in a particular class. In upper secondary school, the student's basic allowance is the same as for each student in primary school, i.e. 1,129 euros and 18 cents. 32 students have also been counted as fulfillment of the upper secondary school class only in the larger municipalities of Tallinn, Tartu, Narva and Pärnu. In smaller upper secondary schools, the number is lower. So to say that this is the way to try to force municipal schools to close up upper secondary schools is not right. Question 5: 'Can you confirm that the increase in the teachers' wage fund provided for in the state budget next year will actually reach the teachers' bank account? " I cannot confirm this because the majority of teachers are employed by municipalities and cities. As a result, the teachers are paid by municipalities. The state supports schoolkeepers and the real pay and payout depends very much on the schoolkeeper. I will repeat here what I said in reply to the previous question. In 2015, 65 municipalities, or 30% of municipalities, did not take advantage of the entire teacher wage subsidy. Also, some municipalities also add own resources to teachers' salaries. It is clear from this that it is not a question of size or prosperity for a municipality to look at on the revenue side. It is simply a question of the importance of education in one municipality or another. At least I have that impression. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-14_U39	Questions for the Minister. March Sults, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-14_U40	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good minister! It was about a teacher, maybe you're defining who's a teacher who gets paid. What and who does he have to be? Does he have to come from a college stand, do he have to come from a comprehensive school stand, from a gymnasium stand, or do he have to have a degree in science? What are the rates of pay? Maybe you can tell me who the teacher is.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-14_U41	The minimum wage of a teacher shall be EUR 958 regardless of who he is. This applies to all teachers who work full-time. If the schoolkeeper wishes to differentiate the fees of his teachers, including on the basis of education or for any other reason, he has this freedom. If the state allocates money, that is why it will add 20% for every calculated teacher so that it can be differentiated. This undoubtedly means that you can pay more than the minimum for everyone, but you can also pay 5% more for some, and it is up to the schoolkeeper to decide for some 35 to 40% more.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-14_U42	No further questions. Thank you. I'm opening negotiations. Please, Märt Sults on behalf of the inquisitors!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-14_U43	Good President! Ladies and gentlemen, It was very good to hear that the Minister has been to schools and seen how this thing really works there. It was also very good and warm to hear that the question is why schools, including the teaching profession and the teaching profession, are still spoken negatively and so little positively. I mean, it's a pure mainstream media thing, that it's good to talk about scandal and bad stuff, it sells and brings in money, but no one wants to read about good things. Good things can't be highlighted either because there are good schools and bad schools, but 'bad schools' can't have anything good in 'the opposition schools' or anywhere else. So here's the thing. It was said that the payroll fund would be increased by 20%, but it was practically not available in 20% of schools. It is a mistake for people that the director has the opportunity to differentiate salaries in reality, that is mostly not the case. Directors and school leaders get a hell of a lot of cotton to come up with their own budget. If there's a school with about 500 or 470 students, they'll come right out of the clock. The minister pointed out that he also saw a lecture in which there were 100 students in the class. Yes, in a school that I run, the roundabouts were history, social and human studies, etc. These were round lectures where there were 70 students in the auditorium at the same time. It's the savings on the payroll again, if you can push hours together. But you can't put all the hours together. Chemistry, physics, and mathematics can't be pushed together. In chemistry, physics, mathematics, and language studies, students must be disbanded into groups because these subjects are not effective for more than 12 students. As soon as you make groups, there's gonna be another teaching position. This is not taken into account in the large matrix that the Ministry of Education has been feeding us so far and by which we must live. At the same time, leaving the tariff of teachers, i.e. the differentiation of the Director's exclusive competence, is a little foolish, as schools must comply with the basic school and upper secondary school law at all points. The upper secondary school part is absolutely not as flexible as it was claimed here. The upper secondary school must complete the national curriculum plus take more of these so-called state exams. This requires a certain number of hours. So there's not much of a so-called flutter in there. It's still very precisely regulated, and it's also given how many electives there are. Painting people and people who are watching and listening to us is a bit of a fool, because people who actually work at school enjoy this job and do it not just because of money, it's a bad-ass thing to listen to. So there's strength and strength in every way! Thank you to the Minister for more or less correct answers. Come to the schools, see what's going on in the schools, then you'll understand how it really is and what kind of people are getting on their toes. Teachers are tired of listening to this teacher's salary talk from morning to night. It's embarrassing to hear that. Again with the teachers' pay, again with this and this. That's bullshit! It just has to be done and respected by people who have chosen as a good and bright profession as the teacher's. If no one else thanks them, in 20 years, the students will come, make a hug and say, "You were great, you were good." They don't ask why you're wearing exactly the same coat 20 years ago. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-14_U44	The members of the Riigikogu have no further wish for negotiations. Does the Minister have any? No, it's not. I will stop dealing with this question.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-14_U45	Our fourth inquiry has been made by Raivo Põldaru, Martin Helme, Henn Põlluaas, Mart Helme, Uno Kaskpeit and Arno Sild. On behalf of the heirs, Raivo Põldaru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-14_U46	Dear Chairman, Minister, thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, No one in Estonia will be surprised by long waiting lists. Even healthy people probably know about it, and they know about it. It is not normal that people, wishing to go to a doctor's appointment, have to stand in line for three, four, five months and certain areas, I mean, for certain operations, even up to three years. According to the Estonian Association of Traumatologists and Orthopaedics, there are already over 10,000 people who need knee or hip surgery. And if there are operations in the area of 2,700s a year, think for yourself how this order is getting there for three years and maybe even over. If we now have about 180,000 people on the order of treatment, the situation is still not normal. That is why we have four questions for the Minister, which he will either answer now or bequeath these proposals on what is going to happen to himself or the next minister. I guess it doesn't matter. Although, lately, it has become fashionable that the Prime Minister teaches his successors and other ministers also pass on recommendations. But we'll hear it then. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-14_U47	Jevgeni Ossinovski, Minister of Health and Labour, will answer the question. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-14_U48	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable members of the Riigikogu! I will answer the questions you have asked, which I have, of course, repeatedly answered in this Chamber in the last year. However, the topic is undoubtedly important for members of the Riigikogu as well as for the people of Estonia, which is why it is certainly justified to continue to deal with it. I'll answer your questions. The first question: " What are you going to do to shorten the order of treatment? ' Of course, the treatment queues in Estonia are long, some disciplines are undoubtedly unacceptably long, but it needs to be looked at in the context. The first context is undoubtedly that treatment queues exist in all countries of the world, including those countries that are far more prosperous than we are and spend relatively more on health care than Estonia does on national wealth. So there is no direct link between the amounts spent on health care and the length of the treatment order, but this is certainly one of the factors affecting it. In addition to money, treatment queues are naturally influenced by aspects of health management, the way healthcare is organised, and, of course, demography. According to the Health Insurance Fund, the number of admissions of specialised doctors has remained stable over the last three years and the number of visits of family doctors has even increased slightly. So if we consider that the Estonian population has decreased at the same time, the number of medical visits per capita has increased. To this end, the demographic aspect: repeated receptions linked to the increase in the proportion of chronic diseases are showing a growing trend. This is the direct result of an ageing population. People live longer and this is very good, but older people have more chronic diseases that need to be monitored. Since most of the resources of specialised medical care go to monitor chronic patients, specialist doctors have less time to deal with those who are in line. This is certainly one of the systemic issues of health management that needs to be addressed. One specific area that has been given more attention and will be given even more attention in the future is the structure of our health professionals in hospitals. We know that the chronically ill are able to monitor the nurse in a very large number of cases without the need of a doctor. If we look at other countries, we can see that there are about a third more nurses per capita in countries with relatively fewer medical visits than in Estonian health care. We can simply say that there is a huge shortage of nurses in Estonian health care, and this means that in the case of chronic patients, the burden on doctors is very high. In recent years, efforts have been made to increase the public order of nurses' training, and this has been increased by a total of a quarter over the period 2013-2016. In addition, for the second year in a row, the "Sisters Back to Health" project has been funded, which is expected to add about 20 more sisters per year to the sector. The nurses' independent admission service has been regulated in order to increase nurses' rights in the care of patients. Already tomorrow, the so-called sister consensus agreement will be signed. Madam Minister for Education, I, the Association of Hospitals and the Association of Nurses, together with the higher education institutions of health, are signing a paper that makes mutual commitments. Firstly, the question of financing nurses' traineeships, which have been up for a long time, can be resolved and, on the other hand, the number of nurses' admissions will be increased again in the coming years in order to increase their share of health care. The second thing that is raised as a topic: the people of Estonia are very specialised in medicine. For most of the disorders, assistance can be provided by a family doctor with the necessary competence, competence, and access to healthcare at the primary level is significantly better than in hospitals. However, as our people are a specialist, the only purpose of the visit is to ask for a referral to a specialist, either directly to a hospital doctor in areas where the referral is not required or to visit a family doctor in a purely formal way. This certainly does not make sense and the longer-term plan is to strengthen primary health care, i.e. the level of family doctor. Together, we have changed the law here to give more rights to family doctors. We finance the construction of new health centres, the investment plan has already been approved by the government. So we can certainly see that in the future, the role of family doctors in Estonian health care will increase even further in the context of the treatment of first-hand illnesses. We have also started to think more seriously that we have some specialties where there is no referral requirement at all. In these disciplines, as we know, the queues are also longer. In a number of these specialties, especially in the case of ophthalmologists and dermatologists, specialists estimate that the exemption from the referral letter is unwarranted, in fact a referral letter would be needed there. In several countries, a referral is required in all disciplines. The topics of psychiatric and gynaecology can still be discussed, there may be some reason not to require a referral at the first stage, but there is no reason for this in the case of an eye or dermatologist. A few weeks ago, with regard to the digital registration office in the media, we also discussed how to create a better system that would link up the first level and the level of specialist medical care. An e-consultation tool has been launched which enables family doctors to ask a doctor in a particular field for advice on how to treat a patient, whether he should be shown to a specialist or whether he or she is able to apply treatment. We have planned such a broader change as regards the linking of the primary level and the level of specialist medical care. To this end, we have begun to pilot a new model involving the integration of services and, at the same time, the transformation of the financing model. Let's do it in the example of Viljandi County. Viljandi Hospital is the center around which these integrated services could develop. Of course, such changes take longer. I have also talked about the need for extra money to reduce the order of health care. And here I come to the second question: 'How does the state plan to improve the sustainability of medical funding? " Analysis has been carried out on this subject for many years. During my term as minister, the last of these has been completed, which was submitted to the government office in the spring of this year, which then discussed this in July. Overall, there was agreement that the issue of additional healthcare funding needs to be resolved and that in the long term, additional healthcare funding is needed in any case. With the current demographic structure, the sickness fund will otherwise not be able to make it. The reserves will be sufficient in the coming years, but no longer in the long term. The question has been which model to do exactly, how to give the sickness fund extra money, and in which year and sources to do so. I've already introduced this subject from this remote. In short, there are two options: whether the state pays money to the health insurance fund from other incomes or whether some of the costs that are currently included in the health insurance fund's budget are transferred somewhere else in order to release money for the provision of health care. There has been talk for a long time about temporary incapacity benefits, which could in principle be moved to the unemployment fund's cost line. However, in the overall picture of the state budget, this still means that an additional source of cover is still needed for these costs. The third question: "Are there any consideration given to the setting of a norm beyond which the order of treatment should not extend? ' It has been considered and even established, the corresponding standards are entirely there. The instructions for the operation of a family doctor shall state that the patient with an acute illness must be admitted on the day of the visit, in other cases within five working days. Specialist medical care has established a standard for this. In outpatient specialised medical care, this standard is generally six weeks, while for certain non-acute diagnoses the order is longer and in some cases very long. That's what you referred to in your introduction. The Health Insurance Fund regularly measures waiting times by asking specialist health care providers for reports. If you want to change these standards and shorten the queues, of course, this will require extra money. Question 4: "How do you assess the idea of giving more rights to family doctors in conducting studies and treatments? ' I appreciate this very positively, and I think that this is the only possible next step in the development of the health system. It is clear that, on the one hand, we want to give more responsibilities to family doctors and increase their role in the health system. On the other hand, this means that they must be given more rights in research, diagnostic and other matters. In this context, the Ministry of Social Affairs is in the process of analysis. This is one of the topics that we will deal with separately in cooperation with the specialist and health insurance fund in the work model of health centres that are expected to work next year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-14_U49	Questions for the Minister. Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-14_U50	Thank you, Mr. Speaker. Minister, thank you very much. On the second issue, the sustainability of funding, you mentioned that there is a need for additional money and that the current model does not work out. A few weeks or about a month ago, in the Committee on Monetary Affairs, we received an overview of the state of the health fund. It was well predicted that next year there would still be a few per cent deficit, but from there the budget would be well balanced. That was your ministry's prognosis. How does this forecast match what we're talking about? Secondly, maybe you'll tell us how far the negotiations of the new government are. Where's that extra money coming from?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-14_U51	Thank you. It was not our forecast, it was the cost limit established by the Government of the Republic. According to the law, the Government of the Republic imposes a cost limit on the health insurance fund. In fact, the Government of the Republic formally proposes to the Riigikogu to set a cost limit for the sickness fund, which is taken into account in this broader balance calculation. This border is established by the Riigikogu, together with the State Budget Act, each year for four years. I think this forecast is optimistic. Earlier years have all confirmed this. The truth is that if the Health Insurance Fund makes long-term budget projections due to its cost line, it tends to work out. But when the next financial year actually arrives, the costs will turn out to be higher. In part, they turn out to be larger as a result of certain decisions. One of the most important things that affects these decisions in healthcare is definitely the pay of health workers. For example, the wage agreement, which hopefully will be concluded in the near future, will significantly increase the cost of the health insurance fund compared to the forecast. And, of course, it will affect us for years to come. It is certainly not possible to predict to the end, for example, outbreaks of viral diseases that have a direct impact on the payment of temporary incapacity benefits, etc. So each specific year we have seen that the better collection of social tax, which is due under the law in force, is sufficient to balance the budget of the health insurance fund in a three-to-four-year perspective. But practice generally doesn't confirm that. In the years that follow, however, money is often lacking. The Health Insurance Fund makes its annual budget on the basis of the expenditure series or profit position approved by the Riigikogu and also predicts treatment cases. However, health care is such a big system that it is certainly not possible to plan expenditure once and for all with the precision of the euro, and they tend to go a little over the budget. This over-budgeting is a very small amount of money. When we say this year that the approved budget balance was minus EUR 9 million and, by the end of the year, the current forecast is less than EUR 30 million, the EUR 20 million, which is an error in the forecast, is essentially less than 2% of the Health Insurance Fund's budget. So I think that, as such, it is a rather well-designed budget, if there is such a small error in a system of this size. As regards the way in which the future government will resolve the issue of the sustainability of long-term financing of health care, I do not express an opinion on this as the Minister for Health and Labour in office today.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-14_U52	March Sults, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-14_U53	Thank you, Mr. Speaker. Good minister! My question is so cynical. Where does the red line go at the health insurance fund, and where do the so-called incurable diseases begin, the treatment of which is not financed by the health insurance fund, when a simple illness soon becomes an incurable disease because of a lack of money?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-14_U54	Thank you. There's no such thing. There are certain treatment procedures, there are certain medicines for which their cost effectiveness is indeed assessed, but the quality of care for patients who have received treatment and have been diagnosed because of the budget is certainly not impaired for financial reasons. On the contrary, this effect is clearly reversed. If people have come into emergency hospital care and need treatment procedures, no matter how expensive they are, the procedures will be carried out and the hospital will submit the bill to the health insurance fund. This is where these so-called overtime bills are largely collected. In other words, hospitals do more medical work than their contract prescribes, precisely because if a person comes to the hospital in an emergency and needs treatment, be it an operation or something else, the hospital cannot, of course, send him back home, but must treat him or her whether the contract is full or not. As a result, overwork is being carried out and this system will remain the same in the future.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-14_U55	Mark Soosaar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-14_U56	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good Minister Jevgeni Ossinovski! Thank you very much for finding the time last summer to meet the most successful family doctors in Pärnumaa and their work and problems! We stated that there are doctors who are willing to study modern diagnostic techniques and also to acquire this competence in addition to the main specialty studied at the University of Tartu. But it's still a serious question, because the technology is going to be cheaper and more mobile. Networks can send a diagnosis or analysis to centres and receive quick answers. However, training is also needed and the topic behind this stump is that instead of a specialist, a family doctor can first diagnose, often remains. How can we solve the issue of training? Should we send interested people to study abroad or could we organise courses at the University of Tartu? How can this be resolved?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-14_U57	Indeed, we have said in the framework of this draft procedure in the Riigikogu that we see the need to extend the right of a family doctor to diagnose. Of course, as you rightly pointed out, this also requires the issue of training to be resolved. The Ministry of Social Affairs is working on this solution and the solution will be proposed in the first half of next year. This will be discussed with the new model of functioning of the health centres, which I spoke about briefly. One of the prerequisites for resolving this issue is precisely the creation of the necessary training modules, the systematic registration of these additional competences. Of course, this requires negotiations with the professionals responsible for these matters in Estonia, as well as agreements with trainers. So we're working on it, and I believe we can find a solution.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-14_U58	Viktor Vassilyev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-14_U59	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. A good and wise minister! It seems to me that pumping money into a faulty system is useless. It's like it was with Estonian Air the more the money was pumped into it, the bigger the crash she collapsed. Isn't it time to admit that a 20-year experiment on health care in Estonia has given the knowledge that this model is not working, because it is simply not possible to finance ultraliberal health care arrangements in a primitive socialist way. These two things need to be balanced, either to create a system of healthcare institutions operating on the basis of a planned economy and to finance as financed, or to leave the health network as it has been so far that there are private companies competing with each other and to include private capital or private insurance in the financing.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-14_U60	Thank you. There were a lot of remarkable sentences on your question that had a strong emotional background, but I'm not quite sure what you were finally trying to refer to. I don't think you can call our system ultraliberal. I think it is broadly such a good combination of a plan economy and a liberal arrangement. Indeed, we have health care providers with private legal entities, most of whom are under state control through the "hospital network development plan" and ownership, i.e. local hospitals and public hospitals in terms of volume. And the truth is that certain disciplines allow so-called selection partners to do additional work that hospitals do not do. It is undoubtedly necessary to analyse seriously in the next selection period how much and in which places the selection partnership has improved the quality and availability of health services and where it has rather had the opposite effect, i.e. local or regional general hospitals have rather been demolished. Doctors have left there and made their own little private practices, and this has actually reduced the hospital's sustainability. It certainly needs to be discussed, but in general it is still more a matter of detail in Estonian health care. The big framework is in place in the health care organisation of Estonia. I think this frame is very good. We have joint and several compulsory insurance, we have a health insurance system. This means that people, regardless of their income, are insured and receive world-class healthcare. This service does not depend on how much a person gets paid. On the other hand, we have financial sustainability guaranteed through the system of one health insurance fund. If today we are talking about a bit of money missing here, a large number of our destiny mates have gone into a much more trouble with their health care arrangements. And the fact that both the health insurance fund and hospital managers have managed to keep our health care system well is, in my opinion, a great achievement. Of course there are problems. I think these problems are not fundamental, but, of course, manageable in the current system. Some are organisational in terms of health, for example, of redeploying financial incentives to promote integration at different levels. Indeed, part of the money is purely in the back of the money, if we had more money, we would be able to pay more benefits, for example, dental benefits, medical benefits, etc., which will come into force next year. There is certainly another important issue. I hope that significant progress will be achieved here in the coming years, too, and it concerns uninsured persons who, unfortunately, have tens of thousands in Estonia. It is indeed one such group that contradicts the general philosophy of our current system. Since we have compulsory insurance in solidarity, the system is actually built on the assumption that all Estonian people are insured. But they're not, and it's creating a system error. These people can go to the ambulance and get the inevitable help service, but proper health monitoring is not offered to them, and the health system looks like crap. We understand why this is done in such a way that healthcare partly does the work of the tax administration, so that people have the motivation to work formally and pay taxes to obtain health insurance. But in the view of the healthcare system, of course, that's bullshit. We have tens of thousands of people who don't have health insurance. I would say that the foundations of the Estonian health care system are strong. There are serious shortcomings in its little nuances. These shortcomings need to be addressed and I think they can be resolved. Some, as has been said, organisationally, technically, and the other half financially. I think that in the next few years, a very large part of the shortcomings that have been revealed can be overcome with effective work and a little extra money.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-14_U61	Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-14_U62	Thank you, Minister. I'm taking this opportunity to talk about the order of treatment today. Let's talk a little bit about the frame. More than 30 people have already been recruited from Ukraine, Moldova and Russia in Ida-Viru Central Hospital. About one third of them have language skills and other problems, but let's say 20 people work well. Haven't you thought it might be better to look at a system like this, bringing doctors to our hospitals, deeper? I have sometimes heard from officials who work in the ministry, not from the best attitude that you see coming. What do you think about that?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-14_U63	Not only hasn't thought about it, but we've done it. In fact, one such draft has also passed the coordination circle between government agencies and partners. Indeed, this draft would simplify or regulate more clearly the entry of health care workers from third countries into the Estonian health care system. There are two stages. One is the issue of the language skills you mentioned, i.e. that these people start to learn Estonian at the same time as they come to work, according to the language level laid down in the Government of the Republic regulation. Secondly, of course, there are competence requirements, where then it is really possible to carry out the initial assessment first, then look at how they will work in the hospital in practical circumstances, and then finally assess them. There's a pattern that's pretty much there. The negotiations are currently under way with partners, which are the Association of Doctors and the University of Tartu, who should contribute to this accreditation process. It is no secret that the Estonian Medical Association has been critical of this regulation. The Association of Hospitals has clearly supported this. The Ministry of Social Affairs has indeed believed that health workers from third countries are needed by Estonia and that the system for registering and entering into work here needs to be clearly laid down and perhaps simplified in some ways. Negotiations on this subject are expected to take place until the end of this year.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-14_U64	There are no further questions for the Minister of Health and Labour. I'm opening negotiations. On behalf of the heirs, Raivo Põldaru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-14_U65	Mr. Chairman! Minister, thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, We heard nice answers. At first, you said that the money and the treatment lines weren't really connected, but at the end of the day we became more clear that the connection was still quite strong. We're talking, yeah, that our system is very effective and people get good treatment. In my own case, I can assure you that doctors do a really good job. However, the direct link with money still shows that 700 heart patients were treated less in major hospital in the first half of the year than last year. Has there been an increase in medical prices, or was the money so much less that we didn't even get the level last year? There's something to think about. However, if we have money in our pockets to pay the doctor, we can, as they say, with our expense and letters, perhaps the next day to see the doctor where we want to go. It's great that we're having a change in the situation of our sisters. But what we're talking about here is so much specialist belief when, in fact, it's the specialist who's helping. At least that's been the case so far. Perhaps something will really happen in the future with family doctors and lower-level medical care if, according to the draft under way, we have more opportunities for family doctors who are qualified to do so. So it's really about money. And although more than EUR 1 billion has been planned next year, it still feels like there is little money. Speaking of money, for example, orthopedics say that if they had four million extra money for hip and knee surgery, they would be able to do something, but at the moment operations are often not performed simply because there is no money. Either way, it's a problem. But it's nice that the things the Minister is up to now will find a solution, and a little help will come from it. Anything that goes for the better is good. Everything needs to be done for the health of the Estonian people, because there is a belief that a person will reach the doctor before he or she no longer needs treatment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-14_U66	The members of the Riigikogu have no more requests to speak, but the Minister does. Please, Minister of Health and Labour Jevgeni Ossinovski!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-14_U67	Thank you very much. One small remark, I forgot to talk about it in my report. In recent years the number of treatment cases in Estonia has been stable. A little fluctuating down and down, but it's been stable on the whole. So the availability of healthcare has not deteriorated. True, neither has it improved, but it has not deteriorated. One thing that has often been addressed by the previous speaker in his presentation needs a little clarification. It is true that over the last 15 years the volume of inpatients in Estonian health care has been stable and has not been a financial decision, but a health management decision. It's been done all the time. And when we compare ourselves with other countries, we are moving in the direction where other countries are in terms of their inpatient treatment. In our health care, there is a relatively high number of inpatient care. It is also true, of course, that inpatient services are more costly for the health insurance fund, so reducing it will naturally save money. However, this reduction is also due to the organisation of health care: the treatments and the whole "treatment" technology and practice have changed. This has changed because it is actually possible to treat people as much as possible without keeping them in hospital for long periods. This means that the volume of inpatient treatment has been reduced this year, has been reduced in previous years and will also be reduced next year, but at the same time the proportion of daily care will be increased. These procedures and operations, after which a person was supposed to be in hospital for a week in the old days, are now due to the fact that fewer invasive operating methods, for example, can be used in day care, i.e. in one day, and a person does not have to remain in hospital. This is certainly an important observation when analysing which treatments have increased and which ones have decreased. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-14_U68	I will conclude the debate on this question.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-14_U69	Opening a free microphone. It's over. I'll see you tomorrow. The sitting is adjourned. Thank you. Closure of the sitting at 4.48 p.m.
