ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-31_U1	Dear Riigikogu, good morning! Let's start Tuesday's trial. Transfer of pre-claims and enquiries. Raivo Põldaru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-31_U2	Mr. Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, The Conservative People's Party of Estonia has a draft amendment to the Social Tax Act that should help solve such a problem as the declining birth rate and the decline in Estonian population. In particular, we want to amend the provision of the law by which the state pays social tax for a parent who is not in employment, who raises three or more children under the age of 19, at least one of whom is 8 years old. We want to extend this regulation so that this tax is paid until all children are at least 19 years old. This should give families with many children greater confidence in their future and help them find and keep jobs.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-31_U3	Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-31_U4	Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, I'm going to discuss an inquiry with Prime Minister Taavi Kõivas. This concerns the law adopted a year ago, which increased excise duty on diesel fuel by 14% and excise duty on petrol by 10% in Estonia. As a result, we had an increase of 5.1 cents in petrol from 1 February and 6.6 cents in diesel. As we know, in January-February, warehouses were bought full, but in March this year, excise duties on fuel, for example, were only EUR 6.6 million. A year ago, this was EUR 20 million. In April, the excise duty on diesel was EUR 13.5 million, which was over 7 million less than a year ago. The Prime Minister may explain that all of this is due to stocks and that fuel consumption will recover here in Estonia. However, we have a question for him as to why transport companies should refuel their vehicles in Estonia if the difference in the price of diesel is more than 15 euro cents per litre in favour of Latvia. And how does the Prime Minister feel that the Estonian transport companies that refuel in Estonia should be competitive in their own sector at all? Is it not time to review the additional increases in excise duty planned for the next and the next year? We can see that we have already come so far ahead of Latvia at our prices. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-31_U5	Mark Soosaar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-31_U6	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The principle of equal treatment is very important and we must apply it both in the capital and in very small islands. However, one of our 101 people's very long debts of honour can be redeemed this spring. In fact, according to the law on permanent settlements in the smaller islands, benefits apply to the inhabitants of the smaller islands when the island is included in the relevant list. During the last nine years, a very decent permanent settlement has developed in Aegnal, Naissaar and Small Pakri. The Estonian Island Assembly has sent us a letter, where they want these islands to be included in this list of small islands. It is also extremely important to implement the administrative reform that these micro-collectors ask people and give them the opportunity to decide which county they will belong to with their island, which municipality they will continue to live under. Today, quite a few small islands are attached to the umbilical cords of those municipalities that are likely to no longer exist for more than one year. Therefore, on behalf of Raivo Aeg, Kalev Kotkas, Jüri Adams, Johannes Kerdi and Imre Sooääre, I will pass on the draft on to the Board of the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-31_U7	On behalf of the Bureau, I have adopted two drafts and one inquiry. They will be dealt with in accordance with the procedure laid down in the Home and Working Procedures Act. Incoming check, please! 81 members of the Riigikogu are present and 20 are missing. Honourable Riigikogu, I would like to remind you of the procedure for dealing with our first two items on the agenda. So this is the case with the Chancellor of Justice's proposal. It starts with a report by the Chancellor of Justice for up to 20 minutes, followed by a report by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs for 20 minutes and then a report by the Committee on Legal Affairs or the Social Affairs for 20 minutes. A member of the Riigikogu may ask an oral question to any rapporteur. Members of the Riigikogu, representatives of committees and political groups may take part in the negotiations. At the end of the negotiations there will be a vote on the proposal of the Chancellor of Justice.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-31_U8	Let us begin: the proposal of the Chancellor of Justice to bring the Parental Benefits Act into line with the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia. The waitress is Chancellor Ülle Madise. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-31_U9	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear Riigikogu! I propose that the Riigikogu bring Article 3 (7) of the Parental Compensation Act in conjunction with § 3 71 (4) of the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia into line with the principle of equal treatment arising from § 12 (1) of the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia. What's the matter? Here's the situation. The beneficiary of parental benefit can work with the child at home at a low cost when receiving parental benefit if he or she receives a lower fee than the threshold of 390 euros this year. However, if his or her remuneration is not paid at the right time on account of his or her employer's fault and is paid out afterwards at the same time, so that the income added to the parental benefit exceeds EUR 390, the parental benefit will be reduced. In 2006, the Supreme Court decided that if, at the same time, the remuneration earned before receiving parental benefit is paid for the fault of the employer and the limit is exceeded, the parental benefit should not be reduced. When reading the resolution of the Supreme Court, it is clear that the Supreme Court actually considered an unconstitutional case where this small fee was earned at the time of receiving the parental benefit, not before, and was then received at the same time due to the delay of the employer by crossing the threshold. So this may be the problem of only partial enforcement of the Supreme Court's judgment at the time. It has been touched together a year by people who have earned a salary before the period of parental benefit and have received it in about 10 people. But as usual, if, because of the law, even one person gets into an unconstitutional situation, I come here to stand before you and ask you to amend that law. I have been contradicted by the claim that the Social Insurance Board would, as in any case, be obliged to start analysing why this happened. That's not true. In fact, even now in the law, I think that the principle that the beneficiary of parental benefit itself states that this situation has arisen as a result of the employer's delay and provides the relevant documents. So there's no extra cost to the state. The only thing that would happen if this proposal were implemented would be the same situation for all beneficiaries of parental benefit. I would like to thank the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and the Committee on Social Affairs very much for a meaningful debate and I would like to support this proposal.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-31_U10	Any questions for the Chancellor of Justice? No, it's not. Thank you. The rapporteur for the Committee on Constitutional Affairs is Kalle Laanet, Chairman of the Committee. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-31_U11	Mr. Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, Good Chancellor and guests! The Constitutional Commission discussed the proposal of the Chancellor of Justice on Tuesday 10 May. The Chancellor of Justice has explained the situation to us as clearly and in an argument as he has just explained it to us. As the members of the Commission were clear, there were no questions. It was decided procedurally by consensus to support the Chancellor of Justice's proposal and to appoint Mr Kalle Laane, Chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs as rapporteur. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-31_U12	Any questions for the rapporteur of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs? Anneli Ott, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-31_U13	Speech, it's a call.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-31_U14	Oh, I'm sorry! My bad. Thank you. No questions. Chairman of the Social Affairs Committee Aivar Kokk. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-31_U15	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, The Social Affairs Committee of the Riigikogu discussed the proposal of the Chancellor of Justice to bring the Parental Benefits Act into line with the Constitution at its meeting on 9 May. The Chancellor of Justice presented to the Commission the proposal to bring the Parental Benefits Act into line with the Constitution. The proposal aims to avoid unfair reduction of parental benefits. At present, beneficiaries of parental benefit are treated unduly unequally, depending on when they are paid the small amount of remuneration they have earned. Inequal treatment arises when an employer pays late the salary earned by a person while working for a parent's benefit. If the working income received in one month does not exceed the legal threshold of EUR 390 per month this year, the beneficiary of the parental benefit will receive both the earned income and the parental benefit granted to him. If, because of the employer's fault, several months' pay has been paid out at the same time and exceeds the limit, this will result in a reduction in parental benefit. The Chancellor of Justice noted that parental benefit is not currently reduced in the cases described in the Parental Benefits Act, for example in the event that during the period of the parental benefit, a salary earned before entitlement to parental benefit is paid out because of the fault of the payer of the social tax. The representative of the Ministry of Social Affairs added that the Ministry discussed the same issue in connection with the appeal of the Supreme Court. The letter to the Supreme Court stressed that there was a certain private view of this issue, as this situation arose because the employer failed to fulfil its contractual obligation to pay monthly remuneration. Whether this situation should be resolved by the Social Insurance Board is also addressed in this letter. However, it is acknowledged that the person is in a situation similar to that of the Chancellor of Justice, but no further views can be expressed at the time. The Chancellor of Justice noted that the Riigikogu has only partially complied with the Supreme Court decision of 20 March 2006. The Riigikogu has eliminated unequal treatment in a situation where the employer pays out the remuneration earned before the parental benefit was granted at the time of receiving the parental benefit. The situation has not been resolved if the employer is late to pay the salary at the time of receiving the parental benefit. The Chancellor of Justice added that the creditor in a private dispute would not take over the role of creditor if he lost the distinction currently in existence. Members of the Commission considered that the beneficiary of parental benefit should not suffer because the employer defaults. 10 votes for, no votes against and no abstentions were supported by the Chancellor of Justice's proposal. The Committee on Social Affairs discussed the same subject on 19 April. The subject was to give an opinion to the Committee on Constitutional Affairs on the basis of section 3 (71) of the Parental Compensation Act. In this debate, the Commission also supported the Chancellor of Justice's proposal. It was found that it is very important for the Social Insurance Board that the system for the payment of parental benefit and its administration be as simple as possible and that data affecting the payment of the benefit can be obtained as soon as possible. The Social Insurance Institution uses data from different registers; it does not collect them. The Social Insurance Institution has no data on the payment of the agreed working conditions, including salary. This has led to a situation where the Social Insurance Institution has reduced the parental benefit paid to people. The Social Insurance Institution has reduced the parental benefit because the person has received a higher income than the relevant threshold in the month in which the parental benefit is paid. The members of the committee agreed that the regulation of the Parental Benefits Act is rigid and does not allow the Social Insurance Board to apply a special procedure. The Commission therefore asks the Ministry of Social Affairs to find a solution to the problem and to propose an amendment to the draft law on family benefits pending in the Riigikogu 217. In yesterday's meeting on 30 May, the Committee on Social Affairs discussed the amendments to the draft Family Benefits Act. The Commission took the following decisions by consensus: The draft Parental Benefits Act is amended and the Social Insurance Board is given the right to resolve disputes relating to the reduction of parental benefit due to late pay. If the draft law on family benefits is planned to enter into force on 1 January 2018, the amendment concerning this parental benefit will enter into force in the general procedure. Under the amendment, the Social Insurance Board is given the right to ignore social tax data of the Tax and Customs Board in certain cases and not to recalculate parental benefits. Under the normal rule, the automatic recalculation of compensation based on social tax data continues. If the person lodges an appeal, the Social Insurance Board will examine the facts and may re-distribute the income by ignoring the data of the Estonian Tax and Customs Board. Instead of cash-based data, the Social Insurance Institution relies on other data, such as the employment contract between the employer and the employee. The presumption is that the employer has committed an offence. The burden of proof shall lie with the person himself. In the case of an appeal, the automatic procedure is no longer applicable and the decision is taken by the officials. The person's information obligation is supplemented: in a situation where the employer has acted guilty and failed to pay his salary in good time, the person is obliged to provide the necessary evidence to prove the employer's faulty behaviour and when the salary should have been paid out. In other words, the Chancellor of Justice's proposal has been included in the draft law as an amendment. I hope that in two weeks' time, this law will be passed in this Chamber. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-31_U16	Any questions for the Social Affairs Committee waitress? No, it's not. Thank you! I'm opening negotiations. Anneli Ott, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-31_U17	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin by saying that I fully agree with the proposal of the Chancellor of Justice. The reduction of parental benefit due to the employer's actions or omissions is unfair and such a situation must definitely be brought to an end. Last year there were 13907 births in Estonia, while the deaths were 15243. Thus, Estonia's natural age as of last year was negative by 1336 people. In order for ives to grow and, better yet, positive growth to be achieved, parents need to feel secure. In particular, by ensuring financial security by the time they are unable to work and by the main activity of caring for young children. This is also the case with parental benefit. In addition to parental benefit, the future parent, including the father, is given the opportunity to get a rest immediately before or after the child's birth to prepare everything necessary for the birth of the child or to use the leave to make a first contact with the child. To this end, we have paternity leave, which has been re-paid nationally since 2013. As with the payment of parental benefit, however, injustices have occurred in relation to paternity leave. In Estonia, paternity leave is regulated by the Employment Contracts Act, which deprives the self-employed, for example, of state-paid paternity leave. This situation directly reduces security when a child is born and deprives a father of the opportunity to take this leave. I recently submitted a draft decision to this effect to allow self-employed people to take public paid paternity leave if they so wish. I very much hope that you will support this bill in this Chamber. In summary, I believe that the country must necessarily increase the sense of security and security offered to parents. Each parent should be able to raise a child or children at home in peace of heart. Every step forward on this road is welcome and positive. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-31_U18	Yoko Alender, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-31_U19	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I naturally support the Chancellor of Justice's proposal, but I will also try to look a little further in my speech and to look at a slightly wider picture. Having a child is every family's choice and great happiness. By the state, we can create an environment and choices to make this time as pleasant as possible. Parental benefit is a unique state support for parents in Europe. This has helped to increase family confidence and vigor. But times change, customs change. It is now clear that one of the biggest obstacles to development in Estonia is the lack of qualified labour. We have a lot of highly educated women, on the other hand, few fathers who stay home with their children. Fathers' involvement in raising children is crucial for children's development, for the whole family. If we want a more balanced combination of work and family life, as well as more parents who are, by the way, more efficient workers than children in the labour market, then we could try to set aside these gender roles and also the specific distribution with a child at home or without a child. Perhaps we could give parents more freedom to use parental benefit. Against the background of the Chancellor of Justice's appeal, I propose that the Riigikogu consider and analyse whether we can take a step forward in increasing the freedom of choice of parents and the changed nature of the work to treat parental benefit from a new, perhaps even radical, but, if we think about it, from a healthy perspective. Today, the nature of paid work has changed a lot. Both teleworking and part-time work opportunities have been added. We could consider and consider a change so that parental benefit does not decrease if the child goes to work, but is maintained in full. The amount of parental benefit would then depend on the previous average income of both parents, i.e. how much social tax has been paid for them. It would benefit all about 30,000 families who receive parental benefit, but whose right to work is limited at the same time. The transition from being at home to working full - time with a small child would then be smoother. Parents can keep themselves in shape when they want to work part - time, not to mention the positive impact on the family budget. Families may also have a new motivation for family and working life in these happy but often difficult, fragile times, so that the wishes and needs of all three or more family members are as satisfied as possible. Perhaps this would actually create a shared responsibility for children, without restricting the family's freedom of choice. Surely such a change would lead to more informed decisions and perhaps more happy families where work and family life would be in a healthy balance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-31_U20	There is no further wish for negotiations. We are going to the final vote. Honourable Riigikogu, I will vote on the question of who is in favour of the proposal of the Chancellor of Justice. Please take a stand and vote. There are 64 members of the Riigikogu in favour of the Chancellor of Justice's proposal, no respondents or abstentions. The proposal was supported. I will instruct the Social Affairs Committee to initiate the draft Parental Compensation Act in order to bring it into line with the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-31_U21	The next item is the proposal by the Chancellor of Justice to bring life-long restrictions on the choice of occupation and occupation into line with the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia. Ülle Madise, Chancellor of Justice of the Rapporteur, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-31_U22	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Riigikogu! This is now one of the biggest and more complex problems, in fact the whole of Estonia's legal order, I would say, a legal philosophy problem that I would like to ask the Riigikogu and the Government to solve. Over the years, there have been slight restrictions in the various laws that a person cannot work as, for example, a rescue officer, a judge, a police officer, as well as a ministry official, if, and now, different wordings have been found guilty of a crime, if he has been punished for a crime that allows imprisonment, etc. These are very general wordings and seem to be precisely thought out of the limits. On 13 pages, they are listed one by one by one in the proposal, and with your kind permission, unless you ask specific questions, I will not go into detail by agency and crime by crime, but rather talk about the general problem. Thus, the rules that are likely to be carried out with good will have created a situation where many occupations are subject to lifetime bans that do not allow a person who has been punished for a crime to be recruited or recruited. That is, whether or not the act committed is more of a crime in the meantime, after all, a number of acts are known to be decriminalised. For example, squatting, which is a well - known concept among young people today, but also group hooliganism, is no longer a crime. However, some laws have been worded so that for people who have ever been caught and punished with such a thing, 20 years later, the road to other people's service is also closed. It does not matter whether the act was committed underage or not, and how much time has passed since the act was committed and the penalty passed. It cannot be considered whether a person has been absolutely law-abiding since his sentence was extinguished, has suffered punishment, and has avoided wrongdoing. The ban on access to certain occupations and jobs is automatic and absolute. It does not take into account the person, the crime of the past, and it does not ask whether or not the person would be dangerous to the country and the people of Estonia at the moment. The imprecise wording of these restrictions, often inaccurate and allowing different interpretations, also confirms that there is sometimes a life-long restriction, but the person who takes the job or the person who takes the job does not have the right to receive data from the criminal records archives. People who are more familiar know that it is generally the case that if a person is convicted of a crime, he or she will carry out his or her sentence and for a few years the details of his or her sentence are still in the criminal record. Then they go into the archives and usually they should be able to move on as a clean slate. Of course, the Defence Police Department and many others will gain access to these data, which is reasonable and constitutional, but it is generally the case that when the sentence is served and after that the trial period has passed, i.e. no new offences have been committed, the person should be able to move on with his life. And now there is a situation where, for example, in the case concerning the Law on Bar Associations, we have come to us by the fact that the Bar Association does not legally gain access to the criminal records archives and the person who has been able to erase the traces of his former act from the Internet is taken as a lawyer, but the person who has not been able to do so cannot. It doesn't work like that in a state of law. It is quite clear that the commission of certain crimes must prevent work in certain places for life. In such a case, of course, the contractor must have access to the criminal records archives in order to justify to the person why the door is closed to him for life. It is quite clear that a person who has betrayed his or her country will never be able to work for a state office entirely natural, no dispute. Those who have abused children must never have access to child-related jobs, and anyone who chooses people for these jobs even has to demand and receive this information from the criminal records archives. Clear again! There is nothing to argue about being a policeman, a prosecutor or a judge, and the Constitution also allows these restrictions to be imposed. However, the issue at the moment is that it has not been properly thought out in establishing life-long restrictions by agencies and actions. At the same time, the General Assembly of the Supreme Court has repeatedly explained that following the expiry of the sentence, a person who, after several years of serving the sentence, is three, sometimes five, as the Penal Register Act says, should be law-abiding, should be able to move forward with life. I agree very much with the Supreme Court. If we do not feel that way, we will lose lives and people's contributions. I don't want to use the word 'human resources' here. Just as, for example, medical care or teacher work is not a service to me, so I do not think that a person is a resource. The Supreme Court stresses that the fact of punishment must not send a person throughout his life unless it is proportionate to the objective pursued, i.e. logically necessary and humanly fair in order to ensure the integrity of the state service in a particular case. As always before making a proposal, we will also consider whether a sensible solution serving the interests of the Estonian state and the Estonian people exists. I never want to come before you with a proposal which is objectively impossible to comply with or which would be quite damaging. At the moment, there is a sensible and constitutional solution. In principle, it is possible to introduce three regimes if the Riigikogu so decides, and I very much hope that it will. First of all, of course, absolute, automatic and life-long non-weighting bans. There's no way a traitor has to get into state service. Children's residences are not. However, in this case, reference should not be made to, for example, a few chapters of the Penal Code, but should still be made to the specific crimes by section. Currently, there have been quite a number of references to the chapter on offences against the state, which is chapter 15 of the Penal Code. Yeah, sounds scary. If you look at the content of this chapter, there are very different acts classified according to legal merit. For example, when a person is, say, a foreign flag desecrated during a football match, or an anthem of a foreign country who has been taunted by some kind of political street event, does not work as a small ministry official. He's been caught and punished, but there's a certain road closed for life. Of course, blaspheming the flag of a foreign country is also a deplorable act; it must be an offence, but I would like to point out that at times a youth can handle such an act precisely because of a crude and excessive sense of loyalty, and as life experience grows and age increases, he becomes a decent and balanced citizen who is fit for state service very nicely. So this is the first regime: absolute lifetime bans for which nothing is to be considered. There is a request to the Riigikogu to formulate them by reference to specific sections or specific offences, not to the chapters or sections of the Penal Code. Secondly, it is possible to introduce a lifetime limit for certain posts, but to leave the possibility of an exception. And the third regime, taking into account the same position of the Supreme Court's General Assembly, could be that it should normally be possible to enter the state service, if the sentence has been passed, the punishment has been extinguished, the person is legally abiding and suitable for serving the state and other people in all respects. Therefore, honourable Riigikogu, I ask that § 29 of the Constitution be brought into line with § 7 (2) (1) of the Judicial Act, § 15 (2) (1) of the Prosecutor's Act, § 40 (1) and (2) of the Police and Border Guard Act, § 114 (1) (1) of the Prisons Act, § 6 (2) (1) of the Forensics Act, § 71 (1) (1) and (2) of the Rescue Services Act, § 15 (2) of the Civil Service Act (in conjunction with § 95 (1) and (2) of the same Act) and § 32 (1) (8) of the State Secrets and Classified External Information Act (in conjunction with § 27 (3)). These laws are also, and according to the same logic, fair, useful and constitutional rule for Estonia, please bear in mind the clarification of other similar provisions. An example is § 27 (1) (3) of the Act on Bar Associations, § 17 (2) (1) of the Law on Law Enforcement and, of course, the Penal Register Act. As has been said, if the legislator considers it necessary to close access to certain occupations for life because of the commission of a criminal offence, then the person taking up the job or service must also have the right, legally and formally, not only to the right, but also to the obligation to obtain the necessary data from the criminal records archives. I thank the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs very much for a meaningful and really developing debate. I ask the Riigikogu to support the proposal! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-31_U23	Questions for the Chancellor of Justice. Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-31_U24	Thank you, Mr President. Your Honor, Chancellor! That's my question. Indeed, this principle that once a sinner, forever a sinner, must be reviewed. I'm sorry for the arbitrary wording. But how many people can really be affected? How many people get a new chance to apply for an appointment, get their sentence really deleted and start a new clean slate? Can you estimate a number?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-31_U25	The profession of professor of constitutional law has ruined me a little. In general, I would like to be methodically precise, and I would not allow my students to name any number now, because there is no methodology to determine it. But there have been appeals from representatives of several areas of life in our house, just under ten. One last one was from a person who wanted to join the rescue service, but there is a restriction on certain personal data in the areas involved in demining. Man had acted as a volunteer savior, saved lives, and wanted to make it official, but in this attempt he was told that he couldn't.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-31_U26	George Jaanson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-31_U27	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress, I have a question. Would your proposal also concern repeated lighter offences committed in early youth and later extinguished? If so, could one open the way to public office?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-31_U28	Here is the same rule that the time during which the criminal record has been up to date must have passed since the last sentence, but the person's punishment is valid. Restricting access to public service at that time is, in my opinion, constitutional and probably also necessary, because civil servants should and should also seem honest. But if a person has served his sentence and behaved rightly after that, he may normally be able to move on with his life. But once again, there are certainly occupations where an absolute ban on even minor offences is justified. For example, the prosecutor or the judge, for example, is not imaginary of many offences in these offices.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-31_U29	Arno Bridge, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-31_U30	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Here's the question. Is this also part of today's debate on whether it is necessary to regulate the membership of political parties of those who have been sanctioned by criminal law?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-31_U31	Honourable questioner! It is for the Riigikogu to decide. I don't even know if it's constitutional right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-31_U32	Thank you, Ülle Madise! No more questions for the Chancellor of Justice Members of the Riigikogu. The rapporteur for the Constitutional Commission is Jüri Adams, Vice-President of the Commission. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-31_U33	Dear Riigikogu! Cross-border tensions and contradictions arise in cross-border areas. It's more of a rule, rarely is when things go very smoothly. With regard to this problem, which the Chancellor of Justice has brought before us, there is questionable consistency between criminal law on the one hand and administrative law on the other. Penal law deals with a wide range of matters, including what criminal penalties can be imposed on people and how to deal with it, for example, decades later. There is one section of the Penal Code that deals with further penalties. They've always been there. The most typical of the additional penalties is that depending on what has been the substance of the offence, a person is for some time being banned from working in certain positions or engaging in any kind of activity. There have also been two types of additional punishments in previous codes. Some have been automatically accompanied by a conviction, and others have been the ones for which the judge has the power to decide whether or not to impose an additional penalty for a particular person. In 2002, we entered into force a new Penal Code and, under this system, additional sanctions are only those on which the judge is free to decide whether or not to do so. There are no automatic additional sanctions. I do not think it is a coincidence that, since then, we have created a number of prohibitions in various laws on the work of public authorities, which are essentially additional penalties, although the Penal Code does not state that there is such a type of additional sanctions. I think that an additional penalty is an additional penalty, whether it is written in the law or not written in it. The Chancellor of Justice has brought before us a list of ten laws. Eight of them concern various public authorities, one dealing with independent state officials, namely the institution of bailiffs and one, the tenth, is the Bar Act. The Bar Association should also be seen as a pseudo-state corporation. For all these institutions, the question is that there may be cases in practice that a suitable person has been found to be suitable for work in a particular institution in all respects, but it is clear that the relevant law expressly prohibits this. The 'no' that you say to a person is not to be challenged or made conditional in any case. I do not think that there is a very clear contradiction with the Constitution. According to § 29 of the Constitution, an Estonian citizen has the right to freely choose an occupation, profession and employment. In fact, serving as a public office is not the kind of thing that must be guaranteed only because, for some reason, a person has a desire to be a public official. At the same time, there is no justification for a situation where state agencies are prohibited from employing a suitable person. So I will be narrating that the Committee on Constitutional Affairs proposes to support the Chancellor of Justice's initiative. Our protocol says that it was a consensual decision, which in the Commission's practice means that no one called for a vote. The question now is how to proceed. One way would be to write this regulation into the supplementary punishments of the Penal Code. There is only one exception in the Penal Code to the death of a person, any other punishment ever ends and ends in memory of them. This is one way forward. Another option is to start writing more details into the ten laws. This is not very easy because it is not possible to say everything you need in two sentences. It is likely that every law should then be clarified with a relatively detailed text. We could think of something else. For example, one might think that the pardon of the President could be extended to such cases. I do not know how to proceed with this issue, but if this proposal is to be approved, there will probably soon be some sort of consultation to decide what is the most rational way to solve the problem. There is not only one way to solve this. The solutions are more than one and should be found in a reasonable and rational way, not too much time, work and paper. Finally, I would like to say this. There was a question of how vital this problem is and how legal it is. It's also vital. As far as I know, not all the ten laws the Chancellor of Justice refers to have had any particular problems. But part of it is. There are cases when people have protested, which is why they have to be punished their whole lives. And more importantly, it has been the case that some public authorities have not been able to carry out the best frame policy in their opinion, employ the most suitable people. In part, this is also a theoretical problem, because not all the areas of these ten laws have raised questions about the recruitment of specific people. Personally, I do not support this proposal because it is such an interesting challenge to eliminate the legal conflict, but because it is an obstacle to the best functioning of the Estonian state on the one hand and to the fates of individual people on the other. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-31_U34	Any questions for the rapporteur of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs? No, it's not. Thank you, George Adams! The rapporteur for the Committee on Legal Affairs is Mr Heljo Pikhof, chairman of the committee. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-31_U35	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Your Honor, Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen, The current law prohibits persons who have been convicted of a crime from acting in a number of areas of life. This concerns, in particular, public sector positions, where certain restrictions are generally necessary and justified. In most cases, such limitations are clearly limited in time to the period of validity of the sentence, i.e. with impunity. In this case, the text of the law usually uses the wording 'who has a sanction' or 'the criminal record data has not been deleted pursuant to the Penal Register Act'. This approach should be seen as appropriate, otherwise the abolition of the sentence as a judicial institute would lose its legal substance and meaning. When exactly different criminal records are erased and recorded, there is another issue that does not relate to our debate today. For the sake of clarity, however, it should be said that the deletion of criminal records is provided for in the Penal Register Act and usually takes place a few years after the sentence has been handed down. Paragraph 5 (1) of the Penal Register Act lays down the principle that the criminal records of a person entered in the Register have legal implications for the calculation of the person's criminal record until the data is deleted. In general, the effects of the restrictions laid down in the law should therefore not go beyond what is necessary. The Committee on Legal Affairs discussed this issue at its meeting on 9 May and agreed with the Chancellor of Justice that, in its current form, the limitations of the laws mentioned in the proposal do not take into account the gravity of the misconduct, the circumstances of the sentence, or the fact that the fact that the crime was committed once may not presently pose any real threat to the state. However, the additional restrictions imposed by the sanction must be justified and necessary on a case-by-case basis and in accordance with the fundamental right of everyone to freely choose their occupation, profession and employment. Norm cannot be compatible with the Constitution if it covers one single case in which the application of the norm results in a violation of the fundamental rights of a person. According to the Chancellor of Justice, § 47 (2) (1) of the Judicial Act, § 15 (2) (1) of the Prosecutors' Act, § 40 (1) and (2) of the Police and Border Guard Act, § 114 (1) of the Prisons Act, § 6 (2) (1) of the Forensic Act, § 71 (1) (1) and (2) of the Rescue Services Act, § 15 (2) of the Civil Service Act (in conjunction with § 95 (1) and (2) of the same Act) and § 32 (1) (8) of the State Secrets and Classified External Information Act (in conjunction with § 27 (3) of the same Act). In the light of these rules, Paragraph 47 (2) (1) of the Courts Act provides that a person convicted for committing a criminal offence may not be appointed as a judge. Paragraph 15 (2) (1) of the Law on the Public Prosecutor's Office provides that a person who has been the subject of a conviction for a criminal offence committed intentionally may not be appointed as prosecutor. Paragraph 40 (1) and (2) of the Police and Border Guard Act provides that no person who has been convicted of a criminal offence committed intentionally shall be recruited, regardless of the deletion of the criminal record, as well as any person who has been sentenced to imprisonment, regardless of the deletion of the criminal record. According to § 114 (1) (1) (1) and (2) of the Prison Guard Act, persons who have been convicted of a criminal offence committed intentionally, regardless of the deletion of the criminal record, as well as persons who have been sentenced to imprisonment, may not be admitted to the prison service in addition to persons referred to in § 15 of the Civil Service Act, regardless of the deletion of the criminal record. According to § 6 (2) (1) of the Forensic Science Act, a person convicted of a criminal offence committed intentionally may not be employed as a judicial expert. Pursuant to § 71 (1) (1) (1) (1) and (2) of the Rescue Services Act, a rescue officer in which the function includes work with a database of which the controller is the Ministry of the Interior or the Police and Border Guard Board, or demining work, or where the person has access to sensitive personal data of rescue workers, may not take a person who has been punished for a criminal offence committed intentionally, regardless of the deletion of the criminal record, or a person who has been punished by imprisonment, again regardless of the deletion of the criminal record. According to § 15 (2) of the Civil Service Act, in conjunction with § 95 (1) and (2) of the same Act, a person who has been punished for a deliberate crime against the State may not be recruited, regardless of the deletion of the criminal record. A person who is not exposed to this fact until later in his ministry must leave the service. Paragraph 32 (1) (8) of the State Secrets and Classified External Information Act, in conjunction with § 27 (3) of the same Act, prohibits a person from granting or extending an authorisation to access or extend access to state secrets and classified external information if the person has been punished for deliberately committing an offence against the state or the humanity of the crime. This, again, regardless of whether or not these criminal records have been deleted from the criminal record. A person who is not exposed to this fact until later in his ministry must leave the service. For all the above rules, the common feature is the fact that the current law does not take into account, to the slightest extent, the objective fact that each person is a unique and inevitably changing phenomenon in time when imposing restrictions. This concerns, in particular, the ethical-moral beliefs of man, his values and their corresponding behaviour as a member of society. Similarly, the whole positive law as a whole, including the Penal Code and the catalogue of crimes provided for in its special part, is changing over time and, if more detailed, the social perilousness of each individual crime, the yardstick of which is the severity of the sentence. That is why the law should not be excessively rigid and inflexible. Absolute restrictions imposed by law should generally be avoided at all because they can only be justified in the case of unchangeable circumstances. Unfortunately, that is not the case at the moment. For example, a person who has committed a criminal offence as a minor cannot rely on the law in force to hold a post in a law enforcement authority or as a judge. Not even if 20 or more years have passed since he did what he did and he has avoided even further wrongdoing. Not only is there a closed road to public service as a whole for him. The law, which excludes the inconsiderate, even though a young person who has committed a criminal act a couple of decades later entered the state service, unduly restricts a person's right to freely choose a profession and a job. Therefore, all the laws covered by the proposal constitute disproportionate interference with the fundamental rights of a person and the legislator must make appropriate corrections. This is also the conclusion reached by the Committee on Legal Affairs. The Committee on Legal Affairs decided by consensus to support the Chancellor of Justice's proposal of 29 April 2016 to bring life-long restrictions on the choice of occupation and occupation into line with the Constitution. Let us keep up with the times! I believe that the grand hall of the Riigikogu supports the proposal of the Chancellor of Justice. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-31_U36	However, there are questions for the Chair of the Committee on Legal Affairs. Arno Bridge, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-31_U37	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, We have been talking about restrictions on the area of activity for citizens, but do you think that there should also be a restriction that, if a person is criminally punished, he or she may not belong to a party or to a certain organisation? This is not the case now, but perhaps it is necessary to introduce this restriction in the future?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-31_U38	Thank you for your question. I look forward to your proposals from the Committee on Legal Affairs and we will discuss this then.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-31_U39	No further questions. Thank you. I'm opening negotiations. Igor Gräzin, please! Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-31_U40	Honourable Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, thank you to the Chancellor of Justice. The question is not only that some things are suspicious from the point of view of the Constitution. The question is also that it is to a certain extent a surfer or a mixed mess or a cocktail of additional penalties, each additional punishment being self-evident and intelligent, but they are established at different times and apparently have been guided by different motives. For this reason, the revision is, as such, grateful, but it is of course also important in terms of compliance with the Constitution. I think we must be grateful that this issue has been opened. I want to draw attention to a moment that is written here, but I need to be specifically emphasised. This is primarily about public service. We said that in certain cases there should be restrictions on the exercise of one profession or another, the talk was about paedophiles and anyone. Let's just say that the points under review do not really protect private companies and social organisations from bad people. I am thinking, in particular, of the rules under the Civil Service Act and that the punishment is realised by not employing a person. So in this sense, the approach is limited. My colleague, Mr Sild, also pointed out that perhaps during this review, which I hope will be here, we should also look a little bit at the bans on activities that would protect private companies. All right, pedophiles are such a well-known and classic subject. This is probably a disease that we do not know for sure. But there is another example, which is even a little bit comic. It's pyromania, which in general is also like a relatively persistent disease. We're defending the country and the pyromaniac can't work as a deminer, but at the same time he can work in a security company or somewhere else, for my sake, even in a mine, belong to the Defence League, where explosives are to be exposed. In my opinion, pyromania and pedophilia are similar in the sense that brain chemistry is such that neurotransponders of the same type carry both one and the other. Now, what is the point of any punishment and how will the additional penalties come to pass? The first is a general prevention. Broadly speaking, this means punishing someone to scare others and prevent them from committing crimes. There is generally no additional penalty for this function. The idea of a special prevention is to raise a particular person and isolate him so that he is not a threat to society. This includes a punishment-enhancing function, which I do not believe in very much. Show me the person the prison has made up for. I know one exception, but it's a complicated exception, I mean Fyodor Mikhailovich Dostoyevsky. The rest of us don't know history right now. Hence, the idea of an additional punishment is not so much to change a person as to protect society's self. In my opinion, it is very meaningful and justified that the honourable Chancellor of State has drawn attention to these particular moments. I'm going to touch two Tsunfts now. One's an advocacy, and the other one's bailiffs. In the case of the Bar Association, we have a relatively fundamental question as to whether it is a private company or a private company as an NGO or a branch of the state. I am afraid that the right approach is the first and we should trust the law of self-regulation of the Bar Association. After all, we know that the Bar Association does not tolerate very bad people among itself, just because they cast a shadow on the whole tsunami. If the bar were very suspicious people, the whole bar would suffer from it. Each company still keeps its breast clean. I've given famous examples. After all, we all know the most famous expulsion from the Bar Association as an additional punishment. The years have gone, but the story doesn't forget. The most famous lawyer who has been expelled from the Bar Association is President Bill Clinton of the United States. I want to point out that Clinton was not expelled for what he did to Monica Lewinsky, or quite the contrary, but for being a member of the bar Association, he lied under oath. From this, the entire lawyer's tsunami, from Viru and Võru, comes the message with California that the lawyer's trial and the criminal procedure that the impeachment represents in its pre-level is unreliable. Consequently, the Bar Association is also capable of self-regulation. The same is true, by the way, of expertise. I don't think, for example, a bomber is incompetent about explosives. If he's blown something up so many times and still has his eye face, he probably knows how these things work. The question is, do we know how to use this competence? And now the last one. This problem is perhaps the most worrying of human rights and general concern. Did you guys notice that we're going to have two registers, or are we already going to have two registers? One is the register that contains valid penalties. That's what we're all seeing. The punishments are going down there. When a person is removed from that register, there will be another underground register, which is real. And that's what the actual register, or registry archive, really affects a person's destiny, but it affects the way it's not visible from the outside. If we carry out the entire review that the Chancellor of Justice has recommended and we go a little further into these matters, we may be able to get rid of this potentially human rights threatening or suspicious situation. So, uh, sorry, Professor Madise, thank you again!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-31_U41	There is no further wish for negotiations. Let's go to the final vote. Honourable Riigikogu, I will vote on the question of who is in favour of the proposal of the Chancellor of Justice. Please take a stand and vote. There are 63 members of the Riigikogu in favour of the Chancellor of Justice's proposal, no respondents or abstentions. The proposal has been accepted. I will instruct the Legal Affairs Committee to initiate a draft to bring the life-long restrictions imposed on the choice of occupation and occupation into line with the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-31_U42	Our next item is "The Development Plan for Wellness 2016"2023. As an introduction, honourable members of the Riigikogu, to the procedure on this matter. We will begin with a presentation by Minister for Social Protection Margus Tsahkna, which may last 20 minutes. This will be followed by a presentation by Aivar Koka, Chairman of the Social Affairs Committee, for up to 20 minutes. A member of the Riigikogu may ask an oral question to each of the two rapporteurs. The negotiations will then begin. The Riigikogu will not take a decision to close the discussion. Please, waitress, Minister of Social Protection Margus Tsahkna!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-31_U43	Dear Chairman, Good Riigikogu! You are faced with the "Health Development Plan 2016"2023. It is a document endorsed by the Government of the Republic that sets out social protection and labour market developments at national level for the next eight years. The financial envelope for the implementation of the development plan is EUR 18.1 billion. Thus, in the view of the State, it is a development plan requiring one of the largest budgets. The Prosperity Development Plan will be the basis for planning the state budget for employment, social protection and equal treatment. A document of this importance deserves a debate in Parliament, and so do you, good ambassadors. In July 2014, the Government of the Republic approved the decision to draw up a new sectoral development plan in the field of social protection and equal opportunities policies, in order to create a comprehensive and strategic approach to ensuring better people's self-sufficiency and equal opportunities in society. In the same year, the development plan began to be drawn up. Throughout this period, the objective has been high on the agenda so that all important parties can have the opportunity to contribute. In addition to ministries, representatives of many non-profit organisations and organisations, as well as experts in their field, have made a very important and grateful contribution to the development plan. Today you have before you a development plan that brings together work and social policy priorities and outlines the objectives of equal treatment more broadly. The priorities of the Prosperity Development Plan are a high level of employment and a long and high quality reduction of working life, social inequalities and poverty, gender equality and greater social inclusion. When I received a mandate from you a year ago to take up the post of Minister for Social Protection, I also said the principle that social policy must not be the kind of sympathy policy that reminds people when Christmas comes. It must not be a 'Christmas Tunnel' policy where the state, society, legislators and also the Government of the Republic would engage in social policy solely for the sake of common social guilt and compassion. Clearly, sympathy and helping weaker members of society have a huge role to play in social policy, but we must recognise, in looking at our demographic data, that social policy is not a soft policy. It is a very serious policy that must necessarily bear in mind that all people in Estonia are actively involved in society. That's right, man, human resources are crucial. The way society, the way in which the state, the third sector, the municipalities behave with our people, what they expect and hope for, and the other way in which they are supported, determines whether we are capable of sustaining our nation state in the demographic situation we now have and what the perspective shows. Social policy has been taken as an increasing number of policies for the distribution of various grants, but there is a certain ceiling from which the country and our economy do not evolve, from where productivity does not increase if our people are not fully involved in the labour market. It's the ceiling that's threatening us. Therefore, the debate on this development plan, as well as its implementation, must be taken very seriously through day-to-day decisions and policies. Our aim is to build a viable state and a social system involving as many members of society as possible. The central objective of the development plan is to ensure social security for all people living in Estonia. But what do we mean by social security? We are thinking of a situation where all people are guaranteed opportunities based on their abilities to be an active player in society. It is precisely in this sentence that the purpose of the development plan, its main principle, is that of the development plan. Our aim is not to use this EUR 18.1 billion simply to disperse over these years, but to bring about substantive changes. To achieve this, we must work together, all the more: we must make difficult and fundamental changes to improve the situation. The best social protection is that which helps to ensure people's self-sufficiency and activity at the social level and the possibility of earning bread with their work. As a result, the development plan for well-being has come to a clear conclusion that social protection and work must become increasingly one-stop-shop. Very often, our country has also developed a situation in which ministries, or even different departments within ministries, carry out their own tasks. The authorities call this phenomenon silo towers. The aim of this development plan is to bring labour and social policies together, to give them a common goal and, when implementing these policies, to look at this area as a whole. The aim is to help our people participate actively in society. In order to solve the major problems that have taken place, changes need to be made in both areas. The new social agenda is also aimed at improving people's economic performance, ensuring the sustainability of the pension system, reducing the burden of care and promoting gender equality. The aim must first be to achieve a high level of employment and a long and high quality working life. Demographic numbers show us that our people live longer and longer, but the number of healthy life years does not grow that well. This puts an increasing burden on our social system. The main topics of this development plan are also social inequalities and poverty reduction, gender equality and social inclusion. As I said in the introduction, our greatest challenge is the demographic situation. Estonia, with an ageing population, is faced with the question of whether our pension system is sustainable in view of the future. Yes, I dare ask this in front of Parliament, because already in the next few weeks, as a minister, I will go to the government office to give an overview of the challenges facing our pension system. These numbers have been known to everyone for years, these numbers are known to everyone today. They don't give us anything to be happy about. We must have the courage to look at these figures so that we can ensure the sustainability of the pension system so that people can age with dignity after leaving the labour market, so that they have confidence. I will simply give an example on which the sustainability of the pension system depends. As the current population processes continue, there will be almost as many pensioners in Estonia as there will be people of working age by 2060, where there will not be so much time. However, the rule is that people of working age who pay taxes also maintain pension systems. While there were five people of working age per pensioner 30 years ago, today, in 2016, this figure is 3.1 people employed and by 2060 some 1.5 people employed per pensioner are expected to be employed. If nothing changes, there will be a very large number of people with very small pensions in Estonia in the future, and this will put an even greater burden on our social system. The special care sector must also be reorganised and people should be given the opportunity to receive help and care in their communities. The times have passed when social problems were dealt with away from people. At present, the reform of the special care system aims to give priority to community solutions. In this respect, we will also have EUR 59 million of EU structural funds in the coming years. We are making major reforms so that in the future we can take care of our people so that they feel dignified. We need not just to ensure special care services for large institutions, but also to ensure that these services are accessible on the ground as much as possible and that our entire society is involved in tackling this problem. It also means a change in our thinking. Man is of value even when he is different from others. Unemployment must be prevented. At present, people with reduced working capacity have been given attention to finding work to ensure that they are better placed to be active in society. Increasingly, we need to pay attention to the drop out of the labour market. We are carrying out a major stage-to-step reform of the working capacity reform, which was approved by the previous Riigikogu. It is targeted at just over 100,000 people who need special attention. The goal is, as has been said, a fundamental change in the whole mindset. Anyone who is capable and willing must have the opportunity to participate in social life, in the activities of society, but ideally also in the labour market. The drop-out from the labour market is a very serious problem and a number of measures need to be taken in different areas to prevent it. Health, employment and more effectively addressing people at risk of unemployment, who are at greater risk due to lower levels of education or the expiry of their qualifications need to be developed. In the same way, we must deal with our young people. This is not the subject of a specific development plan, but this development plan is also very seriously linked to cooperation between the Ministry of Social Affairs and the Ministry of Education and Research. People away from the labour market need to be helped back into the labour market. There are currently over 17,000 people in Estonia who cannot work due to the maintenance load. Because of someone's care, we have officially called inactive people in 17400. These are mostly healthy people who have qualifications, who are educated people, but because we have not been able to provide flexible services in cooperation with the municipalities, they are at home, chained between four walls to care for their loved ones. There are a large number of 17400 working people, and it is our task to help them return to their bread by means of flexible measures. To this end, the action to develop and support welfare services, supported by the European Union's Structural Funds, is also opening up in the order of EUR 31 million. The availability of care services must also be increased. Since 2016, a clear and clear Social Welfare Act entered into force, which sets minimum requirements for local authorities in the provision of social services. I want to thank you, dear Riigikogu, for taking this decision because it was the first time that we wrote down specific criteria concerning minimum standards for care services. Although some of the municipalities opposed it, we actually came to help them. There will soon be calls for proposals through which local authorities can apply for funds to develop services that help alleviate the maintenance burden. The state can help in more complex cases. I also recall that on 7 June there will be an administrative reform law right here in the Riigikogu, which in itself will lead to major changes in the organisation of the local governments' work. The task of the Ministry of Social Affairs is to support these processes with European Structural Funds money and, for example, with the money from the sale of CO2 quotas in 2017, which we have to use to renovate kindergartens in the order of EUR 25 million. And what is very important: for the first time, we are investing in public nursing homes, many of which are in a very difficult situation. Social benefits and services need to be developed in a coherent and comprehensive manner. For us, social protection is primarily linked to benefits, but people often need more services to cope with. The roof of social benefits is also beginning to reach Estonia. You're asking me what a welfare ceiling is. Simply put, this means that people no longer have the motivation to go to work because of subsidies. We have heard about the idea that our neighbouring Republic of Finland will implement as a pilot project. We're talking about a civil servant's salary. For all people, the state will pay the grant, which is civil wages. This is precisely because the system of different grants has become completely unmanageable. Bureaucracy has grown to such an extent that these subsidies have grown so large because of a certain combination that people no longer have the motivation to look for work and go to work, to pay taxes. In essence, it is the arrival of 'communism'. It is cheaper for everyone to guarantee some sort of minimum income, regardless of the help, support, what kind of service a particular person really needs. It's a very big threat sign for us. We also need to be very careful when discussing this development plan so that Estonia does not take any new steps towards reaching a situation where it makes more sense for people to receive social benefits than to participate actively in the labour market and contribute to social life. Gender inequality has a negative impact on women's income, both at work and in retirement, on men's health and on people's ability to self-perpetuate. We will focus the promotion of gender equality by setting an example through the public sector. Various plans have been put forward to actively intervene in the business environment and to prescribe requirements for the private sector to combat the pay gap between women and men. In this development plan, we have prioritised that before the state starts making any proposals to the private sector and burdening these companies with additional bureaucracy, the public sector must set an example. There are also concrete steps in this development plan to implement transparent remuneration policies in the public sector. We must realise that for equal work, all people must receive equal pay, be they men or women. We need to increase accessibility in the physical environment, but also in information systems and services. Society is ageing and as it grows older, restrictions on participation in active society are increasing. However, our infrastructure, our homes, our services, our information are not sufficiently accessible, and different needs are not taken into account. People with disabilities can't use much. This problem will be even greater in the future, as the number of older people will grow. However, increasing accessibility is not always difficult and often requires quite little effort or money. Rather, it is a challenge to change our thinking so that we are more aware of and consider different needs. To conclude my presentation, I would like to say that a low birth rate and an ageing society brings social challenges. If we are to adapt to the new conditions, we need to deal with finding solutions and changing our attitude. It's a lot of Soviet times. I am thinking, in particular, of a special care system. In order to achieve the objectives, the cooperation of all parties involved, the commitment of the state, local government, communities, NGOs, as well as people themselves, is needed. Great changes may not seem pleasant at first glance, but in view of the future, they are essential. That is why the Ministry of Social Affairs has undertaken very large reforms of principle. This brings some screaming and noise, but our goal is that we can maintain this country, the Estonian nation state in the future, so that we speak Estonian here and keep Estonian culture alive, but we live in a way that ensures the well-being of all, that no person is left behind and we are also able to change the development of demographic numbers in a positive direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-31_U44	Questions for the waitress. Marianne Mikko, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-31_U45	Thank you very much. I'm impressed with your presentation. But there's a series of decimals. I am not going to talk about financing the development plan, where the Kingdom of Norway, which has helped us perfectly in previous years, cannot be over or around. In fact, I am very interested in the practical and specific question: can the public sector undertake action plans on gender equality?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-31_U46	Thank you. It is precisely at national level that we must set an example in the public sector. This is an area for which we have the easiest and most meaningful rules to lay down. Many rules have already been put in place, but the question is whether the public sector takes them into account or whether it is rather a formal fulfilment of the criteria, the real life is different. So the public sector, the state, the municipalities, must set an example here. If we foresee any new methods, any new regulations, we certainly must not impose them on the private sector so that they apply them by trial and error. We must first try and analyse in the public sector what makes sense and what makes no sense. After all, the goal is to ensure that all people, whether men or women, receive equal pay for equal work. Unfortunately, at present, the real pay gap, it is 28% or 21%, exists. But this is not the only measure. The Ministry has also prepared proposals for the analysis and modification of other support systems. For example, in the case of the pay gap, it is rather a question of whether women are actually in the same position as men on the labour market. One important issue is our highly admired and very richly funded parental benefit system. Is it flexible enough, or do we actually have a situation where we have locked many young women away from the labour market in a trap? Is there anything we can do here? The package of measures to ensure equal access to the labour market for all and the equal situation there is much richer than what has been addressed in this development plan.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-31_U47	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-31_U48	Good manager! Good minister! One question seems absurd on such an important document, so I am not going to ask when we are ratifying some of the important provisions of the Social Charter, for example, on decent pay. But such an interesting detail: the author of the document, Maris Mälzer, has written last year that there are two reasons for a welfare development plan. These were the need to draw up a comprehensive framework and money from the European Union's Structural Funds. According to the agreement, Estonia had to prepare a welfare development plan as a prerequisite and submit it to the European Commission by March 2016 at the latest. It's the end of May. Have we not fulfilled the precondition, and the hope of getting money from the European Union's Structural Funds has been reduced or lost?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-31_U49	Thank you, good questioner! If the only point of this paper was to get money from the European Structural Funds, then we would have put this paper on the table some time ago. But we take this development plan seriously. We have worked and worked hard, discussed with a large number of interest groups, which we can essentially change, what reforms we need to do so that our small social system in the Republic of Estonia is also sustainable. It is not just one paper to get the money from the European Union's Structural Fund, it is a substantive document. Yes, I see that you are showing this article, and indeed the adoption of this development plan is accompanied by the issue of the European Union's Structural Funds money. Anyone who has carried out some reform or has been involved in some reform will know that a wise state, a wise society, will use these temporary support mechanisms not to cover daily fixed costs, but to make changes to the system. Every reform requires investment at least at an early stage, and here is one sure plus that we belong to the European Union. Our task is to use these financial opportunities so wisely that our social system will continue to be sustainable in the long term after 2023. We ourselves must manage to maintain our social system in such a way that we not only pay subsidies, but we are able to involve people more actively in the labour market, in society as a result of changes.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-31_U50	Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-31_U51	Thank you. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. In the development plan, the shared responsibility between the state and the local government has been nicely discussed! My question is how the local government sector can pursue a better and better-quality social policy when, for seven or eight years now, municipalities and cities have been raising the question of whether the percentage of personal income tax that goes to them could not be increased. You're talking about big numbers here. Yesterday, Sven Sester, Minister of Finance, answered our question and spoke about the many millions we will get for this job. But it turns out, unfortunately, the state and coalition partners are pretending that there is no problem. What kind of partnership is that?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-31_U52	Thank you. For a person who lives anywhere in Estonia, no matter which municipality, it does not really matter whether any service is provided or supported by the state or local government. A person needs a solution to his particular problem. This has also been the basis for the reform plans that we intend to implement. Now, the municipality is always the closest to man, and therefore one of the objectives of the reforms that these European Structural Funds are called upon to implement is not just to cover the costs of the services already provided by the municipalities, but to invest in these reforms so that the municipalities develop their services so that they provide services together with other municipalities, which in itself makes the provision of services better. It must be acknowledged that, according to surveys, the capacity of municipalities to provide social welfare services is often not linked to the size of one or the other municipality, but to the political will of a particular municipality. Every time we talk about the provision of social welfare services, it is said that municipalities do not have money. The fact is, however, that almost every year, local governments are left without the use of a million euros from the fund allocated to them, namely for the provision of social welfare services. That's what happened last year. A million euros is quite a large amount, and this money has actually been allocated to the Estonian state. Why has it been left unused? To a large extent, the answer lies in the way in which social welfare services are provided. I consider it very important that the Estonian state, together with the local governments, carry out administrative reform. The main focus of the public is on where the border of one municipality or another will run in the future. During these years, when I have worked as a member of the Riigikogu both in the Committee on Finance and in the Social Affairs Committee, we have always come to the conclusion that the problems of financially unsustainable municipalities are primarily in the social field and, above all, in the social welfare system. These problems must be solved if we want more and more people not to move to Tallinn, Tartu or Pärnu because of the lack of social welfare services. This is also an aspect of regional policy. I went to visit Võrumaa last week, where I am very often. There too, we discussed with local government leaders and social workers a wider picture that opens in Võru, Põlva and Valgamaa. We must also look at demographic indicators there. One fact that surprised local people is that in Võrumaa, the average number of healthy life years is six lower than the Estonian average. This in itself imposes a much greater burden on the social system there. At the same time, we know that job creation in this region is a very serious problem. These factors need to be analysed in a complex way. I would not like to go along at all with the argument as to whether sufficient money has been given to municipalities from the support funds and the equalisation fund. Municipalities have missed an average of EUR 1 million per year for the provision of these services. So these are also matters of organisation.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-31_U53	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-31_U54	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. My question concerns the forecast of the cost of the development plan. It has been said here that the total cost for the period 2016 to 2023 is EUR 18.1 billion and the indicative cost estimate is EUR 7.4 billion. That is nearly EUR 1 billion a year. What kind of spending on which subject are you expected to be one of the most effective in ensuring well-being? I'm sorry for the complicated wording. What cost of money do you think is most influential, so can we say that the welfare development plan has been implemented by 2023?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-31_U55	Thank you, good questioner! I understood that question. Indeed, this amount is, overall, very large, more than EUR 18 billion. But in this money, there's also the amount of our pensions. Pensions will be EUR 16.9 billion during this period. The remaining money is distributed between three areas. EUR 752 million will go to ensure that labour demand and supply are in line with high employment and quality working conditions. Thus, some of the major work capacity reform, employment reform and other services have been introduced. EUR 428 million goes to the development of care services, to its financing, to the implementation of these reforms. In order to ensure equal rights for women and men, €4.7 million has been accounted for over the whole period. If we answer what is most effective, we will, in cooperation with the municipalities, carry out very large reforms in the provision of social welfare services. That's the key word, and we have those tools. The second issue concerns the reform of working capacity. Not only am I more cautious about moving people to the labour market, but I am, in fact, changing the whole way of thinking. These are two areas that are very important. And it is certainly also important to have equal rights and obligations for women and men. However, as I have already said in my personal position, we have a real opportunity to change the preconditions so that the labour market is significantly more flexible when it comes to employing women, especially young mothers, and at the same time more supportive of raising children.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-31_U56	Monika Haukanõmm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-31_U57	Thank you, Mr President. Good Minister, thank you for this presentation. My question is motivated by the fact that, according to your report, two major areas need fundamental changes in social protection and employment, and therefore the current so-called silo towers need to be demolished. Could you indicate what fundamental changes are planned to be developed and implemented within the framework of this development plan? Is there a subject that includes general care for the elderly, or nursing homes? How, though, can we ensure dignified ageing at the end of our real life?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-31_U58	Thank you. You asked what is the fundamental major change that this development plan intends to implement in these areas. This fundamental change is that we do not discuss which ministry, which institution, whether the state or local government must necessarily provide a service or deal with a problem. After all, over the years, we have discussed precisely from this point of view, from an official's point of view, how we provide a service. A great deal of time has been spent in disputes, whether this or another particular service is provided by the municipality or the Social Insurance Institution, or by another or third or fourth institution. A fundamental change is that we also want to be able to bring about a situation where all services, whether they are provided by the state or the municipality or in cooperation with a non-profit organisation or with another partner, are personalised, including our e-state solutions. All this information must be man-centred so that a person can essentially find on one of the Internet addresses which services and benefits he can obtain so that he does not have to run between different institutions, state, government and whatever. We need to contribute to the system being human-centred. Another fundamental change that we want to achieve is that this system is flexible so that the system can take into account what a particular person needs in order to be more active in society and ideally also find a job, earn a salary and, let us be honest about paying taxes. What is needed so that taxes can be collected on a person's salary and that this money can be rerouted to the social system? There is no point in us spinning here; that is the key to sustainability. So guaranteeing self-realisation, personal approach, flexibility and its activation is a fundamental change. As far as nursing homes are concerned, this is not directly the subject of the development plan, but it goes down there. As early as next year, I consider this to be our very big job win in disputes over the state's budgetary strategy, we will be able to use the cash balances of EUR 12 million in the period of use of the CO2 funds that is now ending, in order to invest specifically in nursing homes. The Ministry of Finance is currently developing this regulation. We want to sign the regulation and open this measure in October this year, if we can. Then we could invest these 12 million euros in nursing homes in cooperation with municipalities over the next year. For let us be honest, this is an area where the country has not allocated much money. The state has not had the money for this, and many nursing homes are carried by municipalities. Now we are reducing the burden on the municipalities and making our own investments. Many of you are communicating with local government leaders and other local people, so keep an eye on this. I think it's a very big victory. EUR 12 million to invest wisely in one year is quite a challenge, but we now have this opportunity.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-31_U59	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-31_U60	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Good minister! In order to achieve the very right goals of the development plan, we need, as you said in your presentation, a change of mind, a change of attitude. At the same time, when I read the development plan, I did not see the word 'culture' anywhere, which is the basis for any change in attitude and thinking. Please tell me how you believe that thought and attitude should be changed so that the development plan can be properly implemented.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-31_U61	Thank you. Good Krista! You're a cultural person and you always ask the right questions. However, the system of development plans is such that neither the well-being development plan sums up the whole of the country's activities, but is concentrated primarily on the field of work and social affairs. At the same time, the idea expressed in the development plan, especially in its introduction, is that there is a need to change the understanding of why we maintain the social system at all. It is not just about paying small grants and declaring that subsidies have increased before the elections. The aim of the development plan is to help people participate more actively in society and also to ensure the sustainability of the social system. It is not the development plan itself that will change this culture. This change still comes under our own leadership and also by changing the attitude of politicians and the way we talk about social issues in the first place. The second point is that the implementation part of the development plan contains very concrete measures, which have also been funded. There is nothing to do, changes in certain areas are painful, because people are used to coping with this complex, perhaps not human-friendly, but rather relatively inflexible, and therefore in a personally underfunded system. Every change also means a change in culture, but often it needs leadership and perhaps even a certain method of force to make people discover that they have other options than just hoping that maybe tomorrow will be a little better than today. If the development plans in the field of culture were based on a similar understanding, I would be very happy as a minister sitting in a silo. At the same time, I can give an example of people with special needs, people with disabilities. If there has been talk of organising an event organised by some of the larger organisations of people with disabilities that promotes people's activity and changes the culture in general, these people have been sent to the Ministry of Social Affairs from the Ministry of Culture. Disabled people are automatically a matter of the Ministry of Social Affairs. But what we are actually talking about is that they are fully-fledged members of society, and changing this attitude could also start with such small steps. So in that sense, your question struck the mark very well. This is not just the subject of the Ministry of Social Affairs; it is also the subject of the Ministry of Culture and actually the whole of society.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-31_U62	Heljo Pikhof, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-31_U63	Thank you. Dear Minister, As always, today you have been able to answer very eloquently, sometimes by missing the question. Monika Haukanõm asked about nursing homes, but she did not mean so much how well they are in better condition and have more equipment, but that these places are not easily accessible to most people. That's the problem. But my question concerns the gender pay gap, which, as people age, turns into a pension gap. Studies show that the majority of people older than 65 years of age are women. Many women in their 70's are left alone and live in absolute or relative poverty. My question is how to prevent these people from living in poverty. So far, there has been no step in this direction.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-31_U64	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Commission waitress, Here's the question. There has been a great deal of talk about equal opportunities and rights for women and men with regard to the Prosperity Development Plan. In most cases, we are talking about women being paid less than men, and that it is not possible to reconcile work and family life, or raising children, well. Like women's problems dominate that story. Does the welfare development plan affect men in any way so that their lives grow, that the number of healthy years of life grow, and that they learn as much as girls in higher education?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-31_U65	Thank you. I think there is no point in debating the size of the wage gap in this Riigikogu; there are different methods of calculating it. However, apart from the aspect of whether people working in a job with the same level of education and the same name receive equal pay, the pay gap between men and women, but the income gap measured in Europe, is indeed very large. This is largely because men and women do different jobs and very often women work with lower wages. If we ask what the state can do, we cannot start writing salaries to the private sector, which must be paid. People themselves should demand the kind of pay they deserve for their work. That's one. Secondly, if we look at the educational level of Estonian men and women, then Estonian women are considerably more educated than Estonian men. If we look at the trend in the labour market, we have a very serious and growing problem with a lack of quality and educated labour. If the system is transparent and there is no discrimination, logically, our women have a huge potential to earn better wages and participate in those labour market segments where higher wages are paid. The state must ensure that equal pay is paid for equal work, whether male or female. In the public sector in particular, we can take such measures. Last month the unemployment rate in Tallinn and Harjumaa was just over 3%. This is a very low figure, and this means that our economic development is going very badly. If unemployment falls below 5 to 6%, there are already very serious problems in finding a job. Unemployment is an indicator of a stable economy of 5¢6%. At the same time, the unemployment rate in Ida-Viru County was almost 17%. The situation is also bad in Southeast Estonia. So situations are very, very different. One idea of the Prosperity Development Plan is to reduce inequalities and the uneven use of human resources. That should also answer your question. I do not believe that the state can intervene anywhere with its strong hand. Rather, we provide good education for our people, give the opportunity to retrain, ensure awareness, and also ensure that the public sector system in particular is transparent.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-31_U66	Raivo Põldaru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-31_U67	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. You were talking about investing in nursing homes. Very pretty and nice! But the word'reform' has been heard so many times in this hall. Is there any information hidden on the edge for people who can't go to a nursing home because they have to pay half more for living in a nursing home than their pension?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-31_U68	One very large block in this development plan has anything to do with our pension system. I'll give you some numbers. At present, the average old-age pension for people who have worked for 44 years is EUR 396, but if the current system persists, men my age will now receive a pension of approximately EUR 260 per month. This is a real perspective that will emerge when current demographic trends continue. I don't think I need to think about a nursing home. It's impossible to go there. This, of course, gives very little comfort to current pensioners, but the pension system so far stands largely on the fact that we pay pensions directly from the state budget and raise them as much as we can every year. But the question is good in that there's some good news hiding on the edge. In particular, tomorrow I will sign and send to the last round of coordination a proposal for support for pensioners living alone, according to which a one-off allowance will be paid to pensioners living alone from 1 January 2017. The state budget provides 10 million euros for this and concerns 97000 Estonian pensioners living alone. So the benefit of a single-living pensioner comes, and this is a small relief for those who face difficulties living alone. This, of course, is not the final solution. All of this development plan actually concerns, in a broader sense, how we, future pensioners, will live in the future. If pensions are as small as I said before, the social protection system will be very burdened, because we cannot leave anyone in trouble.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-31_U69	Kersti Sarapuu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-31_U70	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good minister! You emphasized well in your answers that there should be a lot of children in your families. There are five children in my family, five children in the Mailis Reps family. Perhaps our young ministers will also set an example and have as many children as we have? Then the Estonian people will also recover and grow. But, in fact, my question is driven by concern that a lot of people with disabilities need help and advice, which was excellently offered by the 'Bush Point' programme. We talked about this about six months ago. Then there was the hope that maybe something similar would come back on the screen. It really helped people well - well - both morally and in the sense that they were presented with ways to get help. Is that possible?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-31_U71	Thank you. Your example is very important to me. I'll do my best! My husband's even younger than me, so there's potential. However, as far as communication of people is concerned, when we are talking about the 'Biute Point' programme, we are going to have very good funding for such programmes, particularly in relation to the work capacity reform. This process is underway, and these programs are coming. This small hole, which in the meantime has been formed for various reasons, can certainly be covered. Plans may be calculated on paper and well funded, and services may be available, but every reform will start with people being informed of what will happen. Fears must be removed. If people don't come along, it's impossible to reform, no matter how good. Indeed, we have a good amount of money to inform people on television. Procurement is in preparation and hopefully the Estonian Public Broadcasting will also participate in it. At least according to the preliminary information I have, they've prepared the ideas.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-31_U72	March Sults, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-31_U73	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good Minister, thank you for a very good presentation. It was nice to hear the description of the ideal landscape. I mean, all these activities are very necessary, but you, like in a very personal sense, addressed these topics and did not mention to me, as a matter of great interest to the real-life person, the source of cover from which the money is taken. Lifting from one pocket to another is not a very meaningful thing to do. You failed to mention which profitable state companies you will take the money with which you will all put it into practice. It's really cool, citizen's wages and everything, but where does that money come from?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-31_U74	Thank you. A good questioner, if you had listened carefully to what I said, you would know that I do not think that civic pay is a good solution. On the contrary, this is completely the wrong way. These times, when we dreamed of communism, are hopefully finally over and never come back, although from time to time such ideas can still be heard from here and there. Where's the money coming from? Where, for example, does dust come from? We may not be able to say anything about the dust coming, but we know exactly about the money: the money comes from the state budget. We have just as much money as taxes are due, we don't have any more cents. But since we have joined the European Union, we also have external resources. If we look at this total cost and withdraw pensions, EUR 345.7 million will be added to our own contribution from the European Union's Structural Funds. A total of €18.1 billion has been planned for the implementation of the development plan. This is when we do not have anything very important, huge economic leaps and if we do not have any demographic change. In fact, I very much hope that in the long term we will have more people who are highly educated, working and producing so much that we can afford quite a lot. But, good questioner, your question is correct in the sense that we can't just print more money. We are not the United States or any other superpower. Estonia is a small country and we have as much money as we collect from the labour market.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-31_U75	Andres Anvelt, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-31_U76	Thank you, good manager. Good minister! In answer to several questions, you have long described the difficult situation of older individuals. But there are tens of thousands of children in Estonia who grow up in a single parent's family, and from there these poverty problems begin. Neither does the measures provided by the state for If you look at the welfare development plan and this serious problem of Estonian society, how would you describe the possible measures and actions that the state could take in this sector in order to reduce the risk of poverty for children by 2023, so that it does not pass on to their future, so that they can exercise themselves and contribute to pensions in the future?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-31_U77	Thank you. The issue of children and families has always been a priority for the state and also for governments. It seems to me that this is also a priority for almost all political parties. We have a separate development plan for children and families until 2020. It is precisely these topics that have been taken into focus. Indeed, parents raising a child alone are in the most difficult situation. It is up to us to ensure that childcare and education are available in such a way that a single parent can carry out himself as much as possible, can go to work and earn a normal salary. Very often, however, what the country has done is not enough. What has the country done? First of all, I'm gonna name a maintenance fund. All implementation of this principle will start next year. If the child has another parent who does not fulfil his or her obligations, i.e. does not pay a living, the state will pay the child a monthly living of at least EUR 100 instead of the debtor. It's a little relief for the kids. Secondly, in the coalition agreement, we have the objective of ensuring that the child is able to develop. I am referring here to the financing of recreational education. This scheme has been subject to the first disputes in the government office and the funds concerned are planned for the budget. The Social Democrats, the IRL and the Reform Party have agreed to this. This is also a small help that parents who raise a child alone receive. It is also helpful that, since this year, the subsistence limit has been raised to 130 euros a month for a person living alone or for the first member of the family. This is a very important step in the sense that for the first time the subsistence limit corresponds to the actual minimum necessary basket. So there are a number of measures that we are implementing, but the problem is very serious and only by changing some small subsidies it will not solve it.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-31_U78	Rock Hard, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-31_U79	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! We know that the amount that goes into implementation of the welfare development plan is very high. Like you said, pensions make up the lion's share of it. But these other activities, in your opinion, have the amounts allocated to the other items been distributed normally?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-31_U80	Thank you. When we look at these figures, they seem disproportionately different. This is precisely in the sense that in one area all the money from pension funds is included, and this increases the amount to billions. But if we look at the four sub-objectives that are set out in the development plan, they are equally funded in proportion. In order to achieve them, the money will be put on an equal footing in proportion. In this sense, it can be said that the welfare development plan is balanced. Indeed, at first sight, it seems that if there are 16 billion in one area and 4 million in the other, there is something very out of place. It should then be recalled that these volumes differ nominally for one particular reason.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-31_U81	Minister, thank you for your presentation and your answers. No further questions. Before we proceed with this item, I announce that a letter from the vice-chairman of the Reform Party Group has been put on my desk, the content of which is that the Reform Party Group proposes to extend the session of the Riigikogu today, or Tuesday, 31 May, until 14:00. It's signed by Valdo Randpere. Let us begin with the preparation of the vote on this proposal. Good fellows, it's a pleasure to see you all! I am voting on the proposal of the Reform Party Group, which reads as follows: extend the plenary session of the Riigikogu on Tuesday, 31 May 2016 until 14 p.m. Please take a stand and vote. 43 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, 2 against and 3 abstentions. The proposal was supported. The session has been extended until 14 p.m. Aivar Koka, Chairman of the Social Committee of the Speaking Chair of the Riigikogu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-31_U82	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, The Social Affairs Committee of the Riigikogu discussed this topic at its meeting on 18 April. Margus Tsahkna, Minister of Social Protection, Rait Kuuse, Deputy Chancellor of Social Affairs of the Ministry of Social Affairs, and Maris Mälzer, Adviser to the Strategy and Budget Department of the Ministry of Social Affairs were also invited. The Minister of Social Protection gave the Commission an overview of the welfare development plan 2016 The development plan brings together the strategic objectives of labour and social protection policies and policies on gender equality and equal treatment for the period 2016-2023, giving an overall picture of the main challenges, objectives and policies in these policy areas. This is the largest development plan of the Ministry of Social Affairs, with an estimated total cost of EUR 18.1 billion. The Minister explained that one of the objectives of the development plan was a high level of employment and a long and high quality working life for the population. In order to ensure people's well-being and economic well-being, it is important to support the participation of residents in working life and to ensure that people's working lives are long. The aim is to encourage the entry into the labour market of people who have sought work for a long time and have been absent from the labour market and to try to remove obstacles to keeping people away from the labour market. It is important that people have equal access to work and that all members of society are fully involved in society according to their abilities. The development plan also sets out a second general objective: reducing social inequalities and poverty, gender equality and greater social inclusion. The organisation of the provision of social services, including the availability and quality of services, needs to be improved. A trend has been taken towards priority development of services to support self-sufficiency and community living. The aim is also to find solutions to the problem of care burdens, thereby reducing the burden on loved ones and increasing their ability to make bread with work. Ms Rait Kuuse, Deputy Chancellor of Social Affairs of the Ministry of Social Affairs, noted that various ministries, interest groups and social and cooperation partners were involved in the drafting of the development plan. The development plan officially started in July 2014. The main objective is to organise social protection development documents and to replace a fragmented view with a common strategic basis. As an important change, labour policy and social protection policies have been brought together during the work process. In addition, we need to look at the challenges facing society in general and what should be kept in focus in the coming years. The development plan shall be followed by the establishment of an implementation plan. On this basis, the activities will be carried out according to the state budget. Rait Kuuse added that one of the challenges is to try to ensure that every resident of Estonia can participate actively in social and working life. The care system must develop in such a way that the person's livelihood is supported as much as possible in his/her place of residence, both by the special care system and at the local government level. It is essential to ensure that local authorities have the necessary resources and also the willingness to take responsibility for the organisation of social welfare at local level. The Commission was asked how the welfare development plan interacts with the population health development plan. The Vice Chancellor explained that the activities of the Ministry of Social Affairs are organised after the adoption of the welfare development plan on the basis of three development plans. These are the population health development plan, children's and families' development plan and the welfare plan. The Ministry of Social Affairs manages the implementation of all three development plans. There will be no further development plans at national level in the Ministry of Social Affairs. It is very important that the labour, social and health sectors work together and that development plans work together. They also asked about the implementation plan. The Vice-Chancellor replied that it would be completed until 2020 and that it would be renewed every year. The implementation plan is the basis for planning the state budget. The Commission proposed that the development plan be discussed in plenary and that Aivar Kokk, the chairman of the committee, be appointed rapporteur. The decisions were taken by consensus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-31_U83	Good waitress, thank you! There are some questions. Jaanus Marrand, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-31_U84	Thank you for a good question. I think we made an important decision here in the Chamber of the Riigikogu with the previous composition. It's a free higher education. This is one way to give our children, regardless of what the family's income is, a good education. Of course, it does not depend on whether it is a young man or a girl. I think this is one of the most important decisions made in Estonia over 25 years of independence. Everyone must receive higher education if they so wish. If there is a good education, the rest of the doors will open much more easily. If you look at the state of our education in general, Estonian vocational schools are mostly renovated, which is a very important contribution for us to have an educated and skilled workforce. To dream that one country will accomplish everything in 25 years is hopeless. I suggest that everyone who makes criticism of one, another or third area should look at the developments in the countries around us in the last 25 years, such as Finland, Sweden, Norway, Latvia, Lithuania and Poland. We see that our development has been much faster than in many other countries. Yeah, you can always do better, and you can always do something faster. However, it must also be borne in mind that a small country with just over one million inhabitants has still achieved a great deal. Very many countries are many times larger in terms of their population; their financial opportunities are quite different. But we have, I think, done very well. At the same time, it can be said that we are only halfway there. It is a very long way to go in pursuit of all that we want is equality, it is a pay gap and the elimination of low wages, it is good jobs. We used to talk here, where money comes from, somebody thinks it's coming from the state budget, and somebody thinks it's coming from the bank. For five years, I have been trying to tell all my colleagues that money does not come out of the wall, thanks to business and entrepreneurs. If we have all the conditions for entrepreneurship, we will probably be able to distribute more money every autumn when discussing the state budget. But it's not possible to share it infinitely. The state budget has just as much money as the taxpayers of the Estonian state earn it.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-31_U85	Good waitress, thank you! No further questions. I'm opening negotiations. Marianne Mikko, speech chair of the Riigikogu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-31_U86	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, We are discussing the welfare development plan in the Riigikogu today 2016 to 2023. In principle, the development plan cannot and cannot be opposed. On the contrary, we want to be classified as a Nordic country. Scandinavian countries, however, are known among other European countries for their well-being. Now a little bit about Estonia's welfare development plan. In addition to all this good and right, it is important to refer to places that need to be specified. Not so much the question of what? ' from the point of view, rather than the question 'how? ' from the point of view. As a member of the European Union, Estonia is known as a small, smart, low-tax Baltic state. Like all the countries of the European Union, every spring the European Commission gives us a precept in the form of'recommendations'. This, like last year's recommendations, included an obligation to resolve the gender pay gap. We know how this problem has put us in black shadow throughout a dozen years of membership of the European Union. For several years now, however, the black, white letter states that women must be paid equal pay for equal work with men. This inequality is all the sadder because Estonia is at the forefront of the number of single parents. This means, however, that if the provider of the family is a woman, the income of the family is remarkably low. We can never eliminate inequalities everywhere and completely, but we must not accept unequal pay for equal or equivalent work, because we can reduce it. Even in the United States, which we usually do not consider to be social democratic or over-regulated land, there is a legal regulation to reduce this problem. In the chapter on gender equality in our welfare development plan, we have rejected a number of Brussels proposals, including the European Commission's recommendation to use quotas on the boards, boards and boards of directors of public undertakings. However, the Socialists are proposing to apply this principle. What is suitable for Germans, French and Norwegians should also be suitable for an ambitious Estonia. Business boards could have representatives of both sexes and at least 40% of each. Regrettably, the principle of striped lists has been lost from the gender equality division of the development plan. To have more women in politics, it is necessary for women to be in the circle of decision-makers. The best way to do this is to put women and men on the electoral list in turn, and all the elected bodies must be able to choose equally between women and men. At the moment, the parties have no such obligation. The result is looking at us right here in the Riigikogu, where only a pink dream of a third of the seats of female ambassadors flies. In Stenbock's house too, despite the season, our government is generally jacketed because there are only two women among ministers. That's right, I started talking about America. The development plan for the gender division is an example of the US as a fist-hole. Seven years ago, in 2009, the Lilly Ledbeter Act entered into force. Lilly Ledbitter was an employee of Alabama Goodyear Tire & Rubber, who earned less than male workers for the same work without knowing for years. The law in his name requires employers in the United States to pay equal pay for equal work. In other words, unequal pay for equal work is illegal. I'd like more time.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-31_U87	Please, three minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-31_U88	The seven-year plan for Estonia's welfare development addresses the issue of reducing the gender pay gap in the fourth subdivision. It is important that wages are transparent and public, at least in the public sector, including in medium-sized and large public sector organisations. It makes sense that job advertisements must include pay ranges. Giving a job and taking a job are two-way traffic, where there must be mutual understanding and trust, transparency. A good measure is a salary audit. The key issue is how to really put wage audits to work to reduce the gender pay gap. While public sector commitments can be made, the private sector is a recommendation. But what prevents us from making changes to the law on gender equality that would apply universally to all? Why did the Minister for Social Protection say a few times that it was not right to increase the administrative burden on the private sector by imposing obligations, but to set an example and make everyone aware of the positive impact? Or how to understand the paragraph on the collection of wage statistics in the implementing act, which states that this should be done in view of the need not to increase the administrative burden on businesses? Friends, colleagues! The notification time in Estonia is actually over. As I said at the beginning of the presentation: today we have another important but extremely short guide on the table next to the welfare development plan. This is a recommendation from the European Commission to the Republic of Estonia on the promotion of the economy, which must be considered a duty to be fulfilled. One of its requirements is to reduce the gender pay gap in principle. With the proposals listed above, the Social Democrats recommend that the government complement the welfare development plan. As has been pointed out, there are examples, not to mention the Baltic Sea, both here and there. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-31_U89	Thank you. I ask for the speech chair of the Riigikogu, Monika Haukanõmme!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-31_U90	Thank you, Mr President. Good ambassadors! Today we have ahead of us a welfare development plan until 2023. Already in June 2014, the aim was to establish a strategic development plan to promote social protection and equal opportunities. This welfare agenda brings together very important issues concerning employment, social protection and equal treatment and sets objectives for better implementation of these policies. I especially liked or liked the development plan in 2014, when it started to be developed, that it was decided to base the development plan on the planning of the country's budgetary strategy performance area 4.1 'Social security'. So far, we really have to admit, we have not had a comprehensive social protection development plan covering Estonia, which clearly determines how we are going to move forward in order to achieve the goals set in all four areas, so that people can cope independently, so that they have equal opportunities to participate as actively as possible in society. I particularly like the aim of discussing how to ensure social security for all people. But on this point, I will finish with positive messages and draw attention to the bottlenecks in the development plan. Unfortunately, the development plan gives the impression that we are doing as everything and well. However, this is not possible. However, a number of important issues have been left out of focus. The text of the development plan is long and shrivelling. A good development plan should be where we find the very clear and concrete objectives and actions needed to achieve these objectives. This document is very difficult to read. Indeed, as Mr Ernits has already pointed out, the development plan is based on the principle of a welfare state, which I very much support. At the same time, we need to look very critically in the mirror and ask ourselves whether we are really able to apply such a model, whether we have the strength and really the right will to do so. Of course, it looks very beautiful on paper. Undoubtedly, the introduction of welfare state principles is a good goal, but I feel that we have not really taken very seriously into account the risks arising from our current demographic situation. Aren't we giving out some false or even conflicting signals with this development plan? This gives us, as if, the hope that all people will have access to social services, for example. It's a desire to please, to instill faith in a better future. Yes, faith must also be injected into people, but it gives the impression that we want to move quickly towards the model of a welfare state in Western Europe, which these countries are actually no longer able to sustain themselves. The biggest lack of a welfare development plan is the fact that solutions to the major problems that exist in Estonia, i.e. how we maintain the model that we currently have, but which is not sustainable, are not sought. I am thinking, for example, of the medical and pension systems. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-31_U91	Thank you, good Heljo! You can always ask me that you say something really bad about a person first, and then you ask about a different subject. Thank you very much. You're very good at words, too. The previous government canceled the maternity pension for women who could actually receive this maternity pension now because of raising children, our women's pensions are lower. But the second part of the maternity pension system remained in force, and that in itself means that if the mother is at home with the child, pension fund payments are paid for her. Returning to the main issue, I would like to say that I consider the idea of a development plan to be most important, that we need to make our labour market rules more flexible. We also need to make the system of family benefits and parental benefits more flexible. Parental women must be able to work in such a way that they can care for and raise children at the same time. One of the biggest debates in this area, hopefully already in the autumn, is precisely about amending the parental benefit law and related laws. The laws that have brought us here may not lead us further. But we must also be aware in society that a decent salary must be paid for the work. There is no discount depending on whether the worker is a man or a woman.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-31_U92	Thank you. And this answer will take us further to the next question. Jaak Madison, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-31_U93	Thank you, Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu. This question will take us forward. Mr. Minister! I read an overview of Mrs Mälzer, counsellor of the Ministry of Social Affairs, of why a development plan is needed, which are its objectives. The whole thing is very meaningful, and I fully agree with it. However, here is one paragraph: 'According to the agreement, Estonia fulfils the precondition for drawing up a welfare development plan and submitting it to the European Commission by March 2016 at the latest. ' Has it been submitted to the European Commission?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-31_U94	Thank you. Good questioner, you must have been out of the hall when Mr. Ernits basically asked the same question. I don't know if you two made a deal or if someone else has given you questions. This question has actually been answered, but I will repeat it again, so the good questioner will hear it. The main reason why we have not yet formally sent it to Europe and why we have moved a little beyond the deadline is that we want to achieve fundamental and important changes by implementing this development plan. It is true that this development plan is linked to European Union money. But at government level, we have made our decisions in time. We are in contact with the European Commission and the European Union, and the fact that Parliament is already working on, listening to and making its proposals today is fully in line with this whole process. However, I want to tell you one thing: this is not just a money-raising paper. If everyone in the hall read and thought along, they would understand that this is a development plan that, if we can implement it, will bring about fundamental changes in our social system and, ideally, will also ensure the sustainability of this system.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-31_U95	Marika Tuus-Laul, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-31_U96	Thank you. Good performer! Prosperity, of course, means everything that allows a person to live well, and that is a broad subject. This concerns living, living standards, quality of life, purchasing power, etc. At the same time, we know that Estonia is one of the poorest countries in the European Union. Our social protection costs are nearly twice as low as the European average; our purchasing power is one of the lowest in Europe. There has been a lot of talk about the poverty of the people here in the hall. We know how many poor we have: one in five is living in relative poverty and one in eleven is living in absolute poverty. Real pay, real pension • in this respect, there are large scissors compared to many other European countries. The availability of medical care continues to decline. Let's also look at the number of healthy years that have been lived, by the latest statistics, it has fallen. The Reform Party promised that in two or three years we would be among the five richest countries. What do you think we'll be in wealth by 2023?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-31_U97	Thank you. The aim of my action is firstly to ensure that our demographic figures are significantly better by then than they are now. Our problem is that we have too few children. Secondly, our people live longer and longer, but these extra years of life are very often not healthy years of life. Thirdly, we have not yet been able to exploit the potential that our people have. Many healthy and educated people are imprisoned in their homes as family carers. I was talking about 17400 people, but there's actually more of them. There are also many people who have a special need and are unable to participate actively in society due to a lack of concrete support. Their contribution should also be much higher. I consider it very important that we, as a nation, be made aware without any electoral campaign and simply looking at demographic figures, that we do not have the point of setting ourselves the goal of being the fifth or sixth in wealth or the first or second country. Your question cannot be answered in this sense. The real problem is what has been looking at us from the background of these demographic numbers for years. The question is, what are the solutions? And the solution is precisely that we must involve everyone more actively in society and the labour market, and we must also encourage Estonian men and women to realise their dreams. I don't know if you know that it's been studied how many children a woman in Estonia and an Estonian man really wants in his family. This average is over two kids, that's 2.4. But the real birth coefficient is going to be 1.5. Another fact that looks back on us very clearly: we know how big the window of time is when we can increase our population by increasing the number of births. It's about ten years. We have ten years left. If our men and women were to realize their dream, it would be demographically possible in ten years. The state can't force anyone or tell them to have children, but they can create the assumption that people want bigger families. In ten years, a large generation of potential mothers will no longer be in labor. After that, we will only be able to increase the population by means of immigration. Let us compare: we now have just over 10,000 women in this generation, about 14 years from now, the number will be 4,000. Only 4,000 potential babies! These are the numbers that look back on us. We know all this, but we don't want to admit it. There is no point in pointing the fist towards Europe or anywhere else; it is the task of our own people, which we must fulfil. You're a good questioner, asking what place we're chasing on the wealth chart. It's absolutely secondary, I don't know, a multi-stage theme. The question is whether we are sustainable as a nation. If we are sustainable as a nation and our people are active, we will be able to support our country and also help the weaker. We know that our people are wise and can create values that allow us to live very well. If we simply allow social protection costs to grow very high in order to compete with Finland, for example, this is the wrong way. Finland is so far away from over-regulating and over-financing its social protection system that it has begun to implement the ideals of communism. They're gonna pay everybody a civil salary. It is a system that is completely unsustainable and we must not go to that.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-31_U98	Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-31_U99	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. Indeed, on 11 July 2014, the previous government approved a plan to draw up a welfare development plan for 2016 to 2023. Thank you very much for introducing this thoroughly today, because in fact, the government approves this development plan and there is no obligation to introduce it to the Riigikogu. However, since it is still a very comprehensive development plan in the field and the large sums of EUR 18.1 billion are very high money I just have one question. The goodwill agreement, which was one of the last documents signed by nearly 20 organisations, was decided to join this development plan so that it became part of the plan. Can you confirm that all the points that these organizations signed are included in the development plan? These points also have a great deal to do with the reform of working capacity, the insurance of accidents at work and occupational diseases, as well as with the pension system.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-31_U100	Thank you. I requested confirmation from our officials that they had done so. I can say that yes, all the activities of the goodwill agreement relating to the labour market and the social sector are issues of the welfare development plan, are included in the development plan.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-31_U101	Jaanus Marrand, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-31_U102	Thank you! Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. In order to achieve well-being, it is essential that women and men have a level playing field for participation in working life and that their work is assessed in the same way. There is, of course, a very large gap between women's and men's wages in Estonia, saying that one of Europe's largest. One reason certainly is the structural difference: very many women work in lower-paid jobs. This has led to women being paid very much less. Is there anything the country can do? Is there anything we can do to increase the cost of work for low-paid women?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-31_U103	Thank you! Ladies and gentlemen, I asked the Minister how to increase the value of the work of low-paid women. The minister didn't answer clearly. He spoke for a long time about the higher level of education for women, but this is a structural problem, since women are doing low-paid work. But then the question arises as to why they do when they have a higher level of education. That's actually a pretty complex question. There has been a lot of talk about this, and it has been discussed, but there are no solutions that the country can do. Didn't you discuss it in the Commission? It has been mentioned here in the Chamber of Riigikogu several times that the issue of the gender pay gap needs to be fully discussed so that there could be one such committee of problems. What is the Commission's opinion? Could such a committee of problems be in order to find a complex solution, or should it not be?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-31_U104	Thank you for your question. This issue has not been discussed in the Commission. But when we look at this hall, I have not realized that the pay of women and male members of the Riigikogu is different. I can also say when I say I'm a four-woman because I have three daughters at home. All of them work in private business and have competed for positions where both women and men have competed. I don't think my daughters get paid less than men because they're women. Of course, this does not mean that this problem does not exist. Well, I guess it is in different areas. I believe that there is no unemployment in Estonian society, but a shortage of labour. If you are motivated and want to find a job, you usually find a job. Of course, the problem is that different areas of Estonia have different opportunities to get a job in their specialty. It is much easier in Tallinn and Tartu than anywhere in Võru County or near Peipsi.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-31_U105	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-31_U106	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! An impact analysis has also been carried out on the Prosperity Development Plan. As I read it, I noticed that it is estimated that the development plan will have a positive impact on R &amp; D and will support the idea of knowledge-based Estonia. Was the Commission also discussing, or was there interest in, what this effect might still be? Or can you answer that question yourself?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-31_U107	Thank you for a good question. I must admit, sadly, that this was not the subject of the Commission. I can simply say that we have different opportunities to increase our level of education and work experience through various measures launched by both the Ministry of Education and the Ministry of Social Affairs. Research will also be given a great deal of emphasis. These measures and opportunities are still in place. Often, the problem is that officials from several ministries cannot sit at a common table and work together to figure out how to make the most of certain funds.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-31_U108	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-31_U109	Good manager! Good waitress! Employers have said that the development plan is not the best. I quote: 'The development plan should not be based on a social welfare state, for which the Republic of Estonia does not have the capacity. The dream of a welfare state without specifying what it means is a major risk in the current demographic situation. " Do you also think that it is important not to talk too much about a social welfare state?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-31_U110	Thank you. Good Peter, if you read this well-being development plan thoroughly, you will find two or even three points, which I think are very important, and which should also please the entrepreneurs who I am. It is very clear that the best social protection is working. It is important that we support entrepreneurship so that we have jobs that would give us the chance to get a normal salary. One thing is, we have a job and we go to work. The other thing is that we work, but we don't always get paid to live with dignity. On a proposal from the Committee on Social Affairs, a law was passed last year on the refund of income tax to low-paid people, which supports these people to some extent. If the gross wage is less than 650 euros, the majority of the income tax is paid back to the person. Up to 480 euros, you will get 100% income tax back. Thirdly, it must be taken into account that social benefits must certainly not be so high that they do not even want to participate in the labour market. All three points are very clear in the development plan. The Prosperity Development Plan highlights these three things: there is a need for a job, pay should be such that we can manage normally, and social benefits must never grow so big that people no longer want to work.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-31_U111	Marianne Mikko, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-31_U112	Thank you very much. Estonia holds the presidency of the Committee of Ministers of the Council of Europe for six months, from May to November 2016. One of our three priorities is gender equality. We have the opportunity to set an example both in Europe and in Estonia, as Mr Tsahkna repeatedly mentioned here, and to engage in gender equality for the sake of equality between women and men. What is your personal opinion, Mr. Chef, why have we not yet formed a Committee on Gender Equality in the Riigikogu?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-31_U113	Thank you. I say clearly that we have the main committees to cover all areas. But all members of the Riigikogu can, if they want to deal more with a particular subject, bring interested parties together and deal with it. The Social Affairs Committee is always ready to help, send its people to such a support group. All our Commission officials, too, are always prepared to support all good ideas and actions. As regards the formation of a problem committee, whether or not a member of the Riigikogu supports it is a personal decision of everyone. It cannot be prescribed by the chairman of any committee or anyone else.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-31_U114	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-31_U115	Yes, of course. Three minutes extra time, good waitress, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-31_U116	Education is excluded from the Prosperity Development Plan, although it is education that ensures people's competitiveness and better coping. Yes, it can now be said that this is the subject of the second development plan and the second ministry, but without linking them, we are once again dealing with the lands of different ministries, which do not relate in any way to each other. We're coming up with more money. The Prosperity Development Plan is financed from the state budget and from the European Structural Funds. In 2014, when the development started, it was stressed that the development plan should not be an empty document, which would be forgotten in the drawer, but the basis for planning the state budget. And that's the way it's supposed to be. But have we achieved it or are we achieving it? For me, it is very questionable which is before: is it first the aim and the action we want to do, and then the budget line will be set? It seems to me that there has been a budget line before and a development plan has been set up behind it. So, in fact, we already know exactly which lines we want to spend European Social Fund money on, for example. The budget is impressive: we will spend 10.7 billion by 2020, 18.1 billion by 2023. But if you get into it, as the Minister said, of this 18.1 billion, in fact 16.9 billion is going to be paid for pensions. What about other goals and other activities? Is this distribution of money really proportional? It is the impression that with this strategy we are regulating current obligations and then putting them in place in the state budget. So how much do we really contribute to new activities and developments? Of course, we need a welfare development plan; we do not doubt that. But once again, the question arises as to why we made this development plan. It seems that, in fact, it is because the European Union is asking us to do so, because it is one of the bases for using the European Union's Structural Funds. In fact, this should not be the case; we also need this development plan in essence. In answering my question, the Minister said that nursing homes are not the subject of this development plan. How is this development plan not the issue?! I'd like to say, "Help God out of heaven!" Whose or what is this about? There is a welfare development plan on our table, which should create prerequisites for all people to live here in Estonia. So it seems to me that the hopes at the beginning, when the development plan was developed, were greater than they have now realised in this document. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-31_U117	Thank you. I ask the Riigikogu speech chair Aivar Koka!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-31_U118	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, Over the next eight years, the state will channel EUR 18.1 billion into improving people's well-being, which is comparable in volume to the national budget for two years. The 2013/2023 welfare development plan covers different areas, starting with equal treatment and ending with social insurance. Working life is being taken seriously as a cross-cutting focus, as working is the best social protection. Although the economy is doing better, unemployment is decreasing and wages are increasing, there are a number of activities in the social field that need to be done better than so far. Certainly, much more work needs to be done with people who, for some reason, have fallen out of employment, whether due to a loss of working capacity, an expiry of qualifications or something third. Such people are an unused resource that a small country the size of Estonia cannot afford. The best social protection is working. This is why the country has made it a priority to help people get back to work and to avoid unemployment for people at risk. There are many ways to do this. For example, the Ministry of Social Affairs and the Ministry of Education and Research offer free training courses to people with low levels of education or qualifications to improve their skills, as well as various counselling programmes. Another way to help unemployed people is through social benefits. However, it must be borne in mind that over-subsidised subsidies may, on the contrary, hinder people's desire to work to earn bread. This, of course, does not mean that the state plans to reduce subsidies. No, this year's income support rose to 130 euros per person. Grants are and will remain so high that they are sufficient to ensure a decent life, but the system must be such as to motivate active participation in the labour market. Combating unemployment is just as important as combating labour poverty. If a person is working and still does not have enough money for a decent life, then something is wrong and the country must come to help. One of IRL's main electoral promises was to refund income tax to low-paid people, and this has already been established by law last year under the leadership of the Social Affairs Committee. This means that some 80,000 people are getting more money, who work hard every day from morning to evening, but who still find it hard to cope with low wages. This is a very important measure that helps to reduce wage poverty and the emigration of people from Estonia. The first disbursements will be made at the beginning of 2017, based on the 2016 income tax figures. The amount of the refund depends on the income earned, the number of months worked full-time and the structure of the income. The amount to be repaid will increase as income increases and will be at the highest of EUR 480 gross wages: EUR 708 per year. If an employee receives a salary higher than EUR 480, the amount of reimbursement will start to decrease and reach zero at a gross salary of EUR 649. This law increases the income of families and helps to improve the labour market situation, also stimulating the economy by increasing consumption. In addition to income tax refunds, the state also helps families by significantly increasing child benefits. The goal is that no working person has to suffer poverty. It's a long way to go, but we'll do our best to overcome this problem. Labour market issues will receive much attention in the development plan and not least on access to care services, the sustainability of the pension system and gender equality. It is clear that society is ageing and that it poses a number of challenges. Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-31_U119	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-31_U120	The state values families rich in children by all means supporting them, but the ageing of society remains a fact. The state needs to review the pension system and make important choices in the future. One question is whether to link the beginning of the retirement age to the expected life expectancy or whether to find another solution. I also believe that the time for special pensions is passing. Risks must be eliminated already at the time of work and the responsibility lies with both the employer and the state whose task it is to develop regulations. Ageing also means that people's mobility opportunities are tightening. A situation should not arise in one modern country where people do not have access to the services provided by the state. To this end, more investment money needs to be channelled into infrastructure and fast-track connections. Major changes are to be made in the area of welfare services. 1200 reorganized and at least 200 new community service places will be created for people with special needs, which means a significant leap in service quality. In 2016, the Social Welfare Act entered into force, which sets minimum requirements for the provision of local social services and a clear obligation to assist: a person must receive adequate social assistance from the local government, because it is the municipality that knows the needs of local people best. It is only reasonable for the state to help in more difficult cases. Finally, I am dealing with gender equality. We have the largest gender pay gap in Europe: 28.2%. This is a problem that affects society as a whole, starting with people's self-realisation opportunities and ending with men and women with a pension gap. First of all, the state can set an example here and put the public sector in order. The first actions in this regard have already been launched. In summary, the welfare development plan aims to ensure that people have enough work to do. It is the task of the state to ensure that members of society are fully involved in society according to their abilities. The development plan combines the best practices to achieve this objective. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-31_U121	Thank you. Dear colleagues, there is still the opportunity to speak in the round of negotiations for two minutes and five minutes from the Riigikogu Chair. There's no wishers. I'm closing the negotiations. I would like to thank all the speakers who took part in the debate on the welfare development plan. This item is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-31_U122	Let us move on to the fourth item on the agenda. I ask for a speech chair of the Riigikogu, a member of the Economic Commission, Jaanus Marrandi, to begin the second reading of the draft law amending the State Assets Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and related to the amendment of other laws 171. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-31_U123	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The second reading before you is Bill 171. This is a draft law amending the State Assets Act and related amendments to other laws initiated by the Government of the Republic on 18 January 2016. The first reading of the draft was held in plenary on 23 February 2016 and the first reading was closed. Since it has been a long time since the draft was processed, a few words have come to mind about its content. The bill simplifies the governance of state assets and supports the development of entrepreneurship. According to the changes, local authorities will be able to start applying for free land from the state in the future if significant investments are to be made in the development of entrepreneurship. In other situations, local authorities have to pay 65% of the normal value of the land for business purposes over a period of five years. The amendments simplify the governance of state assets, in particular the regulation concerning the transfer of assets from one institution to another. Changes reduce the workload and coordination circles of institutions, or bureaucracy. The Economic Commission discussed the draft law amending the State Assets Act and other laws in connection with it at its meeting on 2 May. The amendments submitted to the Commission for consideration were examined and all procedural decisions concerning the draft were taken. Kaie Karniol, Head of the Public Assets Department of the Ministry of Finance, Teet Kukk, lawyer of the same department, and Triinu Rennu, Head of the Legal Department of the Land Office took part in the meeting. No proposals were received from Riigikogu members, political groups or other committees by the deadline for submitting amendments. The Ministry of Finance, as representative of the initiator of the draft bill, submitted proposals for consideration to the Steering Committee in a letter. There were actually two letters, the first of which came April 7th and the second on April 28th. The Commission supported all the proposals made by letter of 7 April, while the proposal submitted by letter of 28 April was not supported by the Commission. The proposal to supplement the draft with a mandate to empower the Government of the Republic to lay down requirements for the acquisition, entry into service, use and use of certain types of movable property was not supported. The representative of the initiator of the draft act justified the proposal as follows: Pursuant to the current State Property Act, the manager of state assets imposes on the employees of his or her administration the requirements for the holding and use of state assets. The rulers of state assets are the Chancellery of the Riigikogu, the Office of the President of the Republic, the State Audit Office, the Chancellery of the Chancellor of Justice, the Supreme Court, the Chancellery of the State and all ministries. Thus, each sovereign asset manager must, on the basis of the general principles of the State Property Act, lay down requirements for the management and use of state assets for its servants. The amendment would give the Government of the Republic the right to lay down requirements for the acquisition of certain types of movable property, including the exploitation of movable property under the lease agreement, for all State property managers. Problems have arisen, in particular, in the organisation of the acquisition and use of passenger cars, which should take place in all public authorities on the basis of uniform principles, taking into account the particularities inherent in the tasks of their public authorities. At the meeting of the Commission, several members of the Commission found the proposed wording to be too broad and unclear. All constitutional institutions are also rulers of state assets, and such a rule of authority may interfere with the principle of separation of powers laid down in the Constitution. If restrictions are to be laid down for the acquisition and use of movable property by all State property managers, they should be recorded in the law or substantially specified in the mandate itself. The question also arose of what is meant by certain types of movable property. As we know, movable property is all property other than immovable property, and it is possible to choose very different criteria to classify them. According to information provided by the initiator's representative, an analysis of the use and acquisition of state assets should be completed in September of this year. The Commission meeting expressed the opinion that the results of the analysis should not be expected and then, if necessary, that the law should be amended. Proposals were also submitted to the lead committee by the Ministry of the Environment. They were supported by both the initiator's representative and the lead committee. In addition, the Estonian Cities Association submitted a proposal to specify when the local government may receive land free of charge for the construction of social housing. The Cities Association referred to the provisions of the Social Welfare Act, according to which municipalities must ensure the provision of care services, the provision of housing for the needy and the provision of replacement home services, which may make it necessary for local authorities to apply for housing, for example, in order to build social housing. According to them, according to the wording proposed in the draft, the question of whether the land can be or should be paid for free may arise, in this case 65%. According to § 33 (1) (1) of the State Assets Act, the initiators of the draft act and the members of the committee considered that state assets, including land, could be transferred free of charge to the local government or below the normal value if the property was necessary for the local government to perform its statutory tasks. The initiator of the draft act also explained that, as a result of the above, the sale of the residential land free of charge to the local government cannot be excluded if the purpose of the land use is to carry out the tasks laid down by law. And in the social field, that's actually the case. When examining applications submitted by local authorities, it is necessary, inter alia, to analyse whether the municipality has the capacity to construct a dwelling for the purposes specified in the application and whether the immovable property requested is suitable for that purpose. It was therefore considered that the Cities Union proposal was already included in the law. A total of 11 amendments were proposed by the lead committee itself. In short, some of them. A number of amendments to the proposal Nos 1, 4, 6, 7 and 9 are of a technical nature, bringing the draft into line with the rules of the norm. Amendment 2 clarifies the wording of subsection 7 (4) of the State Assets Act contained in subsection 1 (16) of the draft. It's about asking questions. In this case, if the State is an heir, the succession procedure is organised by the county government of the place where the estate is located. The Ministry of Justice pointed out that "the location of the heritage' may not be the most appropriate formulation since the estate may include assets belonging to several counties, in which case it would be more reasonable if this inheritance were adopted by the Ministry of Finance, which would organise the succession procedure. In some ways, it makes sense, because the county governments are actually under the administration of the Ministry of Finance. This proposal was also accepted by all members of the Commission. Amendment 3 clarifies the draft in such a way as to oblige the sovereign asset manager to retain the right to terminate the contract exceptionally if it is necessary for the exercise of public authority or for other public purposes. This possibility may be necessary in some cases concerning national defence or, for example, in the case of a large investment object such as Rail Baltic. The main objective of Amendment No 8 is to postpone the date of entry into force of the law from what was originally planned and consequently to improve the dates related to the entry into force of the law in the implementing rules to be included. According to the original text of the Bill, the date of entry into force of the Act was 1 April 2016, according to the amendment, the date of entry into force of the Act is 1 July 2016. Amendment 10 complements the draft with the aim of amending the law on the implementation of the law of property law and of setting time limits for local authorities to carry out the activities necessary for the consolidation of land units placed in municipal ownership. The land reform process ends with the attachment of immovable property acquired by the owner, i.e. entry in the land register. The Ministry of Finance, as representative of the initiator of the draft bill, agreed with the Ministry of the Environment that the law should provide for the final date of entry of land that was municipalised in the land register during the land reform, i.e. the end of 2018. Amendment 11 has also been received from the Ministry of the Environment. It proposes to amend the draft in such a way that § 72 (2) of the Land Register Act is repealed. According to the proposal of the Ministry of the Environment, the Land Register Act should maintain the possibility of closing an open part of the register of immovable property belonging to a State or local government unit on the basis of a declaration by the owner, as it is important to transfer the land reform to the Land Register as owner and only then can the part of the register be closed. This is a practical problem and it would therefore not be appropriate to repeal this provision in its entirety. The Ministry of Finance, as the representative of the initiator of the draft, supported the proposal of the Ministry of the Environment and was unanimously approved by the Steering Committee, the Committee on Economic Affairs. At its meeting on 12 May, the commission adopted a decision to send the draft law amending the State Assets Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and the related amendment of other laws to a second reading at the plenary session of the Riigikogu on 31 May with a proposal to terminate the second reading and, if the second reading is completed, to put the draft 171 to a third reading and final vote on 7 June. For the sake of accuracy, it must be recognised that the draft had been placed on the agenda for the second reading of the meeting on 18 May, but since we had long delays here and the rapporteur from the Commission was away on secondment, the Committee on Economic Affairs, in the meantime, removed this draft from the procedure. Now it's in front of you. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-31_U124	Thank you. You have questions too. Rock Hard, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-31_U125	Thank you, good Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu. Dear colleague Jaanus, give me a hand on the Friday. If these amendments, which have been supported by the Commission, are laid down in the law, how will local authorities be able to obtain land for business development and job creation? The development of entrepreneurship and job creation are not directly the responsibility of the municipality according to the Local Government Organisation Act. How does a local government get land for these activities? On what terms?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-31_U126	Two of these criteria are set out in the draft. One thing is that there must be an important undertaking that creates many jobs, creating new value in the region. In such a case, the application shall be submitted in coordination with the Enterprise Development Foundation. What this application must contain, what exactly is it going to look like, is decided by the government. The second criterion concerns ordinary business land and perhaps residential land which is not intended directly for the performance of the functions of the municipality. In such cases, 65% of the normal value of the land can be paid.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-31_U127	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-31_U128	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! Recently, we discussed a welfare development plan that had to be submitted to the European Commission by March at the latest. Today is the last day of May. Now I read here that originally there was a plan to enforce the Law on the Amendment of State Assets Act on 1 April. Now I read here that the proposal is to put it into effect on 1 July. Was the government or the Commission unable to adequately plan its work, or was there some important additional information that forced the work to continue?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-31_U129	Thank you very much for the question of steel. In fact, the commission planned its action very accurately and felt that this bill would not arrive in this hall at the scheduled time. That is how we proposed that this bill be removed from the agenda. I remember sitting in this hall for long days and long nights, not moving forward with quick steps. That is one reason that prevented this draft from being processed more quickly. In other circumstances, this draft has moved forward at a proper and quite normal pace and will now, hopefully without harming the interests of the parties, triumphantly reach the finish, so that the law will enter into force on 1 July.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-31_U130	Kersti Sarapuu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-31_U131	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good waitress! I read here that, according to the changes, local authorities will be able to start applying for free land from the state in the future if major investments are to be made in the development of entrepreneurship. Would local authorities also be entitled to do so if they were to grant land free of charge to undertakings to make investments?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-31_U132	As a matter of principle, this must be a case of substantial changes to the plan. This is done in cooperation with the EAS, under certain conditions, as stated in this draft. In that case, it's free. If it is simply a business of some kind, then 65% of the price of the land should be paid.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-31_U133	Good waitress, thank you! No further questions. Do you want to open negotiations? You don't want to open negotiations. Now we go to the amendments. There have been 11 amendments to the draft, all of which have been taken fully into account by the commission. We will examine them with you: 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10 and 11. The amendments have been examined. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the second reading. The second reading is closed and this item is also dealt with.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-31_U134	Let us move on to the fifth item on the agenda, which is the first reading of the draft Act 247 amending the Law on Conformity of Products, initiated by the Committee on Economic Affairs. I ask for a presentation of the speech chair of the Riigikogu by Toomas Kivimägi, Chairman of the Economic Commission!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-31_U135	Mr President, thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, I would remind you that the initial impulse to initiate this bill was given by the esteemed Chancellor of Justice, who turned to the Riigikogu at the end of last year. In his letter, he found that certain points of the Product Compliance Act were contrary to the Constitution. I also recall what this contradiction is about. In fact, the Chancellor of Justice argued that the Product Compliance Act does not include a regulation on the remuneration for compulsory accreditation. As mandatory accreditation creates a public-law relationship between the accreditor and the accreditee, it must be qualified as a public financial obligation. Let's look at § 113 of the Constitution, which reads as follows: 'National taxes, charges, levies, fines and compulsory insurance payments are laid down by law. ' A careful person may notice that there is no accreditation fee as such on this list, but the Supreme Court has interpreted this section a little more widely, including other burdens. What is important in this regard, of course, is the fact that it is a mandatory act, which accreditation is, after all, an act. Maybe more about who this is all about. It is known that electrical installations, boilers for heating systems, lifts and many other equipment, before and after putting into service, must be subject to periodic technical inspections, i.e. audits. The audit shall include an assessment of the equipment's state of repair and its safety and the audit maker shall be accredited. There is one accreditation centre in Estonia, it is the Estonian Accreditation Centre of the Foundation. To date, the accreditation centre has charged a fee on the basis of the price list established by its Council. That's the contradiction. Since it is still a public-law relationship and a public-law financial obligation, the accreditation centre is not competent to establish those price lists in accordance with the Constitution. As we know, this proposal by the Chancellor of Justice came to the close of the unanimous agreement in the Chamber of Riigikogu, i.e. we agreed to the reproach made by the Chancellor of Justice. Today, there is a 'correction' on the table, which we want to resolve this contradiction with the Constitution. I will also say in advance that we have chosen a certain medium. We have not set ourselves the objective of regulating the charge for accreditation at law level in isolation and in the last detail. Nor have we, of course, chosen another extreme to simply give such a general mandate to either the ministry or specifically to the accreditation centre, which is not theoretically excluded. That would clearly not be in line with the Constitution. Finally, we have chosen the way that some of the fees are very specifically regulated at the level of the law and some of the components are subject to a mandate rule. It is proposed to supplement the Product Compliance Act with § 381, 382, 383 and 384. Paragraph 381 sets out for which the accreditation centre may charge a fee. There are three components. Firstly, the fee may be charged for the examination of the application, secondly, directly, of course, for the accreditation itself, and third is the annual fee. It would therefore be clearly defined what the charge may be charged for. To be specific, as regards the first component, which is the examination of the application, here we have taken the view that it would be regulated at the level of the law. For example, according to the draft law, the fee for examining the initial accreditation application would be EUR 300. Some other specific rates are still available for specific cases. But once again, the application review fee would be set directly by the law. The second component, which is clearly more complex, is the accreditation fee. Its one-to-one disengagement at law level is very complicated, if not impossible. I will give an example that one important player in this work is an evaluator, a modern - called assessor. I don't understand why we can't use the simple word 'appraiser'. I checked the lexicon of the foreign words that the assessor is the chief evaluator, the expert evaluator. But that's how he's gotten into this law. If the chief assistant is an employee of the accreditation centre, the other directors may be experts hired from abroad. In such a case, provide for an average wage rate or try to put it to the end at the level of the law, this is a dead end and was not considered right. However, according to the draft, the law lists what the accreditation fee itself includes. The amount of the fee depends on the time taken for the assessment (very reasonable and understandable), secondly, of course on the complexity of the work, thirdly on the level of the fee paid by the assessors, and fourthly on the direct costs involved in the assessment. As regards the remuneration of the assessor, the draft provides that it will be decided on the basis of an agreement when such an agreement is reached. Which, by the way, is crucial: the text of this bill states that the estimated cost of accreditation will be announced in advance, not so that the work will be done before the work is done and then you will simply be forced to pay the bill. I think this is an important mitigating condition that the company needs to know in advance how much accreditation costs. If it is found that the work is too expensive, then there is certainly an opportunity to express our views. The third paragraph in § 383 relates to the amount of the hourly fee of the chief assessor. Here, I must honestly admit that at present it is up to ten times the minimum hourly rate, the draft offers up to twenty times the minimum hourly rate. We have a minimum hourly fee of EUR 2.5, i.e. the hourly fee for the main AS is up to EUR 25, according to the new draft it is up to EUR 50. In addition, the accreditation fee includes, for example, travel expenses, translation costs, if the assessment is not carried out in Estonian, and other costs related to accreditation. The third thing you can charge for is an annual fee. This is also a very important component. Pursuant to the European Directive, the Estonian Accreditation Centre is a foundation with two criteria: the institution must be non-profit-making and it must manage itself. So two of these requirements. It is certainly not enough to just review the application and the accreditation fee, and so an annual fee has been set. As far as its size is concerned, the proposal is to grant this mandate to the Minister responsible for the field. This is not specifically written at the level of the law. In the explanatory memorandum to the draft proposal, such a reference can be a little difficult to understand, that companies with a lower degree of accreditation pay less and have a higher degree of accreditation, they pay more. In absolute terms, someone may pay more, but if they divide it into accreditation schemes, then the sum of once will actually be lower. This principle has been implemented so far and will be considered to be applicable in the future. So these are the proposals. I repeat once again: on the one hand, very specific rates have been set at the level of the law, on the other hand, it states what the fee must be charged for. And thirdly, with regard to the annual fee, there is a proposal to give a mandate to the Minister for Industry who could set specific rates. At the meeting of the Economic Commission, we have discussed the draft twice. For the first time, the bill was discussed on 9 May and also on 9 May. The most important thing to tell you is that at this meeting of the Commission, the Committee on Economic Affairs did not agree with the proposal of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications. Indeed, this was an extremely detailed dissertation until the last detail of the Act was set out in the calculation rates at the level of the Supplementary Law. It was obviously too detailed and burdened the Riigikogu without any justification. I think that, if not every year, we should have started changing these rates in the Riigikogu Chamber for at least over a year. That would certainly not be justified or rational. Therefore, in the course of the joint debate, we found it reasonable to have a very clear part of the rates written off at the level of the law, while some of the components of the fee should be given a mandate rule. For the next meeting of the Commission, which was on 16 May, the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications had prepared a draft, broadly in the same version as I presented to you earlier. The Committee on Economic Affairs was very pleased with this option. What is important is that the Government of the Republic has also discussed and approved the draft, as far as I know, last Thursday. There's no proof of that today, but we have such inside information that the bill found support. The Committee on Economic Affairs took the following procedural decisions: The proposal was to put the draft on the agenda for the plenary session by 31 May 2016 (consensus); secondly, to appoint Mr Kivimägi as rapporteur (consensus); thirdly, to propose that the first reading be closed and fourthly, to propose that the deadline for amendments be set, please. three working days, i.e. 3 June 2016 at 4 p.m. The reason why there is such a short deadline for tabling amendments is that it is in many respects a technical draft. By adopting this draft, I dare say that there will be no significant change in the levels of accreditation fees, they will largely remain the same. Why are we in such a hurry? At the very beginning, I mentioned that the Chancellor of Justice considers the current law to be contrary to the Constitution, and we are in any case of the opinion that it is quite appropriate to make this correction before the difficult summer work, so that it is entirely correct to ask for an accreditation fee. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-31_U136	Thank you, there is at least one question for you, Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-31_U137	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you, dear waitress. My question concerns these charges. You spoke very long and thoroughly and explained nicely why they differ from one approach to another. But where do these very specific amounts come from: EUR 300, EUR 200, EUR 175? How did the Commission arrive at these specific amounts?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-31_U138	Thank you! If we charge EUR 300 for examining this application, we did not pay much attention to it. That's for two reasons. First, it will only be taken once and, secondly, it will be an absolute amount of EUR 300 compared to the substantive accreditation fee or a relatively low annual fee. These other cost components are much higher than the fee for the examination of the application. As far as other amounts are concerned, the basic principle of self-effectiveness is actually taken into account. The fees must also depend on the actual costs. The accreditation centre is a non-profit institution, and it may have some profit, but profit must not be a purpose. However, self-effectiveness is once again a requirement that is also introduced by the European Union Directive. No average fee can be calculated. The temperature of the body can be different. The Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications also advised me not to mention any specific numbers, as this fee is very different and depends on the extent to which the company with the scope of accreditation can be controlled, etc. But I looked on one page, for example, the rates of the annual fee. They start with a few hundred euros and reach a few thousand euros. I didn't see a fee of more than EUR 10,000. These amounts are therefore significantly higher compared to this EUR 300. It is still cost-orientation that determines whether the accreditation centre or the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, when we are talking about an annual fee, will decide the amount of the fee. It is now necessary to make an amendment to the fact that the Council of this body itself will not impose these charges. It is in this that the Chancellor of Justice saw a contradiction with the Constitution. We've given a mandate to the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, he's setting this annual fee.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-31_U139	Good waitress, thank you for that answer. Let's go to the next question. Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-31_U140	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good waitress! You said that the costs would not increase, but the maximum hourly fee for accessories would rise from EUR 25 to EUR 50. This is actually a 100% increase. And we all know that if there's a chance to ask more, that's what they're asking. For what reason did you find that 25 euros per hour, which is, I imagine, a pretty good reward right now, should double?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-31_U141	Thank you. First of all, I think it's important to specify that this strange and complicated word is not an 'accessor', but an 'assessor'. Secondly, it's the main assessor. There is a chief assessor who mostly, as I said, is an employee of the accreditation centre. But other directors, who are other experts, could still be a whole line. I also note that the hourly fee of the main assistant is up to 20 times the minimum hourly fee. It has not been said that he must be paid exactly 20 times as much as the minimum hourly rate. And this rate, by the way, as far as I know, is actually set by the Ministry every year. And it's still a component of many. As I said, there is still an application review fee and this accreditation own fee also includes the chief assessor's fee. In fact, if you take the percentage, I don't have the right to speculate, but I think the chief assessor's fee is a rather small part of this entire accreditation cost. After all, the aim is to ensure professionalism and the high quality of work, for which the chief assistant is responsible. It must be a highly recognised expert, because it has the greatest responsibility. That is still the main objective. The work must be done by competent specialists, the best experts.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-31_U142	Good waitress, thank you! No further questions. Is there a wish to open negotiations between the political groups? No calls, no negotiations. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading. I will set the deadline for the submission of the 247 amendments, including 3 June at 4 p.m. The first reading is closed and the fifth item is also dealt with.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-31_U143	We are going to the sixth item on the agenda, which is the first reading of the draft law amending the Law on Legal Assistance, which was initiated by the Group of the Estonian Centre Party. Please come to the Riigikogu speech chair at a speedy pace by Dmitri Dmitrijevil, a member of the Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-31_U144	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, as many as there are in this Chamber! We are discussing the draft law amending the State Legal Aid Act initiated by the Estonian Centre Party Group, which aims to deprive the court of the possibility of automatically returning the application for state legal aid if it is not submitted in Estonian. In addition, the draft amends the State Legal Aid Act in such a way that if the application or documents attached to the application have been submitted in a language other than Estonian or English, the person handling the application will arrange for the documents to be translated. These amendments ensure fair justice for all and bring the State Legal Aid Act into line with § 15 of the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia, Article 6 of the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms and the case law of the European Court of Human Rights. First of all, I will deal with the first paragraph of the first section of the draft, which deprives the courts of the right to return the application for legal aid if it is not submitted in Estonian. As early as spring 2015, the former Chancellor of Justice pointed out that the automatic return by the Court of Justice of a request for legal aid submitted in a foreign language cannot be in line with the aforementioned Convention and the case law of the Court of Justice. The Chancellor of Justice, who is currently in office, who, in reply to our referral, stressed that the right of a person to assistance from the Court of First Instance is an absolute fundamental right, the limitation of which is permitted only for very important reasons. In other words, the Estonian Bar Association, who has said that failure to comply with the language requirement in the application for state legal aid cannot be such a deficit that it could hinder access to justice. Estonian courts deal with non-compliant state legal aid applications in different ways. If the administrative courts provide the applicant with the opportunity to remedy the deficiencies within the time limit before the return of the application for legal aid, the county courts generally do not do so in civil matters. The proposal also provides for a second amendment. The solution proposed in point 2 was set out in the Law on Legal Aid until 31 December 2005. The amendment is intended to provide that if the application or documents attached to the application have been submitted to the court in a language other than the Estonian language, the applicant shall arrange for the documents to be translated. However, it should be borne in mind that if the application for legal aid is rejected, the costs of translating the documents shall be borne by the applicant. By introducing the State Legal Aid Act, the State created a measure which allows persons to apply for legal aid from the State, if necessary. In order to obtain legal aid, a person must submit an application together with a reasoned explanation of why the assistance is needed. In practice, it's all pretty complicated. Namely, other language-speaking persons living in Estonia must translate the application for state legal aid in advance into Estonian for a fee. Only after payment for translation work do they have a duly completed application for legal aid, which can be submitted to the court. We do not dispute that legal assistance is also provided in another language, if necessary. For example, if a person turns to the Estonian Bar Association and asks for help in filling in the legal aid application of the state, he or she will receive this assistance. In general, the Estonian Bar Association has done a great deal on its own initiative to solve the problems of obtaining state legal aid in Estonia. The lawyer has translated both the letter of legal aid and the letter of economic status into Russian. This will be of great help to individuals both in filling in the application and in understanding the application. In addition, the Bar Association has translated the frequently asked questions and answers on the national legal aid website into both Russian and English. In this way, applicants for state legal aid receive quite a lot of information in the language they understand. The contribution of the Association of Lawyers is not limited, with the help of which the website juristtaitab.ee was created and the most important laws in Estonia were translated into Russian. The state allocates money to state legal aid every year, but the amount allocated is not enough to cover people's legal needs and to support the Estonian Bar Association in providing state legal aid. Andres Anvelt, a member of the coalition party, has also admitted that the conditions of state legal aid are too strict and that it is difficult to apply for aid. He also considers that the legal awareness of Estonian residents and access to free legal assistance must be improved and this assistance guaranteed in the most common languages of Estonia. The proposed amendments do not recommend changing the language of the case, but provide people with a translation. Thus, when this point is adopted as a legal provision, there is an additional burden on the interpreters of the court. Since there is a minimum translation in the courts, it would require an additional interpreter to be paid in larger courts such as Harju, Tartu and Viru County Courts and Tallinn District Courts, which would, of course, be accompanied by one-off costs for creating a new job. Finally, I will address the opinion on the draft issued by the Government of the Republic. Of course, the Government of the Republic did not support the draft. They indicated that the explanatory memorandum did not mention the effects of the draft. However, point 6 of the explanatory memorandum highlights the main implications of the adoption of the law. These include, for example, ensuring equal access to justice for all groups of the population in need of protection, and point 2, giving rise to the possibility of obtaining assistance from the requested person, where, for some reason, such assistance has not been received before recourse to the court. In his statement, the Government of the Republic complained that it might not be enough to create four interpreters for the justice system, as they felt that interpreters should translate the application for state legal aid into any language of the world. At the same time, interpreters still need to do so in the case of persons enjoying international protection or temporary protection, and the native language of these people may not be widely used. The draft law granting international protection to an alien was still in the proceedings of the Riigikogu. Neither in this respect nor in the transposition of the so-called Victim Assistance Directive did the Minister of Justice see the problem of judicial interpreters having to translate judgments into very rare languages and otherwise assist the defendants. The rest of the opinion of the Government of the Republic concerned the forthcoming state legal aid reform, which was also discussed last autumn, but we have not yet seen any initiative here in the Riigikogu. Finally, I would like to remind you once again that the purpose of this draft is to bring the State Legal Aid Act into line with § 15 of the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia, Article 6 of the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms and the case law of the European Court of Human Rights. I'm done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-31_U145	Thank you. There are questions. Valdo Randpere, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-31_U146	Thank you. First of all, an observation. If we have discussed this draft, this has come up several times in the Committee on Legal Affairs, we have also checked how many times it has occurred in practice that the application for legal aid has been rejected for breach of the language requirement. No such rejections have been identified. So basically, you solve a problem here that doesn't exist. But I have an even bigger complaint. Your amendment is so unsuccessfully formulated that you will not, in fact, eliminate any contradiction with the Constitution or any European standards. On the contrary, you completely exclude the use of all other languages in Estonian justice, except Estonian and English. I hope you understand that, because I also drew your attention to this bill in the Committee on Legal Affairs...
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-31_U147	Please ask me a question!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-31_U148	...in its own right is formulated wrong. Have you understood that? That's the question.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-31_U149	Thank you, my good colleague, for the question. I'll start with you saying that this problem doesn't exist. However, there is no need to issue false information here, as we also talked in the Commission that we have known the number of legal aid applications, but unfortunately there is no relevant register. This statistics, several applications have been returned because they were not submitted in Estonian, simply not. At the same time, we introduced the answers of the Chancellor of Justice to the Members of the Commission to us. The current Chancellor of Justice writes that over the last few years several people have turned to the Chancellor of Justice with concern that they will not have access to the court because they are unable to prepare the application for state legal aid in Estonian and, as a rule, the court will then dismiss the application. The first half of the question, I hope, has been answered. The problem exists, it is still unresolved and the Chancellor of Justice refers to it. The second part of the question concerned § 1 (1) of the draft law, which proposes to amend the text of § 12 (5) of the Law on Legal Aid. Basically, this text sounds exactly the same as in the current version of the law, except for the last sentence that has been taken away. It says that the application sent to the court in another language will be returned. It's not like we started inventing a bicycle here. If you have better suggestions how it could be formulated so that the target does not change, it can be done between the first reading and the second reading.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-31_U150	Heljo Pikhof, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-31_U151	Thank you. I fully agree that there is currently no primary legal aid, whether in Russian or in Estonian, not very well available to everyone. But as for your amendment of the law, here is the new paragraph 51 of § 12, which you would like to add. That is what makes it impossible for an application to be submitted in another language. My proposal is that you may withdraw the draft, correct it and come back to the Committee on Legal Affairs with the correct draft. What do you think of that? Then perhaps you could support it.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-31_U152	Thank you for your support and for your question. In fact, we went out with this draft already in the autumn, and I think that if we can, in principle, reach a compromise in order to make changes to some of the paragraphs or points, we can make them, as I said, between the first reading and the second reading. We do not have to take it back now, because the goal does not change in itself. I have already told you that both the Chancellor of Justice and the Attorneyship have recognised, and you yourself, that the problem is entirely there, although some colleagues claim it is not. I think that if you simply propose amendments, if they are necessary to improve the existing draft, it would speed up the process. If we take the bill back and start again from the beginning, from scratch, it's gonna take more time.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-31_U153	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-31_U154	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! I'm gonna stop by the explanatory memorandum. I read a sentence here that I think is rude and even wrong. Or do you really think this situation is that bad? I read this sentence: 'We cannot accept a situation where a Member State of the European Union aims to discriminate against almost 30% of its population. " Does the Estonian state really have such a goal?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-31_U155	Thank you. We're talking about a real situation. We are talking about the largest ethnic minority that uses Russian as a language of communication. Indeed, there is almost one third of Estonia's population. The question is that they can really have problems getting legal aid. Whether everyone develops or not, this is shown by practice.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-31_U156	Valdo Randpere, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-31_U157	Thank you. I got the impression from your answer to my last question that you didn't understand the question. So I want to do it again. Do you really not understand that, in this wording, this bill works against your purpose? In this wording, this draft actually precludes a completely judicial discretion to accept an application for legal aid if it is not in Estonian or English. If you understand that, tell me you understand and you'll make a new bill. But don't ask us for any amendments. I'm not gonna fix your bill. Yeah or no? Do you realize you've filed the wrong bill for us?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-31_U158	Thank you, my good colleague, for your consistency. When we talk about formalising the draft and that it does not seem to meet its purpose, the current legislation actually prohibits the courts from submitting applications, for example, in Russian. However, this does not mean that the courts have no discretion. The Chancellor of Justice also points out that the courts still have discretion. They may process applications but do not need to process them. If we want to formulate this provision more precisely in the draft, we can do so. But the situation still gets better if it's in the current version.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-31_U159	Good waitress, good colleagues, thank you. Today's trial is over. We will continue the same item tomorrow. Thank you. Closure of the sitting at 2.01 p.m.
