ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-02_U1	Honourable Riigikogu! I would be very grateful if I could start the meeting of the 16th working week of the third plenary session on Thursday. Thank you. First, Mart Nutt gives the bill or the inquiry. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-02_U2	Mr. Chairman! Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! On 14 June, 75 years will pass by one of the most tragic days in the history of the Estonian people. In fact, on that day, thousands of people from Estonia were hit by the violence of the Soviet occupation power. On this tragic day, more than 10,000 Estonian citizens were deported east of Estonia. Now, 75 years later, it is also our duty to remember those people, those victims and the tragic fate of those people who lost their lives or their freedom in the tragedy that began that day, and many of whom never returned to Estonia again. In the name of this memory, all six political groups of the Riigikogu have signed a statement '75 years since the June deportation'. Allow me to hand over this draft on behalf of the six groups. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-02_U3	There are no other proposals. We will process the draft in accordance with the procedure laid down in the Rules of Procedure Act. Incoming check, please! 81 members of the Riigikogu are present at the plenary session, no 20. Before we go to the agenda, I have a message. Following the end of the plenary session, a meeting of the Estonian-Bulgarian parliamentary group will take place in this Chamber. The caller is Mailis Reps.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-02_U4	Now we are going to the agenda: first reading of the draft resolution of the Riigikogu "Proposal for the Government of the Republic" submitted by the Estonian Central Party Group and the Group of the Estonian Conservative People's Party. In the name of the initiators, the waitress is Mikhail Stalnukhin. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-02_U5	Mr. Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, With this draft decision, two political groups propose to the Government of the Republic. The first point proposes an in-depth analysis and audit of the current language learning system in order to identify the reasons why language learning has not delivered the expected results so far. In fact, we can already say why that is. Estonian language learning became one of the main orientations of the Estonian state's internal policy already in 1989, when the Supreme Council passed the language law and the future was more or less clear. This highlighted the importance of the Estonian language in our country, but after the restoration of independence, quite different problems created a situation where language policy remained purely declarative. However, even then, in the early 1990s and mid-1990s, school teachers and language people who worked in our higher education institutions and language centres all over Estonia talked about three groups of problems associated with teaching the national language to non-Estonians. The first group concerned the assumption that the age of the learners would be accepted when teaching the language. Understandably, the ability to learn languages also depends directly on the learner's age. These are rather different goals, which are really to be set either for children or for the elderly, but this was not the case. I myself was in this hall in 1999, when it was claimed that, for example, a 69-year-old person is as capable of learning a language as a school child. If you don't listen to experts and other specialists, nothing good will come of it. This was one problem: no distinction was made between the different directions. If this had been done and more attention had been paid to children, the second generation of students would have already graduated from Estonian schools, whose Estonian language would probably be at a very high level. The second group of problems was related to the fact that even then, in the early 1980s, it was necessary to revise all the teaching material that existed. It was clear to the specialist that the textbooks did not correspond to the tasks that language policy had placed before society at the time. The state's help was needed to develop new textbooks and other learning tools, as it was clear that the old were not fit for anything. And the second point: there was certainly a need to train Estonian teachers who could understand the linguistic and psychological problems that a Russian learns Estonian. Well, something's been achieved. For example, in Narva in 1989 there were only two certified teachers of Estonian on the whole city, 102 in 1999, so the number increased 50 times. But there is no drastic change in the results of school studies, which are reflected in the state exams. Thus, the aim remains to develop decent textbooks and other learning tools and to prepare teachers. Problem group three. No one disputes that an Estonian has to cope with the Estonian language in every Estonian place. But if you want the Russian to learn the Estonian language, I think that in every place in Estonia, the Russian must have access to the educational material, in particular the glossaries in our era of highly developed technology, both on paper and on the cup and on the smartphone. Something's been done lately. But I've already told you about this remote control, which is dictionaries, for example. I'm not gonna go over this again. Basically, this problem has not been solved. Therefore, our proposal to carry out an in-depth analysis and auditing of the language learning system so far underlines that we must first of all be aware of these simple facts. And secondly, when we finally find out the amount of money spent in a quarter of a century on all the courses and interesting events related to the learning of the Estonian language, but have not produced any results, it may sober up one person or another, including in this hall. The second proposal of the bill offers it to the Government of the Republic. As I have just said, the development of new teaching tools must be taken into account and everything must be done to ensure that every family with educational resources learns the Estonian language against the background of another language, which is usually Russian in Estonia. Also, people should be given the opportunity to receive free advice or information at any time, either from their computer or from any smartphone. These are quite specific proposals. We, the initiators, believe that this is not a political draft decision. It is a very specific draft, which concerns hundreds of thousands of people, and it would be difficult to understand if it did not find the support of the majority in this Chamber. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-02_U6	Questions for the waitress on behalf of the originator? There are no questions. Thank you, Mikhail Stalnukhin! The rapporteur for the Committee on Culture is Laine Randjärv, chairman of the committee. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-02_U7	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, This draft decision 219, i.e. the Riigikogu's decision to propose to the Government of the Republic, was discussed at two meetings of the Committee on Culture. On 18 April, a Commission waitress was appointed, who became the speaker here. A longer debate took place in the Commission on 17 May 2016. Due to the proposal under discussion, guests were invited from several institutions related to the subject: Ministry of Education and Research, the Foundation Innove, the Institute of the Estonian Language, the Language Inspectorate and the Integration and Migration Foundation Our People. Mikhail Stalnukhin presented to the Commission a draft decision initiated by the Estonian Centre Party and the Group of the Conservative People's Party, which was drawn up on the basis of the need to solve the problems of learning and teaching the Estonian language. The government is invited to carry out an in-depth analysis and audit of the current language learning system in order to identify the reasons why language learning has not delivered the expected results so far. In addition, Stalnukhin also presented the measures proposed in the draft to improve the unsatisfactory situation in teaching the Estonian language. Following the presentation of the draft decision and the establishment of the subject matter, the invited guests received the floor, who presented each of them with the steps and actions they had taken in their area of administration in relation to the subject raised. Riina Koolmeister, Deputy Head of the Language Department of the Ministry of Education and Research, gave an overview of the Ministry's activities in the field of language learning. Reports and reviews are regularly prepared and studies commissioned, from which "Two language studies in Russian-language schools' prepared at Tallinn University in 2013 and "Convergences and assessments of the organisation of national-language studies in Russian-language schools' prepared at the University of Tartu in 2014. According to the schoolmaster, there are many teaching materials and methods. Teachers often fail to choose from among them, and teacher training and methodological materials are important for teachers. The schoolmaster also introduced Estonian e-learning material "Keeleklikk', which is an e-learning course at the basic level of the Estonian language (0-A2 free of charge). It can be used by English and Russian-based learners and has teacher support. This is the most comprehensive free course that has been made for practical study of Estonian. The European Social Fund and the Ministry of Education and Research have supported the completion of the 'Keleklikiki'. In addition, this year it is planned to organise a call for B1 language level creators. According to the schoolmaster, it is planned to set up a national language teaching council that would include people from different ministries dealing with language issues in order to coordinate language learning. Mariann Rikka, chief expert at the General Education Department of the Ministry of Education and Research, noted that Innove SA has carried out a mapping of educational materials to develop educational resources for general and vocational education by 2018 through the European Social Fund. It is also important to further support the immersion of the language in order to improve the quality of education and to organise additional education in the Estonian language for immigrants. Jelena Kallas, Senior Lexicographer at the Estonian Language Institute, gave an overview of the availability of Estonian-Russian-Estonian dictionaries and activities in the field of dictionaries. EKI is Estonia's only producer, collector and maintainer of large academic dictionaries, as well as the Dictionary Systems Designer and Developer. There are about 60 dictionaries and databases in the language collections of the Institute, and users make five million inquiries per year on the website. He explained that there are several dictionaries for Russian-speaking families that are available online free of charge via the EKI website. The bilingual dictionaries can be used via the EKI web dictionaries portal e-language collections. According to Kallas, however, the problem is that within 15 years, the keywords of large Estonian-Russian and Russian-Estonian dictionaries have not been updated, there are no newer words in the fields of life, information technology, economy, medicine, law, education, cooking, etc., such as infrastructure, tablet, sustainable, integration, etc. Kallas pointed out that the update of dictionaries is not planned in the Estonian Language Development Plan 2011 to 2017 and it is important to write it into the next development plan so that the work is consistent and stable. According to Ilmar Tomusk, Director General of the Language Inspectorate, language learning has not been as effective as the Language Inspectorate has hoped. The weakest results are in Russian kindergartens and schools. Learning is more effective for those whose income depends on their language skills. A great concern was brought out by Tomusk, young people who have just completed secondary education who do not speak Estonian, for example, at the level of the attendant. In his opinion, all attention should be focused on basic schools with Russian language of instruction. In the case of adults, the problem is that many people who go to follow-up courses do not pass the exam because they offer too short courses. Tomusk expects that the results of language learning should improve, as the language law amendment which entered into force on 1 July 2015 provides that only language learning companies that meet the requirements will receive a training permit. In addition, the Language Inspectorate has also started to check the quality of companies. MISA Head Dmitri Burnashev gave an overview of the activities of Integration and Migration SA Our People in the field of language learning. MISA's main activity is organising language learning with the support of the European Social Fund. According to Burnashev, in spring 2016 MISA will organise an additional procurement for 2000 people to organise Estonian language proficiency courses and to identify the skills of the Estonian language. Conditions of procurement require language learning to also offer the possibility of practicing language. Language learning starts in the second half of 2016. MISA will continue to organise free A2, B1 and B2 language courses until 2020. Burnashev predicts that more than 1000 people will register for courses next year, but it is worrying that very many lack the basic language skills required to attend the courses. The members of the Commission then asked questions and expressed their views. In reply to Krista Aru's question about the level of basic schools, the representative of the Ministry of Education and Research confirmed that primary school is indeed the weakest link and it often happens that Estonian language learned in kindergarten is forgotten in primary school. Another bottleneck is the level of teachers of Estonian in Russian schools and kindergartens, as already mentioned. Viktoria Ladynskaja pointed out that the methodology of language learning and the level of teachers is also the theme of the development plan 'Intertwined Estonia 2020' and the Ministry of Culture is reviewing these issues in the draft amendment to the programme plan. As a result of the debate, everyone in attendance stated that the issues raised in the draft are actually very important, but the public probably lacks more information about how much these things are actually being dealt with and how the methodologies have been changed for better results. For example, in 2015 the Foundation Innove conducted a survey among teachers and students and revealed that the expectations and realities of teachers and students differ in the field of language learning. Teachers focus on acquiring certain templates, not so much on the language as on the communication tool. Students consider learning to be too grammatical. Without grammar, of course, you cannot, but indeed perhaps it would be more important to focus on a methodology that helps people communicate better with each other. At the end of the debate, Mikhail Stalnukhin proposed to set up a working group of representatives of all the political groups of the Riigikogu who would work through the topic in a non-political way. This proposal was in principle accepted by the Commission. At the meeting of the Commission on 17 May, it was decided by consensus to propose that the draft be placed on the agenda of the plenary session of the Riigikogu on 2 June and that the final vote on the draft be carried out on the same day. This proposal was also consensual. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-02_U8	Questions for the waitress. March Sults, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-02_U9	Thank you, Mr. Speaker. Good Wave! You said in your report that the course was too short. But currently, language courses have been in Estonia for basically over 25 years. Hence the question: is the Language Inspectorate as it is now effective? Would he perform his task and be wise to change his structure or to give him some sort of legal means so that he can apply some form of coercion and motivation?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-02_U10	Thank you. First of all, I'm not saying I did, I'm quoting Ilmar Tomusk. And he said the courses themselves are short. He did not mean how briefly or for how long the work had been done and the courses had been organised. In other words, one course as such seems too short, during which time it will not be possible to acquire the language skills needed to pass the test successfully. As for the other side of your question, we did not discuss this in the committee.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-02_U11	Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-02_U12	Thank you, Honourable Chairman. Respectable waitress! You were very good at inviting all the representatives of the relevant authorities in the Commission. I listened to your review and realized that everyone reported on their heroic work over the years. But why, dear waitress, do you think all of this has not borne the expected fruit, as the initiators rightly find? If everything is already being done and everything has always been done best, where is this basic obstacle? What kind of stump is this thing still stuck behind? Why do foreigners not speak Estonian?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-02_U13	Thank you. Good Andres! Maybe my tone of voice was too optimistic and you felt like everything was very good. However, I mentioned the bottlenecks that they highlighted for all the performers. Actually, they brought them out. Someone said that in 15 years, for example, the keywords have not been updated in e-dictionaries. Someone said they don't start with A1, they start with A2. So the bottlenecks have already been identified. And I also have information that I was supposed to meet on May 25th with the Ministry of Education and Research's information on the National Language Advisory Board whose main task would be to set up a horizontal network between all the institutions involved in language learning. I think it is reasonable to coordinate this work, because if everyone is working in a silo in their own so-called silo and there is no horizontal cooperation, then it will only be of little use. So positive things have really been done, and it was very good to know. On the other hand, they also referred to bottlenecks, so it cannot be said that only good ones have been reported. I'm sure that bottleneck is in the problems that have been highlighted by the various institutions.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-02_U14	Rein Ratas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-02_U15	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable waitress, thank you also for your very meaningful presentation. According to you, the Commission found that the proposed draft decision raised important questions and it is not known to what extent these issues are currently being dealt with. Could this mean, then, that if we took into account point 1 in the draft decision, which proposes an in-depth analysis and audit of the language learning system, we would get an adequate picture of what we have done so far? I've been talking.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-02_U16	Thank you. What you referred to is the draft proposal. That's what we had to discuss, because it's in the bill. However, the presentations of the invited guests revealed that this proposal concerns an important subject, but quite a number of things have already been done, including studies. The Ministry of Education and Research has received a very comprehensive explanatory statement on all studies, if you're interested, I'll send it to you. I'm not going to read it, it's quite a few pages long. But indeed, it was very interesting for us to find out what had already been done. Now it is simply a question of whether these research results will stand on a shelf somewhere or whether this information will be used to make changes to some methodology or to improve cooperation between different institutions so that the result is better. I have to be honest with you, I have the same question myself. If so many studies have already been carried out and two groups are proposing that an in-depth analysis should be carried out, then, firstly, there is little information about the fact that the matter has been examined and, secondly, there is no tangible result. However, with philosophies, it is extremely difficult to measure results when it comes to language learning. For example, a person who has not passed any exams may communicate freely, but the other one has passed the language examination and the birds have put the right place in the grammar check, but he still does not know how to speak or is afraid to make mistakes in his dealings. So it's a huge individual. I think it's also important to have a social attitude here. Everyone who tries to speak the Estonian language must be treated with goodwill and recognised, even when speaking with faults. In other languages, I have personally learned that you learn better when you receive well - meaning comments. This attitude could also be prevailing in Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-02_U17	Deniss Borodich, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-02_U18	Thank you, President of the sitting. Good waitress! I am pleased that this issue has been raised again in this Chamber for a long time. Indeed, 25 years have gone by, a lot of activities have been reported, but what is not very much is the result. Especially in certain areas. So there's a problem. On the one hand, as you pointed out, the heads of various institutions confirm that the money is as it is and is being acted upon. Sometimes it seems to me that, like in some other areas, there is more money in this area than there is in the mind. For example, it was pointed out that the language level of basic school leaves something to be desired. We all know that many years ago the upper secondary school was transferred to a large part of Estonian-language education, but that it would be wiser to start Estonian-language education in primary school rather than in upper secondary school. But there are problems in middle school. Perhaps the only hope is for the representatives of the various political parties to take this matter up a politically, mark the bottlenecks and develop solutions. You mentioned, like, that you went through this proposal from the Commission. Maybe that would really work. Here's my question. I didn't read it, so what was the decision on this task force? When will it work, and who will be part of it?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-02_U19	Thank you very much for this question. The Commission did not decide on the specific composition of the group, the number of members or the date of its meeting. Basically, it was found to be important. But now more information came from the Ministry of Education and Research that on 25 May the National Language Advisory Board came together and took on this task. So when our meeting took place on 17 May, in a week's time, the non-political organisations really held such a meeting. Perhaps it is reasonable that someone in the Committee on Culture will also be part of the working group that has now been set up at the Ministry of Education and Research. I think that forms of cooperation still exist, the main thing now is to put this issue on the table and to realise that something needs to be done differently.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-02_U20	No further questions. I'm opening negotiations. On behalf of the Group of the Viktoria Ladynskaja Isamaa and Res Publica Union, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-02_U21	Hi! My speech is not long. Indeed, we are all here to improve things that do not work in society. Last year clearly indicated that we had a number of problems with integration and language learning strategies: order of language courses, questionable methodology, lack of teachers, which was also discussed by the Head of the Integration and Migration Foundation Our People. All these major problems are really in the air and we cannot say that we have a language strategy in place. The IRL certainly agrees that there is a need to carry out checks and to review what is happening in this area. The IRL agrees that it is necessary to carry out a proper analysis and audit of the current language learning system and to identify the reasons why language learning has not delivered the expected results so far. But now it's going to be a big one, a big one. The draft is complicated in that it also contains very specific things that cannot be accepted until the review is on the table. In particular, point 2 mentions concrete measures on how the Centre Party and the EKRE offer to address this problem. I cannot agree that until the analysis is completed, it may be decided which measures will address this problem. What is the vision of the IRL and the concrete solution? It must be acknowledged that in connection with the implementation plan for the Estonian integration measure adopted by the government, we had serious disputes with Minister of Culture Indrek Saare. In my opinion, the scheme was crude and uneven; it lacked a number of important initiatives. Some points were included in the plan at the request of the IRL. And now two specific points, which are very clearly linked to this draft. Point 1: Carry out an analysis of the current language learning system to identify the reasons why language learning has not delivered the expected results. To this end, a group of language experts shall be set up. And the second point: the government agreed that the Ministry of Culture would develop the idea of the Narva Estonian Language House. In essence, the government approved the idea and Indrek Saar must draw up an action plan. So we have an idea of how this problem can really be solved in practice. I very much hope that the agreement will now remain in force and that a particular minister will be responsible for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-02_U22	Mikhail Stalnukhin, please, on behalf of the Central Party Group.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-02_U23	Mr. Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, The last sentence was left to the ear of that let be responsible for the minister. Ministers in Estonia are never responsible for anything. If we're gonna do something, we're gonna have to initiate it here. But I am talking about two points that should be addressed after the debate that took place in this Chamber, of course, if you could call it a debate. To illustrate the first, I'll tell you about one of the anecdotes Hoja Nasreddin. It's a hero of Central Asian folk jokes known as fairy tales and legends. There's a lot of writing about him. A very witty person. In the old collection of Lood Hojast, the story is that once he sat down with his students and shared his wisdom with them. One student was so tense about the process of gaining this wisdom that he farted, sorry. In order to mislead others, he began to scratch the floor with his foot. Hoja looked at him and said, "Well, well, sound maybe is similar. But where did the smell come from? ' I want to tell you, colleagues, that they come here and talk about how much one or the other has done to make progress. Do you want people who get paid for this and who have failed to do one thing or another to come and tell you the truth about how bad things are right now? Of course, arguments are put forward to defend their position. The question is whether we listen to both sides or just one. Second moment. I am, of course, a representative of the group here in the remote, but this is purely my personal observation. Ladies and gentlemen, how many times have I stood here with all kinds of rural issues, social issues, etc., and this has gone to teaching the Estonian language. After the report, I have often not been asked any questions from this hall. It means that it's clear to everyone, and when everyone's quiet, the wisdom of the people tells us that everyone agrees. In this case, there should be no debate on issues relating to language, economic, social and cultural policy at all. I have a little more time, and I'm gonna finish by telling you one more story. Hoja Nasreddin is certainly a figure unknown to many. On one occasion it was the same in Hoja Bukhara and promised the ruler of this city that he would take an emir donkey and teach it to speak in ten years. Then the animal has a local tongue completely in its mouth and the donkey reads the Koran and speaks to everyone. All this time, Hoja is paid a salary, but if the animal doesn't start talking, the Hojala will be decapitated. His friends said, "Poor man, poor man, you can't teach a donkey! You're gonna lose your head! " At that, Hoja said: " Come on, it's so great to get gold from the emir for ten years! And in that decade, either the donkey dies or the Emir dies. Anything can happen. ' In my opinion, the language policy that has been pursued in Estonia in 25 years is based on the model that, although everything will be resolved in itself, we do not want to deal with much. If you vote against this draft decision today and do not want the Government of the Republic to take any systematic action in this area, then you will follow the model of this latest story. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-02_U24	Krista Aru on behalf of the Estonian Free Party Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-02_U25	Mr President! Honourable representatives of the people! In 1919, when the Estonian Constituent Assembly held its sitting here at Toompea in the White Hall, Jaan Tõnisson said this: "The right state wisdom cancels everything that would give birth to friction in vain and thereby alienate and reduce the internal strength of the state. The right state wisdom finds inner harmony and unity of interests with all minorities, teaching them the Estonian language and thereby strengthening the Estonian state. ' For 25 years, Estonia has been a re-independence country. Apparently 25 years ago, very many representatives of the older generations in Estonia were not prepared to look at matters concerning their language and the minorities living here in a calm, balanced and with this state-wisdom. Now, 25 years later, we are certainly capable of doing so. I very much agree with Mr Viktoria that there must first be an overview of the means of teaching the Estonian language and what has been done. At the same time, I would also like to stress that we must not wait any longer. My colleague Mikhail said very nicely that if we had dealt with the wisdom of an open-hearted state, we would have grown up the second generation of people in other languages who speak Estonian, the language of the country that is their home. It is high time we looked at this problem in an open manner and maintained the leadership of this problem, or, if you want to, follow-up, precisely in Parliament's hands. Who, if not the highest in Estonia, must stand up for the values written in the preamble to our constitution. And one of them is really the preservation of Estonian language and culture, but keeping it always means teaching. All the activities proposed in the draft decision are, of course, ongoing, but this work must be done with an open spirit and it must be done in such a way as to make it useful. Ilmar Tomusk needs support with his big tasks, the same language cafe that has begun to work needs support, and the people who want to learn Estonian in Narva, Kohtla-Järve and Tallinn most need support. This is not a question which could divide the people and which should be analysed from the point of view of the opposition and coalition. This is a question that concerns the entire Estonian state. Yesterday, in this big Chamber, too, there were a number of such big issues in which I expected people's poverty, the hard way of coping, to be looked at by elected representatives of the people, but for some reason it again stuck behind the coalition agreement. The coalition agreement cannot be more important than the future success of the Estonian state, Estonian people and culture. Members of the Group of the Estonian Free Party trusted me to convey the message that we support the draft decision despite the shortcomings that are there, and we believe that the guiding role of this major problem, as well as the role of the supervisor, must be the role of the Estonian Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-02_U26	There is no further wish for negotiations. I'm closing the negotiations. No amendments were received to bill 219. We shall take the final vote. Honourable Riigikogu, since the proposal to the Government of the Republic requires a majority in the composition, the verification of presence, please! 35 members of the Riigikogu are present at the plenary session. Honourable Riigikogu, I vote on the Estonian Centre Party Group and the Estonian Conservative... Mikhail Stalnukhin, please, procedural question!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-02_U27	Yeah, sure. Please explain to me the logic of our organisation. The presence shall be checked as approval of the draft requires at least 51 votes. It turns out there are no 51 people in the Chamber, but there is still a vote. If nothing depends on whether or not there are at least 51 members of the Riigikogu in the Chamber, why are we even doing the verification of presence?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-02_U28	Dear Mikhail Stalnukhin! During the time that I have observed the work of the Riigikogu here, I have seen enough cases of fewer than 51 people registering at the plenary session of the Riigikogu during the verification of their presence before voting on such drafts, but after that, a decision or law will still be adopted. If there is any wish to continue the discussion on this issue, all proposals are welcome in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, which will deal with amendments to the Home and Working Procedures Act. Mikhail Stalnukhin wishes to continue the conversation. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-02_U29	Yeah, I'd be more specific. Two days in a row! Yesterday there was an analogous situation: 51 people were not in the Chamber and yet the question went to the vote. Today we're doing exactly the same thing. If something does not conform to our good practices, then the Chairman of the Riigikogu could take the leadership seriously into his or her own hands. I wouldn't mind going to the vote now if there were at least 51 or 52 or 53 in attendance. How do we explain later, for example, where were the soups at that time? What we say to our voters who understand and...
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-02_U30	Is there a procedural question, or was it an opinion? The President of the Riigikogu must chair the sitting in accordance with the Riigikogu's Home and Rules of Procedure Act. Sven Mikser, procedural question.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-02_U31	Thank you, Mr President. Could you explain to Mr Stalnukhin that the leaders of the Centre Party Group, as the initiator of the draft, can take a break if necessary in order to look for our many missing colleagues and invite them to the Chamber?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-02_U32	Yeah, I could do that. Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-02_U33	Thank you, Mr President. I'm returning to what I didn't do yesterday. In fact, the Free Party Group takes a ten-minute break so that the Reform Party Group can come to the Chamber. Our own resources are relatively exhausted, some people are probably absent due to illness, and a committee meeting is currently taking place. However, if we still do not have at least 51 parliamentarians in the Chamber, the President might find a way to postpone this vote to, for example, the next week.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-02_U34	Thank you. The Home and Working Procedures Act does not give me the opportunity to interpret the law in this way and such a manager, I hope, the Riigikogu will never choose who will bully the MPs here. The break time is also over. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the draft of the Riigikogu's decision 'Proposal for the Government of the Republic' submitted by the Group of the Estonian Centre Party and the Group of the Conservative People's Party. Please take a stand and vote. There are 29 members of the Riigikogu in favour of adopting the decision, no respondents or abstentions. The decision was not taken. Thank you! I'll see you next Monday. Closure of the sitting at 10.51 a.m.
