ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-11_U1	Good afternoon, honourable Riigikogu. Prime Minister! We will begin the Monday session of the 11th working week of the 3rd plenary session. First of all, there is the handing over of drafts and enquiries. Representative of the Government of the Republic Heili Tõnisson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-11_U2	Mr. Chairman! Dear Riigikogu! The Government of the Republic is launching two draft laws today. First, a draft law amending the Defence League Act, the Defence Forces Service Act and the State Defence Penalty Penalty Act. Hannes Hanso, Minister of Defence, will represent the Government of the Republic in the Riigikogu when dealing with the draft law. Secondly, the draft law on the ground. Marko Pomerants, Minister of the Environment, represents the Government of the Republic in the proceedings of this bill in the Riigikogu. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-11_U3	Siret Eagle, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-11_U4	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the members of the Centre Party Group, we are submitting an inquiry to the Minister for Rural Affairs, Urmas Kruus, concerning the grants to be paid by the PRIA. Granting support is usually a positive thing, but many farmers received an unpleasant surprise as a result of the direct payment last December. The smallest delay in entries in the animal register meant a deduction from the amounts of aid. According to the rules, the keeper has time to report any movement of animals to the PRIA within seven calendar days, and it is also the keeper's responsibility to make the notification available within seven days. For example, Tartu Agros became ill with the employee responsible for the registers, and so it happened that the notification of the movement of animals was delayed for the second time in the PRIA. The case concerned four animals, and the delay was ten days. As a result, business support was reduced by 3%. In total, more than a third of 466 checked livestock farmers were found to be non-compliant. The keepers agree that malicious infringements must be punished, but they also ask that the more livestock farmers have, the more likely they are to be wrong. For example, a large producer may need at least 1000 changes to the register during the year. In relation to all of this, we are asking a question, which contains four questions. We hope to have answers to both the PRIA penalty system and whether this system can be made more flexible and friendly to the farmer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-11_U5	Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-11_U6	Honorable manager! Respectable members of the Riigikogu! I have the honour of handing over the draft Act supplementing the Social Tax Act on behalf of the Group of the Estonian Free Party. It concerns the upper limit of pay from which no social tax is paid, i.e. the ceiling of social tax in the national language. In our opinion, this is one strong measure that will help the Estonian economy to become smarter and more productive, which will help high-paid professionals to come to Estonia and stay in Estonia. The topic has previously been raised by the Estonian Employers' Confederation as well as the Service Economy Chamber, as well as the parliamentary parties at different times, but unfortunately this law has not yet reached adoption. We believe that, at a time when the Ministry of Finance has not offered the Committee on Monetary Affairs a debate in the form of other drafts, we have just the right time to discuss such a draft of principle. As an added value, we introduce a median wage instead of an average wage. We believe that this gives both the Committee on Monetary Affairs and the large Chamber a lot of thought and discussion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-11_U7	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-11_U8	Mr. Chairman! Honourable Members of the Riigikogu, Prime Minister and all other listeners! In addition to the draft law already passed today, the members of the Free Party have decided to hand over at least one inquiry this week. It is addressed to the Minister of Justice and is a collective appeal to 'Stop overeating political parties! ' and the reply of the Minister of Justice on 14 September 2015. This is a story with a long beard, but unfortunately the representatives of the Riigikogu and the government have not made any effort not to cut that beard. In fact, on 28 October 2014 a collective address to the Riigikogu's proceedings was granted 'Stop overeating political parties! ', its lead committee became the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. In the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, its discussion was delayed in the post-election period until about a year ago, in April last year, the Commission dealt with it and sent it to the Ministry of Justice to be resolved by other means on the basis of an action plan for the implementation of the coalition agreement. We have already invited the Minister of Justice to respond to the question of how it is planned to reduce the election costs and the political parties' financial allocation for fair competition. We received a reply that the Ministry of Justice would carry out an analysis in this regard by December 2015. We have not heard anything about this so far, and that is why we are asking the Minister of Justice seven questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-11_U9	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-11_U10	President-in-Office of the Council. Prime Minister! Colleagues! I have the honour to question Prime Minister Taavi Rõivas on behalf of the members of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia. On 7 April, Eesti Päevaleht wrote that this March the government had to conclude a direct agreement with the UN Refugee Agency so that Estonia could participate in resettlement programmes. It is alleged that the contract sent to the ministries has become entangled in the coordination circle. That is why we are asking the following questions: What is the treaty trying to achieve, and what obligations does this entail for Estonia? For what reason has the conclusion of the agreement been hindered, or what are the ministries arguing about? Does the initiative to conclude the agreement come from outside or from the Estonian Government? How far is the coordination of the agreement in ministries? When will the document arrive at the Riigikogu, and which ministries are opposed and in favour? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-11_U11	Mailis Reps, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-11_U12	Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the Riigikogu! In addition to many inquiries, it is a pleasure to present to you today a draft law amending the law. Weeks ago, we discussed here the reason to revisit the cost of school food in the RES debate, and here you have another subject of thought. For years, parents have seriously addressed the question of why a free, warm lunch in kindergarten can't be used if it is available at school? This is a fundamental issue, especially in kindergarten parents, where almost one hundred percent of children in this age group attend. On average, offering a day-to-day meal similar to the most expensive school food, which costs one-and-a-half euros, would give many families confidence. We therefore have a proposal to seriously discuss support from the state budget to cover food costs for children aged 5 to 7 in pre-school municipal and private early childhood institutions. The amount of the food cost allowance would be 1.5 euros, i.e. one and a half euros per child. Why would it be for those 5 to 7 years of age? A few years ago, when we started giving free school lunch, it was staged so that there was no need for too much money at the same time. This is how we propose to launch the first phase this time and then move on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-11_U13	On behalf of the management board, I have adopted four draft laws and three enquiries, all of which we carry out in accordance with the procedures laid down in our domestic and operational procedures. Incoming check, please! 84 members of the Riigikogu participate in plenary session, no 17. Adoption of the agenda. There are no details. Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on the agenda for the 11th working week of the 3rd plenary session of the Riigikogu. Please take a stand and vote. There are 81 members of the Riigikogu in favour of approving the agenda, no respondents or abstentions. The agenda is confirmed.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-11_U14	According to the approved agenda, we first have an inquiry by members of the Riigikogu Martin Helme, Jaak Madison, Henn Põlluaas, Mart Helme, Uno Kaskpeit, Raivo Põldaru and Arno Sild. Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-11_U15	Dear Speaker! Prime Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, At the end of February, members of the Conservative People's Party Group submitted an inquiry to Prime Minister Rõivas regarding the psychological protection of the Republic of Estonia. The first sentence is in the form of the future, but that's how I read it. 'According to the Estonian press, Sputnik, the Kremlin propaganda channel, intends to open a news portal in Estonia in both Estonian and Russian this spring. " This opening has now come true. 'Sputnik has excelled in spreading misinformation in other countries, acting as a tool for Russian Special Service Information Operations. On the other hand, a strategic communication adviser working for the government has made it clear publicly that it would help if the Estonian political opposition stopped criticising the foreign policy of the current government against propaganda from Russia. Instead of tackling hostile propaganda, national-conservative policies are being mutilated. " In this regard, we ask the Prime Minister to answer the following questions: " How does the government intend to react to the potential hostilities of Sputnik? What is the government's strategy for psychological protection against propaganda attacks from Russia? Does the government really consider the labelling of the Estonian national opposition and the linking of the Kremlin to politics to be one of the measures of psychological protection? ' Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-11_U16	The inquiry is answered by Prime Minister Taavi Kõivas. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-11_U17	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! I will respond to the inquiry submitted on 23 February about the psychological protection of the Republic of Estonia. Question number one: How does the government intend to react to the potential hostilities of Sputnik, the propaganda channel? ' Propaganda's most effective antidote is free media. The Estonian authorities do not regard Sputnik as a journalistic organisation or as an expression of free press. The Estonian authorities do not regard Sputnik's enquiries as journalistic theme setting. But the government's response is due to general Estonian values, openness and freedom of expression. We will not prohibit their activities as long as they do not violate Estonian laws, but we will monitor their activities and if there is a conflict with the laws in force in Estonia or abuse of freedom of expression in Estonia, the response of the competent authorities is expected. The Estonian population has mostly proved surprisingly resistant to hostile propaganda. We have been spreading the Kremlin propaganda channels for some time now, in the light of the values of openness and freedom of expression. Among them are the most influential satellite and cable television channels. Similarly, websites operating outside Estonia are available in Estonia, which transmit messages about Estonia from disinformation. At the same time, it is important to distinguish between technical coverage and actual impact. Despite his brand, Sputnik has not been able to become a widely distributed media publication anywhere in the West. Therefore, we do not expect Sputnik to be significantly different from the Russian propaganda channels already in operation. Question 2: "What is the government's strategy for psychological protection against propaganda attacks from Russia? ' Estonia's response to propaganda attacks from Russia is similar to the strategic communication strategies of NATO and the European Union. This means, above all, that we do not give up the values of our openness and freedom of expression. Then, however, our strategy is divided into four strands. First, awareness of the situation. We're monitoring hostile propaganda and exposing this mechanism to society. It also includes developing critical thinking in school education. Secondly, alternatives may be a diverse media space. There must be alternative information in Estonia to that offered by propaganda. We must prevent our people from being exposed to only one source of information. An example of this is the launch and continued development of ETV+. Three, proactivity. We must always present our position proactively and, if necessary, repeat it. In particular, this means both a technical and a human resource-based readiness to respond to the increased demand for information in a crisis situation. Fourth, regulations. Estonia must continue to address the modernisation of its laws in a rapidly changing world of media technology. Question 3: 'Does the government really consider the labelling of the Estonian national opposition and the attachment to the Kremlin policy to be one of the measures of psychological protection? ' Fighting the opposition is not a measure of psychological protection. The psychological protection measure, however, is to point to similarities in the viewpoints of the Kremlin and some of Estonia's political forces. Feeding foreign fear under the label of extreme conservatism is unambiguously in the Kremlin's interest. Estonia, standing alone on the border between Europe and Europe, is unambiguously in the interest of the Kremlin, even if this objective is veiled by standing up for the right to language, culture, traditions and self-determination. EKRE leaders have said that Estonia should step out of the European Union, that Estonia is threatened by mass immigration, that preventing the ratification of the border agreement with Russia is their great effort, and that as a result it is possible to move relations with Russia on a whole different basis, make them more constructive and friendly. According to what EKRE said, their messages are very similar to certain points in the Kremlin's story, and this so-called patriotism is only apparent. And I also, of course, consider it necessary to draw attention to this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-11_U18	Questions for the Prime Minister. Martin Helme!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-11_U19	Thank you, Mr. Speaker. Prime Minister! These last references to us, I'd really like to know the source. I don't know that any of our party leaders would have said anything like you just put in our mouths or attributed it to us. But good, let's not argue about this right now! What I have to ask you is that we're not really just talking about Sputnik, that's, let's say, a generic term. There are other propaganda channels, as you mentioned. We know that in Latvia, Lithuania and Ukraine they are either temporarily or permanently closed, and I think that e-Estonia should not technically have any problem closing the portals that are being operated outside Estonia or preventing cable translation of certain television channels operating outside Estonia. All you have to do is ask the authorities to do it. Don't you have that wish, or do you hope for something else?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-11_U20	Thank you. If the laws in force in Estonia are violated, they will certainly respond accordingly. That's one. Secondly, you asked who of your party leaders has expressed the views I mentioned. Let me give you an example: you can turn to the chairman of your party and ask him what he is talking about at public meetings all over Estonia. I can also give concrete examples if you want.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-11_U21	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-11_U22	Thank you, good manager. Good Prime Minister! I ask you whether Estonia must defend itself psychologically only against the realisation of the interests of Russia or the Kremlin, or whether there are other countries and regions from which we should defend ourselves psychologically today?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-11_U23	It is clear that Russia's psychological attacks or propaganda are still incomparably stronger in Estonia than those of other countries. In fact, no other country has applied the same informational influence against Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-11_U24	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-11_U25	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Mr. Prime Minister! I haven't seen you at any of the meetings, so I don't know where you're taking what I've been saying. It simply falls under the ordinary wrestling and blurring of the ministers of the Reform Party. We will give examples of what we have heard since last spring about immigration in this direction, in that direction, by the third time, etc. But you argued that the Estonian government and the authorities in general react adequately when the laws are violated. If you take off Russian Delfi, for example, you will find very often a gruesome hate speech about Estonians and the Estonian state. Then why isn't the government and the bodies responding?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-11_U26	I have already answered that last question. But if you are interested in where my information comes from, then indeed, in the Republic of Estonia, the Prime Minister is a very well-informed person and he also knows about those meetings where he does not participate. There are always friendly people who draw my attention to misgivings. And I repeat that you personally, Mr Helme, have, as I know, said, among other things, in the popular meetings. Firstly, you have said that Estonia should step out of the European Union. Secondly, you have said that Estonia is threatened by mass immigration. That's what you've said in this hall. Thirdly, you have said that preventing Russia from ratifying the border agreement is your great effort and achievement. And fourthly, what is most surprising to me, you have said that as a result it will be possible to bring relations with Russia to a completely different footing, to make them more constructive and friendly.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-11_U27	Jaanus Karilaid, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-11_U28	Thank you to the manager. Good waitress! Within the framework of a strategic concept such as 'psychological protection', I am not so interested in the extent to which we have information channels and what messages they convey, as far as what policies the government pursues. In the last seven to eight years, the competitiveness of the Estonian economy has fallen to 15 places, just as the head of EAS admitted it. What could be the reason? Do you see the links that our psychological protection can be serious if, as head of the cabinet, you cannot get the economy going and create jobs, and we continue to face the same problems that we talked about seven to eight years ago, for example, that we have low wages and large emigration? Do you feel the connection here, or do you only see the problem in the information channels?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-11_U29	First of all, to answer the first half of your question, it should be said that there is no media in the country whose content is at all controlled by the Government of the Republic. Estonian National Broadcasting is indeed financed from the state budget, but as all the political groups of the Riigikogu are well aware, no government can prescribe the content of their production. And that's the right thing to do. The best antidote to all propaganda is not counterpropaganda, but free media. That's one. Secondly, your understanding of what is happening in Estonia is somewhat surprising. However, this is not surprising, as I have noted similar misconceptions about statistics and misinterpretation of statistics, also in the case of your good party associates. The most well-known of your party associates who have misinterpreted statistics on these issues or have provided false statistics are, of course, Heimar Lenk and Marika Tuus-Laul. They have been able to surprise me many times in this hall, even when statistics can be produced on curves. Speaking of emigration, Estonia was closer to balance last year: the balance was minus 96 people. That's one. If you wish to count as emigrants those who left Estonia in 1994, i.e. the Russian army military, then yes, you will reach the figures that will feed you positively. But if you look at the migration of recent years, you will see that these figures have improved considerably. We have never been as close to balance as we were last year. Your statements on job creation are also somewhat surprising. In a situation where you are talking about high unemployment over-Estonian, which the government must tackle vigorously, it is worth drawing your attention to the fact that last year in Estonia unemployment decreased to a large extent and we have actually achieved more or less the same level as in boomtime. Estonia has created a great many more jobs compared to the time of crisis. Then, indeed, unemployment was the biggest problem. Today, the situation varies from country to country. It is true that there are still a couple of counties or regions where unemployment is a problem, including Ida-Virumaa and South-East Estonia, but there, too, unemployment has been reduced, not in percentage terms, but in repeats, compared to the peak of the crisis. At the same time, there are regions where chronic labour shortages are mentioned. It is increasingly said in your country and certainly also in Harjumaa and Viljandimaa. I consider it very positive that the leaders of the city of Viljandi have not gone too far to look at it, but have taken a journey with the entrepreneurs of Viljandi, who complain about the shortage of labour, to inform the people of the counties where unemployment is higher. But if you want information about government policy, then that's what I'm willing to share with you both from this remote control and from the rest of the world.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-11_U30	Jaak Madison.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-11_U31	Honourable Prime Minister, very much loved by the people! Listening to the last sentences of your answer, it was very embarrassing that our Prime Minister is also engaged in the dissemination of slander, discourse, and unwittingly interpreted information in society. It's a direct lie that you usually accuse us of. But that's what it is. Please answer the third question again: do you think one measure of psychological protection is to demonise the opposition, put together with certain agents? You also highlighted the ratification of the border treaty. Of course, it's one of our job wins that we've been able to stop it. Unlike the current government and the Reform Party, our traitors and traitors are not the gifters of their own country, over which Putin is merely delighted and his hands are collapsing. That's what we're gonna stop as much as we can. You said you were well informed. Please answer one more question: how far is it to investigate the arson of Vao Refugee Centre? Who's the culprit?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-11_U32	As far as the state of investigation of a particular case is concerned, I am not familiar with the latest developments, but I am absolutely sure that the Estonian police will take the investigation very seriously. This is a crime of many signs and must be taken seriously, just as, of course, crimes that endanger people's lives and health. The Estonian police must do this, and I am sure they will. You claim that the government is working very hard to demonise your party. I don't think I can. In my opinion, you are well-distorted by your views without the involvement of the government. It is not quite a coincidence that very many people in Estonia have said that the views you express are totally across the border. But there is freedom of speech in Estonia and every political power has the opportunity to talk about anything they want. It is not, in itself, forbidden that the chairman of your party will speak in public meetings, as he did in Tõstamaa, such things as I have pointed out. In principle, it is also not prohibited that the sentences spoken by the chairman of your party are quite unambiguously in agreement with the Kremlin's points of view. It's not illegal by law. But I think that both your voters and the general public in Estonia have a right to know what you are saying to people behind closed doors there. If you deny my arguments, I wonder what position Mart Helme has not expressed. Is he ready to say it out loud in public? And then I'm ready to prove myself wrong.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-11_U33	Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-11_U34	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Prime Minister! I'm still looking at it out of curiosity. No matter how old you are, every day you try to learn something new. Today I learned that EKRE is demonizing itself. They're demons. Can you give an example of who these angels are in this hall? It also sounded in your answers that someone's patriotism was apparent. I understand that Mart Helme must be the one whose patriotism is apparent. Whose patriotism is real? What views must a true patriot have?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-11_U35	Thank you very much. I think if a person tries to study all his life, it's very positive. Well, we all have good reason to do that. I believe that a very large part of Estonia's people are genuine patriots in their hearts and care about the future of Estonia. They attach great importance to the fact that no foreign enemy could ever do to us what was, unfortunately, successful in the 1940s, when Estonia was occupied when so brutally intervened in Estonia's sovereign decisions that the Estonian people were deported and killed. I believe that the lion's share of Estonian people are patriots in the best sense and carry in their hearts not only the desire to protect Estonia from external threats, but also the Estonian-mindedness in general. I do not have to define the Estonian mindset in detail. The Estonian people, who are patriots, are well aware of what it is expressed in.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-11_U36	Uno Kaskpeit, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-11_U37	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Mr. Prime Minister! You claim that you know everything and are informed of everything. I'm wondering if you can tell me how large the audience is with ETV+. Then we'd find out, too.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-11_U38	Thank you for that question. If you say I know everything, you'll think I'm better informed than I am. However, indeed, on all important issues, the Prime Minister will be informed and, if I wish, I will be able to get the viewers' numbers not only of ETV+ but also of all other channels. It's no big secret, and I'm pretty sure you'll be able to get that information, too. But let's just say that if you think you're gonna be stuck with getting this information, you go back to me, and I'll make sure these viewers get to you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-11_U39	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-11_U40	Thank you, President-in-Office. Prime Minister! Unlike you, I was present at the Ristamaa event and I can assure you that your claims that this was a closed, closed-door event are wrong from the beginning to the end. It was also a public event announced in the press. All the quotations you have made have been torn out of context and are not true, so I suggest you replace the informants you have sent to some sort of event with those who are more adequately active. I'm gonna ask you this. If you are asked a specific question about the hostile psychological war and propaganda launched against the Republic of Estonia, do you really think that it is your duty to start a democratic attack on a political party elected to the Riigikogu instead of answering a question, whose support is as great as that of your party?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-11_U41	However, I would not get so carried away by giving priority to this number. We know that the latest study you want to advertise cannot quite compare to all other studies. But God with him, that's definitely not the main issue right now. But let's say that we could then question which way was it exactly: were these views ripped out of context and actually Mart Helme expressed them, or is it not true that you claimed both at the same time? Although, as I understand it, there can't be both at the same time. And since I'm sure of my sources, I'll stick to it. But God with him. If you want to say unequivocally that Estonia should not step out of the European Union and that Estonia should step out of the European Union, which I believe Mart Helme said is wrong, then be so nice and say it publicly. Or if you find that Estonia is not threatened by mass immigration, please state it unambiguously. And so on with all the other points of view. If you are not prepared to do so and to disprove these views, we can draw our own conclusions from it. Now, as far as your questions are concerned and your answers to questions are concerned, I can see from the page in my possession that your signature is also in question, whose third question is directly relevant to your political party. And, of course, in answering this question, I will also name your party, because that is the question. Your signature's down here.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-11_U42	Marika Tuus-Laul, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-11_U43	Thank you. Prime Minister! I think you've been on too many trips lately. You have absolutely no knowledge of the situation at home. For example, today's daily newspapers also write about the bad state of our economy. We're not going down poverty rates, kids are gone from schools. Today's papers have written about this, and today's enquiries are about the same subject. Medical access, I dare say, gets worse in hours. So it's not rosy. Please tell me why you are so arrogant, arrogant, arrogant in front of this hall! We are still expressing the interests of our constituents in this Chamber, and believe me, voters do not like such ambiguity and arrogance.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-11_U44	But let's face the facts! You will remember that during the crisis there was talk both in this hall and in public that there were over 100,000 people in Estonia without work. In March 2016, there were 32700 people registered as unemployed. Yes, at the very top of the boom, the unemployment rate was even lower, but it was still one of the lowest in a very long time. That's one indicator. This is today's news and it cannot be challenged because it is very precisely measurable in size. Let me give you another example. Yes, we know that Russia's exports decreased very sharply last year. Yes, we know that Vladimir Putin's aggressive policy led to a decline in the purchasing power of Russian rouble and Russian people, and this also had a profound impact on the Estonian economy. But we also know that this year trade with other countries has greatly compensated for the disappearance of the Russian market, and we also know that the latest statistical indicator shows a 7% increase in exports. It is all the more gratifying that this is a very broad-based growth. It is not just one or two sectors; it is not a statistical error; it is a broad export growth. Thirdly, I can also give examples of specific sectors. There has been a lot of talk about the tourism economy in Estonia being in a major crisis, but if we look at the final results of last year, they also exceeded the level of the Tumaluse year as a record for a long time. And, oh surprise, this year the number of tourists continues to grow, so you also noticed, just today we learned the latest information that the number of tourists has increased this year as well. The first figures for the first months have now been published. What else is important? Last year, people's real income increased by 7.8%. Yes, wage growth is a major part of it, about 6%, but it is also accompanied by the effect of lowering labour taxes, as income tax fell last year and the tax-free minimum increased. In addition, the total consumer price index decreased by half a percentage point last year. Yeah, half a percent isn't sure what a big drop, but as a whole, real revenues increased by 7.8%. I believe that the people of Estonia appreciate it quite highly. However, I am not saying that this can only be a service from the government. On the contrary, in Estonia, wealth is created primarily by entrepreneurs. But the 7.8% increase in real wages is a fact. If the real wage increases and unemployment decreases, pensioners will receive a higher pension. This, too, does not depend so much on the activities of the government, but on how well the Estonian economy is doing. However, the government has also made decisions that have ensured that the pension that rose from 1 April this year will continue to be exempt from income tax as an average pension. I consider this a very important step and consider it necessary to continue this in the coming years. You also talked about poverty indicators. All right, let's see what's been done to alleviate poverty. This year, the limit of living in Estonia increased by 44%. Show me the year where the limit of living has grown faster. 44%! I'll give you more examples. Over the past few years, the support for the first and the second children has been more than double and semi-folded, summing up more than tripled. This is the policy of the current government union. In addition, we have a decision, which is also covered by money in the country's budget strategy, to raise the third child's allowance so much that if there are three children in the family, this family will receive EUR 420 in child benefits. Show me another country with such a rapid rise in child benefits! It has a direct bearing on people's livelihoods. I also consider it an important step in improving people's livelihoods that we focus very focused on risk groups. We will enter into force at the beginning of next year a measure to support pensioners living alone, for the first time in Estonia's history, by the way. We also have a maintenance fund in place, all the necessary decisions have been made. These are major initiatives and will certainly lead to significant improvements in poverty indicators. We are dealing with specific people through concrete grants. But, of course, the biggest and most necessary poverty-reducing measure in Estonia will remain the creation of jobs that will be worthwhile as a means of coping. And that is why I consider unemployment to be low and wages to be increasing to be very important. This improves people's livelihoods more than any kind of support.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-11_U45	Heimar Lenk, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-11_U46	Thank you. Prime Minister, it's nice to listen to you, it's getting better. But I would remind you that the Estonian economy falls under your government. Secondly, you mentioned that the lives of pensioners living alone will be better if they gain EUR 9 per month. But who are listening to us now and looking at us knows that six single pensioners with this EUR 9 won't get any better. But I liked one thing in your report. You said the old rule that propaganda doesn't have to be answered with a counterpropaganda. But why don't you use that rule in this room? You have been asked about the information war, but you have been battling opposition parties for half an hour. Do you feel the satisfaction of being able to beat and scold Members on the subject of who said what Tõstamaa said? So this is the content of your report? I don't understand! Get to the point! Indeed, the audience of ETV+ is less than 1%. This isn't television, is it? That's clear. So let's talk about these things, too. Let's still talk about the counterpropaganda or the information war...
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-11_U47	I guess the question was gone, wasn't it?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-11_U48	No, it wasn't! Don't bother asking me!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-11_U49	But time is long gone. Please turn off the mike! Heimar Lenk might learn to ask in a minute. Thank you, Heimar Lenk!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-11_U50	Thank you very much. As the good questioner must have noticed, the Members of Parliament have focused their questions on different topics. For example, your good party partner and colleague Jaanus Karilaid asked about other issues and received an answer; your good party partner and colleague Marika Tuus-Laul also asked about a different subject and received an answer. You asked your own questions, and you'll get an answer. You were interested in the pension increase and I can tell you that the pension increase is, on average, 20 euros per month rather than 9 euros. But next year, we really want to create additional one-off support for pensioners living alone in order to improve the livelihood of those who need it most. In the first year, it will be EUR 115 per year. You can say that this is not enough, but this is the first time, and if this measure justifies itself, I will absolutely not rule out increasing it in the future. This amount may also be significantly increased if the possibilities of the state budget allow.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-11_U51	Tarmo Tamm, please! Quiet, please! Tarmo Tamm is asking.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-11_U52	Thank you, manager. Prime Minister! As we know, the economic position of the Estonian state is not the best and economic growth has recently been corrected downwards. Foreign investment is one of the fundamentals of economic growth. Foreign investments of the Estonian state will remain in the period 20 years ago. Unfortunately, only 5% of all foreign investments in the Baltics come to Estonia. I'm asking you, isn't one of the reasons for this war hysteria, the information war? An investor who can come from the East will see that there are NATO bases here, and he won't come here. And when it comes to the western investor, he relies on the President to say that in 48 hours Estonia will be taken away. What kind of businessman should invest in Estonia? Haven't we gone too far with our hysteria?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-11_U53	The Allied troops in Estonia give a clear message to the people coming from both the East and the West: Estonia's independence is well protected. If you think NATO soldiers shouldn't be here, just say it straight and clear. But I think, on the contrary, we need to increase the presence of the allies in Estonia, and on this basis the government intends to continue its work before the NATO Warsaw Summit. Now for foreign investment. You have criticised Estonian banks very much for not taking out profits. Last year Swedbank took out a very large part of the profits earned in previous years as dividends and paid more than 100 million euros of income tax on it, which went to the Estonian state budget for the benefit of Estonian society. After all, this formally improves the net investment position, as it can be seen as an investment outflow. However, it received a very significant amount of tax and I would not say that it is unambiguously negative. Quite the opposite. Now the question is which investor is coming to Estonia and whether investors from the east are necessarily afraid of NATO bases. I'm saying I'm not scared. And there are other countries to the east than Russia. Your party partner stabbed me that the Prime Minister has been on a lot of business. But pretty often when I go on a business trip, I work to get foreign investors to find an incentive to come here. Last week in Japan, for example, I spoke to a number of very large investors. They are very interested in investing in Estonia. And Japan is also east of Estonia when you check globe or map. One specific investor I met in Japan with very representative entrepreneurs in Estonia is Hiroshi Mikitani. Rakuken, a company he manages, has already invested funds in Estonia that amount to tens of millions. A lot has been said about this company and they are ready to invest more in Estonia. During the same visit last week, I learned about the very large amounts of money that are planned to be made in Estonia as foreign investments in the near future, but since they are not yet public, I cannot advertise them directly. But believe me, there's a lot of money coming up, and from a lot of places, not just Japan.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-11_U54	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-11_U55	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Prime Minister! I'm sorry that the debate's focus shifts away like this, and it recedes into a slight brawl. In my opinion, your own professional dignity should not go along with this regardless of what the questions are. I don't think Sputnik needs that much attention. We should rather think about what we can do ourselves. Yeah, ETV+, maybe it's too little, and maybe it came too late. For years, however, there has been an idea that the Baltics, the Northern Region and Poland should put together their forces and, in response, set up a serious, weighty, strong Russian-speaking channel. Is this idea still going around somewhere to put it into practice?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-11_U56	I'll answer everything in order. First of all, the Prime Minister's court, not an opportunity, but a court, is to answer all the questions that MEPs are asking. I cannot classify questions as dignified and unworthy. This will probably be assessed by the voters of all MEPs. I will try to answer every question as accurately and concretely as possible. Perhaps there have been some things that the government has done too late. There's no way I can rule that out. But now these things are done. However, the previous government can be commended for the concrete step you have mentioned. What was your question at the end of your story? Remember, the joint channel of the Baltic States. I cannot say that we have some of these specific projects at the end of the line rather than. This has generally been discussed in very different formats. However, Estonia wanted to do this quickly and we found that the fastest possible solution is to create a separate ETV+ channel. And it's been working for a while. We did not wait for other countries. At the same time, I have expressed the idea in many parts of the international arena that perhaps it would be necessary for a large and truly international news channel, be it BBC, CNN or any other such, to set up a free media channel in Russian. It is not a matter of information war and Russian propaganda only for Estonia and our closest neighbours. Even those Russian-speaking people who live in Brighton Beach or in the centre of London cannot enjoy free media in their native language. This problem has also been recognised by a number of my fellow Members from farther countries than, for example, Latvia and Lithuania.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-11_U57	Mark Soosaar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-11_U58	Prime Minister! I grabbed my ears when the subject was patriotism. There is nothing to be done, the world is moving in the direction that the religious wars are still first and then maybe only really slaughtering. The lexicon of foreign words, published in 1961, is on my shelf at home, and I remember that the word patriotism has been explained in a very simple and understandable way: it is the love of the fatherland, the love of the homeland. But since this dictionary appeared during the Soviet era, there is another sentence: 'The highest type of patriotism is Soviet patriotism, the infinite love of the Soviet people for their socialist homeland. ' Don't you think we're overreacting a little bit in this Chamber, too, with a few issues, such as this demand for infinite love?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-11_U59	Thank you. On your question, your colleague Andres Herkel will certainly say that the focus tends to go far from the subject initially, but let me give a brief answer and say that there can never be too much love for your Estonian country. It is very necessary for each of us to carry Estonia in our hearts, each in our own way. And according to my experience, Estonia is carried in the heart by far more people than those who live in Estonia. Also very many people with Estonian roots who live far away from home and in whom some opposition ambassadors occasionally try to see a problem because they have moved from their country to another country, carry Estonia deep in their hearts and maybe think of Estonia more often than those who live here every day. You shouldn't forget that either. But I guess every one of us has a reason to think independently about what we mean by patriotism.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-11_U60	Arno Bridge, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-11_U61	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Prime Minister! Today, it has taken a long time for opposition parties to be mauled. Instead, we should also discuss more about how to improve our economy in this Chamber. We know very well that dairy herds are still carefully transported abroad and in combinates, and pig rearing is chirping. As a result, vast numbers of people in the country remain unemployed. When you talk about general numbers, it doesn't say anything to rural people when people in a particular area are unemployed. I would like to ask you this: what measures does the government intend to take in order to bring an end to the fall in dairy cattle and the chirping of pig rearing? Those rumors that we're gonna be making some kind of cooperative combinader somewhere far away are all mist. We need to decide, specifically today, how to stop the decline in agriculture. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-11_U62	This question really goes a long way from your own party's question, which was about the psychological protection of the Republic of Estonia. However, if the Members so wish, they can always ask the Prime Minister either a question of inquiry or a question of Question Time on economic issues, including agricultural issues. And then I'd be happy to answer. The government has implemented very specific crisis measures to support both pig farming and dairy production. Last year, this amount was more than EUR 30 million, plus a number of measures that are difficult to measure in money. We talked about this last summer. But if you want, you can ask a question or ask a question about Question Time, and we can talk about it in more detail. I don't mind. We have worked very hard to control the spread of the swine plague in order to support precisely those sectors that need most assistance. Exceptionally high amounts have been earmarked for crisis assistance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-11_U63	Ain Lutsepp, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-11_U64	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Prime Minister! Returning to psychological protection. In recent days, a high level of opposition to Russian propaganda and the need to invest in it has started to be discussed in the United States. This suggests the need for action at national level. What are our plans in this regard?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-11_U65	I am pleased that, for some time now, both in the United States and in the international arena, there has been talk about the fact that opposition to Russian propaganda is not just a concern of those countries in Russia's immediate neighbourhood or where there are very many people who speak Russian as their mother tongue. This is actually a wider problem, and that is what I referred to in my answers. But as far as countermeasures are concerned, as I have already said, the biggest antidote in Estonia is that we have a very high price of media freedom. Estonia is at the absolute top of the world from media freedom, and that is what we must keep. If we are able to keep the freedom of the media in Estonia and it is possible to receive free media messages in Estonian and Russian both via TV, radio and newspaper news, then this is the best possible countermeasure.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-11_U66	No further questions. I'm opening negotiations. Martin Helme, please! Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-11_U67	Dear Speaker! Good Prime Minister! What we saw here for exactly an hour was, in my opinion, a complete cartoon. We asked what the government would do in the psychological war against Russian propaganda, and we pointed out that so far the government has not quite dealt with the enemy and quite countering the dangers, but has chosen a much more pleasant and comfortable action, i.e. smacking the opposition. We have now been assured within an hour that the Prime Minister considers this to be a sensible activity and intends to continue with his propaganda service, or communication office. Unfortunately, we didn't even hear of any substantive plans to combat real hatred in the form of propaganda and incitement to hatred in the public space of Estonia. I understand that the Prime Minister is taking part in the spring tour of our politicians and, of course, because of a tight timetable, it is not possible for him to be present himself. And I guess there's a lot of talk about the place after all. But indeed, these eavesdroppers and waitresses are poor for you, they only report the things they want to hear. We are not hiding that our party believes that the border agreement with Russia is something that is completely hostile to Estonia. We stand against it. We have repeatedly been extremely critical of the European Union and we believe that if federalisation continues, if payment to Greece continues, if the compulsory quotas for mass immigration continue to be dealt with, then the Estonian state needs to ask the people again whether or not we want to continue with such a union. To interpret it as the actions of the Kremlin henchmen is, on the one hand, simply malicious, but, on the other hand, what is left of our government. We know that Russian propaganda has been dealt with much more seriously in other countries. There are closed channels in Ukraine, Latvia and Lithuania, some of them temporarily, while others have been dealt with in more detail. In 21st century e-Estonia, there would be no problem preventing access to information portals operating outside Estonia or "information portals." It would not be a problem to introduce a national regulation that prevents the translation of Russian channels of one type or another into cable. Of course, people also use satellites, but the vast majority use cable. And to come up with the fact that the government does not have the opportunity to exert pressure on cable companies in their choice of channels, it is nothing more than a clear proof that the government simply does not want to deal with this issue. I don't want it or I can't. However, he wants to deal with the analysis of the soul life of the smallest group and the fight against what we say or think. There's a political fight going on, okay, we get that. However, the background to this political struggle is a very threatening neighbour, who has been able to get several countries of its former sphere of influence back into its sphere of influence over the last ten years and does not hide his desire to complete this work in the Baltics. Why, then, speak here for an hour, how terrible is it that we do not agree with the foreign treaty that gives away and gives away our land, instead of offering us any solutions to limit the propaganda that incites hatred between nations, which is already everyday in Estonia? Once again, it is only worth opening up the Russian Delfi or some non-Estonian portal there is a paragraph closed at the end of the section! Every day the police have work and work to do. At the moment, however, we see an unwillingness to address this problem and the desire for substitution action. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-11_U68	Jaanus Karilaid, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-11_U69	Thanks to the speaker! Prime Minister! I think it is strategically very important that the topic of psychological protection is being discussed in Parliament today. I would argue that the issue of psychological protection does not only concern the distribution of texts in public spaces. Psychological protection, in my opinion, also includes what is our government's social policy, education policy, economic policy. All this has to do with the people's self-consciousness of how much they are willing to defend their country, etc., etc. That the manipulation of statistics will save the current government, I certainly don't believe. The facts are too specific. I know that there is also a widespread attitude in the government apparatus among senior heads of state and officials that manipulation of numbers makes them more beautiful. When we talk about drug deaths, it is said that other countries are not fair to present these statistics, we are honest, and that is why we stand out among the first in the European Union in terms of drug deaths. We are talking about the weakness of the economy, but the Prime Minister is saying that they want to catch up with the Nordic countries. However, let us look at the facts: we are already behind in the Baltics, Lithuania is missing us. The management of EAS is going to the Corruption Committee and points out the papers that clearly show that in economic competition we have fallen from 19 to 33. I would argue that all these indicators, both socio-economic and entrepreneurial, are linked to our psychological protection. No country that has a negative attitude towards us will be able to pursue its own policy here if our own policies are in order. So it is not right to view only the layout of texts in a public space. I suggest that the Prime Minister refrain from constantly comparing the two opposition parties with the Kremlin politicians. We have no desire to identify with them. However, if we go out on this kind of political technology, I will find a lot of similarities between the current reform party government and the Kremlin politicians. When I look at how both fight corruption, how the Kremlin regime deals with governors, but does not deal with the central government, how the Estonian government is happy to contribute to the investigation of corruption at local government level, but does not deal with the central government, I say that the reform party government and the Putin regime are very similar. When I look at how a uniform tax system is protected in the Kremlin and protected by the Reform Party Government, I say that it is dangerously similar to the Putin regime. When I look at how the reform party government is looking for a foreign enemy and how the Kremlin politicians are looking for a foreign enemy, I see a great deal of similarity. When I look at how there are very large gaps in the legal system, how the Estonian prosecutor's office can make doubts and take away the positions given by the people, I see a great deal of similarity to the Kremlin policy. So when we go out on this kind of political technology, I would argue that you, Taavi Rõivas, are taking very much of the example of the Putin regime in your policy. But I'd rather refrain from a political technology that is very pleasant and very effective and has brought you success on several occasions. I hope that you will give it up and understand that it is not statesmanly. When we're talking about psychological protection, we really need to look at our defenses. When it comes to whether a rotating brigade or a permanent brigade is present, but the independent defence capability component is excluded from the analysis, two or three brigades will not help, even if they are permanent. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-11_U70	Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-11_U71	When the opposition and I handed over the draft to increase our own defence capabilities, we showed the national security holes in coastal defence, anti-aircraft, shelters. Thanks to the politicians of both the EKRE and the Centre Party, the government began to move. We had to put pressure on Parliament for five to six months to get you to work on the protection of the population: how people must behave in an emergency, how the rural municipality must act, where there are shelters, how hospitals must act, how food and water supply are guaranteed. And only a few months ago, you set up a task force, but this task force is so inefficient that they came before us and claim that the concept will only be completed in 2018. I'm saying it's a weak psychological defense when real politics are at such a slow pace. In two months, the concept should be ready, there should be a timetable for how to implement it, how to implement it. The concept of the protection of the population should not be a concept, but an action plan, and it should be on the table today. I would argue that this psychological protection is just a government-political PR thing you have in order to increase the popularity of your party. When I look at how Ilmar Raag, a psychological defense officer seven or eight months ago, used exactly the same rhetoric as you are now, calling two opposition parties Kremlin henchmen, it seems to me that the propaganda service has really been launched in a hidden way from Stenbock's house. But, finally, psychological protection is not only the layout of public texts in the public space, but also how the government can essentially implement this policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-11_U72	Mikhail Stalnukhin, please! Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-11_U73	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you too, Prime Minister, and all of you, ladies and gentlemen, who are taking part in this debate today. I really enjoyed listening to you. This usually happens when the problems of learning and teaching the Estonian language are discussed when the whole hall is full of people who have not taught anyone in their lives. This happens when people who have never taught the Estonian language to anyone start discussing how to overcome this problem. The second such issue is the same one that we have been talking about today as the same propaganda. The funniest thing is that Russian propaganda is spoken by people who do not watch Russian television channels at all and who have no idea what is going on there. Yes, of course, there are victims of propaganda among us, that must be acknowledged. Typical example: four years ago I stood in a smoke room in the Riigikogu and came in from the same group as our current Prime Minister and said sadly: you see, Putin was again elected! I said, who did you want, Zjuganov or Zirinovsky instead of Putin? This means that the victim of propaganda does not understand that one option is always better than the rest. In this particular case, he did not realise that instead of Zjuganov or Žirinovsky Putin, Estonia would not have been just bad presidents, they would have been deadly presidents. This political pragmatism is completely lacking here, and it is precisely the result of the propaganda in which we live. I look at Russian channels, including Dozhd, or Rain, purely oppositional, there is a TV channel such as RTV, it is done in Israel and America, it is also oppositional. I have this opportunity. I'm looking at channel one, I'm watching channel Rossija, I'm watching TVC. There's a political show, chat shows everywhere. But you know what they all have in common? There are always at least two opinions. When Ukraine is discussed, Russian patriots face invited guests from Kiev, very rigid supporters of Poroshenko, and are given the opportunity to speak. When the problem of Turkey is discussed, the supporters of Erdogan from Turkey will certainly also be present. When it comes to Syria, there are both Assad supporters and supporters of the so-called civilised opposition, and they all get the floor. I, who look and listen, decide which opinion is close to me and who I support. I have a choice. I'll tell you how we do things. About 15 years ago, a gentleman whose name I can't remember called me, I'm sorry, and he said there was some great Estonian channel show and he wants me to take part in a debate with one of the tourists who came here. I asked who, and it was said that with Artemi Troitski this is the man who has moved here by now, but 15 years ago he came here as a tourist. We made an appointment. It was a rainy autumn day. In the evening, I came out of the Riigikogu, a minibus was waiting for me, and we drove to Maardu. And I was taken to a dump in the Earth, which was so horrible that I'd never seen anything like it before, and I haven't seen anything like it since. Broken glasses and curtains, broken walls, it was something totally horrible. And they're gonna put me behind a desk. Even the ashtray is broken, broken. That's the kind of milieu I'm gonna be answering. I'm asking, but where's Artem? I'm told they have this kind of specificity that he's interviewing in a different place. It's just that the questions we're asked are the same. Then two huge lamps will be hung over my head. Before that, I happened to be there ten minutes looking at a passage where you get 'Who? Where? " The guest was Mr. Mart Helme, sitting in this hall today. And I saw a person sweating under those two lamps. And when you sweat, it's clear to the viewer that you're lying, isn't it? I insisted that these lamps be taken away, that all those red flags that were hanging behind my back be taken down, or I just don't answer. They fixed it up pretty much, then the questions came up. One question was how I feel about Putin changing the election of governors. Doesn't that seem dictatorial? I said then that, but what makes it different from us, it's going in the same direction as Estonia. We've got the county elders. The Russian business card of the then governor of Ida-Viru County had the letter "Kubernator Ida-Virumaa." But we don't choose them. Someone from Tallinn will be brought to us and they will tell you to love this man, he is now your governor. And suddenly, if Putin moves in the same direction as Estonia, then it is dictatorship! They asked how medical reform should be viewed. At that time, they began to move toward the family medical system. I made it clear that this is exactly the same direction that Estonia has taken some five or six years ago. And that's how we had the conversation. I asked when this show was gonna be on. I was answered, and that day and time I sat and waited for this show 'Who? Where? '. And then an interview came with Mr. Troitsky. He was at that luxurious hotel opposite Friendship, I don't remember what it's called, but there's this winter garden of marble, the fine glasses he drank coffee from. Such a gentleman answered the questions. And I was supposed to be in this Maardu dump, in this creepy old diner to figure out the kind of contrast that you see, it's Europe, but it's vicious Asia. But my answers were that I wasn't shown on this show, the next one, or the next one. And when I got the guy who wasted my time for three hours, he said he wouldn't show me, because I was talking completely wrong, it shouldn't be shown to the viewer in Estonia. That's propaganda. In your Estonian language you only read the arguments of one party, but the wave of propaganda covers Estonia much more than Russia. Thank you, colleagues.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-11_U74	Jaak Madison.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-11_U75	Ladies and gentlemen, Good Prime Minister! I thought you might have been very bored listening to the negotiations, because your eyes were nailed to a cell phone. There was certainly a need to put a new post somewhere on how to be in this Chamber and listen to the speeches of the Kremlin henchmen and of all kinds of extremists and non-government-minded people, where the Prime Minister is being scolded. But that's what it is. When we take the answer to questions, the last sentences of the Prime Minister showed in the most authentic way why the average grade of his work among the people was 2.1. It's not surprising, it's perfectly normal, and I think there's only one way to fall, not get up. It was the same thing in the purest form that the citizen of the garment accuses and taunts us: we are supposed to be dealing with the spreading of slander, incitement to hatred, the overhearing of hysteria. How do we interpret it when the Prime Minister officially says that we are the Kremlin henchmen? They say we said we said something at some folk meetings. You haven't been there yourself. If you spread rumors and slander, incite hysteria in the country and before Parliament, then be good and come yourself! Tomorrow night at 5 p.m. in the Viljandi Library or at 18 paide Old Town Cafe Mart Helme himself will be present, come and listen to what they say and say the word! But I'm afraid, of course, it's difficult for you to come there. However, we do not have the problem of walking among the people, meeting in a quarter of a hundred places across Estonia in a month, talking directly to people, what is their concern and what is our vision of Estonia's future and problem-solving. Unlike you, we are not afraid, and we do not have to worry too much about how we are received. I think that this is also very well reflected in the last year's polls on the popularity of political parties. You said that you should not take the latest studies very seriously, but I do suggest that you assess the results in the long term. I'm sure you have that ability. The latest results are not a coincidence; over the past year, the grant rating has changed in one direction. And I think it will continue to change in the same direction, because the current government, especially the citizen in clothing, will do everything to make our voice more and more resonant and the current government will not continue for a very long time. Let us take some of his arguments more specifically. It is said that we are engaged in spreading pro-Kremlin information and breaking down the European Union, and we want to step out of it as if. I'll sort it out. We do not have to step out of anything, because the European Union itself is falling apart around us. Unlike the government, we are thinking about this and are trying to find solutions that will happen if the European Union no longer exists in its current form. I think there could be so much history and foresight to recognize the fact that no union has survived forever. If we look at the current trends, whether it is the Greek financial situation, Greece has not been able to implement any reform as correctly as it promised last August, or the possible results of the British referendum, which tend to be very inclined towards one direction, then there must not be a hiromant or a psychic to understand: there is a very high probability that they will decide to step out. If we look at the immigration crisis and the division of society by a government that is engaged in incitement to panic by bringing in immigrants who are not Syrian women and children or Christians, who were promised by your colleague Mr Tsahkna, who should be the chairman of a national conservative party, it is obvious that you are dealing with incitement to hatred and the division of society. If we're talking about the Russian-minded and the one who serves the Kremlin henchmen, I'm sorry, think a little more soberly! I don't know what you're eating tonight, but let's be correct! We're against the border treaty, we don't want to give away 5.2% of the land without getting anything in return. We are not traitors, and we are not the ones who, in the event of a real threat, would flee to Sweden on the first ship. In your case, I very much doubt that. Can I have a few more minutes, please?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-11_U76	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-11_U77	When we talk about our economic situation, the latest unemployment survey carried out by Statistics Estonia was published today. I do not know how good the cohesion and economic situation of our society is when unemployment is 12.4% in Ida-Viru County. By comparison, the smallest is in Harjumaa: 3.7%. How good economic figures in Estonia are that the population aged 65+ lived in a healthy 32% relative poverty in 2013, while in 2014 36%? This year and last year's exact figures will only be available by the beginning of next year. We have 280000 people, or 21% of the population, living in relative poverty, but our government has no problem separating 5.3 million euros from the Government's reserve fund within a week to throw it into a black hole for immigrants. More specifically, EUR 2.8 million will go to Turkey in exchange for at least 200 immigrants from Turkey and we will split up even more society and EUR 2.5 million in order to build the necessary structure for refugees in Estonia. If it's not splitting up and spitting on people's faces, I don't know what it is. If anyone accuses us of incitement to hatred or Russianism, it is obvious that this person is not competent to serve in his post. But it's okay! As a long-standing optimist, I know that there will be a day when the current Prime Minister will sit in the opposition and watch sadly watch some government standing for Estonia and the Estonian people liquidate all the holes and accidents at work that you are currently dealing with every week and every day. Good luck in your work and at least have some time outside for Estonia! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-11_U78	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-11_U79	President-in-Office of the Council. Mr. Prime Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, I would like to clarify this part of the explanations provided by the Prime Minister that it is not his right, but his duty to give us answers. Unfortunately, I didn't get an answer to my question. I asked everyone in my opinion why the government does not launch adequate measures, nor does our relevant bodies to stop inciteing hatred and presenting anti-Estonian views in Russian Delfi. I didn't get an answer to that question. But since the whole answer was very much to discuss my personal question, I think it is appropriate for me to share some explanations. First of all, about what I'm going to say on the Ristamaal and ask you to say it at the pressure on the first syllable, not at the end of the word, because the locals are emphasising the first syllable at the time I spoke. We were there for at least two and a half hours, and besides everything else, we answered people's questions and talked to them. First of all, the first accusation: I have said that we are stepping out of the European Union. We are talking a little bit longer and we are talking about the fact that if the European Union is moving forward towards federalisation, if the European Union means more and more and more delegation of new immigrants and sovereignty to Brussels for us, then the moment may come when we are forced to leave the European Union. That's the correct explanation for what I said. Secondly, when I said that our winning job is that the border agreement has not been concluded, that is correct. We have certainly contributed to the fact that ratification of the border treaty has now been put under the hat. We do not just consider it our service, but we certainly have a role to play in this. This good policy of weather that lasted in this house until the two new parties got to the Riigikogu has simply ended. It's a new normality, please get used to it. Now things aren't going to work by pushing the green button, now things are going to be more complicated. This is definitely our winning job. Our winning of work, which I have also mentioned, is that, thanks to our tough opposition and the mobilisation of society, only seven immigrants have now arrived in Estonia. We do not call them refugees because we know nothing about them. Maybe some of them are refugees too, but most of them are immigrants. And we will continue this tough opposition, and I will give a storm warning: we will not limit ourselves to words of opposition. The winning of our work is certainly also the fact that no implementing acts have been adopted for the Cohabitation Act. Of course, you're trying to find a side road, a kitchen door, with all sorts of initiatives, but we'll keep our eyes and ears open in this regard as well. And if you think people don't like the fact that we can report such progress, you're wrong. On many sides, the people have adopted these positions with applause. You're welcome, or you're gonna blame me, or you're gonna pay for it. As far as establishing good relations with Russia is concerned, if the Head of Government considers this almost treasonable, then this Head of Government should write a statement of resignation here today and go away, because normal relations with Russia are the greatest guarantee of our security. You shouldn't think it's irrelevant. But what I actually said is once again a little longer and more complicated. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-11_U80	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-11_U81	In particular, I said this: in the case of ratification of the border treaty, we are primarily interested in Russia recognising us as a consistent state born under the Tartu Peace Treaty, recognising the 50-year occupation, and agreeing to apologise for it and admit that it has been a crime against humanity against our people. And when Russia gets a government that is ready for this, it will be possible to establish normal, good relations between Estonia and Russia. So your informant, Andrus Karnau, who was present there, has been very selective in communicating to you what was said at the meeting. Please improve the quality of your informants! Ask them to give you a full report or a recording of what's been said, then you can attack better sometime. But finally, no attack on me, my personal question hasn't come out of the air either, it has to do with the presidential election. You have a serious fear that you may not be able to plant your puppet Kadriorg again and build a putin's vertical of power, in which Kadriorg is a puppet and members of the Riigikogu also work on local government councils, while the administrative-territorial reform has been carried out in such a way that there are as few municipalities as possible where you can put your politicians at the forefront so that you have the whole country in your pocket and under your control. You know, we're doing everything we can to put your train in a ditch. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-11_U82	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-11_U83	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Prime Minister! I'm also talking about what the Prime Minister likes to talk about and what he doesn't want to talk about. With my question, I did not question in any way whether NATO bases should be in Estonia. I was talking about the fact that we are an area of conflict between the East and the West, and this conflict is being encouraged all the time. And the hysteria that comes with it is one reason why we do not have foreign investment. That is my opinion, and I am entitled to that opinion. When we talk about what the Prime Minister was talking about and what I didn't ask about, let's take Swedbank's profits, for example. It was such a success for the Prime Minister that he had to advertise it even on Twitter in his own time, and imagine that a commercial bank in Estonia paid 100 million euros of income tax on dividends. As I recall, Swedbank's profit alone amounted to 2.9 billion until 2013. In a few years, profits have probably been made and 100 million euros of this was paid to the Estonian state. So, is this what you're supposed to be so happy about now? I can tell you that neighbouring countries Latvia and Sweden will immediately tax this profit, for example in Latvia it is 15%, in Sweden 23%. And see wonders, economic growth is significantly higher than in Estonia. What should we rejoice about? The Prime Minister didn't answer the questions I actually asked. Why do we have foreign investment at the lowest level in 20 years? Why does only 5% of foreign investment in the Baltic countries come to Estonia? They didn't talk about it. They talked about something else. I could also ask a question that does not touch at all on today's agenda, for example, why according to Statoil's analysis, diesel sales in Estonia have decreased by 40%. Isn't that the result of our government's excise policy? But this is not the subject of today's debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-11_U84	Andres Ammas, are you talking about this? Please, Andres Ammas!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-11_U85	Honourable President! Since Radio 2 will receive one of the programme leaders from the state of affairs, the editor-in-chief of the newspaper Western Life and the chairman of the press council, Andrus Karnau, is not himself present in this hall, I take him as a former colleague of Mart Helme to protect from and say that Andrus Karnau is an independent, strong and objective journalist who under no circumstances is an informer and will certainly never be humiliated into such a role. However, in all these channels, Andrus Karnau has, in my opinion, been objectively and consistently introducing the activities of the EKRE, so apparently that is where the resentment comes from. Using the time given to me, I would also like to say that, in my opinion, the psychological defence wall of the Republic of Estonia is, to an exact equal extent, troubled both by the enquiries made by members of the Conservative People's Party Group and, unfortunately, by the replies of the Prime Minister to them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-11_U86	Members of the Riigikogu no longer wish to participate in the negotiations, but the Prime Minister does. Please, Javier Clothes!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-11_U87	Honourable Riigikogu! I, too, consider it my duty to say that this person is absolutely irrelevant. There are probably people at each of your meetings who are not in favour of your views, and they sometimes also draw political competitors' attention to what is said at your meetings in great detail. It's really inappropriate to name specific names without you knowing the source. But I would also like to add that it is possible for all Estonian people to identify from the Riigikogu verbatim that today, on 11 April 2016, a Member of the Centre Party from this panel said that Putin was a better candidate for Russia's president and is now a better president for Russia than opposition candidates. This is, in my opinion, a remarkable message. I am sure many people in Estonia are interested in your view. And a member of the EKRE, specifically the Chairman of the EKRE, said that a good relationship with Russia is the best possible security guarantee for Estonia. If these aren't Kremlin points, what are they, Mr. Helme? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-11_U88	I will conclude the debate on this question.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-11_U89	The next question is submitted by Andres Herkel, Krista Aru, Külliki Hatter, Andres Ammas, Jüri Adams, Artur Talvik, Ain Lutsep and Monika Haukanõmme. Andres Herkel is coming to speak on behalf of the heirs. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-11_U90	Mr. Chairman! Prime Minister! People's representatives! I believe that, in the case of Nord Stream 2, the question is not so much whether the heirs and the Government of the Republic have similar positions, we assume that there are large limits to what our government is doing in order not only for us, but for the entire project to be detrimental to Europe's energy security. The inquiry was submitted on 10 March and took about a week to find out that the prime ministers and presidents of Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania, as well as several Central and Eastern European countries made a critical appeal to Jean-Claude Juncker regarding the possible realisation of Nord Stream 2 and its impact on the future of Europe. There were a number of countries: Hungary, the Czech Republic, Slovakia etc. When I looked at our questions, I saw that we have brought this direction forward. We have asked whether our government has addressed the Swedish and Finnish governments on this issue. Cooperation with Poland and Germany has also been highlighted. What are we going to do, what are the possible legal arguments and political arguments in the European Commission? I would also like to mark in the introduction the point that several Swedish Estonians have addressed the Swedish authorities in relation to their assessment of the high security risk that the use of the Port of Slite in Gotland as a port of supply and support for Nord Stream and possible Russian investments there. We have a total of six questions, which are written in writing. And there will certainly be further questions. We look forward to a meaningful discussion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-11_U91	The inquiry is answered by Prime Minister Taavi Kõivas. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-11_U92	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! I will respond to your inquiry of 10 March on Nord Stream 2. The first question: 'Has the government addressed the Swedish and Finnish governments of neighbouring countries, expressed security concerns and Estonia's wish that this project should not be realised? ' I would like to start by pointing out that ensuring energy security and security of supply is a very important issue for the government. This requires a unified and developed internal energy market and solidarity between Member States. This means, among other things, speaking with a common voice with third countries and contributing to the diversification of sources of supply and corridors. On the basis of these principles, we have presented our views not only to Sweden and Finland, but to all the Member States of the European Union. The government has acknowledged the issue of Nord Stream 2 and we are constantly working to ensure that our partners in the European Union are informed of Estonia's opinion on this project. At the beginning of this year, representatives of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs met their Finnish and Swedish colleagues on several occasions at the level of Chancellors and Directors-General and communicated our views on this project. I have been communicating with the Finnish media to give an opinion on Nord Stream 2. The articles on this subject were published in several Finnish publications at the end of March. The Estonian Permanent Representation to the European Union, as well as our embassies and ministries, is always ready to explain Estonia's views on this issue and cooperation with partners has been operational. The second question: 'What does cooperation on this matter look like with the other Baltic States and Poland? ' And the fourth question: 'How has the government drawn the attention of the European Commission to the fact that the construction of Nord Stream 2 affects the transit of natural gas through Ukraine and thus the reforms carried out in the gas sector in Ukraine? ' In brackets, it is added that if transit pipes fail to be used, the separation of these pipes into the management of an independent network operator will also make no sense. I will answer the second and fourth questions together. The issue of Nord Stream 2 is constantly addressed in formal and informal meetings of the Baltic Prime Ministers as well as in bilateral meetings with Poland. Last December, together with our Latvian and Lithuanian colleagues, we adopted a joint declaration stating that the Nord Stream 2 project is not in line with the Energy Union's objective of diversifying gas supplies and increasing the European Union's dependence on Russian gas. This message was repeated in February when we stressed the project's contradiction with the European Union's energy policy objectives and its adverse impact on Ukraine. In addition to our actions at Prime Minister level, we have also delivered the same message towards the Baltic States and Poland at the meetings of the ministers of the sector and during the security policy consultations. Since our views on this matter are similar, cooperation takes other forms as well. For example, together with several countries, we have sent letters on this issue to both the President of the European Commission, Jean-Claude Junker, as you have already referred to, and the Vice-President of the Commission, Maroš Šefcovic, in the field of energy. The last of these letters I signed exactly one week after this inquiry was received. We have stressed in our letters that Nord Stream 2 must comply with European Union legislation in the fields of energy and the environment, as well as state aid and procurement. In addition, we have pointed out the possible consequences of redirecting gas flows from the transit corridor of Ukraine to the Baltic Sea. These are the possible deterioration of Ukraine's economic situation, the impact on gas sector reforms and potentially destabilising geopolitical development. I have personally met both the Prime Minister of Ukraine and the Vice-President of the European Commission to keep this subject in focus. Question 3: 'How has the government drawn the attention of European Union colleagues to the contradictions between the Nord Stream 2 project and the European Union's energy policy? ' In different formats of the European Union, we have drawn attention to this project at official meetings of both energy ministers and foreign ministers. We have consistently defended the view that the Union's energy security and security of gas supply are highly dependent on diversification of sources of supply. Nord Stream 2 will not contribute to this; it will increase dependence on a single supplier as well as on the existing supply corridor. We expect the European Commission to thoroughly assess the compatibility of this project with the objectives of the European Union's energy policy. Our ambassadors at the Permanent Representation of Estonia to the European Union have repeatedly briefed members of the European Parliament elected from Estonia, who have asked the Commission about Nord Stream 2 at the plenary sessions of the European Parliament. Good and regular cooperation is also worth mentioning in order to harmonise our positions and those of the countries of Central and Eastern Europe. I would also like to say that, at the end of last week, the government approved positions on the European Union's gas security package, where we say, among other things, that energy contracts must be transparent and compatible with European Union law. If the Riigikogu agrees with this in the course of its proceedings, our representatives in Brussels will have a mandate to defend this position at the various levels of work of the Council of the European Union. And the fifth question: 'How do you feel about the statements made last year by the German Deputy Chancellor, Sigmar Gabriel, which speak of the desire to develop bilateral relations with Russia and Gazprom, rather than the common policy of the European Union? How have you defended Estonia's interests in this regard at the European Union Council and at meetings with German leading politicians? ' We believe that the European Union must increase its unity, coordination and transparency in external energy relations. The creation of a unified, open and interconnected energy system is an objective which all Member States must pursue in solidarity. When I met Angela Merkel in January, I told her that Nord Stream 2 was a challenge for both European energy policy and Ukraine. The Germans see this project as a business project, but the home party of Sigmar Gabriel also considers that transit through Ukraine should not be completely closed down. The same position was expressed by Mr Gabriel during his Polish visit at the beginning of this year. Estonian government officials have repeatedly addressed Nord Stream 2 in their contacts with their German colleagues. An example is the meeting of our Berlin Embassy with the German Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the meetings of our Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications with the German Embassy in Tallinn. The issue of Nord Stream 2 has been addressed in one way or another during the last year at three Council meetings. A year ago, Estonia worked hard with Poland and Lithuania to ensure that the Heads of Government of the Member States confirm the Council's conclusions that all contracts relating to the purchase of gas from external suppliers must be made compatible with European Union law and comply with the Union's energy security provisions. The work bore fruit, and such wording was included in the conclusions. One of the objectives of the December Council was that the conclusions reflect the principle that all new energy infrastructure projects are compatible with the objectives of both the European Union's energy law and the Energy Union strategy. That is what we have achieved. In the conclusions of the most recent Council sitting in March, we received assurances that energy security must be considered a priority when dealing with the European Union's gas security package, in accordance with the above conclusions. As we can see, we have worked hard in the Council's preparations to keep track of the issues relating to Nord Stream 2. Question 6: "How does the government intend to increase Estonia's capacity and legal competence in order to play a strong role in shaping the European Union's energy policy (including with regard to the Presidency of the European Union)? ' Estonia's and the European Union's policies treat energy as a priority in the context of the Presidency, which is why it is very important to increase Estonia's competence in this area. Additional funds have been allocated from the central budget to ministries to increase capacity in priority areas, both before and during the Presidency. 21 seats have been allocated to the Ministry responsible for energy policy, or Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, in addition to Estonia's permanent representation in the European Union and 19 seats in addition to Tallinn. Additional energy-related sites are planned for three locations and two places for Tallinn. In addition to the extra seats, we offer development to ministries in connection with the Presidency in order to increase the competence of officials in important areas. Examples include short-term traineeship programmes, training and traineeships for the European Union institutions and training programmes for the Presidency. In order to improve our professional knowledge and experience, we have presented our National Expert to the European Commission for a post in the field of energy policy. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-11_U93	Questions for the Prime Minister. Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-11_U94	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Prime Minister! You probably do not feel sympathy for this Nord Stream 2, but the truth is that until Vladimir Putin is President of Russia, its construction will continue and perhaps more Nord Stream 3, 4, etc. will come. Whom should we support? Who is the miracle that comes in his place? I hope you will not support Zjuganov or Žirinovsky. As Joseph Toots said, give me the name of a beautiful boy! Who do you see as the next president of the Russian Federation? Who is the person who would suit you politically, economically, spiritually?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-11_U95	First of all, as far as Nord Stream 2 is concerned, it is not so much a sympathy that can be considered a subjective criterion. It is more of a matter of objective circumstances. In my opinion, Nord Stream 2 increases Europe's dependence on a particular supply channel and therefore runs counter to the principles of energy agreed in the European Union. As far as the President of a neighbouring country is concerned, I believe that, if we allow true democracy in Russia too, the Russian people will choose the best possible President themselves. It is not for anyone else to have a say in this matter. However, I do believe that we have reason to say that freedom of expression and democracy are the best tools to ensure that the people themselves find the best leader.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-11_U96	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-11_U97	Thank you, Chairman. Prime Minister, thank you for your answers. We certainly did not think that there was no discussion with our Finnish and Swedish colleagues on this issue. But your answer was a little bit short on that, and I'll ask for more. Has there been any specific talk about Gotland's aspect of the port of Slite and the investments to which Swedish Estonians are concerned? And have we talked about possible environmental studies and joint work in this area? And if the question is extended further, how do you feel about the possibility of extending sanctions against Russia to include natural gas?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-11_U98	Starting from the end, I would point out that these packages of specific sanctions are proposed by the European Commission. That's their jurisdiction. We have such an agreement, and I do not think it is quite appropriate to speculate on such matters. However, I can say today that since there is no reason for the sanctions that have fallen away, I do not think there should be any reduction in sanctions. Now the question that we have discussed more specifically with our Finnish and Swedish colleagues. In some ways it can be said that we have not gone into detail; it is rather the work of specific sector officials. We have spoken about the conflict between the Nord Stream 2 project and the European energy policy. This is something which, in addition to the European Commission, must indeed be discussed by the Heads of Government. And we have not only talked about this with the Prime Ministers of Finland and Sweden; we have talked about this more broadly. I've met Maroš Shefcovic separately. True, this was not the only issue at our meeting, we talked about other things, but this question took a large part of the time of our meeting. We discussed both the legal aspects of Nord Stream 2 and the fundamental contradiction with the principles of the energy package, i.e. the principles of European energy policy when expressing the euro. In our opinion, that is a contradiction. In my opinion, we have had similar attitudes on key issues. There are plenty of people who see serious problems for Europe as a whole in this project.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-11_U99	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-11_U100	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Prime Minister! The Swedish Estonian representation has repeatedly expressed its concern about developments related to Nord Stream 2 and has also addressed the Swedish Government with several concerns. Have these concerns reached the Estonian Government? Do you have contact with the Swedish Estonian representation and are their concerns justified?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-11_U101	I cannot confirm this with 100% certainty, but I am quite convinced that the responsible officials of either the embassy or the Ministry of Foreign Affairs or the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications are aware of the concerns of the Estonian people living in Sweden. But, as I said, at the level of the Heads of Government, we have repeatedly mentioned this project and drew attention to the greatest risks. I will certainly examine whether the concerns that the Swedish community has reported to the Swedish government have also reached the Estonian government and whether these appeals have been answered. I'll find out.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-11_U102	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-11_U103	Thank you, good Chairman. Good Prime Minister! Can you assess which specific decisions and actions the European Commission might intend to take in relation to the declarations made by the Eastern and Central European countries? Will these decisions remain round or will specific solutions be sought?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-11_U104	Decisions must certainly be very specific. The Commission must give an motivated and clear assessment of both the legal and other aspects of whether or not the project complies with the principles in force. This assessment is made not only on the basis of emotions but, above all, on the basis of regulations, and is preceded by very fundamental and thorough work. We expect the Commission to do exactly what we have requested in the letter: that they evaluate everything very thoroughly and make their decision on the basis of the agreements that are in force in Europe. For our part, we have also referred to the problems that, in our view, an additional dependence on a single gas supplier would mean for Europe.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-11_U105	Jaak Madison, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-11_U106	Thank you, honourable Deputy Speaker of the Riigikogu. Good Prime Minister, please answer whether or not Finland has been spoken to about this. That's one. But my main question is that you mentioned that there has been a debate with representatives of Germany on this issue, and that has also been a debate in the Commission. Perhaps you could give us some feedback, which is their position. What is Angela Merkel's personal position? What are Germany's interests and what does Merkel see the future of Nord Stream 2? How do these interests coincide with our interests and how much are we dealing with the European allies, our common energy policy? For Estonia, however, this is a very important decision at the same table and we also have decision-making powers. Why don't you assess their position and enlighten us a little bit?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-11_U107	First of all, with a Finnish colleague we have talked about Nord Stream 2, we have not talked about shifting maritime borders. Secondly, Angela Merkel has also expressed his views on this issue repeatedly in public. At our meeting in southern Germany in January, we talked both about the economic aspect and about the fact that we both believe that the European Commission must carefully consider all the arguments, both legal and economic, as well as whether the project is compatible with the agreements of the European Union. That's the kind of attitude. If I'm not mistaken, we've also announced earlier by means of a press release what we've been saying about this facility. But in my opinion, it is not impossible to find Angela Merkel's statements on this issue in the public media.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-11_U108	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-11_U109	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Mr. Prime Minister! We didn't get an answer to the previous question. The question was what is the position of the Commission and, in particular, of Germany as an immediate party, to what extent our concerns are taken into account. I'm afraid that didn't make sense. Instead, I would like to ask you that you said in the concluding speech of the previous inquiry that good relations with Russia are rhetoric according to the Kremlin's points of view. Is your government aiming at bad relations with Russia, and will you and will you take advantage of the problems of Nord Stream 2?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-11_U110	Thank you, Prime Minister. No further questions for you. I'm opening negotiations. Mikhail Stalnukhin, please! Five plus three minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-11_U111	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, Today is such a very good day with purely positive emotions. Right now, I'm so proud of what kind of prime minister we have. People need praise! Sometimes you watch the news, including the Russian channel, on a day off with your family. So your husband shows you look, Prime Minister, but why does he always go next to that British Prime Minister? He's always on his tail. As soon as you see him at an international meeting, still next to Cameron. I say it's a very smart thing to do. Cameron's like a mentor, somebody smarter has to be by the side, older and smarter. You learn his thoughts, you put it on your head, and then you don't need to think about yourself anymore. The record works like a Saltykov-shedrin. And then there's nothing to wonder if they say that about EKRE. You know, I wouldn't have been surprised if anyone in this hall had been called Kremlin-minded, and I'd have said anything to the Prime Minister, but to say that EKRE is Kremlin-minded... You know, the Nobel Prize! In 2011, in the winter of 2010 and in 2011 before the elections of the Riigikogu, there was a Russian-speaking channel produced here in Tallinn, STV is the name, a show where a party companion of the Prime Minister visited very often. I'm not going to keep secrets, it was Robert Anthropov. And the host was Andrei Birov, a well-known man. Clearly, it was an advertising show: before the Riigikogu elections it was necessary to catch the Russians' voices. But Birov asked questions just as he did. Why did you reformists destroy Nord Stream? Right now, everyone understands that we lost thousands of jobs, billions of kroons, all of which have been lost. We simply gave Finland and Sweden what actually belonged to us. Look, I really liked the way Anthropov answered that question. He said that the damage was done, but the next time it comes and it comes, because Europe needs enormously Russian gas, we're gonna grab it and we're not gonna give anything to anyone. It wasn't the last person in the Reform Party. So how did it happen that we lost that money and those jobs? Look, I don't want to be 100% responsible for the story I'm telling you right now, but actually I was told by a very well-informed person from St. Petersburg. He worked quite high on the port of Ust-Luga at the time. He explained to me how it went with Nord Stream back then. Gazprom's organization, which was to be built, understood the Estonian political system very well and understood that if the gas pipeline goes through our waters, then there are infinite scandals, constant complaints. Well, it's like the other way around for the transit of Ukrainian gas, isn't it? Then there was one such easy operation, which all needed to be agreed with the Swedish patriots. This turned out to be a Swedish green party. They invited their colleagues from this Riigikogu hall to their home. Once again, it was just this man's story, but it was very true. These people said that we would fire down the Russian Gazprom - we are opposed, you are opposed and will never come through this gas transit through the Baltic Sea. The Greens were the first to make noise. The IRL came instantly to the aid of how you can allow someone to be a patriot bigger than the IRL. The reform looked at this thing, that the devil, somehow suspicious, will soon have an election, but we here sell Estonia, say nothing against this Russian gas. They also joined this action. And Sweden, I recall, before our Parliament voted against Nord Stream, stated that under no circumstances would it allow this transit either. But immediately after Estonia had adopted its decision, both Finland and Sweden coordinated this route. At that time, it was said that Ansip needed to be erected a monument of full gold in a port town in Finland or Sweden. Giving neighbouring countries as much money and jobs as the Ansip government did at the time must be able to do so. So we don't have much choice, we're a little dependent on us. Sometimes it seems like we've got bunnies sitting around waiting for what they say. It was only today in this Chamber that there was something being said in the United States that it should be like resisting Russian propaganda. And here's the logical question: what do we have to do now? The U.S. said it was necessary! Who needs it? Do we need it? You know, people, when there was a singing revolution, there was a lot of talk about pride. I would remind you that one of the favorite phrases was, "We're going to eat potato peel, but we're free! " Being free means being spiritually free, telling what you think, and doing what is good for your country, not for your masters. We're not free. There are no more free men. One very beautiful example was here at the end. EKRE, you can ask for another thousand times for this 5.2% in a different variation. You'll still hear what you heard in response, and nothing else. Because there is no courage, there is no responsibility in front of the country, at least in front of its constituents. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-11_U112	Thank you. Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-11_U113	Thank you. Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-11_U114	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Mr. Prime Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, I will actually start where Mr Stalnukhin ended: there are no more available men. Yes! I am a free man, my son is a free man, the members of our group are free men, and our party as a whole represents the spirit of freedom that is disappearing in Estonia as we delegate our sovereignty to the European Commission. We heard about the Prime Minister's answers: the subject has been taken up, it has been spoken, it has been agreed, it has been discussed. But what?! But what?! We did not know what the specific position of Angela Merkel and the German Government on the bilateral agreement with Russia was. Are we getting some kind of diplomatic mist or is it clear that we're going to do it, the rest of us, guess what they want? What is Russia's position? Does he take any account of the border states? Does it at least coordinate any environmental impacts? We don't know anything! We do not know whether this has been spoken of through diplomatic channels or somewhere directly. We didn't get an answer. But today is really a historic day, we have essentially received a very explicit answer: the Tartu Peace Treaty is a historic document for our Prime Minister, whose place is under glass in the museum, and it has nothing to do with the dynamics of relations between Estonia and Russia. Thank you for your honesty, Prime Minister. The Prime Minister loves to talk about European values and the values of our country in this talk board and also in the ministerial box. Prime Minister, allow me, as a person about twice as old as you, to remind you that there is real policy in the world. Real politics is at present such that Georgia has been handed over to Russia, it is completely in the Russian sphere of influence, because South Ossetia and Abkhazia are like two knights, one of which points to Georgia's throat and the other to the heart of Georgia. And Georgia no longer has the sovereignty to decide whether or not to ignore Russia's views. Moldova has been given Russia's sphere of influence, and Europe has little to say here. In the case of Ukraine, it is a matter of formalisation. Ukraine is, in principle, also left in Russia's sphere of influence and Europe is watching how to step out of this game while maintaining a good face. We are the ones who are still repeating the values, the assessments and the solidarity in Europe. No, it's not! Europe has real policy. Germany is pursuing real policy, among other things, in the case of Nord Stream 2. What are we supposed to do? We should not give up values, but respect these facts and defend our values on the basis of real circumstances, not by ignoring these facts and simply repeating them as parrots: solidarity, solidarity, values. Solidarity and values are a privilege for free people. But, as Mr Stalnukhin said, our government does not have this freedom because they have given up this freedom themselves. Therefore, all the smart ideas about Nord Stream in this hall are completely unnecessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-11_U115	Thank you. There is no further request to speak. Would the Prime Minister like a word? No, I don't. We're done answering another question.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-11_U116	Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-11_U117	Thank you, Mr. Speaker. Prime Minister! You have mentioned the issue of Nord Stream with whom all have been discussed several times and how contrary this facility is to European energy policy. But has this been said to Finland? As we know, Estonia and Finland have voluntarily reduced their sea border in the Gulf of Finland and, in the event of bilateral agreement, simply send a diplomatic note to move both Estonia and Finland's sea border back to the centre line of the Gulf of Finland. In that case, there would be no international water at all and we would not need anyone to talk to, we could simply decide, in cooperation with Finland, of course, that we would not allow this pipeline to the Gulf of Finland.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-11_U118	In my reply, I stressed the legal possibilities for responding. I also said that we believe that this is not specifically the position of one country or another, including countries on either end of the pipe. This is the position of the whole of the European Union that needs to be shaped and which must give this answer unambiguously. Work is currently being done to shape this position. Our interest, of course, is that this position should become consistent with our positions, and that is what we are working on.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-11_U119	Uno Kaskpeit, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-11_U120	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Mr. Prime Minister! I can't remember how many questions you've been avoiding. A short time ago, Mr Põlluaas asked if you would acknowledge the occupation of 5.2% of Estonia's territory. I'd still like to hear that answer.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-11_U121	Mr President! Honourable representatives of the people! I would like to dispel the apocalyptic pessimism of the previous speaker. Georgia and Moldova have not been given away; Ukraine has not quite given away either. But there have been major problems with these countries and they are warning examples. If the alarm clock in Europe is not ringing, then it is really bad. And also in the case of Nord Stream, the question is whether the alarm clock rings or not. This inquiry was primarily aimed at finding out how convincing the work of the Estonian Government is in this regard. It was not for nothing that our last written question was what we are doing to increase our energy policy, including our legal competence, with regard, among other things, to the Presidency of the European Union. At present, it seems that in Nord Stream 2, some legal battles have either quite been lost or, at least, have not led to the goal that we have considered right. The question is whether the European Union's common energy policy, including its energy strategy, which considers it necessary to diversify sources and risks, is still protected by the extension of Nord Stream. The German view has so far sounded something like a bilateral project with no political dimension. As you can see, many European countries, including Estonia, do not think so. And that voice must undoubtedly be heard in the European Commission. Sweden and Finland would have liked to have received a more detailed answer, which would have shed light on environmental research and investment in the same port in Gotland. I have had correspondence with Estonian citizens from Sweden, and Mr Jaan Uustalult gave me a letter just today to check it out, where he indicates that today there was a message in Svenska Dagbladet that the Swedish Liberal Party is urging the Swedish Government to take a decision to ban the construction of Nord Stream 2 through the European Union. This is Jan Björklund, who in the same news claims that Russian ships have actively tried to disrupt the electrical cable between Lithuania and Sweden. Well, last year it was finished. So these fights are going, they're not finished. That is why I don't really want to share this pessimistic approach as it sounds here. The problem of problems is, of course, the future of Ukraine, because the game is nothing more than just to shut Ukraine out of this corridor as a transit country. I wish not only the Prime Minister and the Government, but also all the political parties represented in the Riigikogu the strength to deal with this issue through our international ties, so that it is more visible to the public than it has been before. The fight for a fairer energy policy and for the principles of a European energy policy must not be hopeless and not hopeless. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-11_U122	The Republic of Estonia was occupied for several decades, but since 1991 Estonia has been a free and independent state throughout its territory.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-11_U123	I believe that no government's goal is to have a bad relationship with its neighbour. None of the government's goals have been to have bad relations with any of the neighbours far from it. But when you talk about good relations with Russia, you must realise that the European Union is not responsible for the current deterioration in relations. Russia has already started to intervene with military force for several times in the internal affairs of its neighbouring countries. Russia has done so in Georgia in 2008 and will continue to do so. Former so-called "Minister of Justice' of the so-called "Donetsk People's Republic'. It's ruined relationships. I'm surprised you said that. If this had been said by someone from another opposition party, and I do not mean the Free Party, I would not have been so surprised. But your rhetoric is a new message for me. I've heard other statements for the Kremlin before, but not so directly. I see a fundamental contradiction here that, if we were to try to improve relations with Russia alone at the moment, we should be turning a blind eye to the fact that Russia has acted as an aggressor in its neighbouring countries, Ukraine and Georgia. This would be very contrary to both our values and our interests. I do not think that a few additional percentages of trade would outweigh the common European principle of supporting countries with which Russia has acted screamingly unfairly. It is very difficult to talk about establishing good relations when we know that the other half has occupied a large part of the territory of its two neighbouring countries.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-11_U124	Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-11_U125	Thank you. Mr Prime Minister! You said that the European Union must increase its opposition to the construction of Nord Stream 2. Unfortunately, in neighbouring countries, we do not see any opposition. I remember how, four or five years ago, when we were talking about Nord Stream 1, we in the Riigikogu discussed this issue a lot and made a decision. We called on all the neighbouring countries to do the same. We went to the Finnish Parliament with the Committee on the Environment, and when my colleagues and I discussed this construction, I realized that Finland has more economic interests at stake. My question has to do with this. Does the Estonian state have no economic interest in this project at all, and we say not just for political reasons?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-11_U126	That's a very good question. However, I stress that we have common positions on this matter with several European countries and not just with immediate neighbours. Secondly, you asked whether we could have any economic interest in the construction of this pipe. They could certainly be, but they do not outweigh the strategic threat that Nord Stream 2 would pose to Europe. I mean, the increase in addiction. I believe that this strategic dependence is not outweighed by short-term economic interests.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-11_U127	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-11_U128	Thank you, President-in-Office. Prime Minister! You said that if we wanted to improve relations with Russia, it would mean blindfolding the occupation of Ukraine and, at all, in front of Russia's military aggressions and whistling to all international law and conventions. Of course, that's out of the question. Does this give me the opportunity to welcome your changed views on the conclusion of the border agreement? In this context, you've been talking about improving relationships. Have you finally realised that this would not be at all an improvement in relations, that would be, in essence, a recognition of the occupation of Crimea? Have you realised that Latvia's border agreement did not improve relations between Latvia and Russia at all? Will you finally admit that 5.2% of Estonia's territory is occupied?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-11_U129	In this very short speech, you were able to attribute to me a great deal of what I have not expressed, but let it be on your conscience. In fact, I believe that the border agreement is clearly in Estonia's interest. And I do not agree with what your party leader said, namely that Estonia's biggest security guarantee is a good relationship with Russia. We see that at this point in time, if we were to unilaterally establish good relationships, we would be in a very brutal conflict with our values.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-11_U130	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-11_U131	Thank you, manager. Prime Minister! If the political cause falls away and Estonia fails to defend its position, will Estonia be prepared for economic cooperation with Russia? Are you excluding the establishment of Nord Stream 2 in our economic zone?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-11_U132	If Russia withdraws from Ukraine as an aggressor, it will indeed be an opportunity to normalise relations. This will provide an opportunity to alleviate the sanctions imposed by the European Union. At the same time, it is important to know that some of these barriers and perhaps the most complex barriers for Russia are those which they have imposed themselves. This sanction that agricultural products from Estonia and from all over Europe must not move towards Russia has not been imposed by the European Union; it is established by Russia itself. This sanction, of course, would not automatically be lifted by the end of Russia's aggression. But if the question is, in short, whether the withdrawal of aggression in Ukraine would normalise relations between the European Union and Russia, then I believe that this would allow a very big step to be taken in a positive direction, and that is what we are actually seeking. It is not just because of sanctions that sanctions are imposed, they still have a reason. With international pressure, we want to influence Russia to withdraw from the role of aggressor.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-11_U133	Let's keep going. The third question is the inquiry submitted by the members of the Riigikogu, Mailis Reps, Toomas Vitsut, Peeter Ernitsa, Mikhail Korbi, Siret Kotka, Viktor Vassilyev, Aadu Musta, Anneli Oti, Jaanus Karilaadi, Erki Savisaare, Martin Repinski, Jüri Ratas, Olga Ivanova, Tarmo Tamme, Enn Eesmaa, Andrei Novikov, Oudekki Loone, Valeri Korb, Mikhail Stalnukhin, Vladimir Velmani and Kersti Sarapuu concerning the lack of interest of young people in teaching. The inquiry has been submitted to the Minister of Education and Science, Jürgen Ligi. On behalf of the heirs, please speak with Mailis Reps!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-11_U134	Dear Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu, Honourable members of the Riigikogu! Good minister! We have heard quite a lot of praise for the good state of our education today. The current minister has also been proud to praise the results of various OECD studies, over which everyone is accustomed to discussing at the kitchen table. PISA's superresults are generally a source of pride. However, while we are looking at the other tables of the OECD, we also have some reason to be concerned. When we examine the comparison of 40 countries, we can see that the interest in teaching is one of the smallest among our young people. For example, only 0.6% of 15-year-old students wish to become teachers in Estonia. The average for OECD countries is around 5%. There is plenty to worry about when we place this problem in a broader context and analyse today's results and at the same time take into account the age of the teachers. We hardly have anything more serious to discuss than how to keep the content of our education to a high level tomorrow. On the one hand, we can say that this is a question of teachers' pay, and certainly also their status. But today, our goal is certainly not to blame each other, but rather to find solutions together, so that the teaching profession is much more valued in society, so that, in the eyes of our children and young people, it is something that we proudly aim for ourselves. At present, few people want to be teachers. If you ask teachers for their own opinion on this, it is considered that 86% of teachers think that this profession is not valued in society. This result must make us think very seriously about how to change the image of society so that young people start setting the example of teachers. It is not just a question of pay; it is certainly also a matter of teachers' lack of confidence, either in their school or in their future at all. The Estonian Association of Educational Workers has also repeatedly studied the burden on teachers in cooperation with the Ministry and has found that teachers are very burdened. As a result, we have five questions. We are quite convinced that the Minister will be able to read these questions too, so I will not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-11_U135	Please respond to the inquiry by Minister of Education and Science Jürgen Ligi!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-11_U136	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable heirs and other members of the Riigikogu! I am able to read the questions and even comment on some of them. I even know how to answer a few. First of all, from the famous poll you're referring to. It should be noted that this was done in 2006 and the Minister of Education was at that time a person whose name I cannot remember at the moment. But I don't blame him. Society was very different at the time. And when it comes to Turkey, for example, who was in first place and where the number of teachers who wanted to be teachers was very high, it is quite clear that in this society the position of teacher is second and the chances of obtaining a stable job were at least at that time smaller. Turkey has been doing well lately. Once again, in the case of Estonia, we need to think about what could have changed. First of all, the question itself was such an open one. The students were allowed to offer themselves what they see themselves as when they were 30 years old. And in the time of the boom in 2006, the prospects were very varied. The economy swooped up, and it was possible to make a lot of money. Most may not have remembered the teaching profession at all. Since then, much has changed both in society and in the economy, and I think it can be said that such a focus on raising the pay of teachers at the time did not exist. Now we have so clearly linked the pay of teachers to the average wage that I hope it has affected the situation. But questions one by one. 'What have you done, and by what methods are you trying to make teaching more attractive to young people? " One thing has already been mentioned: it is a clear goal of wage growth, which we have planned with different governments and which we called out a year ago, as you rightly point out in your inquiry. In any case, this affects the popularity of teaching. But money is certainly not the main thing. We have lost an age-based system of grades, which has been much praised in this Chamber and which some teachers have recalled with nostalgia, but it was something that did not benefit young teachers because the stature played an excessive role. For some time there has been a teacher's starting grant. We are comparing the state of affairs with 2006 and, compared to this, the study programmes have been reformed. There's a movement for 'Young School! ', which we support with money, and a little bit certainly with advice. Programmes introducing the teaching profession are under preparation for young people, bringing potential learners more up to date with this profession, as well as a draft law that gives teachers more specific rights and should enhance their sense of dignity. The second question is the admission of the University of Tartu to the fields of education. I'm going to be a little more specific about these figures. The 2014 figures are slightly higher according to the website. The total number of higher education graduates was 483 places of study, while the number of students was 342. But as a whole, the number of students in universities in recent years is still declining. I rushed a little ahead of the subject in my response, but it should be taken into account that this trend corresponds to a general drop in the number of students. Only four people applied for a science teacher, which you rightly pointed out here, and no one was matriculated, on which the admission to this specialty was suspended in 2015. The curriculum was reformed and re-started in 2017. However, students have been admitted to the Master's degree curriculum for science teachers every year and, as we know, they complete their qualification in the Master's year. The situation has improved compared to 2014 and there has been some growth, as I mentioned earlier. The third question was that 86% of teachers believe that their profession is not valued in society, and what do we do to value it? It was a 2013 survey and, in my sense, I claim that in 2013 the value of this was worse. First of all, the salaries of public employees were frozen for several years. If I am not mistaken, in 2013 they began to grow again. It was also a time when teachers had either just been on strike or were coming. In this sense, the sense of those who respond to the survey is certainly adequate. We have considered this subject to be very important, as have you, and we have commissioned a study to measure the image and attractiveness of the teaching profession. It's the EMOR. The primary results of the fresh survey say that teachers consider the image of their profession to be worse than otherwise people, i.e. non-teachers, aged 33 to 50 and students completing a bachelor's degree. In short, the sense of teachers themselves in valuing their profession is worse than that of bystanders. That's probably true. What do we do for greater value? I guess that's already been mentioned. First, pay, second, teachers' rights, there are also trainings, different restructurings, but also public recognition, such as the teacher's gala of the year, which I managed to attend last year, and I think it was a very moody and converging event. Candidates can be submitted on the HTM website until 17 April. And, of course, there will also be discussions on this issue in order to find a way to overcome this poor assessment. The fourth question concerns the likely salary in 2019. I don't want to have a particular number ringing. I would still not mention it, because it depends on the average salary, which in turn depends much on the nominal values of the economy in general. But 120% of the average wage is what I'm working for in the government, and that's what the coalition parties have accepted. What are the numbers for that year, we'll find out. You're also asking about the age of teachers. This is on the rise, but the average is now 47.5 years. The most numerous age group of teachers is 50 to 59 years old. I'd say it's almost the best age, but of course it's a question of aftergrowth. If the years of young people are smaller, that is no doubt a reason to look to the future with concern. Fortunately, the number of young teachers has increased in the last four years and, in 2011/12, when 1221 teachers under the age of 30 worked in general education schools, this year there are 1334, almost a tenth more. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-11_U137	Thank you. Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-11_U138	Dear Minister of Education, I couldn't help but notice that you were talking about a number of measures to get young graduates into teaching. One of them is the basic payment. It has been paid since the 2008 academic year, i.e. for nine years in a row. The amount that was issued in 2008 for one teacher who went to work outside Tallinn or Tartu was 200,000 kroons, now it is the same amount in euros. For nine years, it has remained unchanged. Can you tell me if this starting grant still works? For example, how many young teachers went to work in rural schools with this initial grant in the previous academic year and are there plans to increase the amount?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-11_U139	I mentioned it, but I have never considered it a good measure from a national point of view. I'm not very optimistic that it works very well either. One-off support is something that could be guaranteed on the ground as needed. It does not necessarily have to be cash, for example, a new teacher needs more housing. This cash, too, is likely to go into life. However, the national measure is a solid and decent salary, and it is an investment that we can also make regionally. The higher the salary, the more it exceeds the local average wage in regions that are less popular. Unfortunately, in poorer areas of Estonia, the average wage is significantly lower than that of teachers, and I am not sorry that teachers have higher salaries. But yes, one-off installation allowance is not the best measure. I mentioned this mainly because 2006 was a study year. The starting grant was introduced later.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-11_U140	March Sults, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-11_U141	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good minister! You called 'Young People School! 'the program. It's a very progressive program in every way, but it's kind of incomplete. Young people to school! People from some other specialty are coming to school to try out the teaching profession how you're doing. Everything is very well, the classes are covered, but at the same time it is not meant that these other professionals are trained as teachers at school and these school educators are either headmasters, headmasters, directors or lecturers or senior teachers. Are they intended, or at least are they planning, to allocate additional amounts to motivate them to do this work well?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-11_U142	I think it's a professional training that doesn't necessarily have to be paid for. It is not only for young people but for everyone to enter school in the form of self-study, and the support of colleagues in this is simply elementary. We shouldn't keep measuring everything in cash and trying to get someone else to pay for it. All kinds of courses, of course. But these young people have also been chosen to be so bright, as far as I know the content of this program. So they'll learn, let's not underestimate them. The state does not have to support everything all the time. But I don't rule out that this program is meant for this, I just don't know about it in that detail.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-11_U143	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-11_U144	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, Do you see any problems with the fact that we have teacher training in several higher education institutions? If you see them, which ones? And the level of teacher training, of course, requires the attention of the higher education institutions themselves, but maybe you need some analysis from the Ministry of Education and Research?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-11_U145	Well, we're still analyzing, but I'm not bringing up anything that's critical. It's always better, but I don't want to judge the level of specialty. I can't sense there's such a big problem that I should be doing it.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-11_U146	Monika Haukanõmm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-11_U147	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. The diversity of the workforce in businesses and institutions, including educational establishments, is certainly seen as a pledge or a prerequisite for success. It is good to have men, women, young people, old people, Estonians, Russians, etc. A school with such diversity is expected to respond better to the changing needs of students. My question is, what is the ratio between male and female teachers in our schools? Are you satisfied with what is currently in our schools, and if you are not, what are you doing to change the situation?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-11_U148	This is part of all the activities that have already been mentioned. And the problem is ancient. I don't have the courage to name specific percentages right now, so exactly I don't remember, but the lack of male teachers is really an ancient problem, and all schools would like to have more men in school, just like the Ministry of Education.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-11_U149	Mailis Reps, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-11_U150	Thank you, Mr President. Good Minister, first of all, thank you for answering the questions. But I'd like to consider another nuance that we've had a little less talk about today. Of course, we can bring together statistics that we are either concerned about or proud of. At the same time, it is certainly not a secret that we have a rather different situation in a subject area. For example, the post-growth of science teachers is very low. For ten years in a row, we have seen great celebrations in schools for the retirement of these teachers. Is there any idea how universities and ministries can popularise these specializations among young people?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-11_U151	In addition to what I have already mentioned, there are no other measures. I have mentioned the measure of popularising the teaching profession, and it is certainly aimed at a wide range of disciplines. That's exactly what you're saying. Some disciplines have a very acute problem, some disciplines do not. The titles, as well as the assessments made by the National Audit Office, have made it sound that we have too many teachers. I wouldn't say that. The total amount is one, but there is a great deal of disunity within it. Moreover, the statement was that there were too many teachers to pay everyone their wages properly. We don't pay by the number of teachers. However, it becomes apparent on the spot in municipal schools how they distribute existing salaries, how they shape the school network. The salary is divided by the number of students and, if there is a desire to keep more teachers on the payroll, it is not an unjustified cost. An unjustified cost is to keep empty school homes and finance real estate rather than teachers.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-11_U152	Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-11_U153	Thank you, Honourable Chairman. Honorable Minister! How's the "Interesting School" program? Have the first fruits of this programme already reached schools, and how will this progress?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-11_U154	This program is on. I'm not very familiar with the programs, but I've been to the room where they consult and wanted to force them. This is not something that can somehow be managed by directives. We support with money, and we bring fantasy-rich people with good experience together and they share their knowledge skills. That is how it works: good experiences are collected and shared, and I would say that this movement has not reached a point where information or knowledge does not move. It's a really worthwhile movement! The interest of the school is one of the main strategic changes we are trying to achieve.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-11_U155	Thank you, Minister. No further questions for you. Do colleagues want to open negotiations? Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-11_U156	Honourable President! Honourable colleagues! The teacher always wants to talk about the old school dad. In connection with today's inquiry, I remembered a longer interview for Postimees, published in January 2015, given by American educational scientist Marc Tucker. He commended Estonia's education and said that Estonia had done well primarily because we have very good teachers. He pointed out, among other things, the interesting fact that Estonian teachers are good because they allow students to write a lot. Consequently, they also bother to read what they wrote and, hopefully, to evaluate and analyze what they wrote. But he made it clear that I don't know what his data supported, that the average age of Estonian teachers is 47 years. He also said that in Estonia there is much more teacher in front of students than the average OECD Member State teacher. He said this: "You may soon have a massive shortage of teachers. And when that happens, the quality of Estonian education may have disappeared overnight. You should be very worried about that. ' Sometimes it seems to me that, from a distance, we have more concerns about our teachers than we do here in Estonia. The second fact, which he pointed out, is also indirectly linked to the work of teachers. He said we were proud of our PISA test results, but successful completion of the PISA test only means success in what PISA measures. But that is far from all education involves. After talking to Estonian employers, he pointed out that the Estonian education system does not train people that employers need, people who can formulate problems themselves, who can figure out where to get the information needed to solve problems, how to systematize and use this information. Our entrepreneurs are looking for people who can work in teams, who can share tasks and responsibilities. So to be successful at school is one thing, to be a good and successful team member, to be completely different. This American scientist also indicated that we have very traditional teaching methods. I was pleased to hear that the Minister is not enthusiastic about this international report, which says that we have as many teachers as we do. I think, indeed, it is not at all, but this crash can come faster than we dare to guess. And the only hope is to bring more young people to school somehow. In December 2014, a remarkable article was published in Teachers' Lehte, where Raivo Juurak introduced the experience of Professor Hendrik Voll of TTÜ. Hendrik Voll is the chair manager of heating and ventilation of TUT. In 2013, four students applied for 45 posts in this specialty, one remaining after the exams. Professor Voll, having studied young and in America, was angry at this, went through a number of Estonian upper secondary schools and secondary schools the following year, was still a good number of dozens, and achieved the result that the course was full the following year. So propaganda, advertising your specialty, can be done a lot more than we can imagine. But I haven't heard of any campaign to promote pedagogical disciplines. Today was also a brief mention of the 'Youth in School' program! ', which is truly remarkable. Today, I spoke more closely with the chief executive of this programme and found out that the country really supports this programme at around 35% of the costs. It can only be hoped that private operators will continue to be able to cover the remaining 65% for many years. But perhaps the help of the state should be a little more powerful here, because 60% of those involved in this programme have remained in school and 20% are already working as heads of education and directors. They largely ensure the readiness of the Estonian school to innovate and the creative approach to pedagogy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-11_U157	Thank you. There is no further wish for negotiations. Would the Minister like a word? No, I don't. We have finished discussing the third item.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-11_U158	We are going to the last item on the agenda today, which is an inquiry by the members of the Riigikogu, Märt Sults, Oudekki Loone, Kersti Sarapuu, Mikhail Stalnukhin, Valeri Korbi, Vladimir Velmani, Dmitri Dmitriyev, Enn Esemaa, Tarmo Tamme, Olga Ivanova, Jüri Ratas, Martin Repinski, Erki Savisaare, Jaanus Kariladi, Anneli Oti, Viktor Vassilyev, Siret Kotka, Peeter Ernitsa and Mailis Reps concerning children who do not comply with school obligations. The inquiry has been submitted to the Minister for Education and Research and, on behalf of the inquisitors, please take the floor to Märt Sultsi!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-11_U159	Honourable President-in-Office! Colleagues! Minister! An inquiry is about children who do not fulfil their school obligations. In Estonia, all children who have reached the age of 7 before 1 October of the current year are subject to compulsory education, and this obligation lasts until they reach the age of 17 years. However, there are fewer school leavers every year than school leavers. A very unprecedented example is from an upper secondary school for adults in northern Tallinn, where 21-year-old gypsy arrived in the first grade. He was 21 years old and came to first class! School was in trouble, how to teach him, what kind of program. Thus, some children are registered in the Estonian population register, but they have not reached school. For example, in 2011, there were nearly 3,000 children who were subject to school attendance, but were not found on any of the school lists. Among these so-called missing children are certainly children who have settled abroad with their parents, but for some reason they have still been registered in Estonia. At the same time, children who have very poor living conditions and need the help of the state are also among them. They're in some gangs, living in some basement, wandering around, and they just can't be found. Lately, it has been heard that for some reason, this question of understanding has also contributed to this finding of missing people in this way. The media went through, and it was a great pleasure to hear that 36 pieces have been found and 50 pieces have been found. What a grateful thing to do in every way! However, our redundancy and austerity policies are such that there are no longer any youth policemen and other people who are supposed to be monitoring such things because of their duties. They're lost, there's no resource for them. Hence our questions. But another example came to my mind. Some time ago, when a little man, a little shit, paused his school for three days, and when the parent didn't know where he was, and he didn't know where he was, he could declare a fugitive. He may also be a fugitive now, but it doesn't make much sense because he lacks resources. So there's the wall again. And now the questions come. First of all, 'How many children in Estonia currently not fulfilling school obligations? What are the main reasons why children have not reached school? 'The next question: 'How have you tried to solve the problem? Has the situation improved since 2011? " Third: If a large number of children who do not reach school have been identified and found by the state, and how much of them will not be found? ' And fourthly, 'Which department in the Ministry of Education and Research is directly responsible for finding children who do not fulfil their school obligations? Who deals directly with the families of these children? How many people work in this department? " Such questions have been asked. But basically, the story is that it's a very wide-ranging problem. The problem is not alone in school and in supervisory bodies; it is a social problem; we have broken families etc., etc. The problem, too, is precisely what Mr Ammas was talking about earlier: valuing the teacher. Each school must have at least three or four postgraduate teachers for whom students attend school. If there's no three or four letters, the students don't go to school. For some time, kids are studying for their mom and dad, for some time, they're studying for their teacher, and some time at school for themselves. Until they end up 25, 26, 27, 28, 29 and then they start studying only for themselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-11_U160	Thank you. Please respond to the inquiry by Minister of Education and Science Jürgen Ligi!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-11_U161	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! The subject is deadly serious. The first question is how many children in Estonia are currently not fulfilling school obligations and why children have not reached school. As of September, there were 3,202 children in compulsory education who, according to the educational information system, are not listed in any school. That's 2% of school-mandatory children. There are several reasons why this number is like this. Most of them, or 1762 children, have left abroad according to local governments, but the family has not changed their data in the register. Next, in 1389 cases, the reason for the non-compliance with the school obligation and the location of the child are unknown to the municipality. This is now the most problematic company. But that doesn't mean all these kids don't go to school. We just don't know it. For example, going abroad is not known in many cases. Further, in 28 cases, compliance with the obligation to attend school has been postponed by decision of the Advisory Committee. This could be caused by acute illness, developmental disorders, neurotic disorders. In only 23 cases, the child lives in Estonia and his/her place of residence is known to the municipality, but he/she has not started studying. Information about these children is available, but in their case the parent has not applied for a school extension on time or the child is seriously ill. But there are also troubled families who are advised and dealt with by the municipality. Question number two: How have you tried to solve the problem? Has the situation improved since 2011? " Unfortunately, the percentage of non - school attendance has remained quite the same over the years and, of course, who are concerned about it if the child's family is not sufficiently familiar with it, other than the state and the municipality. The local government is responsible for dealing with non-compliance with school obligations, according to the Estonian state organisation, and this may not be good otherwise. Of course, he's not responsible alone. The Ministry of Education and Research can be primarily responsible for the children who are in the education system. At the same time, we understand, of course, that cooperation between different authorities is necessary here, and that is why we have compiled a list of non-employers and the reasons for not attending school. It has made it possible to get in front of the picture and also to organise cooperation. The problem is, as has been said, inaccuracies in the population register and inaccuracies in the information about moving abroad. After all, in Estonia, if you do not have entries in the population register, there are no consequences. That is why we have proposed one so-called 'desperation' to the Ministry of the Interior. In general, for historical reasons, we have made the procedure for signing up very relaxed, we are trying to avoid the old system, but now we have proposed to the Ministry of the Interior that measures should be considered for parents who have not provided the correct data in the register. However, these are children whose future does not depend solely on them. Question 3: "How much of the children who do not reach school have been identified and found by the state and how much of them will not be found? ' Children are identified in the population register and there are problems in finding those who do not live in the population register. We are working together with the municipalities to clarify the fate of these children, as I have already mentioned. Question 4: "Which department in the Ministry of Education and Research is directly responsible for finding children who do not fulfil their school obligations? Who deals directly with the families of these children? How many people work in this department? ' Of course, we don't have a missing children's department. Of course, we do not have methods or opportunities to look for children ourselves. This is, of course, a matter of cooperation between the authorities, and we have taken the initiative to do so. But municipalities know the local people, and they are the ones that depend most on them here. The accuracy of the population register also depends on the work of the municipalities. Those are my answers.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-11_U162	Thank you. Minister, there are questions for you. Mailis Reps, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-11_U163	Thank you, good manager. Good minister! The Committee on Culture has discussed the failure to comply with school obligations, both in the previous and previous compositions. A number of amendments were made to the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act. There was also quite a debate about fines and how families could be better involved. However, if we look at the overall statistics, the proportion of children who do not just go to school, I mean only children who do not fulfil their school obligations, and not those who go to school, has not changed very much. And one of the problems that schools bring out is that they are often broken families and the child simply does not follow their parents'orders. At one time we had a system where these children were directed to semi-closed schools, and many long for it. Right now, we don't have a system like this. What would you say to the school people?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-11_U164	Helping the school people? It's just been said that school people are what we do. We deal with those who are really school people. But the Ministry of Education doesn't have much to say to non-school people. Rather, they are the sayings of the municipality, the Ministry of the Interior, the people of the population register. The problem is serious, but you can't count on the education system in everything. This is essentially the non-educational part of the children who should be in the education system. It's still a matter of cooperation. There is, however, a positive little detail that I can mention in all this sad or, let's say, unclear state of affairs. In fact, the forecasts for the number of children have recently proved to be positive. We have never thought that so many children would return to schools from abroad. It's been a positive surprise.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-11_U165	March Sults, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-11_U166	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good minister! The question is: Is the number of children who do not fulfil their school obligations a growing or declining trend in geometric or arithmetic progression?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-11_U167	It's a stable line. We still have a few percent of children with ambiguity. Inaccuracies in registers are a permanent issue. If many of these children are actually excluded from school, we are also very interested, but we have not been able to make this clear on our own.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-11_U168	Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-11_U169	Honourable President! Honorable Minister! In Läänemaa, students who tend to drop out of school are dealt with by an NGO such as Hootusekeskus. Have you been able to get to know them and, if so, do you see the possibility of expanding the activities of such NGOs across Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-11_U170	Thank you. I haven't been able to catch up with all the NGOs, but I've heard that name. But I guess the national system needs to be better. It's nice to have NPOs working on it, but municipalities should also work more effectively.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-11_U171	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-11_U172	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good minister! What is the level of cooperation between the Ministry of Education and Research and the child protection officials of local governments? I have heard the murmuring that not all municipalities are able to hire an official whose job it would also be to help bring these non-school children back on track. The second question is how you, as Minister of Education, will assess the proposal of the Minister of Justice to halve the fine for those under 18 years of age the day after tomorrow. It's already being exploited by criminal gangs. This means that crimes may soon be committed instead of wrongdoing, and this is not a positive sign against the background of a reduced army of internal security officials.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-11_U173	We work with everyone who deals with children. But we have already received a number of points of attention. The latter was last week from the OECD, which indicated that the functions of the State and the municipality should be kept separate. We certainly don't want to do anything for the local governments, and we can't. That's the main reason. We should focus on our role. I dare not comment so boldly on the fine policy and the penal policy at all. It could have disastrous consequences. I think the Justice Department is still considering its decisions. In view of the person of the Minister of Justice, who is very happy to report on the tightening of penalties, this decision may have been carefully considered. The fact is that juvenile penalties can put families in a very difficult position and children are also suffering. But that's my guess. I really don't know how to judge these fines, it still needs a very specific and precise dimming to decide what's right.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-11_U174	Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-11_U175	Thank you. Dear Jürgen Ligi! It turned out from your reply that some children who do not fulfil their school obligations in Estonia have left Estonia with their parents and that the problem is with children who are here but simply do not reach school. In this regard, I would like to learn about your attitude towards student homes, which have given many children the opportunity not to go to school. Do you find that they are necessary, and if you find that they are necessary, what is their future?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-11_U176	Thank you. These opportunities we are actually monitoring and forecasting. With regard to state secondary schools, we are also facing very practical problems. The current sense is that there is no very great urge to student homes. There is more interest in renting housing if the student wants to stay away from home during the week. Of course, if I were to comment on this as a private person, as a parent, I would not very much believe in student homes and that young people would grow on their own in the company of their own age. I think there's a pretty big risk and it would be better if they still lived with their parents, but maybe that's an old-fashioned attitude. But yes, we make these predictions according to the need and certainly do not do things according to outdated views.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-11_U177	Thank you, Minister. No further questions for you. I'm opening negotiations. My colleague Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-11_U178	Honourable President! Honourable colleagues! I asked you to tell me a little bit about the NGO Hootusekeskus because I find their activities very sympathetic. They operate in Läänemaa, and their aim is precisely to prevent young people from leaving primary school. Young people aged 12 to 17 are dealt with. This NGO has gained inspiration from the University of Colorado, America, where the mentor families programme has been launched in cooperation with students. The point is that children's problems are very often started at a school where there is conflict with the head of the classroom or with other teachers. Then other teachers, school management and support staff may not be helpful; perhaps an extracurricular support network is more effective. The trick of this NGO is that if you have a child and a mentor, 1 + 1, you have support families with three children and three mentors and each child can rely on three supporters. Easy! This job doesn't end in days, weeks or even months, it lasts for years. One person can get tired and tired. These mentors can be there for each other, they can be replaced. These supporters, or mentors, include school teachers, psychologists, social workers, and just people with a strong heart. There are quite a few people from families with many children, and they have a lot of experience. They go together once a week for a couple of hours, talk about how the young person has been, what he's worried about, how the school is going. And every time they do something together, they make a good meal or go somewhere or they make something. There are now 15 children and 15 mentors. Twenty-one mentors have been trained, so there are replacements. The Foundation for Civil Society, or KÜSK, has supported it nicely, and the Foundation for Heateo has also supported it. In fact, KÜSK has awarded a prize of EUR 20000 for this project. Much has been done, but there is no endless enough of this money. Local operators have also supported them. By the way, the initiator of this whole project is not a teacher, but a local entrepreneur, Koit Uus, who said that he got the idea from our President. As the closest venture, the NGO plans to expand the e-school's popular patrol service. This service is subject to a fee, but the fee is not high, and the NGO pays about a hundred families to pay for it. The thing is, the parent gets information in the form of a SMS diary at the same time: it contains data from the pop patrol and two patrols, plus information about when the next test will be on some subject. Thus, a parent cannot excuse himself for not being familiar with the child's schoolwork. Why do I want to talk about this here? In my opinion, this is an initiative that deserves to be spread more widely and also more widely. That's what the Bible said when it gave that bonus. But when I read an article published in the Estonian Päevaleht last summer to refresh memory, there was Asso Ladva, a consultant of the Communication Department of the Ministry of Education and Research, who was very careful when assessing. He said that the school and then the social workers on the side had a firm responsibility. The inclusion of third organisations in this system is a complex and dissipating responsibility. I'd like to argue with that position. What a tricky thing to do! And tell these volunteers that maybe they're not responsible enough? Oh, I'm sorry! I also spoke with the leader of the Pathfinder Haapsalu Centre today. I asked them how they're working with this NGO and whether there's any duplication between them. He said there was definitely no cooperation. These mentors, these supporters can be counseled by the trackers, but they do not have the ability or the resources to do week-to-week work from month to month. They are grateful to those volunteers who are able and anxious to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-11_U179	Thank you. March Sults, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-11_U180	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Ladies and gentlemen, You can raise and help the person you've caught. Distance learning and distance-determining as it is not possible to do. We're not Kashpirovskis so we can raise someone on TV. We all know that school pretty much goes from 8:00 a.m. to 1:00 a.m.-2:00 p.m. in the morning. So basically from 8:00 to 1:00, 2:00, 3:00, there shouldn't be little hooligans, rascals, our nest eggs in the city or shopping centers. It shouldn't be! Or maybe only those who have the evening shift. Consequently, our excellent law enforcement bodies should take on the task of checking children's documents and making life in the open air a little more difficult so that they can't wander around, be in shopping centres. They could be scared of getting caught in there. And that's where the same police are supposed to get them to school or law enforcement and ask Mom and Dad out. Mom and Dad should come back. If they've done it twice or three times, they won't hang out in stores. This example of volunteers is very good. But they had 15, 16, 17 people in custody, but 3,000 have disappeared each year! Where do you get 3,000 volunteers who rebel from morning to night and look for these kids? Warm and strong handshake by all means for the people who do this, but we need to find lost souls all the time. Mr. Minister said that 1700 are abroad, but there is no need to fix the documents, there is about 1300 left. So 1,300 kids need to be found. 1300 is the number of students in hyperschool, i.e. two middle schools. The two average schools are on the streets of Estonia every year! They're gonna be who? The workers, because they do not have social skills, they do not have education and education, they never become workers. What about them? They become applicants for social benefits and quite talented and intelligent because they have managed to survive without contributing anything. Now let's start to think: where do they get the money? This is the whole network that needs to be solved by social workers and the police. And indeed, why not re-establish semi-closed educational institutions to calm the restless souls? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-11_U181	Thank you. Mailis Reps, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-11_U182	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the Riigikogu and Minister! I would like to share some ideas here that the welfare of our children really is a concern of all of us. The Committee on Culture of the Riigikogu has discussed the topic of why children do not reach school on quite a number of occasions. The first problem is that we have many families who leave Estonia with their children, but for one reason or another, children are still in our register. When you talk to the headmasters and the headmasters, it turns out that the problem is quite serious. Unfortunately, there are not rare cases where children are taken with their parents, but they do not go abroad at school. Actually, there's no clear idea of what's really going on with these kids. These discussions must certainly continue. Some children are temporarily abroad or at least initially parents do not know how long they will stay abroad. We need to consider whether we can keep such children in touch with the former school, either through home learning or through other forms of learning. After all, our electronic world offers opportunities to be constantly involved in teaching. Of course, this does not mean that every school in Estonia creates such a system. It will be enough if we create one of the school systems with which everyone can get involved. Another problem is the difficulties encountered at school, which Andres Ammas spoke about. Indeed, we have a considerable number of children who just get tired of being in fifth-sixth grade. Several conflicts, of course, play their part. Often, there is conflict with learning difficulties in school, or it is inverse that conflicts in school lead to bad learning. And there is no better solution than constant child monitoring and support services. Therefore, any savings we have talked about today must be a wise decision. If funding is targeted solely at the target group of teachers and the necessary staff and support services are excluded for other schools, this is certainly not a carefully thought out decision. And thirdly, of course, the basic need for families is information. There are very many means of transmitting it, we have electronic communication systems. Different web applications, such as Studio or e-school, are completely available and if a parent wants to be familiar with his or her child's school life, he or she will know in a few minutes if the child, for example, did not get to a few hours. But the problem that we have not been able to solve together is when it comes to parents who are not interested in school information, or when their relationship with the child has reached such a level that the child no longer listens to them. Then one of the solutions that I still very much support is student homes for students with social difficulties. The child would, of course, be sent to them only exceptionally. This would allow quite a few souls from difficult circumstances to be saved. I think that this could be one of the alternatives that society should develop further. So far, this opportunity has been put in the background. I'm sure everyone who's been to school will agree that such a nostalgic longing for a paramilitary or sports special school or a separate school exists. Young men with a little more complex behavior, as well as girls, could be directed to learn to behave normally with others under tough circumstances. This is something that many people feel the need for, but it is not initially proposed as a solution in the education system. But we could discuss this together here, because Tapa is certainly not enough. This is also proven by the recent very difficult case there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-11_U183	Thank you. There is no further wish for negotiations. Would the Minister like a word? No, I don't. We have also finished answering the fourth question.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-11_U184	Ladies and gentlemen, all members of the Riigikogu have the opportunity to speak on a free subject. After hitting the hammer, it is possible for everyone to register for speaking in a free microphone. There are no requests to speak today. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. Court adjourned, see you tomorrow! Closure of the sitting at 6.34 p.m.
