ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-14_U1	Dear Riigikogu! Today we have one of the saddest days of the year in Estonia. I propose that the victims of the June deportation and their loved ones be remembered with silence. [[The silence of grief.]] Thank you. Let's start Tuesday's trial. Transfer of pre-claims and enquiries. Arthur Talvik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-14_U2	Good Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, Today's final report has been finalised. I still have to read the name of the committee that made this final report on paper. Thus, the final report from the Riigikogu Committee of Inquiry set up to investigate possible corruption in the management of the Port of Tallinn of AS and the measures necessary to prevent such cases in the future. The report is ready, the report is comprehensive and, from my point of view, it is rather harsh in its conclusions and conclusions. We are with our Commission, which is six-member, has been delving in the past, in the political past, in the management of 100% of the state's enterprises and in the state's participatory policies quite thoroughly. But more importantly than what happened yesterday, I think it is what conclusions we will draw from it and how we will act in accordance with these conclusions tomorrow, how we will make participatory policy transparent and ambitious, how we will take political responsibility for managing state companies as well. I would recommend that everyone read this report and draw their own conclusions and continue to follow these conclusions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-14_U3	There's no more calls. I have adopted one final report. Please, let's do the presence check! 87 members of the Riigikogu are present in the plenary session, 14 are missing.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-14_U4	In order to clarify the agenda so much that during the last working week, we did not discuss the Riigikogu's decision 'Proposal to the Government of the Republic regarding the abolition of the minimum social tax', submitted by the Group of the Estonian Free Party. This was not done at the place where the representative of the Committee on Monetary Affairs was asked questions to Priit Sibula. Priit Onion, please answer the questions! Thank you, Priit Sibul, there are no questions for the representative of the Committee on Monetary Affairs. I will open negotiations for representatives of the political groups. Please, Andres Ammas on behalf of the Estonian Free Party Group.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-14_U5	Honourable President! Respectable members of the Riigikogu! When we discussed this issue on Thursday, many members of the Riigikogu were already on their way to meet voters. I therefore briefly recall the content of this decision and why, in the view of the Free Party Group, it would be important to have a positive view of this draft. First of all, I am very pleased to note that the need for this decision was clearly confirmed yesterday by an authority as the Governor of Eesti Pank Ardo Hansson. Ardo Hansson, responding to the question, said that the key issue that could be taken forward by the Estonian economy in the case of smart and innovative solutions is the issue of the labour market, including labour market flexibility. That is precisely the flexibility that brings to the labour market the draft decision under discussion. This is not only an obsession of the Free Party Group, but a very large number of organisations have supported this approach through a legislative amendment. It is appropriate to refer here to the views of the working group convened by the Ministry of Justice. The Estonian Bar Association, EVEA, the Estonian Employers' Confederation, note also the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, the Service Economy Chamber and the Estonian Chamber of Commerce and Industry made it clear that the minimum social tax rate should be reviewed, as the mandatory minimum social tax rate prevents part-time work, of course, in cases where the exceptions provided for in the Act are not already applicable. But all these organisations said that an extension of exemptions, a reduction in the monthly rate or, for example, taxation should be considered only with regard to the part of health insurance. One option could be to provide a tax credit for employers employing minors. Exactly how to make this discount, there are several ways to do it. The initiators of the draft act are flexible here and have deliberately left it to the government to decide on the options for solving the problem. For those colleagues who were unable to follow the Thursday session, I would remind you that this approach has been supported very clearly and forcefully by the Estonian Merchants Association, who in the person of its leader Riin Sav has said that a reduction in the minimum social tax rate should be done immediately. This would facilitate part-time recruitment, significantly increase flexibility in the labour market and help integrate risk groups that are unable, unable or unable to work full-time for various reasons into the labour market. Therefore, honourable Members of the Riigikogu, I ask you to adopt this draft decision as a decision. If, for some reason, this particular draft decision is not suitable, for example because the initiator is wrong, I would ask the honourable coalition ambassadors to influence the government to initiate a similar draft. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-14_U6	There are no more requests for negotiation. I'll close the negotiations. It is proposed by the commission that the draft be put to the final vote 227. Honourable Riigikogu, since this draft decision requires a majority of the Riigikogu's membership for adoption, please let us do a verification of our presence! 62 members of the Riigikogu are currently present in the plenary. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the Riigikogu's decision to propose to the Government of the Republic regarding the abolition of the minimum social tax rate, presented by the Group of the Estonian Free Party 227. Please take a stand and vote. 35 members of the Riigikogu were in favour of adopting the draft decision, 2 against and 3 abstentions. The decision will not be taken.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-14_U7	Honourable Riigikogu, the next item on our agenda is the first reading of draft 255 of the Riigikogu statement '75 years since the June deportation' submitted by all the members of the six political groups represented in the Riigikogu. Waitress Mart Nutt, member of the Riigikogu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-14_U8	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! Today, 75 years ago, over 10,000 people were deported in Estonia by the Soviet occupation powers. Among those deported were a large number of women, children, and people of retirement age. Deportation was an unambiguous crime against humanity. In order to remember the victims of the June deportation, 27 members of the Riigikogu from all the political groups of the Riigikogu have initiated this draft statement on the initiative of the Pro Patria and Res Publica Union. Deportation was not just about Estonia. It struck all the countries occupied by the Soviet Union in the summer of 1940. More than 15,000 people were deported from Latvia, over 18,000 from Lithuania, from Bessarabia, to a large extent from the current territory of Moldova, formerly part of Romania, more than 30,000 people were deported, so three times more than Estonia. These are historical facts. But there is another question: Why was such ethnic cleansing necessary? The official history of the Soviet Union justified deportations with the need to clear the anti-Soviet element in the event of possible German aggression. Of course, it could be imagined that in countries occupied only a year earlier, all the inhabitants were an anti - Soviet element. However, this same treatment of Soviet history confirmed that Stalin did not believe, until the war began, that his ally and thoughtmate Hitler would attack the Soviet Union. Rather, it is believable that the deportation of June was an introduction to a broader genocide to cleanse occupied areas from indigenous populations. Deportation hit all the peoples of Estonia. In addition to Estonians, local Russians, Jews, Germans, Latvians, Swedes, Gypsies (roms) and possibly representatives of other nations also fell victim to deportation. As a percentage, according to my data, most Jews were deported. In particular, the deportation of June was directed against the Estonian elite. Many families of intellectuals, officials, military and businessmen were deported. The primary purpose of deportation was therefore to destroy the resistance of the Estonian people to occupation and subsequent Russification. It is our moral duty to commemorate people who have lost their lives, family, health, freedom, or home as a result of deportation. It does not bring back sacrifices, but through commemoration, we may be able to prevent such serious crimes against humanity in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-14_U9	Any questions for the waitress? No, it's not. Thank you, Mart Nutt! The rapporteur by the commission is Kalle Laanet, Chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-14_U10	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, I will give you an overview of the debate on the draft statement in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, which took place on Tuesday, 7 June 2016. Jüri Adams, Andre Sepp, Andres Anvelt, Anneli Ott, Jaak Madison, Mart Nutt, Martin Kukk, Mikhail Stalnukhin, Peeter Ernits, Siim Kiisler and the speaker here took part. Firstly, on behalf of the initiators, the draft was briefed by my colleague Mart Nutt, who expressed the opinion that the language editor has made the draft text of the statement smoother and better, but at the same time the word proposed by one of the language editors could be replaced. In the second sentence of the text of the draft statement, it is stated that on that tragic day, the armed Soviet occupation powers arrested almost 10,000 Estonian citizens in the dark of the night and early in the morning. The language editor has offered the word 'approximately' instead of 'head', but it is not actually a better word. In terms of numbers, it is more than 10,000 people. Thus, the text could have'more than 10,000' or'more than 10,000'. The members of the Commission accepted the amendment. The Commission's advisor announced that an amendment had also been tabled. It was presented by the Centre Party Group. The content of the proposal is to amend the second paragraph of the statement and to formulate it as follows: 'Today 75 years will pass a tragic day, 14 June 1941 when thousands of people in Estonia were hit by the bloody act of violence by the power of the communist Soviet occupations. On this tragic day, almost 10,000 Estonian residents were arrested by armed Soviet occupation powers in the dark of the night and early in the morning. ' The proposal is also to amend the first sentence of the third paragraph of the statement and to formulate it as follows:'75 years later we also have a duty to remember this violent date and the tragic fate of these people and the life that has not lived. ' Member of the Commission Mikhail Stalnukhin explained that he had studied the book issued in 1996 by the Association of Estonian Legally Repressed Mento, which includes the fact that over 20000 persons were deported from Estonia. Looking at the list of exiles, it turns out that there are a lot of Russian and Jewish people in addition to Estonians. Consequently, people of other nationalities who were deported from Estonia should also be mentioned in the text of the statement. The Estonian Central Party Group therefore tabled an amendment to this effect. Mr Stalnukhin stated that in his personal opinion, in point 1.2 of the amendment, the word'representatives of the Estonians, Russians, Jews and other nations' should be replaced by 'people'. Mart Nutt, Member of the Commission, considered that he was in essence in agreement with the amendment tabled by the Group of the Estonian Centre Party. Although few foreign citizens lived in Estonia during this period, there is no clear evidence that there could be no foreign citizen or stateless person among those who were deported from Estonia. As regards Mr Stalnukhin's opinion that, in point 1.2 of the amendment, replacing the word 'people' with a list of different nationalities, the wording of the amendment could rather be maintained, because if the representatives of some nationalities were removed from the list, it would put them in an unequal position. In addition, in point 1.1 of the amendment, 'Estonian people' could be replaced by 'Estonian people'. The word 'Estonia' rather adds a slightly different emphasis, as it has historically been used for the province of Estonia. Such wording may therefore prove misleading. Member of the Commission Jüri Adams stated that he supported Mart Nut's reasoning. It is true that Estonia and Livonia are old province names. Member of the Commission Mikhail Stalnukhin found that, in the case of deportation, it could be pointed out that Russians, Jews and people of other nationalities were deported in addition to Estonians, because it is important for once that people of other nationalities were noted at the level of the Riigikogu that there were also people of other nationalities who were deported. That would be a clear and very beautiful sign. If, for example, Russians and Jews are not specifically mentioned, they do not associate this statement with themselves. Chairman Kalle Laanet said that if the draft statement were to mention the separate nationalities whose people were deported, all nations should be listed, because if someone were excluded, this could cause problems. Jaak Madison, a member of the Estonian Central Party, considered the wording in the amendment to the Group of the Estonian Centre Party to be reasonable and supported the proposals made by Mart Nut. In the case of deported persons, the wording 'Estonian people' or 'Estonian women, men and children' should not specifically highlight nationalities. A person who wants to understand this statement understands the principle of what comes out of the statement. Peter Ernits, Member of the Commission, noted that he felt that a longer list of all nationalities deported from Estonia could be provided. Martin Kukk expressed the opinion that it is unwise to open such a list and it would be better to talk more generally about the Estonian people who were deported. Jüri Adams expressed the opinion that the word 'blood' in the second paragraph of the draft text was slightly exaggerated and doubted the need for this addition. The chairman of the committee voted on an amendment by the Estonian Centre Party Group, which could be taken into account in substance. The amendment was in favour of Mr Laane, Mr Adams, Mr Sepp, Mr Anvelt, Mr Madison, Mr Nutt, Mr Kukk, Mr Ernits and Mr Kiisler. Mr Stalnukhin did not take part in the vote. He said that he would support the amendment of the Estonian Centre Party Group with his addition, according to which people of different nationalities (Estonians, Russians, Jews, etc.) would be specifically listed from Estonia. The Commission's consensual decision was to take account of the substance of the amendment. The Commission's advisor noted that one more comment is on the first sentence of the third paragraph of the draft text, which states that, 75 years later, we also have an obligation to remember this date and the victims of violence. Lauses could be replaced by the words 'victims of violence', as it would be more linguistically appropriate. As the amendment of the Estonian Central Party's Group has been taken into account in substance, the Commission itself tabled a compromise proposal in which all the agreed amendments are set out. The text of the amendment would be this: 'Today 75 years will pass a tragic day, 14 June 1941 when thousands of Estonians were caught by the bloody violence of the Communist Soviet power. On this tragic date, the armed representatives of the occupying power arrested more than 10,000 Estonian residents in the dark of the night and early in the morning. ' The first sentence of the third paragraph of the bill reads as follows: 'Even 75 years later, we have a duty to remember this date and the tragic fate of those who have been victims of violence and the life that has not lived. ' Kalle Laanet, Jüri Adams, Andre Sepp, Andres Anvelt, Jaak Madison, Mart Nutt, Martin Kukk, Peeter Ernits, and Siim Kiisler were in favour of the amendment. The Commission decided by consensus to propose a draft application for the first reading of 225 by 14 June 2016, to put the draft to the final vote and to appoint Mr Kalle Laane, Chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs as rapporteur. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-14_U11	Are there any questions for the Commission's rapporteur? No, it's not. Thank you, Kalle Laane! I'm opening negotiations. On behalf of the Black Centre Party Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-14_U12	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Just before today's sad anniversary, Tomski was visited by a delegation from the Estonian state led by Ambassador Arti Hilpus. We placed the wreath in Tomsk next to the memorial stone of the repression victims standing right across the city hall from downtown. This is the same stone that we placed there in 2007 with the Estonian Cultural Legacy, led by Andra Veidemann. In addition to the delegation, Tomski's cultural people, people from the university, were also present at this event. And the speeches that were held there reminded us that this was not a one - time case, or a black date, in our history. It was one link in the chain. There had just been a major terrorist act in which tens of thousands of Estonians who lived in Russia were also repressed. This same deportation of 1941 was followed immediately in 1944 by the deportation of people of German nationality from Estonia, then in 1948 by the deportation of the Ingerizomians from Estonia, where they had come into battle, and by the great deportation of 1949. In 1951, the so - called Witnesses of Jehovah were deported. That chain was pretty long. On January 31, 1938, the beginning was that Estonians, as a nation, were declared an enemy of the Soviet regime by secret decision of the Communist politburo. But so was the case with the representatives of other nations who had won the so-called "civil war" Red Army. At that point, it was the 20th anniversary of the Red Army. Tomskis recalled that there were indeed representatives of many nations among those who were deported. One of the most exciting and kind of exhibitional meetings was at the Estonian delegation with the well-known Siberian writer Vadim Maksheev, the son of the former Russian white card officer, the student of the Tartu Commercial School, the boyfriend of the Cross of Marymaa, who spoke of all these events very exciting and interestingly as a living witness. On 4 September, Machsheev celebrates his 90th birthday. Ladies and gentlemen, We're remembering this anniversary today, remembering this, arguing about the details. As a historian, I am forced to say that we have done far from everything and not even what is necessary, celebrating only anniversaries. There are hundreds of thousands of pages of archive files and photos we've been trying to retrieve, copying them. And it's mostly on the initiative of one man or another, not as a result of state politics. These materials we've extracted, I've also tried to spread and talk to the Museum of Occupations, for example, but I'm a bad communicator. They said they had everything, and they already know everything. Obviously, we need to pay more attention to the nature of the matter. Very well, and at the same time terribly cynically, a Siberian historian said about this. He said that this repression process was a fascination of some authorities with the progress of breeding, and so they began to apply tried and tested practice throughout agriculture to create a human breed suitable for the totalitarian regime. And indeed, on June 14, 1941, those who were seen as potential opponents were deported. So simple, cruel and harsh is the point of this story. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-14_U13	Kalev Eagle on behalf of the Social Democratic Party Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-14_U14	Austet Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, 75 years ago today, Narva and Irboska set off with nine echelons sent out. In addition to families taken from their homes at night, there were officers of the Estonian Territorial Rifle Corps as well as our own colleagues at the time, members of the first six members of the Riigikogu. All of them were placed under a common denominator for Soviet power, a'socially alien element'. At that time, 6,000 people were basically sentenced to death. Today, being a socially alien element for the bloody repressors of the totalitarian regime is a matter of recognition, as if it were an honor. The first major wave of repression in the Communist regime directly or indirectly affected almost every Estonian family. Unfortunately, the first wave wasn't the last. On this day of mourning, we will commemorate the victims of 75 years ago, as well as the victims of later terror. We are not doing this as much as we might get the impression of the text of the statement, but of respect and respect for those people who had to suffer repression or lose their lives because of them. Commemorating deportation, celebrating each anniversary, makes us stronger as a nation and reduces the risk of such events happening again. The Social Democrats support the adoption of today's Riigikogu statement. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-14_U15	Andres Herkel on behalf of the Estonian Free Party Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-14_U16	Mr. Chairman! Honourable representatives of the people, Riigikogu! The seventy-five years since the deportation of June is undoubtedly such a time, which also obliges the Riigikogu to make an appropriate statement. It is important to remember these sufferings annually and, no doubt, to remember all the time, but from time to time, when such numbers come up, we also have a duty to do more than just a routine silence of mourning. I would point out here that a statement similar to the date of the June deportation has attracted the attention of the Riigikogu in the past. That was fifteen years ago when 60 years of deportation passed. On the evening of June 13, 2001, it was Wednesday day, we discussed here a statement prepared for adoption on the crimes of the Communist regime in Estonia. Unlike today, the waitress was asked questions for hours. I was a waitress myself, and I remember it well. Despite a long debate, we did not accept this statement at that time. We adopted it a year later, on 12 June 2002, then under the heading 'Occupation regime crimes in Estonia'. Well, at the time, it was probably the time when many in society felt that it was a struggle with the shadows of the past, that all of this was perhaps not so important. But only a few years went by when Russia began to justify very strongly the occupation of the Baltic States, including Estonia, with this revisionist approach to history. Then it became clear to everyone that the condemnation of communism crimes is a practical step and has practical value. These crimes have now been condemned by the European Parliament and the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, not only by the parliaments of countries and peoples who have suffered Stalinism. Looking back on the events that took place 75 years ago, today we are saddened to note that fewer and fewer of those who were deported as adults are left. This memory is kept by the children of those born in Siberia. Remembering has become more and more a debt of new generations, and we are certainly pleased that we are doing this at national level, in a clear and dignified manner. Honourable Riigikogu! Last Thursday, while we were here in this sitting, the dust of Marie Under reached home. Allow me to finish with the lines of his legendary poem 'Christmas' in 1941 which directly points to the deportation of the same year. 'I still think about the ones they took from here. To the sky, they scream their bellies. It's like we're all guilty of this, that they don't have, we have food and a bed. ' Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-14_U17	Martin Helme on behalf of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia Group, please! Three minutes extra time!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-14_U18	Dear Speaker! Ladies and gentlemen, The Estonian Conservative People's Party also supports this statement. I would like to introduce the fact that deportation concerns my family personally, my husband's family. This tragedy and its recollection are often mentioned in certain family events. The purpose of the deportation in 1941 was primarily the destruction of the Estonian national elite. Yes, people of other nations were deported, Jews deported, Germans deported, Swedes deported, and Russians deported. But in the case of the Russians in particular, it was a great deal about settling the old accounts, the people who had remained in Estonia in 1920 and with whom their accounts were then settled. The purpose of the destruction of the elite was also the killing and deportation of Jews, Swedes and Germans here. Because who were the victims? These were in particular officers, local government leaders, politicians, police officers, defence allies, academics, educational and business elites. And indeed, there were representatives of many indigenous minorities here. This destruction of the elite was necessary in order to better control and establish Soviet power on Estonian territory, so that there would be no leaders, there would be no people who, intellectually or organisationally, would help to organise resistance to occupation and annexation. I would like to stress to all people of Estonia, not only to us here, but to all people of Estonia, that it is not just remembering that is important for deportation and other vicious crimes of the Soviet Union, but it is a warning. Human nature has not changed in 75 years; in three generations mankind has not changed for the better. As proven by the Bronze Night, as proven by the speeches of the Russian leaders, the deportations, the organisers of the skull shots, will continue to be at our side. There is still a country next to us that is ready to do the same to us again. This must not be allowed to happen again! And that's why we need to remember and know what happened then, so we'd be ready to fight it next time. Not only were the social elite tried to destroy, their family members were destroyed, their loved ones destroyed. That's why we need to remember and know that this can't happen again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-14_U19	Priit Sibul on behalf of the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-14_U20	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, I would like to thank the people and the groups who came quite quickly with this statement. What is more, I would like to thank Mr Aadu Black and other historians, whose feathers, hands and thoughts we have heard thousands of tragic stories about deportation. This is a day full of tragedy and cruelty. Seventy - five years ago, my grandmother's husband was deported, left behind a three - year - old son and a four - month - old daughter. I understand the reason he was deported was because he was a member of the Defence League and was a ranger, that was enough. Seven and a half years later, grandmother, my uncle, and aunt proved so dangerous that they had to be deported in March 1949. It's a personal and tragic story, but it's far from special. There are thousands of such stories in Estonia. May God keep Estonia so that such terrible things can never happen to our people or any other people here or anywhere else! Remembrance and personal stories are the ones that won't let these terrible things go away. And I sincerely hope that memories will help us to prevent further such awful acts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-14_U21	There are no more requests for negotiation. Two amendments have been tabled to the draft statement 255. The first is from the Centre Party Group and taken into account in substance, the second is from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and fully taken into account. We are going to the final vote, as is the Commission's proposal. Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on the draft Riigikogu statement '75 years since the June deportation'. Please take a stand and vote. There are 83 members of the Riigikogu in favour, no respondents or abstentions. The Riigikogu statement '75 years since the June deportation' has been accepted.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-14_U22	Dear Riigikogu, we will begin the third reading of the draft Act 239 on Development Monitoring initiated by the Committee on Economic Affairs. I'm opening negotiations. Mikhail Korb on behalf of the Centre Party Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-14_U23	Honourable Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, Today's speech would like to start again with a well-known literary sentence, this time with a bit of a second, but still, 'So they killed our Ferdinand. " At the same time, you have to be honest. The Development Fund was a patient in a coma under drips for the last few years and, unfortunately, he never came out. I can only agree with one of Maris Lauri's sentences at second reading of the bill. It sounded like this: 'The start of the development fund was promising...
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-14_U24	I'm sorry, Mikhail Korb! [[The manager's ringing the bell.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-14_U25	...but then things started to go wrong. ' Then, unfortunately, our positions differ 180 degrees. He said there were so many problems that it would be impossible to solve them. I say that the difficulties are to overcome, not escape. He says we need to start with a clean slate. But the Estonian proverb says that you should not spit in the old one until the new well is completed. Are we really learning from the mistakes made on the development fund, or are we just raising the old content under a new name and hoping that this will solve all the problems? The highest governing body of the Development Fund was the Board of the Development Fund, which consisted of nine members. It was the task of the Council to plan the activities of the Development Fund, to organise the management of the Development Fund and to supervise the activities of the Development Fund and its governing board. It was also up to the Council to endorse the Action Plan on Development Monitoring. Today we are saying that the Development Fund did not meet our expectations for monitoring development. I'm asking who had to take responsibility for it. Isn't it the council? I am not going to read out here by the name of the Council, but what do they have to say for their justification? If we look at the law on development monitoring, the Council has now become a council to endorse the development monitoring action plan, make proposals for the selection of the main directions and themes for development monitoring, evaluate the implementation of the development monitoring action plan and the targeted use of budgetary resources, evaluate the monitoring and analysis carried out and approve the appointment of the Head of the Centre and discharge from service. The Advisory Board consists of one member appointed by the Economic Commission of the Riigikogu, one member appointed by the Business Organisation appointed by the Economic Committee of the Riigikogu, one member nominated by the President of the Republic, one member nominated by the organisation joining the rectors of the universities and one member appointed by the Academy of Sciences, five members in total. There were nine members on the Board of the Development Fund, two of them were appointed from among the members of the government, two were appointed by the organisation uniting the rectors of universities, and five were appointed by the Riigikogu on the proposal of the Economic Commission. Two of these five were supposed to be members of the Riigikogu and, unfortunately, these were only representatives of the coalition lately. Thus, there is indeed one positive note in the case of the Development Monitoring Centre: if, in the past, 44% of the board's membership of the Development Fund was made up of members of the Government Coalition, then in the Advisory Board of the Development Monitoring Centre, this percentage has fallen to 20. I don't really think the new name will lead to a better result. Starting a clean slate means laying a new foundation for me and building a new house on it. At the moment, however, it seems that only painting the walls and changing the street name tag were limited. If one of the current members of the Development Monitoring Centre's Advisory Board continues, it turns out that Potemkin village was made and even the walls were painted only on one side of the building, on the street side. Therefore, the Centre Party Group cannot support this draft. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-14_U26	On behalf of the Maris Lauri Reform Party Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-14_U27	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I am talking once again about the development fund, the monitoring of development and investment. Mikhail said very nicely that the Development Fund is like a comatose patient. But let's admit that sometimes medicine is powerless. Then let him die peacefully and nicely and make things go better. It is not always a question of whether there is a Council or a council. Sometimes things are a little wider and very diverse. One fact is never the cause of any organization's failure. I would call one of the greatest differences between the council and the council, not how many people are there, but what people are called there. The Board of Directors of the Development Fund had people named according to their position. This means that their interest, time, and knowledge may not always be sufficient. People who really want to deal with this matter should come to the Development Monitoring Centre's consultation room, there are no post office places. But it is also certainly important that, if the Development Fund had two objectives: to deal with public investment in enterprises and monitoring for development, which remain a little, not even a little, but quite a lot in different areas, then development monitoring is now one function and public investment goes to another. It is no longer the case that the same person has to deal with two different functions. Let's put the functions clearly in place, and I think this thing is going to work better because we're going to use the best knowledge, the best people. I believe that what happened a year ago when we were looking for members of the Board of the Development Fund and major business organisations refused to offer their representatives because they no longer believed in it. I think they will this time. I call on you to vote in favour of this bill because I believe this will work. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-14_U28	On behalf of the Group of the Ken-Marti Vaher Isamaa and Res Publica Union, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-14_U29	Mr President of the Riigikogu. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! I have two messages here before the final vote. The first message relates to the objective of the development monitoring centre to be set up. As is often the case, and as the case of the Development Fund shows us, the diversity of tasks and the diversity of tasks can really lead to a failure to deal with a number of tasks at all. The Development Fund focused mainly on the management of investments. In recent years, there were also some concerns, which the Committee on Economic Affairs has also addressed, concerning the return of companies participating in the Development Fund, the development and support of these companies. However, the task and objective of monitoring development was largely neglected and the role of the orphan. This is the situation we are trying to remedy here today with this bill. The Development Monitoring Centre shall be entrusted with as specific a task as possible. It is clear that the target that we are setting today when we vote in this House is clearly charged with an unambiguous dose of idealism. We hope that such an up-to-date monitoring of the development of different organisations and institutions in the Republic of Estonia, first, could work better than it did for the last ten years. Secondly, it should give the small Estonian state unambiguous added value to target over the long term, to draw up our competitive advantage. Thirdly, which is perhaps the most difficult task, to become continuous monitoring, competent, professional monitoring, allowing guidance to be given to public authorities, non-governmental organisations, society as a whole, so that we can position ourselves stronger, more successfully than before in close transnational competition. Then we could look into the future more clearly and perhaps not so grotesquely looking for Estonian Nokia and the ideas that keep burning the lantern. I think the Development Monitoring Centre has a clear role to play in this, so that Estonia has specific tasks and also targets to move towards. The second message relates, of course, to the management of this centre, in particular to the Advisory Board and the President. The council is very clearly and consciously meant to be of five members. Each member of the new council should perceive their responsibility, in a good way, the spotlight that is directed at them to do a good job as a team and be able to choose a professional leader. I think that this is also an invitation to those organisations that are already mentioned in the law (some more have to be determined). Certainly, these organisations and institutions must take their role seriously, so that the positions of the members of the council are not filled ex officio just with those who go passively to the meetings of the council, but that these people are able to actually think along, give their own added value and create the synergy we expect. Yes, all of this sounds quite ambitious and maybe driven by excessive idealism, but I think we also need to take steps as a parliament, which are not narrow-minded and short-term, but which show that we really want to see something that may not have existed in Estonia so far, particularly in the way of a more distant vision and setting goals for the future. The Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Alliance supports the establishment of the Development Monitoring Centre and the adoption of this law. I very much hope, by keeping my feet firmly down, that the Centre for Monitoring for Development will be able to work, that it will have sufficient resources and that in a few years' time we will see results that will satisfy the majority of the Members of this House who will take this decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-14_U30	Krista Aru on behalf of the Estonian Free Party Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-14_U31	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Good people's representatives! No jacket can be fixed indefinitely. At some point, you have to admit it was a good coat, but now it's broken, and I'm gonna put it in a corner and get a new one. On behalf of the Group of the Estonian Free Party, I would like to say that we support the creation of the Aengu Monitoring Centre. We support, above all, for four important reasons. The Development Monitoring Centre allows us to consolidate the competences that exist in Estonia, but which may be a little fragmented, because, as you know, we have everything in public procurement procedures, and therefore the right easy and quickly natural and sometimes definitely constructive competition will be created. The Development Monitoring Centre, which is set up at the Chancellery of the Riigikogu, allows for the pooling of this competence, allows the general public interest to be generated and therefore to give us the best result. The Council, which is certainly made up of the most competent people, is best able to view and evaluate what we need to monitor, whether it is an economic sector, a social sector or the development of the country as a whole. Estonia does not need so few smart groups or people as one language and understanding. The Free Party Group will definitely support the establishment of the Development Monitoring Centre right here at the Riigikogu. We also believe that recognising the mistakes made may provide the best basis for progress. I call on everyone to trust the Centre for Monitoring Development and, first, to vote in favour of this draft. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-14_U32	Thank you. There are no more requests for negotiation. The commission has proposed to put the draft to the final vote on 239, and we are going to the final vote. Ladies and gentlemen, since the draft requires a majority in the composition of the Riigikogu for adoption, we will do a verification of presence before the vote! 84 members of the Riigikogu registered as present; no 17. Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on draft law 239 on monitoring development initiated by the Committee on Economic Affairs. Please take a stand and vote. 56 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the draft, with 28 abstentions. The bill has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-14_U33	We will proceed with today's fourth item, which is the debate on the report 'Possible changes of the Fiscal Policy Paradigm in the Estonian Parliamentary System' as a key national issue. Ladies and gentlemen, Before we go to this debate, I will briefly present this item. First, the presentation by Mikhail Stalnukhin, Chairman of the Special Committee on State Budget Control, will be up to ten minutes and the questions and answers will be up to 20 minutes. Kristjan Kõljala, member of the Special Committee on State Budget Control, will then give a presentation for up to 20 minutes and the questions and answers will also be up to 20 minutes. Then the Minister of Finance Sven Sester will report for up to 20 minutes, questions-answers for up to 20 minutes. The latter is a presentation by Remo Holsmer, Chairman of the Monetary Commission, for up to 10 minutes and questions and answers for up to 10 minutes. All members of the Riigikogu can submit up to two questions to all rapporteurs. After the presentations and questions have been answered, negotiations will be opened. Members of the Riigikogu, representatives of committees and political groups may speak. However, at the request of the special committee on the control of the state budget, I propose that the Riigikogu first speak with the representatives of the political groups. Let us then go to the debate on this item. I would ask the Chair of the Special Committee on State Budget Control, Mikhail Stalnukhin.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-14_U34	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, This report has a long and interesting preliminary story. In fact, it started in 2008, when the National Audit Office prepared a report on the activities of the Ministry of Finance in shaping the principles of budgeting. To summarise briefly, at the time, the National Audit Office's opinion was consistent with the Ministry of Finance's assessment that the state budget and the information provided at it do not sufficiently explain the purpose of the use of the money, the allocation of funds is weakly linked to the declared objectives and the government's management report does not reveal the effectiveness of the use of the budget money. That was eight years ago. Following the discussion of the report in the Commission, a public hearing was organised on the concept of developing state financial management and its implementation, where the Ministry of Finance gave an overview of the developments in the budget. According to the then concept, one day the budget strategy of the state will be approved by the Riigikogu. Three years later, in 2011, the National Audit Office prepared a report entitled "Activities of the Government of the Republic in assessing the impact of its work and reporting on the results." Its short summary sounds like this. According to the National Audit Office, the Government of the Republic has missed the opportunity to direct the achievement of important objectives for society, as the effectiveness of activities requiring substantial cooperation between ministries is not assessed and the actual financial needs for meeting the objectives are not taken into account in the preparation of the state budget. Sounds really sad to get into it. Nor does the State Activity Report provide a reliable overview of how the government's actions have contributed to achieving the objectives. In fact, those who were still old in the Riigikogu noticed all these processes. It is not the case that once a year we are discussing the state budget and that is the end of it. That is why Jaak Aaviksoo, Member of the Special Committee on National Budget Control, proposed in May 2015 a Commission report on the transparency of the budget. What were we talking about back then? We recalled the same yellow books that some in this hall should remember, where there was a specific state budget with very clear comments, an explanatory memorandum and a public investment programme. They were brought by the committee and the members of the committee were able to make sure that we actually have a regress instead of progress in this area, because every new member of the Riigikogu in the IX and X Riigikogu, when he first dealt with the state budget, could understand everything, every page, every article, everything was absolutely clear and transparent. I must admit that, although I have a four-year experience from the Finance Committee of the previous Riigikogu, these draft national budgets that are now being brought here are absolutely opaque to me. What this has been done for and how to get out of this situation is a separate question. I think that is why Mr Aaviksoo proposed this. In the context of the transparency of the state budget, the Commission addressed two questions to the National Audit Office and the Professor of Public Finance and Governance of TTÜ, Dr Ringa Raudla: firstly, what problems are seen in the current State Budget Act and its presentation, and secondly, whether the state budget has become more transparent over the 15 years. The answers were quite solidarity-based and both of them sounded that, since the members of the Riigikogu are the ones who have to give their discharge to the budget, they should first and foremost be asked what problems they see in the budget picture now and how they appreciate the trend of recent years. Certainly, in the opinion of those from whom we asked, it must be taken into account that the transparency of the state budget is not assessed solely on the basis of formal procedures or the existence or absence of documents. This is only one aspect of the assessment. It is equally important to assess the transparency of the preparation of the budget and the comprehensibility of the documents to be created during the preparation process. Thus, in November 2015, the Special Committee decided to draw up a report on possible changes to the Fiscal Policy Paradigm in the Estonian parliamentary system for the spring session of 2016. By decision of the Commission, Kristjan Kõljalg was appointed rapporteur and Mikhail Stalnukhin was appointed co-rapporteur. The aim of this report is to identify ways to increase Parliament's role in the design of fiscal policy. In order to achieve this goal, 18 members of the Riigikogu, 11 of these coalitions and 7 of the opposition were interviewed between December 2015 and March 2016. Here I have to make such a remark that all this very hard work was done by Commissioner Kristjan Kõljalg, with the help of the special committee staff, of course. Kristjan and I have divided parts so that I will briefly present in my presentation the history of the report and how the Commission dealt with this whole matter. Kristjan will make a substantive presentation because it was his great work and he will also have the honour to tell you about it. After analysing the interviews in March-April 2016, representatives of the Budget Council, the Ministry of Finance, the Estonian Association of Cities and the Estonian Association of Rural Governments met to get input to the report. The meetings focused on the following topics concerning fiscal policy: the state budget, the Riigikogu budget, the state budget strategy, the role of the Ministry of Finance in shaping the state's fiscal policy, etc. All of this was reflected in the report. In addition, the rapporteur took part in the annual debate on fiscal policy of the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development. I must also note that the members of the Riigikogu and the representatives of the National Audit Office, the Ministry of Finance, the Budget Council, the Association of Estonian Rural Governments and the Estonian Cities Association made an important contribution to preparing the report. In addition, experts from Tallinn University of Technology and the London School of Economics and Political Sciences were involved. There was also a public event, a round table in our conference room. So much for the process. As I have already said, the content of the report is transmitted from this panel by Commissioner Kristjan Kõljalg. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-14_U35	Thank you, dear waitress. No questions for you. I now ask for a presentation by Kristjan Kõljala, member of the special committee on state budget control.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-14_U36	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Minister, thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, I would like to thank Mr Stalnukhin for his introductory presentation. Let's get down to business. The state budget is probably one of the most important tools for shaping the country's future. That is why this subject, although well-titled, also became a report. I admit that, when I came up with the title of the report, I used the idea that it could be as complicated as possible. A kind of paradox, as some elements were already more or less predictable as to what the opinion of the members of the Riigikogu to be interviewed would become. For example, the readability of the explanatory memorandum to the state budget is also complicated. Let's just say that things can be done in a complicated and simple way, and we will try to draw attention to this in the report. I think you will agree: when we make things difficult, it is not always possible to understand the way and reason for making decisions, their content and their results. Ladies and gentlemen, Today, I will briefly tell you about our role as a Parliament in shaping the budget and the need to rethink this role by finding a better balance between legislative and executive powers. For me to be able to discuss these issues here, I have reason to thank many people and institutions. Firstly, of course, thank you, colleagues, who have found this time to participate in interviews that are the backbone of the report. Secondly, I would like to thank the members and staff of the Special Committee on State Budget Control. I would also like to thank Dr Joachim Wehner and the Ministry of Finance, the National Audit Office and the Budget Council and the Association of Estonian Cities and the Association of Estonian Rural Governments! Good listeners! According to § 1 of the Constitution and its comments, the people exercise the highest state power, including through the election of the Riigikogu through citizens with voting rights. Secondly, the legitimacy of state power is directly exercised by the appointment of staff of state bodies (election of members of the Riigikogu by, for example, the people) or indirectly (election of officials by the Riigikogu and authorisation of government). The government is empowered by the Riigikogu, so it is an indirect legitimisation of state power. Consequently, it could be said that once Parliament has given the government a mandate, there should be no more questions and let the government prevail. Fortunately, the principle of separation of powers is the balancing force. The principle of separation of powers is known to have been coded into the principle of legislative, executive and judicial equilibrium, which also leads in a sense to conflicting interests. Of course, it is in all three interests to ensure and promote constitutional order, but it can be said that the budgetary strategy and the budgetary procedure are also places where these conflicting interests meet, especially when looking at the division of roles between legislative and executive powers. The most striking example of this is the fact that 2/3 of the interviewed members of the Riigikogu found that the Ministry of Finance's role in shaping the state budget and thus interfering with the policy of the field is too great and needs to be balanced. However, nearly a third of respondents believe that the role of the Ministry of Finance in shaping the state budget is currently optimal. At the same time, the representatives of the Ministry of Finance found that the role of the Riigikogu in shaping the budget was great when we spoke to them. 60% of the members of the Riigikogu interviewed during the drafting of the report thought that the role of the Riigikogu in budget design was insufficient and considered it necessary to increase this role. I also believe that Parliament must play a significant role in creating a policy that shapes state life. Fiscal policy is one of the country's most important policy areas, in which Parliament plays a role through the annual budgetary procedure process, but lacks involvement in shaping the roadmap for achieving the ultimate objective. The four-year strategic document, the country's budgetary strategy, is clearly the most important document linking the needs and priorities of the state and the financial opportunities, or the fiscal framework. Currently, this document is sent to the Riigikogu for information. The role of the Riigikogu in shaping the strategic view of the state's fiscal policy must increase. 83% of MEPs interviewed also found this. What, then, can you do? Within the framework of the existing basic law, the following options are available: First of all, the Government of the Republic needs to change the time frame for dealing with the budget strategy so that the strategy and the choices it makes can be introduced to the sectoral committees of the Riigikogu before the strategy is adopted. Secondly, the plenary session must discuss the budgetary strategy as a key national issue. In view of the time frame, it is probably not possible to do so before the adoption of the budgetary strategy. However, when opening the so-called basic law of the State Budget Act, the Riigikogu must consider a significant increase in the role of the parliament in the process of shaping the budget strategy. I now return to the country's annual budget and its explanatory memorandum. As I prepared this report, I concluded that the content of the explanatory memorandum to the state budget is uneven and does not, according to the members of the Riigikogu interviewed, provide an adequate overview of the expenditure planned by the state. The approach varies widely between ministries, and what is mentioned in the law is often not reflected in the explanatory memorandum. The format of the state budget has often been changed, so it is not possible to compare different periods in time. Many of the interviewees also wanted the state budget explanatory memorandum to be the same as the public investment programme in the past. At present, investments are recorded annually to the extent of the amounts set out in the State Budget Act for that financial year. The explanatory memorandum should have uniform criteria, standards and logic, and the text of the explanatory memorandum should be written in an understandable Estonian language, which would also enable the average citizen to understand it. Budgeting based on the so-called "base" needs to move towards budgeting based on results and objectives. In order to reduce changes in the state budget format from a long perspective, all ministries must switch to an activity-based budget. It will also make it easier to assess the effectiveness of the use of the budget and the achievement of the objectives, which will in turn allow for a better use of limited resources, i.e. money. In addition, we believe that the Ministry of Finance must, with certain regularity, carry out budgeting from a zero base for all areas of government. One option would be to propose that this be done at the beginning of each cycle of governance, i.e. four years. In order to increase the transparency of the budget, we have proposed to ensure that members of the Riigikogu have their views in the electronic budget information system. It is necessary to specify the scope of the view and the amount of information it contains. To this end, we ask the Committee on Monetary Affairs to specify the extent and amount of information to open this information system to members of the Riigikogu. We ask the Ministry of Finance to take into account the wish of the Riigikogu to receive its view of the information system for members when developing the budget information system. Our goal is that in the future, each member of the Riigikogu will be able to understand, understand and process the state budget as a whole. Three more thoughts. The role of the Riigikogu as a constitutional institution in deciding on its own budget must increase. Can we move towards an option where it is customary that the budget of Parliament, as a constitutional institution, is not contested by the government? I think it requires trust, and yet I see no reason to fear it. The report's proposal is to coordinate the budget of the Riigikogu as a constitutional institution with the Government of the Republic. The regulation of financial commitments to the state also needs to be clarified. § 65 (10), § 104 (2) (15) and § 121 (4) of the Constitution all deal with the question of the role of the Riigikogu in entering into state loans and other financial obligations of the state. Currently, the Riigikogu confirms the financial obligations of the state with its annual budget. However, the country's annual budget is valid for one calendar year and taking on long-term commitments in this way may not be in accordance with the Constitution. Increasing the role of the Riigikogu in dealing with the budget and budget strategy also requires additional resources and capacity building. For example, the change of development monitoring, the creation of a development monitoring unit at the Riigikogu, which has just been adopted, provides a favourable opportunity to use this resource to deal with budgetary issues. It's our hands. I hope, ladies and gentlemen, that, in cooperation with you and with the government, we will come to a solution where we will find a better balance between legislative and executive powers in rethinking Parliament's role in budgeting. It is understandable that there is no ideal balance, but strategic planning and strengthening monitoring and increasing the transparency of the state budget at Parliament level are certainly possible. Thank you for listening.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-14_U37	Thank you. Dear waitress, there are also questions for you. Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-14_U38	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, first of all, thank you very much for this report. That's a really worth setting up for. But I am specifically asking about the basic law of the state budget. You also pointed out that something should be changed in the strategy process and in the explanatory memorandum. Of course, your presentation would be more convincing and the presentation by the Minister of Finance would also be more convincing if you had a concrete draft of this law. Right now we're just discussing here, as we're discussing a lot of things, without a clear result. Does your committee have a plan where this amendment to the basic law comes from? Will you prepare it yourself, or will you expect it from the Government of the Republic, which has rather blinded the budgetary process for us over the years?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-14_U39	Thank you for your question. As of today, it can be said that the Ministry of Finance has already begun to amend the basic law. I myself would not be so much against Parliament and the government here, because the discussions that we have had at least today with the officials of the Ministry of Finance have been very constructive. In fact, the officials of the Ministry of Finance have also seen that the role of the Riigikogu should increase. So I have a certain amount of good faith that cooperation with the government will be successful in terms of amending the basic law.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-14_U40	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-14_U41	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! One of the objectives of the state reform is for the various support services to move very clearly to the central centre. So I am saying that the role of the government is even decreasing and the role of the Ministry of Finance is growing, which all these things come under. Have you also analyzed the subject with the view that if support services and their funds move only through one centre, how will Riigikogu members be able to participate? Would it rather improve the situation of members of the Riigikogu or worsen it? Only such a link that'see also', proposes to make the information system a small window for the members of the Riigikogu, I think it is not enough.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-14_U42	If you now come to the view of this budget information system, I would argue that this will significantly increase the possibility for a member of the Riigikogu to receive further information. I realized that the support services at the moment didn't mean anything specific or implementation units, but that's what they meant. Basically, we did not analyse this issue in very detailed terms whether the concentration of institutions has any effect on the legibility of the state budget in the view of a member of the Riigikogu. I myself assume that if the objective is to have a transparent budget, this impact should not really be.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-14_U43	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-14_U44	Good manager! Good waitress! My true respect! We've been here like a rubber stamp, but right now it seems to me that this rubber stamp role might start to decrease. I agree with that with two hands, an excellent initiative! There are many questions, but bureaucratic rules allow four people to ask only two questions. That doesn't make much sense. My question is why these explanatory notes for the state budget have become such that a normal person does not understand them. You come up with a proposal that the text of the explanatory memorandum should be written in a good Estonian language that every member of the Riigikogu would understand so that its content would be apprehended and would help to process the draft. Where did it start to move to the point where it doesn't make sense, and why has it gone like this?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-14_U45	Thank you for your question. First of all, I must say that I believe that the Riigikogu is not a rubber stamp. These same initiatives, as the initiative before you now, actually show this. I am sure that the Chairman of the Riigikogu will also agree with me, who has emphasised this on several occasions. But to come to the question, the poor readability of the explanatory memorandum is partly due to the fact that the explanatory memorandum is written by different ministries. The Ministry of Finance has certain rules that the explanatory memorandum should comply with, but unfortunately many do not reach the standard. But I think that these are the kind of reports that make other ministries think more seriously about how to dismantle the budget. A separate issue is what kind of sums it makes sense to rewrite in the explanatory memorandum and which ones are not, for example, whether or not every EUR 5 000 cost is reasonable to rewrite. But this is where I'm going to ask myself.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-14_U46	Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-14_U47	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! First of all, of course, thank you very much for drawing up this report. It is grateful material and questioning. Two blocks can be mentioned here, one is the clarification of the explanatory statement and the other is the role of the Riigikogu in the drafting of the state's budget strategy. As regards the clarification of the explanatory statement, I can say that this has been said for the last ten years, but there has been no progress whatsoever. As regards the role of the Riigikogu in drafting the state budget strategy, you pointed out that the time frame could change. I'm asking you how this time frame could change. The deadline is set by the budgetary process of the European Union. This year the forecast came on 5 April, and on 28 April the government prepared the strategy. Where is this place and opportunity for Riigikogu intervention? How can a time frame be changed when the deadline is in place?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-14_U48	Thank you for your question. You quite rightly pointed to a narrow time frame. What you're supposed to be talking about stays within the framework of the existing basic law. In that case, we would talk about the fact that the ministers of the sector go to the committees to present the choices they intend to make in the budgetary strategy, which is to say, the 'inclusion process', where MEPs can also give their input. That would mean that we would stick to the existing basic law. As I said, there is likely to be a change in the basic law. This process has already begun, as far as I know, and the Minister of Finance can certainly tell us more about it. It will then be possible to think more closely about how to change the role of the Riigikogu in confirming the strategy and in shaping such a long-term view. However, in view of the existing basic law, I think it is most sensible to go to Parliament's committees in the field and to explain the reasons behind the choices.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-14_U49	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-14_U50	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, I have a specific question because it is about the budget. One such statement in the presentation of the report was that increasing the role of the Riigikogu in the processing of the state budget and the RES requires additional resources. Can you tell me how much money is missing?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-14_U51	Thank you for your question. Unfortunately, as specific an answer as your question was, Urve, I don't. But we ourselves have thought that the same development monitoring unit that comes to the Riigikogu could be the one who would also help to deal with budgetary issues and this strategic view. Of course, we know that resources need to be handled as sustainably as possible, but we also need to think that some kind of resource is obviously necessary. We need to see how much money and how much manpower is actually needed. However, in order for the Ministry of Finance to have a good partner on the side of Parliament who can make a very good contribution to matters, I think it is reasonable to foresee a little resource.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-14_U52	Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-14_U53	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I understand that your committee's report is full of criticisms of what the situation is with the state budget today. Of course, we still have the opportunity today to listen to Mr Sven Sester, the Minister of Finance, his position, but I will also ask you how the representatives of the government reacted to your report. Did you hear the words that, uh, it's not like you want to show things to the Riigikogu in your report?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-14_U54	Thank you for your question. I would say that, in fact, this report is rather constructive. There's always something you can do to make it better. I will give some examples of Europe. There are countries in Europe where the state budget will be approved, which will be handed over to Parliament within the current financial year. There are countries in which Parliament does not approve the state budget as such a large document. In this key, Estonia's situation is quite good, but there is, of course, always room for improvement. If I were to come to the other side of the question, I would say that there has been very constructive cooperation. As I mentioned once, we have had very constructive discussions with the officials of the Ministry of Finance, who have also noticed many bottlenecks. Of course, we also have differences of opinion, but this is a characteristic of a parliamentary system in which executive and legislative power must balance one another. They have to be a little bit in conflict with each other or, let's say, constantly looking for where this equilibrium point is. In summary, the government's attitude has been very positive.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-14_U55	Thank you, dear waitress. No further questions for you. Now, please report to the Minister of Finance, Sven Sester.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-14_U56	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear Members, I am very pleased that the Riigikogu is discussing as a matter of national importance an issue that is, of course, very close to my heart as Minister of Finance and former Chairman of the Monetary Commission. Fiscal policy and the state budget are not things in themselves. When discussing this issue, we must first think about how to make the state budget so that taxpayers' money is spent in the best way, so that our economy grows. As the economy grows, we can also invest more in our security and people's well-being and security. The state budget is the most important statement of the political will of the majority of the Riigikogu, its preparation has been delegated to the Government of the Republic and its assembly is the responsibility of the Minister of Finance and the Ministry of Finance. I think the report even slightly underestimates the role of the Riigikogu in shaping the state budget. For various reasons, when drawing up the budget, we must always think about the Riigikogu. The government simply cannot bring to the Riigikogu a budget that goes against the political will of the majority of the Riigikogu, because then this budget will not be adopted. How is the political will of the Riigikogu expressed in the state budget? Firstly, the political will of the majority of the Riigikogu has been agreed in a coalition agreement translated into government action plans and cannot be overlooked when drawing up the budget. Secondly, the Riigikogu has provided a larger share of the state budget expenditure, i.e. almost 75%, with the legislation of the Riigikogu. The role of the government is to set up, enter and pay legal expenses. The Riigikogu also decides by law to add new costs to the budget. Sometimes it is decided to give up some of the costs, but the drafts in this direction are, unfortunately, outnumbered. In part, it's also natural. Our society is evolving and the state is increasingly expected to deal with new issues. At the same time, we must not forget that every new idea means, in practice, if not direct financial costs, at least additional work for officials, and it will ultimately pay. In order to increase the flexibility of the state budget, the Riigikogu should look for ways to reduce the obligations imposed on the budget by law, so that we are better prepared for the new challenges facing us in a changing world and can set new priorities as required. This, however, belongs to the power to change long-term policies and can only be born in close cooperation between the government and the Riigikogu, as it requires a more fundamental change of laws. Thirdly, the Riigikogu has provided the majority of the revenue from the budget by means of tax laws and other laws on the basis of which money is received by the Treasury. Of course, there is some way of influencing revenue through better work by the tax administration and better management of state companies, but the framework is well in place. As you know, the revenue forecasts and the budgetary balance requirement are also checked by an independent fiscal board which will ensure that any conflicts of interest are grounded to the maximum. Fourthly, the principle that the state budget must at least be structurally balanced is fixed at law level. The last two points, however, mean that the idea that the government must find money for all the expenses that the Riigikogu or even more has considered important in some development documents is not realistic. I agree with those who believe that the Ministry of Finance and then the government must constantly seek a balance between wishes and opportunities here. The Riigikogu will eventually assess how this has succeeded. It's not so little. In my opinion, the fact that the Riigikogu does not change the state budget to a large extent also means that the Ministry of Finance and the Government are increasingly able to respond to the political will of the Riigikogu when drawing up the state budget. But that doesn't mean it can't be better. Can and must do better. I assure you, at the Ministry of Finance, we will not sit back. Dear Riigikogu! In our opinion, the issues covered by this report are all important and deserve a constructive debate, even if we do not agree with all the assessments. As you have read in the report, we agree with a large number of the proposals and intend to implement them. The Ministry of Finance is always open to proposals and discussions to improve the budgetary process. The programme of action of the Government of the Republic provides for the renewal of the State Budget Act. With the draft law on the state budget, we wish to reach the Riigikogu within the next year. The government wants to make the budget more understandable and flexible with changes to the planned state budgeting process. Financing planning with the budget should be more closely linked to sectoral action plans and allow better response to society's needs. I will bring out five broader issues here, which we need to look at in the longer term. Firstly, the substantive format and transparency of the state budget. In my opinion, there is certainly a great deal that we can do here. We are moving step by step towards an activity-based budget, which means that money is allocated not by type of expenditure, but above all to do something. As the first area of government, the Ministry of Education and Research uses an activity-based budget, which this year's budget is structured between the fields of education, science, Estonian language and government. In the fields of education, science and Estonian language, the government has approved the development plan and before the approval, these development plans have also been introduced to the Riigikogu. Development plans shall be implemented through programmes in which the budget is divided into actions and activities. Programmes are approved by the Minister, but programmes and their drafts and reports are public. I agree with Dr Wehner, quoted in the report, who says that 'focusing on results may be more acceptable, but this means that Parliament's internal control is no longer so effective. ' For example, the focus on output is better suited to the annual budget cycle, according to Dr Wehner. This means that the impact of a one-year budget on government performance is often difficult to assess. Government activities and changes in society are often not one-to-one. There are many influences and also often social scientists are unable to agree on how to measure and assess the impact of one or the other step. However, it is possible to measure to some extent what one or the other government institution has done with money. Of course, a reasonable balance must be sought here too, because all measurement and reporting also means work, hence the cost to the state budget and society. Let us recall, even here, the massive bureaucracy involved in the use of European Union funds. And the European Union's resources are precisely a programme-based approach. There is also a question of trust, because there is no point in counting, measuring and controlling everything. This limits the reporting of activities and results, as well as the audit. The countries of the world have tried and sought solutions here and will probably look in the future. We are open for discussion and are trying to implement the best practice in the world. As regards the explanatory memorandum, the content of this document depends largely on the structure and logic of the state budget. If we talk more about actions and results in the future, we cannot inevitably at the same time fix in detail how and with what cost composition the ministers and authorities are responsible for achieving these results. One of the principles of centralisation is that there is confidence in the lower levels of governance that can make optimal cost decisions when they have sufficient freedom. At the same time, a certain overview of costs by type of expenditure and why not also of the larger investments planned will, of course, help to see things better in the context. However, the situation in which the Riigikogu deals with the exchange of heating systems or the purchase of cars instead of strategic issues, we probably do not want either. I agree that the format of the explanatory memorandum must be stable and allow costs to be put in a time and comparable context. Here, too, a lot depends on the ministries of the sector who prepare the explanatory notes with their chapters and their desire to explain things in the best way. This, in turn, depends much on how demanding the members of the Riigikogu committees are in relation to such explanations, as ministers do not want to remain in a foolish position to defend their budgets before the Riigikogu either. Secondly, the principles and procedure for drawing up the state budget. Here, one idea has been said about zero-base budgeting. In practice, this means that the Ministry of Finance should periodically assess the need for some costs and programmes. At the same time, there are also views that the Ministry of Finance is already interfering too much with sectoral policies. However, zero-based budgeting inevitably means intervention in the sector's policy. So we have to make choices here. Internationally, good experience has been gained from the use of efficiency plans, i.e. an in-depth cost analysis, and the use of "spending review" in English. The Ministry of Finance is also preparing for the wider deployment of efficiency plans in Estonia. It is essentially a selective budgetary analysis with an area of government, which will result in proposals for a more optimal use of state budget resources. Equally important, however, is the independent work of each area of government to continuously optimise its spending in order to achieve results. Thirdly, the processing of the state budget in the Riigikogu. I agree that Riigikogu committees and political groups should enter the budget process as early as spring, when a country's budget strategy is drawn up, which also fixes budget ceilings for the following year, listens to ministers and, if necessary, gives them recommendations on which to focus when submitting budget applications. This spring we have already practiced it to some extent and I think the Riigikogu could be even more active here, but of course it is primarily a question of the Riigikogu's self-regulation. Fourthly, the role of the Riigikogu in preparing the state's budget strategy. As I said earlier, I do not agree that the influence of the Riigikogu in the preparation of a long-term budgetary strategy is modest. Rather, the question is which decisions could and should still be taken at the level of the Riigikogu. One possible idea that can be considered is to start drawing up multi-annual budgets instead of annual budgets and to adopt multiannual budgets in the Riigikogu. This will certainly be a forum for discussion in the future. I would remind you here that the programming of European Union funds takes place in seven-year cycles. Fifthly, the drafting of the budget of the Riigikogu itself and of constitutional institutions in general. This, too, is a matter where the logic of the government having to find money to cover the proposed budget is somewhat in conflict with the demand that the budget be balanced. Of course, the Riigikogu is able to introduce a special procedure by law here, but in doing so it must be borne in mind that when acting with an open bill, costs tend to grow, which does not match the coalition's and government's policies to reasonably limit expenditure growth by looking for austerity points. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! Finally, I would like to thank the rapporteurs, the National Audit Office and everyone else who has contributed to this report for their thorough work. We are always open to discussions at the Ministry of Finance on how to draw up the state budget and manage the use of taxpayers' money so that this money is used in the best way so that our economy grows. Because as the economy grows, we can invest more in national security, people's well-being and a sense of security. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-14_U57	Thank you, Minister. You have questions too. Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-14_U58	Honourable President! Honorable Minister! I would like you to look more closely at the possibility of discussing the country's budgetary strategy in Parliament. You have explained nicely that this could be discussed by political groups and committees, but what exactly is interfering at this rate, for example, with discussing this as an important national issue in this Chamber? In the Committee on Finance, the officials of the Ministry of Finance also referred to the fact that if we delay or prolong the debate here, we will be in trouble with the budgetary strategy for the transmission of the necessary data to Europe. Are these demands of the European Union really harassing us in such a way that we cannot hold this debate in the large Chamber of the Riigikogu in spring?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-14_U59	Thank you. I would open this issue even more broadly, both in terms of the country's budgetary strategy and in terms of the state budget itself. If we go back a little while in history, I remember that for one of the four years I, too, as chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, wanted all the ministers of the sector to go through the state budget for the Finance Committee in the autumn. There was no such practice before that. There had been three or four, maybe five ministers, but the wish was for all ministers to go to the Committee on Monetary Affairs. The reasoning was very clear: the Committee on Monetary Affairs, as the lead committee, should get an overview of the vision and priorities of each individual minister next year. The country's budgetary strategy, which sets such high limits for four years, has also started to play an increasingly important role. Of course, the Riigikogu has the right to self-determination and no one can tell him in advance whether and what lines of action it will take for the future. When the Riigikogu takes a decision every spring as a matter of national importance to deal with a specific state budget separately, this is its decision-making power and no one can take that right away from him. What I have seen and what the Riigikogu has already begun to process from the beginning is that in the spring we invite ministers of the field to committees, and not only to the Committee on Monetary Affairs, but also to other committees in the field. True story, I remember exactly that this spring the Committee on Culture invited the Minister of Culture to give an overview of his vision for the next four years, not one year. I would see that in the future, other committees would behave in a similar way. This gives an overview of where the next four years will be going in the big picture already in spring. I very much welcome and support the fact that the ministers of the sector will go to committees in the spring to defend, explain and discuss their positions. As far as the separate debate is concerned as an important national issue in the large Chamber, it is, as I said, the right to self-determination of the Riigikogu. It is in the Riigikogu's own decision-making power whether or not it wishes to do so.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-14_U60	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-14_U61	Thank you, manager. Minister, thank you very much. Often a member of the Riigikogu learns through the media what the government's plans are. I'll ask you about Rail Baltic, for example. How is this reflected in the budgetary strategy? As far as I'm concerned, people are being recruited, expenses are being spent, contracts are being made. The volume of this amount has increased to nearly EUR 500 million. Where does this project express political will? Can you comment on that, Minister?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-14_U62	Thank you. Your data, assessments and facts are in some ways conflicting. At the moment, you actually made some estimates. Of course, every financial cost that is made will go through the hand and heart of the Riigikogu. No expenditure can be made until the Riigikogu has taken a decision on it. At the moment, it can certainly be said that the 500-million-dollar cost has not been taken on. We can say that the analysis is still being carried out, which will be completed at the end of this year. A cost-benefit analysis will be carried out on the future profitability of Rail Baltic and the final potential investment needs. It is certainly not possible to say today that a 500-million commitment would already have been taken on your shoulders, as was your question. However, all responsibilities go through specific budgets and through the Riigikogu itself.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-14_U63	Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-14_U64	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear Minister, I am asking the same thing that I asked the rapporteur. This concerns increasing the role of the Riigikogu in preparing the state's budget strategy. I ask how the role of the Riigikogu fits into this framework at the time of the preparation of the RES. For example, this year's forecast came on April 5th, and on April 28, the government presented a strategy. The period is very short. The rapporteur said, and you also said, that we could meet with ministers in the field. But it does not make much sense before the economic forecast, because the ministers of the sector do not yet know how much money they have to use. That is why I ask how the role of the Riigikogu could increase in the vision of the Ministry of Finance, given this temporal framework. By the way, on the basis of my experience, I can say that the economic forecasts have been completed earlier, even by the end of February. In recent years, however, the forecast has remained at the beginning of April.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-14_U65	Thank you. It is certainly possible to make an estimate earlier. The later you do the prognosis, the more accurate it is. As I have always said, it is best to assess the various indicators when the period is over. The best indication of economic growth is when the year is over, you will find out what the economic growth last year was like. The later you make a specific assessment, the more accurate your identity will be. I'd say I'd rather not tie these things together. In your question, you stated that it would be reasonable to first find out the economic forecast and then invite the ministers to the Commission, because then they know how much money they can spend. I wouldn't tie them together. As Minister of Finance, I would rather communicate with the ministers of the field before the economic forecast is known, because your wishes and will do not depend solely on what your chances are later. Your wishes and your will, your priorities are already in place. Consequently, I think there is nothing to interfere with the Riigikogu's participation in the process at the same time as the Minister of Finance negotiates with the ministers of the field. Looking at this year, throughout March, the Minister of Finance met with the ministers of the field every day. For hours, negotiations were held, for a whole month, more, for six weeks in a row, although the economic forecast was not yet available. That doesn't stop them from negotiating. This does not interfere with the debate on the priorities of one or the other Minister for Foreign Affairs. What's the final power? Yes, it wasn't until April 8th, as you mentioned. But negotiating, understanding what priorities are, is possible sooner. The priorities have been set, and then you will see what the final power is, whether you can take a list, a list and b-lists, a list, b-lists, c-lists, etc. Therefore, I do not think that we should tie them together in such a way that we can negotiate only when the final financial volume is known. I would rather encourage the Riigikogu here. The beginning of the question was whether I can see the role of the Riigikogu in this process, i.e. the negotiations on budgetary strategy. I think it makes a lot of sense to be involved. This year it has already worked in some committees, and I encourage all committees to discuss with ministers in their field. It'll give you some kind of picture.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-14_U66	Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-14_U67	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. One law of Murphy says that the length of a minute depends on which side of the toilet door you're on. This also illustrates us here in the Riigikogu: one view is when you are in the coalition, and the other is when you go to the opposition. But there has been very and very great solidarity in this report, regardless of which side of the barrier is a member of the Riigikogu. What interferes the Ministry of Finance with taking up some of the things proposed in this report already this year or next year? For example, if most members of the Riigikogu want foreign aid funds to be dealt with separately and indicated, what will interfere with the budget plan for next year? I understand that this requires more preparation, should be restored to the RIPs dreamed of by all the old players in the municipalities.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-14_U68	Thank you. You weren't in the hall during my presentation, you came back to the hall for questions. I would like to reiterate, then, that there was such a sentence in my report: 'As you have read in the report, we largely agree with the proposals and intend to implement them. The Ministry of Finance is always open to proposals and discussions to improve the budgetary process. ' Here comes the answer. I will not descend here today to such specific things, either an electronic preview in a small window or a large window, on one or the other electronic page. I think that, by its very nature, this is a very sensible report, which contains very good proposals. There are always questions in the whole view. I read in the report how a member of the Riigikogu had said that this explanatory statement in 1999 was a good explanatory statement. Having been in the Riigikogu for so long, I also know who this speaker was, the good old Eiki Nestor is definitely behind it. For my interest, I had the officials of the Ministry of Finance look at what the 1999 explanatory memorandum was like compared to the present one. Good Eiki has always given an example of this and said that the 1999 explanatory memorandum was a good explanatory statement. Look at this 1999 explanatory memorandum, see what the difference is. You won't find too many differences. I am also keen that the explanatory memorandum be well read and that the whole process of dealing with the state budget in its nature is as stable as possible. When we look at what's been going on over time, at one point a comparison with last year was introduced, it was described what last year was like to see the dynamics. More and more is meant for better readability and inclusion. In response to your question, which is interfering with us here, together, to make the budget more readable and more inclusive, I say once again that, of course, we are working on this. I think there were very sensible proposals in the report.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-14_U69	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-14_U70	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good minister! This often raises the question of whether they will be involved, but whether this involvement will also have any effect, i.e. whether the involvement of the members of the Riigikogu will also reach the decisions. How do you feel about the ad hoc idea that every line of ministry and government has x% of the budget, for example 20%, which can be influenced by at least 40% of the wishes of the Riigikogu as required? For example, we know that we have very serious shortcomings in internal security. This is very dangerous, looking at today's foreign and security policy. We know that not all fathers are equal in the matter of paternity leave. I'm sure there are questions like that. What do you think of the idea that every line of ministry and government could have an x%, the use of which is directly up to the committees and political groups?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-14_U71	Thank you. First of all, when we talk about the percentage, and you gave me 40% for example, I'm saying we're going to break the budget. After all, the Riigikogu itself is, in fact, the institution, our highest institution, who has determined that 75% of all state budget resources are already committed. It's a reality. The Riigikogu has said that, according to the law, whether they relate to pensions, salary or whatever, 75% is already covered. This can only be changed by the Riigikogu itself. This is the first nuance. But when we talk about a smaller percentage, we talk about 25%, which is a potential policy-making place, the Riigikogu always has this opportunity. What does the government do in itself when it puts together a state budget? As I said in my introductory speech, he follows a governance programme which, in turn, is based on a coalition agreement, or a four-year vision, which a particular coalition has, assuming that the coalition has been formed after the elections and has shaped its positions for four years, from the coalition agreement and from the resulting priorities. The government is not operating anywhere outside this background system; it is still based on the will of the political majority when putting together the budget. And there will always be an opportunity for the Riigikogu to change something within the state budget. I can assure you that so far no budget has left the Riigikogu the same way he came to the Riigikogu. Changes have always been made inside the process.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-14_U72	Thank you. A microphone for Mikhail Stalnukhin, please! Is it a procedural question?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-14_U73	Yeah, procedural. This concerns the law on our working and Rules of Procedure. What does it say about a situation where the waitress, i.e. the minister, claims that someone, such as me, has only come to the Chamber for a round of questions? At the same time, I have actually been in this Chamber from the very beginning of the Minister's speech. What should I do to ensure that my position on this issue is also reflected in the verbatim report of the sitting of the Riigikogu?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-14_U74	Dear friend! This is now a follow-up. Two weeks ago, an eighth article in the evening paper appeared from me, which was critical of Rail Baltic. There I pointed out that the expert company Aecom has been on trial in Australia and has escaped from the 200 million reconciliation money for the hacks he's made in his profitability assessments. Aecom is also an important advisor to our Rail Baltic. I noticed you said one thing that worked very well for me, especially for my heart and nerves, namely that the Riigikogu decides such things. Will it now be that Rail Baltic is not coming without the clear consent of the Riigikogu?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-14_U75	Thank you, good questioner. I know your competence and not only your competence, but also your interest in these matters. I am thinking of an interest in dealing with issues relating to Rail Baltic and energy. You have always gone very deep in this area and expressed your opinion. I believe that the eight articles you have written to this day in the Evening Paper will certainly not be the last. At one point we will still see the double number of articles, and with Toomas Alatalu you will certainly take the first two positions in writing articles on the Evening Page. But if you go to the content, yes, of course I think that the Riigikogu has the opportunity and need to have a say on important issues, and Rail Baltic is certainly an important issue. If you sense that, for some reason, the wishes and will of the members of the Riigikogu have not been taken into account and the direction is completely wrong and leads to the rapa, as I understand it, that was your question, then you could ask your political group to bring Rail Baltic to the discussion of the Riigikogu Hall as an important national issue. It has to be said that the decisions about Rail Baltic have been made on quite a number of levels, and they have also been made at the level of the Cabinet. After all, I had a question in the meantime, mainly by looking at the use of taxpayers' money, whether moving in one direction or the other is the right thing from the point of view of the taxpayer. But this is a separate sub-topic in the context of Rail Baltic. As a member of the Riigikogu, and also as a member of the largest political group in the Riigikogu, I think you should definitely take this opportunity to bring this issue into the debate once more. First, discuss matters in the group, and once the position of the group has been formulated, come to the House and tell us what your collective opinion is.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-14_U76	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-14_U77	Good manager! Good minister! I'll repeat the same question I asked earlier. The story is that the explanatory notes of the state budget have been written in such an unconventional Estonian language. Mr Sõerd said here that this has been said for the last ten years, but no progress. I ask you, as Minister of Finance, that if ten years have been spoken, there is no progress, whose interests it is, that I do not know where the money is going and why. Perhaps you should employ a man like Toomas Mattson who has made the National Audit Office's reports quite sexy and understandable.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-14_U78	Thank you. I understand you have a long-term experience in dealing with state budgets. I'm sure you've had the opportunity to read the state budgets for over ten years. I think we should always look at individual assessments and facts. In your question, you have actually assessed and not based on facts. I believe it is always possible to do better. And I think it's gotten better in ten years. Whether there is opposition or coalition, we must look at it objectively. I think over the ten years I've had to read the state budget explanatory notes, longer, twelve years, the situation has gotten better. As I pointed out earlier, there is more comparison with previous years. It's always a question of what level of detail we're going to. The more we go into the details, the harder it is to understand the content of the explanatory statement. If the explanatory memorandum is more general, it may give us such a macroimage, but the less detail we have. It is always necessary to find the right relationship in order not to get into a situation where the Riigikogu, as I mentioned earlier, starts to analyse the purchase of cars in ministries at one point. Is that even necessary? I agree with your criticism that this needs to be addressed and tried to move forward for the better, but I certainly do not agree with you that nothing has changed in 10 years. I think there has certainly been more insight during this period, explanatory notes have become more readable and information is even more than might be needed. In some places, even the detail has gone too far. And I think that if we switch to an activity-based state budget in the future, it will give members of the Riigikogu some insight into what we want to achieve, what this activity is, which is the ultimate objective of the programme. We are currently very cash-based, we are stuck in so-called cost categories. If we move to an activity-based budget, that we look at education, science and so on, where we want to get somewhere, then on the basis of the principle of activity, we understand what the amount of money is and where it is intended to be. This will certainly provide us with a better assessment in the future.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-14_U79	Thank you. The time for answering the questions to the Minister has passed, but since there was also one procedural question, we will give Valeri Korb another last question. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-14_U80	Thank you. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. You were talking about negotiating. I can imagine the results of the negotiations on the 2017 budget. Unfortunately, opposition matters are not taken seriously in the negotiations. You said the taxpayer needs to know where his money has been placed. If 60% of the members of the Riigikogu say that it is not clear enough where the money goes, then we will talk about taxpayers. My question relates to this: what new do we see in the next budget procedure, which you have talked about for a long time?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-14_U81	Thank you. You said that the opposition's opinions were not taken seriously. That is, of course, your assessment. I think they're still taking it seriously. The question was, what new do we see in the budget's own proceedings? Perhaps the most important observations. Just next year, I think, there is going to be an important change. In fact, we have had a cash-based budgeting exercise for years. In 2017, we would like to switch to accrual-based budgeting. We've been working on it. Accounting is accrual-based in the country, but budgeting is cash-based. This is the current situation: accounting is accrual-based and budgeting is cash-based. We have taken the view that budgeting also needs to move to the principle of accrual, and we have prepared this transition for a long time. In 2017, we would like to achieve this and the autumn 2016 budgetary procedure should be moving in this direction as well. This is a major change and certainly a sensible change. This clearly reduces administrative bureaucracy. If we take the private sector, the private sector will be guided everywhere by the logic of origin, not by the logic of cash-basedity. This is definitely a big change. The next major change, if you ask me that, could come in 2020. Then, for the entire state budget, we could perhaps start using the activity indicators that have already been implemented in 2016 as a pilot project at the Ministry of Education and Research. We also have other institutions based on the logic of action. The Police and Border Guard Board, for example, is built on the logic of operational orientation, etc. But I think the biggest change is the transition from cash to origin.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-14_U82	Thank you, Minister. We wish you every success in the event-based activity, but we will move on to the agenda. I would like to ask Remo Holsmer, Chairman of the Monetary Commission, to serve as a waitress.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-14_U83	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Committee on Finance discussed the report of the Special Committee on State Budget Control at its meeting on 6 June. The rapporteur, Kristjan Kõljalg, and representatives of the Ministry of Finance, Karl-Erik Tender, Sven Kirsipuu and Veikko Kapsta took part in the debate. The Committee on Monetary Affairs welcomes the initiative of the Special Committee on National Budget Control to draw up such a report. It also gives us a side view of possible bottlenecks in our work area. The state budget is based on the laws adopted by the Riigikogu. Nearly three-quarters of the budget expenditure is known to be fixed, and changes to it in turn require fundamental changes to the law. Over the years, a great deal of changes have been made in the preparation, processing and reporting of the state budget in order to increase transparency and efficiency. But I also believe that it can be better, become more transparent, more understandable, more understandable. Members of the Riigikogu do the same, but on the other hand they do it for people. Both sides need to (a) understand this and (b) understand why one or the other policy is being pursued. The proposals made in the report concern the role, competence and responsibility of the Riigikogu, the Ministry of Finance, the political groups of the Riigikogu, the Committee on Monetary Affairs, as well as other committees and each member of the Riigikogu in the budgetary procedure. I will follow up on all 18 proposals in the report, I have read them to a total of 18, maybe some of them have been put together, and I will give my comments and my opinion on them. Firstly, the suggestion that sectoral committees should be able to participate in the annual state budget discussions from spring onwards. I can tell you that this has been the practice of the Committee on Monetary Affairs for years. The other committees of the Riigikogu have the opportunity to invite ministers responsible for the field to give an overview of the budget of their area of government, regardless of the season. If the beginning of the year is a good time, I will in any case encourage the other committees to engage in these discussions with ministers. The Committee on Finance itself organises the same hearings as in spring and autumn due to the process of preparing the country's budget strategy and state budget, and gets an overview of the priorities set. The role of the Riigikogu as a constitutional institution over its own budget was also highlighted in the report. According to the State Budget Act, constitutional institutions are guaranteed to resolve differences at government level. The Minister of Finance alone cannot reduce the need for the resources indicated in the institution's request. If necessary, the disagreement will be fixed, and ultimately the government will decide. If it seems to Parliament that the government has harmed Parliament or any other constitutional institution in some position, then we all have the right to make proposals to change the budget lines. The following three proposals concern the drafting of the state budget strategy, the role of the government and the Riigikogu in this. In particular, it should be taken into account that the country's budgetary strategy is a government-approved document. The new amendment to the basic law on the budget, which came into force last year, places an obligation on the government to present the country's budgetary strategy to the Committee on Monetary Affairs. However, this commitment does not mean that the other committees could not discuss the content of the budget strategy. I also know that the Committee on Culture held these discussions this year. In any case, I call on all other committees in the field to invite ministers to present their budgetary strategy, the four-year financial plan in detail in the Commission. I believe that this is precisely where members of the government also receive input from Members of Parliament, what these expectations are, the priorities that Parliament sees in some area, and where the executive agency should set its priorities. Then there is the proposal to discuss the budgetary strategy as an important national issue. If you look into history, it has been done, and I see no reason why you can't do it in the future. The next proposal foresees that the Ministry of Finance will take into account important political agreements when drawing up the annual budget. In fact, it is the case that the political programme of the governing coalition, the promises made, the priorities formulated, is one of the main starting points for the budget strategy and the preparation of the state budget, but they must be in line with the financial prospects of the Ministry of Finance, the economic environment and the financial forecasts of the Ministry of Finance. The comment is made on budgeting from a zero base. In this respect, I can say that a large part of the budget is calculated on an annual basis in terms of bookkeeping costs, pensions, family allowances, and the necessary volumes. These costs represent the majority of the state budget. All additional requests submitted by ministries will be analysed. However, as a large part of the budget is not drawn up on a zero basis, the role of governance in the management of its budget is very important. This is where we find a balance with the role of the Ministry of Finance. The report also says that in some places the role of the Ministry of Finance is too great. In terms of the logic of budgeting, this should still be the main responsibility position of the Ministry of Industry. Certainly, the Ministry of Finance should not begin to shape the budget of all ministries. The comment is also about the comprehension, standardisation and logic of the text of the explanatory memorandum. The Committee on Finance has in fact consistently drawn attention to the issue of transparency and comprehensibility of the draft state budget when dealing with the draft budget. Here our positions coincide with those of the report. I believe that many positive changes have been made over the years, but it is certainly possible to make the state budget even more readable. We have taken note of this observation and, in future, we will follow it. Then there was a proposal for activity-based budgeting. As has been said, in the 2016 state budget, the Ministry of Education and Research is the first to switch to activity-based budgeting, and this is certainly a positive example. Why is this important? Because just a line and a number don't give a full picture of what the money's spent on. The objective, the effectiveness must definitely be stated in the budget and, as the Minister has confirmed here, the government is moving when it brings the budget to the Riigikogu in the autumn, so that other ministries also move towards activity-based budgeting. The tenth proposal is to restore public investment programme-like information in the explanatory memorandum to the state budget. The harmonisation of the recording of investments in the explanatory memorandum and the presentation of a systematic overview would certainly provide more information and perhaps provide a more complex and precise overview. I believe that the Committee on Monetary Affairs also expects the Government and the Ministry to see that investments are reflected in a more understandable way, in a single place. Comment on external grants. Here, too, the Committee on Monetary Affairs is working with the Ministry of Finance to make it more accurate and accessible in the future. There are two proposals for the so-called view and IT development of a Member of Parliament, so that members of the Riigikogu can easily access the activities, budget number or whatever information needs they seek in the budget information system. I have 30 seconds left. Can't I have more time? I can't. I'll be quick. There are no misunderstandings here, we are working with the Ministry of Finance to find a reasonable IT solution. The report also made a comment on the regulation of the commitment of the state. This is the amount of subordinated liabilities that meet the criteria for Tier 2. At this point, I must agree that in the future we should find ways to reflect them in the state budget. A few comments on regional investments. The Finance Committee has put the proposals made by the members of the Riigikogu during the budgetary procedure on its website. I believe the keyword here is 'transparency'. All the groups in Parliament are interested in making these proposals understandable to the public and to all of us, and there will be no unjustified fears or talk about where these proposals came from now. They are made by political groups and are made by members of the Riigikogu. We will continue this practice in the Committee on Monetary Affairs, that all proposals will be posted on the website. The public will then have an overview of the proposals made by the members of the Riigikogu. There is also a proposal to increase the role of the special committee in the processing of the consolidated annual report. Agreed. We are only waiting for the initiatives of the special committee. It is also proposed that the Ministry of Finance be prepared to process the consolidated annual report before the next year's budget is processed. At this point, I am prepared to talk to the National Audit Office and the National Support Services Centre so that the timing can be somewhat improved. In the end, the Committee on Monetary Affairs contributes fully to raising awareness and increasing the role of Parliament in the state budget processing process, ensuring the transparency and purpose of the state budget, so that the budget is not only an empty sequence of numbers, but also understandable and readable for all members of the Riigikogu and the general public. And more importantly, the objective and effectiveness of the expenditure to be incurred are clear, so that every euro is finally wisely spent. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-14_U84	Thank you, Mr President of the Committee on Monetary Affairs. You have questions too. Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-14_U85	Honourable President! Respectable waitress! I actually wanted to offer friendly assistance to the waitress so that she could also make the rest of the comments, but since they were finally all already submitted, I am asking about regional investments. I still have no idea why in recent years, or for how long, it is common practice that the proposals of Riigikogu members on them are presented for third reading and not for second reading, as are all amendments.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-14_U86	Thank you. I think there's some reason in time. The state budget will be handed over to the Riigikogu at the end of September, after which the first reading will take place, and then the MPs will examine the contents of the budget. It will probably take time for the members of the Riigikogu and the political groups to put together these proposals, collect information and eventually forward them. I'd say it's more of a form question for you. Are proposals submitted before the second or third reading? After all, what is important is the content, that the money that MPs and political groups want to channel to invest is reasonable and purposeful.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-14_U87	Igor Gräzin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-14_U88	Good friend! You can call me. By the way, Sester might as well tell me, I don't know when he's gonna be you. But all right, respect. My concern with Rail Baltic is that we have had some Kafka situations here. We had the law of cohabitation here. If you ask who did it, nobody knows where it came from. We went to the EFSF when things were decided. We were given 40 minutes to discuss the ESM. Now that's my problem. Rail Baltic is such an expensive thing. Are we not in a situation where we again have large long-term financial liabilities and expenditures that come from unknown sources? Someone's done somewhere. Sester said the government has done something, and so on. I mean, we're already in the fait accompli. Finito! We don't really have anything to vote for anymore. Is my concern justified, or is there something unhealthy about it?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-14_U89	Thank you. You referred to Kafka's 'Process' that the process is disturbing that somebody is secretly peeking around the corner and deciding something. As far as Rail Baltic is concerned, of course it costs. Of course, Rail Baltic will not be built only with the support of the European Union's Structural Funds; the co-financing of the Estonian state will be necessary there. What do we get in return? We're gonna get the connections. We'll get a proper infrastructure, a lot of it, and a lot of it to move quickly, both for people and for goods. That's what we get out of there. Should you be worried? I assure you, I don't. Professor Gräzin, you don't have to be worried. I believe this process has been well maintained. The Minister of Finance here laughs and assures me that they, along with the Minister of Economic Affairs, are holding these things in an iron grip.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-14_U90	Thank you, dear waitress. No more questions for you. Now is the time for negotiations. I assume that the representatives of the political groups have registered. Tarmo Tamm, on behalf of the Central Party Group, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-14_U91	Manager! Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, thank you very much. I am very pleased that the Special Committee on State Budget Control has undertaken to produce such an important report and that we are discussing it in this large Chamber today. I very much agree with the views of the report. The role of the Riigikogu in the design of the budget is currently modest, the budget lines are minimally dewritten, so the Riigikogu does not have an overview of the content of the state budget. We see how in some years the same story repeats in the chapters and even the numbers do not change. The proposed amendments are essentially impossible because of the lack of sufficient overview of the budget lines, only the general figures can be seen. It is also very difficult to compare the budgets for the various years, as some expenditure is moved from one place to another. This time, for example, a very large part of the government's reserve had been left in the reserve, but it had been written only to some extent. When last autumn we used part of the reserve in the state budget as a source of change, it was said that everything had already been planned. Where and for what, there really was no answer. In the 2016 state budget, the reserve of the Government of the Republic increased by 34 million, to 49 million euros. The explanatory memorandum indicates the use of the reserve of EUR 7.6 million. The remaining 41.4 million euros was and still is a completely dark country for members of the Riigikogu. The state budget is one of the most important documents that we accept in this Chamber. But how much do we actually see in it? In fact, all we see is what they want to show us. Do the members of the Riigikogu know why Elering gave more than 31 million euros as dividends to the Estonian state and why the state did the expansion of the share capital in Elering on the other hand to the extent of practically the same amount? Is this not about achieving a seeming budget balance? The speeches were about Rail Baltic, its profitability and the amount that this could ultimately cost us. We are talking about some EUR 500 million now. But who, at what level has decided that it will be built at all, what budgetary strategy is this reflected in, and how does the state budget withstand this expenditure? Transparency of external subsidies is also desirable, because we do not really know how these funds are distributed and in which areas. The country's budgetary strategy is a paper of its own, with no certainty. Different methodologies are used to assess the structural balance of the national budget. The Board has said that the state budget is not structurally balanced, the government confirms that it is structurally balanced. Whom should we finally believe? The public budget should be structurally balanced, but it is already expected that it will not be structurally balanced in the coming years. I also stop a little on roofing money, or regional investments. I believe that they are necessary and that the allocation of this money should be continued, but it should be public and transparent. As has already been asked here, why should we not, in the first round when the state budget is presented to the Riigikogu, talk about where these objects come from and what purpose they serve? It is up to us, Members of Parliament, whether we can have a say in the state budget process and not become a rubber stamp once and for all, or whether it is up to the government alone to decide. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-14_U92	Thank you. Andres Ammas on behalf of the Estonian Free Party Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-14_U93	Honourable President! Respectable members of the Riigikogu! I'll start by thanking you. May it be said from this hall and warmly welcomed by former colleague Jaak Aaviksoo that he presented this idea in such an embodied form and that it was also heard. Much recognition and thanks also to Kristjan Kõljala for this massive work and, of course, to all colleagues who contributed in the interviews! (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I really do strongly recommend that this report be read and taken over with my own eyes too, because I believe that this report is a much harder document than today's reports may have sounded. Today's reports were in some cases a bit of a hangover, abstinence, temperament. However, the conclusions and proposals in the report contain much more. I am pleased that the Chair of the Committee on Monetary Affairs has all kept going on and on, although all his comments may not be fully accepted. Today's talk in this Chamber has been a little bit of that, oh, there are still many countries in Europe where things are much worse, that we have made the budget process much better here in ten years, that the explanatory memorandum has gotten better, more transparent and clearer. An equally good example was given of how the Committee on Culture really showed light to other Riigikogu committees and invited the Minister to a hearing during the discussion of the budget strategy. Unfortunately, so far, we have been honest, there have been only a few positive examples. For the most part, we participate in listening to the state budget strategy afterwards. There is a hell of a difference between discussing the strategy at the time of its formation, for example, in the Committee on Monetary Affairs, or watching the slide show of the Minister for Finance later and asking him why one or the other decision was made as such. This will be very helpful in shaping the process. The comprehension of the budget statement is a serious issue. I am firmly among those who believe that a person with medium intelligence who has a bit of functional reading skills should, however, understand the explanatory statement without having completed some kind of ten-hour training or course before. The comical scene was at the meeting of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, where the ministry officials went among themselves to argue a little bit that wait-wait, under which code we now have this foreign aid in the budget. Well, excuse me if this officer doesn't remember in his sleep right now, how can we have all these numbers on our head? In fact, I was hurt by a comment made by a colleague who, unfortunately, is not in the Chamber at the time of one of today's presentations. He said, "Why don't you stay in your head if you understand the explanatory statement or not?" Well, it's not like that. I have seen the explanatory notes already made in the last century, and my opinion does not match that of the Minister for Finance that the explanatory notes have become more understandable. I certainly don't think so. It's about the level of detail. As a member of the Riigikogu, I am most disturbed by the fact that some EUR 5 000 has been thoroughly discussed in the budget explanatory memorandum, while, as my colleague, Tarmo Tamme, came out of the speech, millions and tens of millions so that the members of the Riigikogu do not hesitate to inform at all where they are going and what they are going for. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-14_U94	Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-14_U95	Thank you. Regarding your presence in the Chamber, the Home and Rules of Procedure Act does not say anything about what you asked about. But as far as the verbatim report is concerned, you can make your point in your speech. Under the current item, all members of the Riigikogu will be able to speak and express their views during the negotiations. Let's keep going. Please, Igor Gräzin!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-14_U96	I support the idea that the country's budgetary strategy could be discussed not only in the sectoral committees, but certainly also in this Chamber as an important national issue. All that remains is to believe that a programme-based approach, an activity-based approach to the budget, is theoretically correct and necessary. Unfortunately, the Ministry of Education and Research's part of this year's budget does not seem to me to support this statement in any way. Perhaps this was an attempt in the right direction, but excuse me, this attempt failed and the HTM budget was no better readable than that of other ministries. I would also like to address the issue of regional investment, the so-called 'roof money'. For this reason, too, it has not been given too much attention in today's reports. I do not think that this would be the most important part of the budget now, but it seems to me that the members of the Riigikogu, we ourselves, would like to deal with this issue in the dark and under the blanket, but at the same time, to brag that we are going to make it public. Some things really were better when discussing this year's budget. Most of the so-called regional investments were hung up on the page of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, but unfortunately not all. The will of the members of the Riigikogu to fund sport by sport federations had not been made public for any reason. One amount was said that goes to the Estonian Olympic Committee. The way in which it is distributed in accordance with the will of the Riigikogu between sports federations, the public and all members of the Riigikogu were not given any idea of it. I think that the will of the majority of the Riigikogu is such that it must continue, so it can be organised better. Why are we playing the ostrich game here? If a country's budget strategy was designed, it could also have been clearly stated that yes, friends, regional investments will be worth five, six, seven or ten million euros this year. This amount should then be divided equally among all members of the Riigikogu, not so that the coalition gives something to the opposition, if the opposition does not behave very badly. At the moment, this money is, as far as I know, within the coalition's political groups, even as a means of leverage and punishment, no one can and no one will. Why can't these proposals be made sooner? Why do they have to come to the third reading in such a hurry? There is no clear answer to that. I hope that the Committee on Monetary Affairs will discuss this issue thoroughly in the autumn and will come to a more beautiful form for voters here, if the content of these proposals is also good and correct. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-14_U97	Thank you. There are no more requests for negotiation. I would like to thank all the participants in the debate, the representatives of the Special Committee on State Budget Control, the Minister for Finance, the speaker of the Committee on Monetary Affairs and all the colleagues who took the floor and asked for a substantive debate. We have finished this debate on this item.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-14_U98	Let's keep going. Today's fifth item is the second reading of the draft Act 247 amending the Law on Conformity of Products, initiated by the Committee on Economic Affairs. The rapporteur is Toomas Kivimägi, Chairman of the Economic Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-14_U99	Mr President, thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen in the Chamber! I am very pleased to inform you that no amendments have been received to the draft law amending the Product Compliance Act. There is only one conclusion here that this is a very necessary and very well prepared draft law. The Committee on Economic Affairs discussed this draft at its meeting on 7 June and took the following procedural decisions. Firstly, to propose that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda by 14 June 2016. Secondly, propose that the second reading be stopped. Third, send the draft to third reading when the second reading is completed by 16 June 2016. All the decisions were consensual. I would also say for information that in the meantime the position of the Government of the Republic was also received, as it is a draft initiated by the Committee on Economic Affairs. The Government of the Republic supported the draft. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-14_U100	Thank you, dear waitress. There are no questions for you. Do colleagues want to open negotiations? There are no negotiation requests either. No amendments to the draft have been tabled. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the second reading of draft 247. Second reading is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-14_U101	Today's last, sixth item is the second reading of the draft law amending the Water Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic, 243. For a presentation, Member of the Environment Committee of the Speaker Meelis Mälberg!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-14_U102	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Government of the Republic initiated a draft law amending the Water Act 243 on 16 May 2016. The draft clarifies the provision of information on groundwater bodies in the water management plans and takes over the amendments to the EU groundwater Directive. The first reading in the Riigikogu was completed on 1 June 2016 and the deadline for submitting amendments was set at 12 noon on 3 June 2016. A member of the Riigikogu, Helir-Valdor Seeder, tabled two amendments to the draft and the Committee on the Environment, in cooperation with the Ministry of the Environment, drafted two amendments, taking into account the views of livestock farmers and the Ministry of Rural Affairs. During the period between the first reading and the second reading of the draft proposal, the draft has been dealt with twice at the Commission's meeting on 6 and 7 June. a. Representatives of the Ministry of the Environment took part in these meetings and presented the proposals they had gathered and made on this draft. Members of the Riigikogu Helir-Valdor Seeder also took part in the meeting on 6 June. Three of the proposed amendments concern the addition of the Water Act to the points allowing, under certain conditions, the grazing of animals along inland waterways. The amendment tabled by Mr Seeder concerns manure management. As has been said, the changes are due to the need to resolve the issue raised by livestock farmers in relation to the grazing of animals in coastal and coastal pastures in the water protection zone. The amendment regulates measures for the protection of the aquatic environment for the grazing of animals and introduces a notification procedure for the organisation of grazing. As an interim remark, last autumn we changed the water law in this hall so that grazing on coastal pastures is permitted. In the case of inland waters, this issue remained unresolved as further analyses were needed and the effects of grazing on the shores of inland waters could be examined. In its discussions, the Commission found that the first proposal of the Riigikogu member Helir-Valdor Seeder concerning manure management was disregarded, as this topic needed a little more in-depth analysis and discussion. The Commission will definitely reopen this issue in the autumn and re-examine the problems of the whole manure sector. The second proposal by Helir-Valdor Seeder was partly taken into account by the Commission, as the proposal was already partially covered by Amendment 3 tabled by the Committee on the Environment. Amendment 3 solves the problem more broadly and includes not only the grazing of bovine animals on the shores of inland waters. After in-depth discussions, the Committee on the Environment took the following decisions at its meeting on 7 June: to propose a draft 243 on the agenda of the sitting of the Riigikogu on 14 June 2016; to propose a second reading of the draft 243; to propose a third reading of the draft 243 on the agenda of the sitting of the Riigikogu on 16 June 2016 and to hold the final vote on the draft. All decisions were taken by the Commission in a consensual manner. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-14_U103	Thank you. Dear waitress, there are also questions for you. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-14_U104	Good manager! Good performer! I would like to understand why Mr Seeder's proposal, according to which deep litter manure, with a dry matter content of at least 25%, can be kept for up to two years, was not supported. Why didn't it suit you?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-14_U105	The current law says that honor can be kept for eight months. The proposal was to extend this period to 24 months, i.e. two years, as you said. I said in my report that the issue of manure management will be discussed already in the autumn and then the problem will be resolved more widely, other proposals will also be made. There are still proposals that need to be made there. It has also been negotiated with livestock farmers, and their opinion was also that they first wanted to decide among themselves to reach consensus is perhaps a lot to say, but to learn what still needs to be changed. In the autumn, we will definitely come back to this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-14_U106	Arno Bridge, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-14_U107	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, I do not understand how these things are so complicated and difficult that it is necessary to divide the debate into several stages of the discussion of grazing by the sea, then grazing by the lake, then the question of manure management will be postponed. Sounds like a deliberate stretch of this thing. Farmers would like to know exactly what they can do, under what conditions they can and cannot do. These things still have to be solved. It is clear to all rural men and even urban men who compost garden products that in six months no compost or fermenting manure can be obtained; for at least two years, manure must stand in honor or heap. It is as clear and clear to everyone as it is, but it is still being discussed and explained again. How's the waitress gonna look at this thing?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-14_U108	Thank you. Let's come to the roots of the subject. It is not the Water Act that is designed to bully livestock farmers or farmers. We have objective problems with the quality of groundwater and agriculture is one of the sources of pollution. We must also herd animals and fertilize fields in such a way that our groundwater and water bodies are protected.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-14_U109	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-14_U110	I will continue on this subject, which my colleague, Mr Sild, said very well. As I said, it is clear to the hedgehog that this shit needs a longer period than eight months to be honored to make it so-called decent. Now you're saying we need to start discussing it again in the fall. Are you going to go back to the Water Act and start making a law to amend it? What's with all the bullshit? You could agree earlier, it's not some rocket science how long cow dung has to be honored.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-14_U111	Thank you for your question. The Water Act is probably one of the most amended laws in this hall. After all, the requirements that we ourselves make for water quality as water users are constantly changing. We all want our water to be clean and our aquatic life protected. That is why the Water Act has also been well amended. As far as keeping manure in the ana is concerned, it is really clear that in eight months manure will not become humus or compost as a result of natural fermentation processes. But you can't just change one number in the law, say that it's now 24 months, regardless of what the effect of keeping it honored on groundwater should be taken into account. Perhaps there is a need to take some measures, perhaps as an honor it must be protected in such a way that the excretion does not soak into groundwater. That's the question.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-14_U112	Thank you, dear waitress. No more questions for you. Do colleagues want to open negotiations? There's no call. Four amendments to the draft have been tabled and we will examine them. The first amendment has been tabled by Riigikogu member Helir-Valdor Seeder, the position of the commission is to disregard it. Another amendment has also been tabled by Riigikogu member Helir-Valdor Seeder, the position of the commission is to take part in the consideration. The third amendment has been tabled by the Committee on the Environment; the position of the commission is to take full account. The fourth amendment has also been tabled by the Committee on the Environment and has been fully taken into account. We have examined the amendments. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the second reading of draft 243. Second reading is complete. Thank you, colleagues. We have successfully passed today's agenda. The sitting is adjourned. I'll see you tomorrow. Closure of the sitting at 12.56 p.m.
