ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U1	Dear Riigikogu, good afternoon. Question Time. Incoming check, please! 40 members of the Riigikogu registered for the plenary session. Please, Martin Helme! A procedural question, I understand.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U2	Thank you. We were promised three ministers, we only see two. What happens now?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U3	There must be three ministers here, the MP's remark is correct. It will be examined where there is a third member of the government. Prime Minister Taavi Rõivas, Minister for Rural Affairs Urmas Kruuse and Minister for Foreign Affairs Jürgen Ligi must attend the Question Time. Last day, eight members of the Riigikogu expressed their wish to ask the question, so I will give you one additional question for each of the main issues.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U4	Let's go! The first question is for Foreign Minister Jürgen Ligi. Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U5	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Minister of Foreign Affairs! First of all, please welcome the members of the Riigikogu, Mr. Mevlüt Cavus-oglut, the Turkish Minister of Foreign Affairs, who should be visiting Estonia today. I am not the only member of the Riigikogu who has had close contact with him since the times of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. And be sure to wish for better respect for human rights in Turkey. But the question I registered was about Ukraine, given the current security situation. How high can the risk of further violations of Ukrainian sovereignty be considered and how well is the European Union as a whole prepared to prevent or respond to it?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U6	Please, Mr. Minister!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U7	Thank you. I will certainly say hello to the Turkish Foreign Minister and talk to him about a lot of difficult situations. But I think your question was a little incomplete. How high can the risk of further violations of Ukrainian sovereignty be considered? You must mean some nuance you forgot to mention. What prospect were you talking about? If you mean losing new territories here, territorially speaking, this conflict is now frozen. As you know, there are no direct signs of shifting the front, if that word is still correct at the moment. As far as democracy is concerned, Ukraine is preparing for the elections and is currently also drafting the electoral law. There are currently differences of opinion as to whether elections can be held in Eastern Ukraine, where there is essentially a war situation. I am not talking about Crimea here.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U8	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U9	Thank you. The answer remained a little incomplete because it is clear that the danger situation is constant there. This is not only about elections, it is certainly about the possibility of further military intervention. That is far from being ruled out. But I will ask you, as Minister for Foreign Affairs of the Presidency of the Council of Europe, in this way. What initiatives have been taken by the Committee of Ministers to protect, in particular, the rights of those living in Lugansk and Donets, as well as in Crimea? I also mean the Crimean Tatars. Their rights are not only violated on an individual level, but they are apparently quite clearly repressed as an ethnic group. What kind of international action can be taken, what kind of pressure? What proposals have been made to both Ukraine and the Russian side, particularly to the Russian side, in order to protect the human rights of these people?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U10	Thank you. Good questioner, if you want statistics or a historical review, it makes sense to use another form of questioning. The forms of work of the Council of Europe are well known to you, you are a member of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. You know which organisations and the form in which human rights are monitored. The Council of Europe has undoubtedly taken the lead in this and the Committee of Ministers has discussed these issues regularly. But I have to check the facts. As you know, I myself am not a permanent member of this committee, how to say it. I should check their agendas, what exactly were being discussed and at what time.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U11	Heimar Lenk, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U12	Thank you. Dear Minister of Foreign Affairs, You said it must be difficult to hold elections in the Donbass region in a war situation. Here's my specific question. What is your point of view: if the war goes down there, will the so-called self-proclaimed Republic of Donbass and the surrounding territories have a legitimate election to hold? The European Union calls it an area occupied by Russia and an area supporting military action, while the Minsk agreements include the organisation of these elections. What is Estonia's position as to whether elections should be held in Donbass or not?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U13	Thank you. You mentioned the Minsk agreements, the main issue of which is, however, to separate troops and to transfer control of the region to Ukraine. That is the main objective. On this basis, elections have also been deemed necessary. This is not the thing that everything should start with, but I admit that these disputes have not moved in a positive direction and it is very clear what is actually going to happen. The latest news says 95% of the local election law is ready. But the implementation of it by Ukraine does not seem hasty, not to mention that the law has not been passed. And in a situation where part of the territory is still occupied and there is no security whatsoever, the results of the election are in any case unconvincing.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U14	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U15	The next question is the Minister for Rural Affairs, Urmas Kruus. Siret Eagle, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U16	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. In order to avoid the spread of African swine fever, pig farmers must comply with biosecurity requirements which are controlled by veterinary and food authorities, whose assessment is based on the payment of the aid. The official's assessment of compliance with biosecurity requirements depends on how much the farm suffering from the plague receives support. In Saaremaa, also in Valjala Sea Farming, African swine fever was detected this August. The Saaremaa farm was said to meet the biosecurity requirements, but there was no fence around the farm. The farm still received support. However, the company operating in Lääne-Virumaa had a fence, but there was no biowashing mat and this farm was not supported. Why did one receive support, the other not, even though both were in fact inadequately met? Is the payment of grants not too much based on the official's subjective decision?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U17	Honourable questioner! In fact, this should have been asked by the VTA, whose people carry out daily controls. As regards compliance with and control of biosecurity requirements, new working groups and associated researchers have been set up for further testing and analysis. In cooperation with them, the weaknesses that pig farmers have had in their business have been identified. They have also been brought to attention. I cannot comment on these specific cases as Minister, because I do not make these decisions. But all decisions must comply with the law, because it is one of the grounds for paying out possible damages.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U18	Siret Eagle, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U19	Thank you, Mr President. Minister for Rural Affairs! The Law on the control of animal diseases clearly specifies the biosecurity requirements that all pig farmers must comply with so that the plague does not spread. Explain whether it is possible at all that different requirements for different Estonian pig farmers apply by default to different levels of difficulty. And if so, on what grounds? At the moment, there is a feeling that the biosecurity requirements will be met in very different ways in Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U20	Thank you. I don't know how to comment on your feelings, but I'm based on the fact that it's appreciated by experts and that scientists and pig farmers' representatives are involved. So I think the competent people have assessed the situation and made their decision accordingly.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U21	Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U22	Thank you, Mr. Speaker. Minister, thank you very much. I actually wanted to ask you something else, but your first response made such a point that we couldn't invite the Director-General of the Veterinary Office here, still just ministers. Are you responsible for anything at all in your ministry, or is everyone else responsible all the time? Are you a minister or a sledgeman?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U23	Honorable member of the Riigikogu! I certainly do not want to create the impression that the minister should be responsible for each individual's particular work. But I am aware of what has been done to ensure that biosecurity requirements are met and that potential risks and damage are properly and fairly assessed. At the moment, I am sticking to the fact that experts have assessed these different risks and made their own decisions accordingly. All these systems are designed to protect pig farmers from the spread of infection, on the one hand, and to pay fair compensation once the infection has reached the farm, on the other. This is also to ensure that pig farmers do not want to hide the infection.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U24	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U25	The next question is for Foreign Minister Jürgen Ligi. Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U26	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. Today we will be presented with a new state budget plan. I would ask you to take a brief look at whether there are cuts in our External Action Service, embassies, in connection with this plan. How much could the number of diplomats be reduced and will some representations be closed? It would be good if you could give me a little insight.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U27	Thank you. We are forced to review our activities all the time, as budgets do not tend to increase. There is no expected growth in the economy, and there is no inflation, which includes flexibility. After all, the entire state reform provides for a reduction in the number of public employees. In the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, this process is certainly much more complicated than in education, for example. In education, structural reforms can also lead to better quality savings. But I'm sure you'll be familiar with our nearest steps and know that the embassy network is closing this year in Shanghai. The Brazilian embassy will be closed at the turn of the year. Those two things have been decided. Otherwise, it could be said that the weighing has been postponed and that we are not opening embassies. We are very much involved in the burden of the Presidency, which is why embassies are still particularly needed. But in general, work volume needs to be constantly assessed and the need for embassies considered.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U28	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U29	Thank you. Are there plans to compensate for these closures and reductions in any way with the 'roaming ambassadors' who reside in Estonia or with other diplomats who reside permanently in Estonia but visit destination countries?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U30	Thank you. A number of countries must be covered from other embassies and there are countries that need to be covered more in the future than in Estonia so far. So the question is relevant and this practice has been tried. But we also cooperate with other countries through joint embassies, other countries help us. So, in general, we can still do it in the world.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U31	Kristjan Kõljalg, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U32	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Good minister! In one way we optimize the embassy network, in the other we invest significantly with the most important allies. For example, in the United States, the Estonian Embassy will be invested. Maybe you can talk about it a little bit? And the second question: how much are we using the help of other Member States of the European Union to have our representation in the rest of the world?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U33	Thank you. We will use the help of other countries. You could say not much, but we have common ground and we have just been able to use the support of other embassies. There are two very large investments in embassies: Moscow's embassy has been waiting a long time for an investment, while Washington's embassy is simply unfit for work. There has been a health-damaging environment, there has also been a fire, and as a result the house has started to fall apart. So literally, people's lives and health are at risk. Major plans are currently being made to remedy this situation. Which solution is exactly chosen, do not know, a few variants are still being considered.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U34	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U35	A question for the Minister of Rural Affairs, Urmas Kruus. Arthur Talvik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U36	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good minister! Let's look at the state budget in our hands for next year, but again there's no transitional support for farmers. It is known that the Ministry has applied for this payment from the state budget, but the transitional grant has been withdrawn. Can you tell me why there is no transitional support once again in the state budget?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U37	Thank you, Reverend Asker! Much was said about the support at yesterday's conference, where the title of the farmer was given over a year. Indeed, after discussing with experts, the Ministry has proposed that transitional support be further allocated from the state budget, but it is not considered appropriate to do so on the basis of the two principles. One of the principles is that when we talk about transitional support, we are also talking about a very old reference. This means that the reference for transitional support is about 20% ineffective. We would also be obliged to pay out subsidies to those companies that no longer operate in the dairy sector, for example. And another very important principle has been that we have wanted all the subsidies to pay out in a focused, precise and fast way. As a result, and given the availability of available resources, the Government has decided to pay additional emergency support. The current government is a government that has twice added additional domestic funds to other aid funds and almost the same amount: the first time EUR 7.6 million and this time about the same amount. So that's what principles have been.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U38	Arthur Talvik, a more specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U39	Thank you. Good Minister, thank you for your answer. I hope you have studied the study on Estonia's competitiveness in the dairy and pig sector compared to Latvia, Lithuania and Poland. This study, commissioned by the Committee on Rural Affairs, shows that, compared to these countries, Estonia's subsidies, whatever their name is, are lower than in Latvia, Lithuania and Poland. How come we don't want to keep our own the way our neighbors do?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U40	Thank you. When it comes to a specific study, I think there are several shortcomings that came out of yesterday's report. If we are simply talking about the fact that the Estonian state has not paid transitional support in the last few years, that is a fair and fair statement. That's a fact. However, when it comes to competitiveness, the argument that one cent of the outstanding transitional aid per kilo of milk weakens our competitive advantages is certainly not true. A lot of important facts are actually sales numbers. Sales figures show that even though Latvia and Lithuania have paid subsidies to their milk producers, they receive even less milk on the market than in the Republic of Estonia. So talking about this point of view of weakening competitiveness is not very adequate. The second thing to note is that if we look at the exceptional subsidies granted by the Government of the Republic in one year, which amounted to more than EUR 15 million, their amount is greater than the possible aid granted to the dairy sector authorised in two years.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U41	Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U42	Thank you, Mr. Speaker. Minister, thank you very much. I listen to your mathematics and I wonder that although they get less money and although Latvia and Lithuania are paying more subsidies to farmers, they are somehow worse. This is why they are able to operate under the conditions of this poorer purchase price, that the state supports them more than in Estonia. Of course, a study that reveals that we don't support our own very much, you don't like it. But I have a question about that $7.6 million or this emergency. It's sold to us here for years in a row. Can you specify such a thing: about half or a little less than half of this 7.6 million has been paid out, can it be paid out this year or not?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U43	Thank you, Reverend Asker! I have to say that this study also mentioned that Estonia is one of the countries that have moved money between the pillars and also directed it towards investments through the rural development plan. This actually means that certain possibilities for paying money from a specific pillar are smaller, but enough money has gone into business as a whole. Compared to the previous period, these money numbers have almost doubled. When it comes to government support, there has been a very clear scheme. Last time, it was taken into account that during the current year the government allocated money was paid out at the end of the year and that the remaining money was planned for this year. 4 million euros were paid out in the first quarter of this year. The budget for the following year was already planned for 4.6 million euros during the budget procedure, and the government decided to allocate another 3 million euros this year with an additional budget. The disbursement of this and the European Union's money will take place in the first quarter of next year.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U44	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U45	A question for Foreign Minister Jürgen Ligi. Enn Frontland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U46	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary of State! The free trade agreement between the EU and Canada has been prepared for seven long years. The 27 EU Member States are willing to sign this agreement, but the representatives of the French-speaking regions of Belgium are not. However, according to recent reports, President Tusk of the European Council is relatively optimistic. I am not asking if Canada's Prime Minister, Trudeau, is already on the plane to fly from Ottawa to Brussels for this ceremony, but what such a situation and a non-negotiable agreement will bring to the foreign policy of the European Union, part of which is a completely firm foreign economy.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U47	Thank you. Obviously, this issue is even more comprehensive than foreign policy. It is the decision-making power of the entire European Union, it is the ability of Europe as a whole to agree on what is necessary, and that is certainly a challenge. Of course, the fact that there are six parliaments in one of the 28 countries, one of which may be frustrated by a comprehensive agreement between the two major economic powers, is embarrassing and very regrettable. Its effects are very strong. This trade agreement is the most ambitious of the existing trade agreements and, if it fails, there will probably be no more major ones. The agreement with the US is even more complicated, and this would be particularly important globally, but if Canada fails, we have little hope of having an agreement with Canada, of course, and Canada will not be threatened by failure. However, the European Union is on the verge of a failure on this issue because of a single small region. But the big picture in itself is not bad, Europe has been predominantly in favour of this Treaty, and it is extremely positive. Free trade is something that creates wealth, especially in small countries.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U48	Enn Frontland, please specify the question!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U49	Thank you. Therefore, you agree with Prime Minister Taavi Rõivas' quite strong statement that if there is no free trade agreement between Canada and the European Union, it will also be impossible to foresee a free trade agreement between the European Union and the US. This would mean that strict customs conditions, public procurement and many other restrictions would remain in force. What really makes it particularly difficult is that we do not yet know who is going to be President of the United States. The Prime Minister's statement was to the paper Politics, that's where the quote is taken. In these circumstances, it must be relatively difficult to expect that trade relations between the European Union and the US, and in this connection very many other relations, will gain new strength in the near future and develop further?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U50	Thank you. This is also what I confirmed in my first reply that the agreement with the United States is even more complicated, much more complicated, and certainly the development of the agreement with Canada will be looked at with this eye. There are a number of unresolved issues with the US agreement. For example, the openness of local public procurement, which managed to resolve with Canada, is even more difficult for the United States. There are various limitations that are being negotiated in this agreement, and they are full of contradictions. The question now is whether we are moving towards greater freedoms, which are largely symbolized by trade and economic freedom at all, or whether we are not moving. With regard to democracy, we see a return movement in some countries, but free trade would have a very symbolic meaning other than that it is just an economically necessary thing, including the existence of jobs. Especially for small countries, I stress. Of course, we have a large European market ahead of us. It is difficult to reach Canada and the United States, but symbolically, the idea of free trade and economic freedom is at stake.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U51	Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U52	Thank you, Honourable Manager. Honorable Minister! Please rephrase as one minute's lecture, which contains the content of this opposition from the Belgian valloons. Why are they so reluctant?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U53	Thank you. I wouldn't take this professor's role, I'm the recipient of information, not the creator of it. But as far as I can tell from what I hear, there is no local economic interest at all. It is simply a political confrontation that Estonia can often experience if I may express politically. Sorry, but the attitude of the city of Tallinn towards the Estonian government is basically that. This is a confrontation at the level of persons and political parties, which does not really have a rational point. Just local confrontation is being transferred to European level, so I have been explained this matter. But, yeah, I don't have any in-depth knowledge of that. I have not been able to track down any economic interest that Wallonia might now have in play, this is about some social standards that are, like, in danger. At the same time, it can be assumed that Canada's social standards are in no way below the social standards of Wallonia, which have recently been slightly damaged. There is a paradox here, and that also refers to a political vest around this problem.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U54	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U55	And now Arno Bridge is asking the Minister of Rural Affairs, Urmas Kruus. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U56	President-in-Office of the Council. Minister, thank you very much. Practice is a criterion of truth and I will read out a few figures very briefly. In 2010, we had 1549 pig farmers, 189 pig farmers in May this year, and it is predicted that there will be less than 100 next year. At the same time, we have reached such a level in the production of pigmeat that currently pigs are grown enough to feed the Estonian people. But then, as you can see from this downward step, it's starting to go backwards. In short: how to proceed? What measures do the Ministry of Rural Affairs and the government plan to stop this decline?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U57	Thank you, Reverend Asker! If you look at the numbers, the number of pigs in Estonia has definitely decreased. This has been particularly severe as a result of African swine fever since 2015, but also for another reason concerning the structure of exports. Live pigs have no longer been able to move out of Estonia, and this means that the economic benefits are no longer great. We have based our aid measures on a few important principles, one of which is that a certain basic herd must be preserved. Therefore, the aid provided for by the European Union in the new third zone is certainly directed towards sows by applying a double coefficient. This will help maintain the main herd. Secondly, I would like to point out that, if we look at pig rearing as an industry, the European Union sees it as one industry and not as part of agricultural policy, we can see that there have been some major changes in the structure of pig farming. Porcine herds have become increasingly large and this reduces the number of operators in this sector. It is also true that more small producers have left the sector.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U58	Arno Bridge, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U59	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. The question to be clarified is that can you tell me whether the plan to reduce the number of feral pigs has now been fully realised or whether it still needs to be continued?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U60	Thank you. According to today's knowledge, the target of 1.5 individuals per 1000 hectares of hunting ground has not yet been met. But that's where they're going. Neither the Ministry of the Environment nor the Ministry of Rural Affairs has declared that this indicator should not be pursued. After all, this is a very important part of the fight against African swine fever.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U61	Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U62	Thank you, Mr. Speaker. Good minister! We've lost about a third of the pig herd. The plague will also be over at one point, the crisis will be over, and then the biggest question is how we will restore our markets. What are the methods that the Ministry of Rural Affairs has put forward, or what kind of support can we offer to the remaining producers to return to markets that have in the meantime gone into the hands of competitors because we have not had the capacity or we have not been able to export because of restrictions?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U63	Thank you, Reverend Asker! When we look at statistics and export markets, we see that the basic markets have remained more or less the same when we talk about the neighbouring countries of Latvia, Lithuania, Finland. However, the fact is also that certain volumes have decreased, and this means that operators need to make more efforts to export certain products that can be exported when hot worked. The national measures have helped the pig sector to comply with stricter biosecurity requirements in order to avoid the risk. Our officials have acted to ensure that zone three is fairly valid for a maximum short period of time. There are first examples of the disappearance of the third zone from South Estonia, which gives producers there the opportunity to export more of their products. As regards the various food safety agreements with the various countries of destination, the Ministry of Rural Affairs sat down with the companies and jointly mapped out additional opportunities to find new export markets. But some countries have indeed declared that before the African swine plague has disappeared from Estonia, they will not allow our pork to enter their market.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U64	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U65	A question for Foreign Minister Jürgen Ligi. Ain Lutsepp, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U66	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Honourable Minister of Foreign Affairs! The European Union is in one of the most difficult situations in its history. The British are leaving, the free trade agreement with Canada has not been able to be signed after years of negotiations, and Russia is not able to agree on new sanctions and other initiatives. My question concerns sanctions against Russia. What's the plan? Will negotiations take place before the next summit?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U67	Thank you. I agree very much with the beginning of this introduction, but I have to disagree with the end of this. Europe has been able to agree on sanctions against Russia, and this is even somewhat admirable, given the differences that Member States have had in their attitude towards Russia in the past. However, what was decided as a result of the events in Ukraine shows the unity of Europe, shows the inconsistency of this situation and the possibility that dissent will be suppressed and agreed when it comes to moral and security actions so strongly. And these sanctions have never been relaxed; they have been tightened up. Your question must refer to Syria. The discussions on sanctions that have taken place in Syria, particularly in Aleppo, are very fresh, but we have had an exchange of views between the foreign ministers on this issue. I do hope that Europe will once again show its unity when it takes some time.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U68	Ain Lutsepp, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U69	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Honourable Minister of Foreign Affairs! What is Estonia's initiative here? And is it possible that the Italian Prime Minister will change his position on the new sanctions against Russia against Aleppo?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U70	Thank you. Not at the initiative of Estonia, but really there is now a country that did not want to mention sanctions in the Council conclusions. That's the state of play. Foreign ministers discussed the dates and weeks at the Foreign Affairs Council meeting, but it seems that this was last Monday, and they also discussed the conclusions on whether or not to mention Russia. From the beginning, Russia's mention was in question. There was no mention of a criminal in the original draft, and that was a problem that did find criticism. In these discussions we have expressed our views. I expressed the view that sanctions should be discussed. It's all very early. We need to talk about them for a while, figure out what they might be. However, the current events in Syria must not be left unreacted or reacted with very soft texts and steps.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U71	Ain Lutsep's questions were answered. Jaak Madison, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U72	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Good Minister of Foreign Affairs! I, too, am asking about the future of the European Union. This morning, fresh information came about the statement by the Italian Prime Minister, Matteo Renz. As Foreign Minister, how do you assess its impact on the unity of the European Union, which we have talked about repeatedly today? What will be the effect if the Italian Prime Minister says that they are prepared to veto the budget of the European Union next year if the Eastern European countries do not accept more migrants from Italy to assist Italy? How do you think this will contribute to the unity of the European Union and how will it help to solve substantive problems when a very important Member State in southern Europe is exerting pressure and blackmailing others? And the European Union's budget for next year is at stake.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U73	Thank you. Matteo Renzi has made strong statements on a number of issues which are affecting other countries and which are violating European unity in one way or another. But politics is the art of compromises, including foreign policy. I am very surprised by these statements. It is clear that it is extremely difficult for us to talk about only one issue, not knowing whether there are perhaps promises that have not been fulfilled or whether agreements have not been reached in another area. Fortunately, Estonia has been concerned about refugees, and also about European solidarity, in this camp, which has shown solidarity in its policies, and can say everything that it thinks about the European budget without feeling indebted. We have received and treated our 60 refugees properly. However, there are countries that claim that this is not their concern at all, as long as refugees have not crossed their borders without permission. Unfortunately, the solution is not that we simply say no. We need to manage this process and work together on this.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U74	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U75	The next question is also for Foreign Minister Jürgen Ligi. Asks again Jaak Madison.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U76	Thank you, President of the Riigikogu. Again, good Minister of Foreign Affairs! I will start by taking this opportunity to congratulate the Prime Minister, who sets a good example for society and has decided to row on the beach. So congratulations to you! However, my question also concerns the Prime Minister in part. I received an answer today to a written question concerning the Eastern Partnership Summit next year. All previous summits have been held by the Presidency of the European Union, Latvia, Lithuania, Poland and the Czech Republic, and the next meeting is scheduled for the second half of next year, the Estonian Presidency. According to the current Decision, it is planned to organise an event in Brussels. However, as the Prime Minister replied to my question in writing, it is possible to agree with the European Commission and organise it in Estonia. What do you think this would be necessary given the current security situation and Estonia's very important role in precisely communicating between the countries of the European Union and the Eastern partners?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U77	Thank you. Was the question still about the Eastern Partnership Summit, not this beach? Let me get this straight. I got a little distracted. Estonia itself organises summits during its Presidency, and this also concerns the Eastern Partnership. There have been some controversy on this subject, but we have preferred Brussels as a place to take place, so that the Eastern Partnership is not just an Eastern European issue, but a feeling of ownership of it, or, as is said today, ownership of it by all European countries. However, the Presidency will no longer decide on the timetable for summits in itself. He is, of course, involved in this, but since the adoption of the Treaty of Lisbon, the real final decision-makers are the President of the Council and the President of the European Commission. But we have good cooperation with them.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U78	Jaak Madison, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U79	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Good Minister of Foreign Affairs! I would point out that we are talking about the Eastern Partnership Summit, which is also on schedule. This must take place in the second half of next year, which coincides with the Estonian Presidency. And I would also like to point out again that I received a reply from the Prime Minister today that Estonia has the opportunity to propose to the European Commission that this summit be held in Tallinn. It falls under the Estonian Presidency and is organised as the Estonian Presidency, but the current plan is to organise it in Brussels. But the point of my question was, aren't you afraid that if we organise it in Brussels, its weight will simply decrease. It can be buried under other meetings and dissipated in this large Villakulla. If we organise the event in Tallinn, it will increase Estonia's role as a leading state at the time, which will mediate important Eastern Partnership relations in the current security situation and also organise a summit on this matter.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U80	Thank you. Like I said, it's the other way around. Especially in the current security situation, it is very important that the Eastern Partnership is not just an issue, but that this summit takes place in the heart of Europe, and everyone would feel that this issue also concerns those who are concerned that it is a matter of security, democracy, the rule of law that we consider to be important for Europe as a whole. It's not just a local problem in some outlying regions. So this choice is conscious. On the other hand, however, we have proposed that the European Union summit on the future of the European Union take place in Tallinn. So there will not be two summits in Tallinn, but one in Tallinn and the other in Brussels. Tallinn will certainly receive a great deal of attention when the debate on the future of the European Union, especially in Brexit conditions, is in Tallinn. Estonia will, of course, receive attention, but Tallinn will continue to be called the place of this important discussion. And it is rather the opposite with the Eastern Partnership: if we have this meeting on the outskirts of the European Union, there is a risk that mentally this issue will also land in peripheral areas in the future.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U81	Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U82	Thank you, Mr. Speaker. Minister, thank you very much. It doesn't make any sense to me. The Estonian taxpayer pays nearly 100 million euros for the Presidency of the European Union. The main thing about all this is what we hear, that we get important people here, important meetings, raising the profile of Estonia in the world. We're organizers, we're in the picture. Now I understand what you're saying, we're actually just paying for everything. The European Commission is organising a whole lot of things for our money, and we have to do errand-boy work. Wouldn't it make more sense, then, to save the money and say that you should handle it all yourself?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U83	Thank you. I am talking to you for the first time on this subject, and I did not express any of the views you mentioned. I didn't quite understand what you wanted to say. That it's some strange problem we're paying for, isn't it your view? I do not know whether the foreign concern is the future of the European Union or the Eastern Partnership or both. But it's either way we're the organisers. What's the problem? We can certainly direct the debate more than the ordinary Member State, and these issues are of course crucial. Europe's destiny is also our destiny. However, the fate of the Eastern partners is actually the same, and the summit will allow us to address many of the issues that concern us very directly, not only regionally but also ideologically and in security policy.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U84	Honourable Riigikogu! Honourable ministers! We have no further questions registered for today. I give members of the Riigikogu the opportunity to register now. Press the "Word" key and say in one minute the minister to whom you are asking the question, as well as the question. The minister can answer in two minutes. Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U85	Thank you. My question is to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, and it relates to the border agreement between the eastern neighbour and us. In the spring we talked about things dragging into the autumn and waiting until the elections in Russia are over. It's been two months since these elections and I'd like to know how the border treaty goes.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U86	Thank you. It can be said that we are looking forward to ratification of the border agreement by Russia, but no movement has been observed, except for the opinion of the Chairman of the new Duma Committee on Foreign Affairs that the agreement is going to ratification. We checked it, and the State Department of Foreign Affairs didn't confirm it. However, this non-confirmation does not necessarily mean that it is not serious. We follow the statements made by Russian politicians all the time and try to connect them somehow. You can't rule out progress, but you can't be too optimistic because things have stood still. Well, I guess we missed one chance, in part, on our own fault, that was nine or ten years ago. Then it seemed easier, now it's a little more complicated.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U87	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U88	Thank you, Mr President. The question is for the Minister of Foreign Affairs. I am sorry that you do not orient yourself very well on the issues of the Presidency of the Council of Europe. I understand that, of course, because you had to take over on the run. We hope that we will do better with the Council of the European Union. I will come back to the subject of the Eastern Partnership and I will ask you this way. Where is this summit taking place may not be so important, but what are Estonia's substantive proposals for the Eastern Partnership that we want to come up with? Are there any new winds in planning development aid towards Georgia, Ukraine and Moldova, which we have historically considered to be our priorities?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U89	Thank you. Right now, this whole plan is pretty general. In the Eastern Partnership, we are pressing for countries to be better able to stand up with international support and advice so that their resistance is stronger and their democracy secure. They must be strong rule of law and be able to implement better reforms. Their support goes in a wide range of ways, including the development aid we provide. But the main content is counseling and cheering, nothing else. However, all these plans are now well in general and are still being worked out. It's too early for me to predict any agendas.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U90	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U91	Good manager! I want to ask the Prime Minister. Yesterday, the proposal of the Free Party to provide crisis assistance to farmers was voted down. Turns out you don't have to. At the same time, the farmers' elite were present at the year's farmer's event. They could have been in this hall, and then maybe they would have gone differently. But my question is, is there no way to squeeze out more crisis aid for farmers? They're really in trouble now, and isn't there anything to give this year besides that 3 million?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U92	Thank you. As I understand it, you are the only brave opposition ambassador who has decided to break today's strike. After all, the opposition ambassadors pretend that everything in Estonia is so good that they don't have to ask the Prime Minister a question. So anyway, thank you for the question. But as far as agricultural crisis aid is concerned, as the Minister for Rural Affairs, Urmas Kruuse has repeatedly explained, we have planned a budget of 4.6 million euros for the top-up next year, and precisely for the sector that needs top-up most, namely dairying. In theory, it would be possible to pay milk producers up to EUR 9.2 million. The budget is currently in Riigikogu proceedings. If the Riigikogu also finds a source of cover that is acceptable to the majority of the Riigikogu, you can add this support to the draft. But yes, I would like to make it clear that the top-up of half the maximum amount of the maximum amount of the milk sector is foreseen in the budget. Moreover, the Minister for Rural Affairs at my right hand can confirm that we also have emergency crisis aid of EUR 3 million provided for in this year's relocation procedure. In the near future, this will hopefully be approved by the Riigikogu, and there will be a number of other places where the Minister of Rural Affairs and his colleagues, for example from Latvia and Lithuania, will seek further European support for the crisis. It worked well last year and it will work this year. If the difficult situation in the dairy industry in the European Union persists, it can be assumed that the European Union is also ready to put more on its shoulders and we do not have to talk only about top-up, which, as has been said, we will pay next year.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U93	Maire Aunaste, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U94	I was also afraid the Prime Minister had come to the briefing today for nothing, but Peter Ernits got ahead. My question, luckily, is very simple. Mr. Clothes, as Prime Minister, please respond, what is the greatest concern and the greatest joy in your life right now?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U95	Thank you for this very good question. Of course, I must begin by saying that it is always a great honour to be before the Riigikogu, even if the members of the Riigikogu do not have any questions at the moment. And I thank you for the fact that almost every time I have taken part in Riigikogu Question Time, you will be in the Chamber from start to finish and will be actively participating! Now, more serious issues. Of course, the biggest and most serious issues of concern relate to the security of the Estonian state. But on this subject, we also have an overstatement today that there is very good news. The substantial increase in the presence of the allies agreed at the Warsaw Summit will become a reality, in a very dignified way. Today, the British Minister of Defence announced exactly what this unit will be, who will come to Estonia, and this unit will be very dignified. In addition to ensuring security, Estonia faces the challenge of giving new impetus to the economy. There will also be news on this subject in the near future. At the Prime Minister's request, I believe that ten of Estonia's best economic experts will draw up a rather comprehensive plan that will make policy-related proposals. And these proposals are not driven by one ideology or another, but by the real needs of the Estonian business environment. I hope that these proposals will also give debate to the whole of Parliament. Thank you for this opportunity.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U96	Thank you, Prime Minister Taavi Rõivas, Minister of Foreign Affairs Jürgen Ligi and Minister of Rural Affairs Urmas Kruuse! Question Time is over.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U97	Dear fellow Members, Honourable Riigikogu! Good afternoon. We will begin the 6th working week session of the 4th plenary session of the Riigikogu on Wednesday. First of all, I would like to ask for a chair of speakers from the Riigikogu who wish to hand over drafts or inquiries. Please, Mikhail Stalnukhin!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U98	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of 19 members of the Riigikogu, I will refer an inquiry to Prime Minister Taavi Rõivas. It's about the activities of the Government of the Republic. I would remind you that on 23 May including 23 May, the National Audit Office presented us with a report on the development of Estonian aviation. It stated that Estonian Air received EUR 85 million illegally from the Government of the Republic on the basis of decisions taken by the Government of the Republic. In principle, this means that these decisions were illegal. But in our questioning, we ask you to talk about other matters. Most of the people in this hall have ever worked in the local government. You understand perfectly that if a decision is taken illegally in a municipality or council, in other words, contrary to the rules of procedure, for example documents are submitted later than necessary or no expert evaluation is made, or the allocation of funds is not related to the development plan, then all of this is assessed as a criminal offence. In this case, it has taken place in the Government of the Republic. One funny thing about the meeting of one government was the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications and the State Chancellery. One claimed that this hearing took place, the other said that it did not take place. But the question is about Estonian Air's 80 million. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U99	There's no more calls. I have adopted an inquiry on behalf of the management board of the Riigikogu, and according to our Home and Rules of Procedure Act, the Management Board of the Riigikogu decides on its further proceedings. Let's do this, good fellows, a presence check. 73 members of the Riigikogu registered as present; no 28.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U100	Now, let's get to our agenda today. Yesterday we missed the following item: The first reading of the Bill 273 of Amendment to the Administrative Reform Act, which was initiated by the members of the Riigikogu, Jüri Adams, Monika Haukanõmme, Krista Aru, Andres Herkel, Ain Lutsep and Külliki Kübarsse. We left this place when our good co-worker Jüri Adams was in the chair, whom I now ask for in the Riigikogu speech chair. Jüri Adams had finished his presentation and we were facing a round of questions. There were three questions upstairs, these are the first three in line today. And there's already a fourth one. Let's start a round of questions. Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U101	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! I thank you for the thorough presentation that we had the opportunity to listen to yesterday. I now ask how the limit of the ethnographic setus area has historically developed, both east and east, between the setus and the vipers. And in a forward-looking way: what is their current demographic state and what are their chances of preserving their cultural identity? After all, this bill is aimed at supporting and maintaining the cultural identity of the Union.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U102	The historical boundary has probably developed during the border wars, i.e. Livonia or, more specifically, the bishopric of Tartu and the Livonian Order and, on the other hand, the trials between the Prince of Pihkva and his later successor Moscow. This border is quite natural, essentially along two rivers: south along the Piusa River and north along the Mädajõgi River. It is perfectly geographically available, and before the age of cars, it was quite a logical place for the border. As regards the belonging of this people to one side or the other, it is now the general view that the South Estonians who speak of Võru's dialect have been farther east in previous centuries and also north, behind Lake Lämmijärv. But, for example, in the case of the Kraasna rural people who lived behind the Velikaja River, it is not clear what their origin is. As for the question of feeling and language, linguists consider the dialects used in Setumaa as part of the general Võru dialect. They don't see any significant difference there. There are significant differences in the cultural vocabulary. By breaking Võru, as is generally the case in other dialects of the Estonian language, the cultural vocabulary has many loans from German and Swedish, and the influence of Russian dialects is felt on the other side. As regards the name,'setu' or'seto' was the name used in East Tartu and East Võrumaa for people living in Setumaa. Later on, this nation has embraced, and is greatly respected, the name, which was not very friendly at first, rather a mockery. Historically, they have not known the name of their people; they have generally called themselves the people of the earth.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U103	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U104	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! Could you describe to us the current situation of the Setus? How many are there? Has the exodus from the ancient areas of Setumaa been very large, or is it immigration and re-population? What is the situation in the old Setu territories today?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U105	In the West of Petseri County, where Setus settlement was dominant, Russian villages and language islands have either disappeared or are disappearing. As far as this part of the territory which the Russian Federation has taken over is concerned, the settlement of both the Setus and the non-denominational Estonians has almost disappeared from this area. Since the economic, political and legal circumstances were much different from those of the Estonian SSR, voting with feet took place in search of better living conditions. The last largest population of Estonians was in the town of Petseri. These were mainly people who had served a long-term sentence in Soviet prison camps and did not receive permission to live in the Estonian SSR. This population was immediately displaced when Soviet power began to ease before the great kingdom fell apart. That's the picture right now. Legally, there are three rural municipalities in the present Republic of Estonia from the former Petseri County: on the north there is Värska Municipality, followed by Mikitamäe Municipality and on the west there is Meremäe Municipality. He has such a narrow border with two northern powers. The most interesting thing is that one part of Setumaa was called the Luhamaa doll. Nulls were such local self-determination units in Setumaa. The Luhamaa dolly was the part of the territory that came to Estonia that was not connected to the composition of Petserimaa. Since it was a more compact area, it was connected to Võrumaa and now it is part of Misso rural municipality, about one third of it. And in this respect, the mood of the four or three and a half municipalities is that it should certainly make Setu a public municipality, perhaps the most dominant. This is also supported recently by the leaders of the Võru part of Misso parish at a travel event in Misso parish. These things should break up after they've lived together for almost a hundred years.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U106	Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U107	Honourable President! Respectable waitress! The Setus have been real dredges in some things. It has even been a little amazing to read that the Setu group of businessmen who decided to remain anonymous has said that if there were to be a common Setumaa, this initiative could be rewarded with a million euros. What does the cooperation of the Setus look like now? Is there a consensus there? Is there any joint initiatives worth mentioning?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U108	The answer is partly yes, partly no. As far as the Jaa side is concerned, it must be said that there was certainly a hesitation among the Setas until the end of the first independence of the Republic of Estonia, who they really are. But then the Soviet occupation came up, and that was the crucial argument that after that, no setu had doubted whether they were Estonians. At the same time, it is the formation and preservation of microethnosis within the Estonian people. This is the direction we are seeing today among the peoples of Europe. But in this sense, the Estonian people now differ in very many respects from what the Estonian people were before World War II. For example, we have had a large share of the Ingers, plus almost 100,000 descendants of expatriates who returned from Russia. They are certainly such a loyal part of the Estonian people. As far as cooperation is concerned, it has developed its own national intellectual union, which is doing everything possible to keep people with the same roots together. There are quite a lot of practical cooperation projects, I don't know them all by heart. There is a very active organisation called the Setomaa Municipality Association, which includes four municipalities, including only part of Setu settlement in Misso municipality. So practical cooperation is actually taking place. What are the arguments against this? Since, say, the mid 1950s, when, according to the administrative division of the Estonian SSR, districts and village councils were created, which are now called rural municipalities, the two northern Setu rural municipalities, Värska and Mikitamäe, whose administrative and economic attraction center is Põlva city. The alternative to the city of Põlva was in the meantime the city of Petseri, but this opportunity has now been completely taken away, and in this area it is not only a matter of official business, but also of where to go to the store if you want to have more choice than in the supermarket. Then there's only one way to go to Põlva. The Meremäe area is exactly the same, but the direction is Võru or Vastseliina village. There is a problem rather that most of the Soviet time was in the territory of the present municipality one of the giant sovhoos, whose name was Sovhoos Victory. Its centre was the Vastseliina settlement, the former manor, which included part of the Võru area around Vastseliina, the area of Kapera, which was given back to Vastseliina in the restoration of Estonia's independence or was disbanded. Vastseliina has been a centre of attraction for many economic and everyday work in the area for several generations. It also explains why Meremägi is probably more fond of Vastselina, all the more so since there is no alternative in Petseri's face at all, this city has been cut off. As for this southern Luhamaa fir, which is part of Misso parish, the only conceivable centre for this is the city of Võru. In fact, the closest centre is Aluksne, or Marienburg, in Latvia, which has been a historical centre.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U109	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U110	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! The proposal of the rural municipalities of Setumaa received an exception letter to the draft amendment to the Administrative Reform Act. And now you're writing that actually putting it into the law of administrative reform deepens separation and doesn't serve a purpose. Has it been affected by the hairy hand of the Great Võrumaa or how this result has been achieved?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U111	I don't know. I don't know a lot of things. I know that the dream of a large or at least as large as possible from Võrumaa is entirely there, but it is extremely difficult to do in the Estonian administrative system. The northern part of the historic Võrumaa is now part of Põlva County and the western part of the historic Võrumaa belongs to Valga County, I mean Antsla. As far as the possibility of a hairy hand is concerned, I think that there is no hairy hand, but it is clear that although I believe that there is an outstanding amount of cooperation and respect for each other among Setu and Võru cultural figures at present, the starting point is that we are separate, so that our language is almost the same. There is a cultural difference. As far as administrative reform is concerned, first of all, I must say that I am not a big fan of administrative reform. In my opinion, it is extremely childish to make administrative reform on the basis of random figures. I do not understand why these figures should be used as a basis for the bill, if the records say virtually nothing in a situation where a large number of people are only present for a part of the year and are constantly commuting for work, for example, between southern Finland. In my opinion, these figures do not say anything as an argument. But the reason I'm spending so much of your time is because I want to say that a reasonable statesman should understand two things. First of all, when it comes to a problem as big as the transformation of the borders of local administration in Estonia, where it is part of a country where some basic solutions can be implemented. Secondly, we need to understand where there are places where the general rules do not work and some local exceptional agreement has to be made because geographical circumstances require it, as is the case in the islands in West Estonia and Setumaa. I do not think there is an alternative. I think it's a shame that you and I have been partly guilty. We may be pointed out that we have allowed these people to be insulted for stupid and pen-absorbed reasons for at least six months, rather than being held up as reasonable statesmen and bringing this matter to an end in weeks or two. I'd like to end up here with one call. If our current Minister for Reform does not see the problem, it is his problem that he does not see the problem. However, you and I could see this problem and find the easiest way to solve it. The amendment of the law is essentially a rather simple technical undertaking if there is the political will of the government coalition. But why can't our newly elected President or our Prime Minister take it on now? Our Prime Minister didn't say until some time ago that I understood what he was saying in such a way that he didn't feel sufficiently applied. May he then apply himself to do so, and may the four inhabited areas of Setumaa be united. Why are we doing what we're doing? This has no perspective and does not make sense.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U112	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U113	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! First of all, I am of the opinion that § 9 (3) of the Administrative Reform Act would still allow the municipality of Setomaa to be formed. The Seto Congress and its body of elders have commissioned various expertise to prove what you have said here about cultural and historical integrity, as well as legal expertise, etc. How representative do you consider the views of the body of elders as a statement of the Setos' will, its whole work and its output?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U114	I think it's very representative. There is also the Seto Congress, an even higher body, which includes representatives of the Seto groups behind the current control line. They've been expressing their thoughts a lot, and I don't see any suspicion here. But in political terms, the most ugly thing right now is that the behaviour of the government coalition towards Setumaa has been such in the course of administrative-territorial reform that I do not even wish it for my enemies. First of all, there is a political message: we do not notice you, we do not care about you, we do not care about you, do with your voluntary accession. At the same time, there are no voluntary alternatives. I also mentioned here yesterday that some of the local governments are currently in an extremely stupid position. In their souls, they would like to deal with the creation of a larger Setumaa, which, by the way, probably requires some kind of separate injection of money, but this silly law, the Arto Asa Act, which was stamped here, has put them in a position to inform their local people that there are two ways: whether we abandon the idea of a common Setumaa municipality or if you lose all the accession grants that the law grants to the rest of Estonia. In my opinion, local leaders should not be put in this position.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U115	Mark Soosaar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U116	Dear waitress Jüri Adams! Here's what I'm gonna ask. I don't quite understand. If Setumaa is not united, does this mean that Setu culture will remain administratively in four different communities where the Setus have a minority of votes in all of them? One community is known to be on the other side of the country's control line, with three remaining from the border towards Estonia. How will it affect Seto's culture if it happens like this? Maybe it'll do you a lot better than that. It is known that there are plenty of nations who are beginning to hold more of their language and culture in the fire of the resistance. Why don't we make it a special desire to join?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U117	Honourable questioner! First of all, I will correct the sound of your question a little bit. The four estates I called are all on this side of the control line. I almost avoided the subject behind the control line and the future prospects of this area. This is a very serious problem in itself. The indigenous population has left it, both Setus and Russians live in Estonia as a rule. This is where the newcomers from Inner Russia have arrived. With these so-called old ones, we, the speakers of Estonian, have much more similar views and experiences. As far as culture is concerned, it's very difficult to answer you. The self-consciousness of the Setas has not yet been fully established; it is, in my opinion, in the final phase of development, from which there will be no return. However, there are still a whole range of people who are not quite sure who they are, either they are setus and Estonians at the same time or they are only Estonians. One reason why I initiated this draft and an analogous one is the deep doubt that the current process, which provides for these decisions to be made with the votes of the members of the parish councils, is reasonable. We have at least the experience of Meremäe parish that there was one vote here and there. I don't know what it's like in other parishes. It doesn't make sense. These are random results. I think the public polls could provide a better basis. Now, the cultural issue is separate. This is also in the sense that ethnographic rarity, such as Setumaa with its songs and folk clothes, is given enough money for moving cultural programs in today's world. Such exotic phenomena are glad to be given it. Basically, with some European fund money, they can go to a concert somewhere in New York or Brussels. The question is whether Setu culture will become an ethnographic obsolescence that will only live on as long as these grants and subsidies are. It's an alternative. Such archaic and project-based cultural activities, I fear, will soon lose behind those representatives of their people who do not participate in cultural activities, even because they have to earn their bread in another way, or because they have not been blessed with a tune and a song. So the question of what Setu culture is, for example, in 15 to 20 years' time is very serious. They're in the corner right now. Of course, the fights will not stop, no matter what decisions are made this year or how they will proceed, but these decisions will certainly tilt the process to one side or the other. And it is our moral duty as representatives of the people to point it out. In building or shaping a nation, we, who are among the indigenous Estonians, have been more involved in certain steps of the stairs, and our experience is slightly greater. Designing a contemporary culture throughout Estonia is also, in a certain way, constantly making choices, both forward and backward.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U118	Arno Bridge, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U119	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, You almost answered what I wanted to ask. But I want to say for my part that the lives of the Setos so far have shown that they do not care about administrative boundaries, not even the border with a large neighbour. They will have powerful cultural events in common anyway, so they will be the days of the Seto Kingdom or, for example, a powerful Finno-Ugric event in Obinitsa, which was recently. I want to ask you this: do you agree with me that, regardless of whether Meremäe Parish will join or how exactly these borders will be there, Seto culture will surely survive? You were wondering what would happen in 15 years. They don't turn around in this corner, the Seto culture is definitely evolving.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U120	Basically, I agree with that assessment. The more accurate answer is that it would be good to go in such a way that, without further trouble, the four parts of Setumaa could be connected into one of the new great powers. It has been said that this could be an even wider area, for example Võrumaa could come to the municipality of Orava. Some sort of solution could be good. When it comes to communicating with people living in areas beyond the control, it is a hugely long topic that we cannot talk about here. I do not think that the Estonian state has done everything it could have done, but there are certainly things that have not been in the power of the Estonian state. I would like to draw attention to the fact that the monastery of Petseri became one of the most important ideological centres of the so-called new type of Russian non-communist nationalism by the end of the Soviet era. They have never accepted the idea that the monastery or the surrounding city could be located somewhere else than in Russia. See, just because a person doesn't say a few things doesn't mean that he doesn't mean it. What I know is that it is likely to be very difficult for us to get the opinion of some of the current leaders of Setu rural municipality in front of the official channel camera on what the current border is and probably the border agreement that insures it. But I am saying that the current south-east border of national sentiments will not be accepted, I do not believe that in the foreseeable future at least a few or three next generations in their souls will accept what happened. In some ways, they have a positive political ideal that perhaps characterises each nation: if possible, they would like to regain the maximum number of lands that were once inhabited by their own people. I guess this political ideal stays there after there isn't me and there isn't you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U121	Good waitress, thank you! No further questions. Please present the Chair of the Riigikogu, Chairman of the Constitutional Committee Kalle Laaneti. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U122	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Constitutional Commission discussed the draft on Monday, 17 October. Jüri Adams, Andre Sepp, Andres Anvelt, Anneli Ott, Kalle Muuli, Lauri Luik, Jaak Madison and Mikhail Stalnukhin took part in the committee meeting. Mart Nutt and Peter Ernits were missing. Jüri Adams, the honorable waitress from the initiators, gave us just as comprehensive an overview as he gave yesterday and here today. I'm not gonna go over this again. Olivia Talle, Legal Adviser to the Regional Development Department of the Ministry of Finance, who gave an overview of the government's position, was invited as a representative of the Government. Olivia Taltud explained that the Government of the Republic decided not to support the draft at its meeting on 29 September, as the Administrative Reform Act allows for the application of the exception in the case of culturally and geographically interconnected municipalities, including Setumaa. We are talking about Section 9 (3) (2) of the Administrative Reform Act. If we support the derogation proposed in the draft, there may be a question of legal clarity, as it will remain open to which exemption will be implemented. The exception in law requires that the municipality has at least 3500 inhabitants. The exemption proposed in the draft is not required except that the municipality consists of municipalities and parts thereof in Setumaa. The current Administrative Reform Act already provides an opportunity for the municipality to form on the basis of at least four parts of the municipality, i.e. the transfer of certain villages. By way of derogation, it is also allowed to merge in such a way that the municipality consists of separate plots which were previously permitted only in the smaller islands under the Administrative Division of the Estonian territory Act. The legislator has made the merger of Setumaa very flexible and, rather, the merger of this area remains behind political contradictions. This is not just a question of compliance with the existing law. However, the Government of the Republic has, yes, based its decision not to support it on two different pages. I'm going to refer to it a little bit more. The Government of the Republic does not understand how the wording of the current law allows historical Setumaa to be separated, contrary to the purpose of the law, and how the Government of the Republic can still support the creation of a historic Setumaa at its own initiative stage. This derogation requires local authorities to be in a state of their own initiative at the time of accession, where the State does not intervene, forcing the merger decisions to be taken, to join the historical borders in such a way that a municipality with at least 3500 inhabitants is formed, whose parts of the territory may also remain part of the administrative territory of another municipality in the form of separate plots of land. On the basis of paragraph 2 (3) of Order 242 of the Government of the Republic on 30 June 2016, the Regional Commission of South Estonia, which has also made recommendations to the local authorities in order to unite the rural municipalities of Setumaa, has also been set up as an advisory committee for the Government of the Republic. In addition, § 20 of the Administrative Reform Act provides for the payment of the merger grant to the local governments that are merging on their own initiative. The amount depends on the number of inhabitants of the municipality formed as a result of the merger and should motivate the municipalities to join on their own initiative. If, for political or other reasons, the municipalities have not been able to agree to establish a municipality meeting the conditions of § 9 (3) (2) of the Administrative Reform Act, regardless of the benefits applied by the State, this cannot be considered as proof of the weakness of the current law. I'm not going to read the entire position of the Government of the Republic to you. However, I can say so much that in the course of preparing the current law, I personally had the honour to speak to several of those who stood up for it. Similarly, the opinion of our honourable members of the Riigikogu was used in shaping this provision, so I dare say that when preparing the administrative reform law, the issue of the Setas was taken extremely seriously and a solution was sought that would be appropriate for them. But coming back to the Commission, what was the decision? It was decided to propose a draft on the agenda for the plenary session on 25 October, which was a consensual decision. Secondly, to propose that the draft be rejected by 5 members of the Commission, 3 against, no abstentions. Besides me, Andre Sepp, Andres Anvelt, Kalle Muuli and Lauri Luik were against Jüri Adams, Anneli Ott and Jaak Madison. Mr Kalle Laanet, President of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, was appointed rapporteur, a consensual decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U123	Good waitress, thank you! There's at least one question. Mark Soosaar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U124	Mr Kalle Laane, a good waitress! Thank you for reading the provisions of § 9, which give the Government of the Republic quite a free hand to initiate the preservation of Setumaa as a single administrative body or centre for the preservation of the cultural-historical pearl of Estonia and the world. Is it possible here that, if the municipalities there do not agree with each other, they will simply be brought together to preserve the world's heritage?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U125	It's very difficult to answer one question, but I believe all the roads are open. Surely this is the subject of the next step.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U126	Good waitress, thank you! More questions... However, there are still questions. Siim Kisler, please! Let's be faster!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U127	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! Do I understand this draft correctly if I conclude that it provides for an exception when just two parts of Setumaa's municipalities join together? Does this mean that if one village in Setu rural municipality, where there are 20 inhabitants, and another village in Setu rural municipality, where there are ten inhabitants, are connected, then the conditions are met, a municipality with 30 inhabitants is formed and everything is in order, the administrative reform is carried out?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U128	I believe that, above all, Jüri Adams, the representative of the initiators of the draft, would be able to respond to this. He'd know exactly what he meant. I really hope he didn't mean that.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U129	Good waitress! Now there's no more questions. Thank you! I'm opening negotiations. Please beg the representative of the Estonian Central Party Group of the speech chair of the Riigikogu Peeter Ernitsa!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U130	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, The administrative reform law that we adopted here this summer is quite dogmatic and allows for exceptions with a very long tooth. The Setus got it, but right now it's really about one thing. This is the case of Meremäe rural municipality: 132 square kilometres of rural municipality or Obinitsa, 87 Setu village. The council has a heavy end in the hands of the supporters of the Great Võrumaa; the people tend to lean towards Setu. There are also carrots in support of Setu's side: a €300 000 merger premium and a million investment allowed by entrepreneurs. On the other side is Vastselina, who wants to restore her parishioners. And so is this little Meremäe parish between two forces: between the Setu world and Suur-Võrumaa or Vastseliina. The problem is that there are just under 1,100 people living on Meremägi. The root of evil is culturally related. Cultural involvement is what gives the right in this case to make this exception concerning the four border areas. If there were to be a different scenario for Meremäe, or at least a large part of it, to join the Vastseliina direction, then there would also be 5 000 people coming together, in my opinion, the fetishing of a single number is absurd, no matter what the cultural connection is, this term could not be used. It's actually that simple. Ladies and gentlemen of the Free Party, led by Jüri Adams, offered to collect this figure. This 3,500 is less than 5,000, but with this Setumaa exception, it can really be ironed out like my colleague, Kiisler, that we take ten inhabitants from this village or municipality and 20 from the other, and we can have a 30-year-old. Yeah, that's the real solution. I think that, in principle, fetishing a single number is not the most sensible one of 5,000 or, in this case, 3,500. Indeed, we rarely discuss the concerns of a local government in this Chamber. We are currently discussing the problem of the municipality of Meremäe, although we are talking about much bigger things. I think they are a powerful nation, and their future should be considered. But you can't force anyone to be happy. And if this exception cannot be granted now, then there will be a coercion. Who does the government put together a self-righteous Mere Mountain with? Maybe it does with Setumaa parishes, but maybe it doesn't. That's the government's decision. In fact, this bill should be taken very seriously. I don't know what the solution is. It would, of course, be in the interest of the Setas to establish and support this four-way connection, but also without being setu and looking at the situation from a distance, it is clear that it should be taken seriously in any case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U131	Thank you. I now ask for the speech chair of the Riigikogu, representative of the Social Democratic Party Group Mark Soosaare!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U132	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, and especially respected Maestro Jüri Adams! Sweet George! However, I must say, in the light of Kihnu's experience, that if people in their community are unable to decide the fate of their region or their nature, their environment together and together, as happened in Kihnu in the 1970s, Ruhnu in the 1970s as well, this community will eventually fall apart. Now it may seem that the roosters are very colorful and the silver billows are also ringing well, but keeping the Setu culture together is not just a problem for the Setus. This concern was already in the heart of Boris Vilde, when he founded the Human Museum in Paris in the early 1920s and took Setu folk clothes from Estonia as the first exhibit. As we know, Setu culture is also on the UNESCO World Heritage List. I very much hope that both this hall here and the Government of the Republic will use all their legislative and administrative possibilities to preserve the culture of the Setu and to help further develop it. That is why I am voting in favour of the opposition bill this time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U133	Thank you. I now ask for the speech chair of the Riigikogu to be represented by Andres Herkel, the Group of the Estonian Free Party!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U134	Mr President! Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! The Free Party obviously supports this bill and understands the reasons why we had to go to such an initiative. Other solutions were left to deaf ears. Personally, as a Northern Estonian, I have watched with great sympathy the whole of this cultural tradition come to life in South Estonia, both in Setumaa and Võrumaa, which began at the same time as the time of Estonia's resurrection. With all these political changes, the local cultural movement also increased quite unexpectedly. The school system of the Soviet period and very many other circumstances were against it, and there was a strong tendency to speak in writing, but then we suddenly discovered that everything was still there. This culture is very viable, it is very peculiar and it is part of the wealth of all Estonian people. Then why aren't we helping to keep it? One aspect is, of course, that the control line broke down the integrity of Setumaa, the entire historic road network, which was rapidly concentrated in the city of Petseri. That made the situation quite difficult. Of course, new attraction centers were created, but at the same time there was a sense of will to be self - separate. Actually, it's always been. I also referred to the expert opinions commissioned by the Seto Congressional Body of Elders on my question. Historian Heiki Valk presented, perhaps not even as thoroughly as Jüri Adams in his presentation, evidence of cultural, historical and geographical integrity. On the basis of these, law firms were contacted to obtain a legal assessment. To be honest, this is a pretty ridiculous situation in which the Government of the Republic has put the Setude parents' body in. That such things must be ordered at all, that it is not self-evident that § 9 (3) of the Law allows such an exception to be made here! In fact, this is the smallest thing we can do here for this piece of people: let us listen to their voices and give them the opportunity, in the context of the administrative reform, to create their own rural area with cultural integrity that is logically justified! But no, it seems to me that there is a stronger position here in this social michurinlus was used yesterday by the waitress to draw lines and boundaries with a ruler only. Indeed, perhaps the road network and the new attraction centres will not support it. But it is up to us to support precisely the preservation of this self-being and to do everything in our power against the tendencies that are mostly caused by the issues of the control line and the border treaty. For the Setu people, this agreement is undeniably unfair. Finally, I would like to draw everyone's attention to the fact that, perhaps at the same time as we began processing this draft in the Riigikogu Hall yesterday, the Setomaa Support Group of the Riigikogu, which includes members of all political groups, made a statement in order to preserve the integrity of Setomaa. I don't see the support group president in the hall right now, but at least one member of the coalition's support team just sat in his seat. I very much hope for your support and your influence that we will be able to make this simple amendment here, which would probably be a decisive step in order for the government to listen to the will of the Setas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U135	Thank you. I now ask the Riigikogu for a chair of speech from the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia Mart Helme. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U136	President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, I have absolutely nothing to do with Setumaa. I am a complete West-Estonian, true, 44 years of living in Tallinn, but I have retained my Western-Estonian identity. At the same time, for 15 years, I have been engaged in a small tourism business alongside other things, and I have visited a lot of Setumaa. I'd like to draw a portrait or painting on top of a few brush strokes that involve business and money. Having been around the world quite a bit, I can say that in all places where tourism has acquired some industrial features, these regional features are used to the maximum. I can give you Scotland, for example. Of course, history is quite different, and the Scottish identity and bagpipes are far more famous than our bagpipe and identity, but wherever you go there, you will be reminded of history and money will be taken to remember it. We are dealing with a very diverse place in Setumaa, and we have left it at a very amateur level on the commercial side. One cabin and one open-air museum and some pampering bands, and that's practically it. We haven't squeezed the juice out of this lemon. It's administratively possible to push it. True, I know, through my colleagues and fellow parties, that there are serious problems as to why the municipality of Meremäe does not want to join this municipality of Suur-Setomaa or whatever name it bears. It's called corruption. People are very upset that only individuals in a certain circle receive benefits, but others outside the circle do not receive benefits. And this is a hard stick in the spokes of this chariot, which could lead to much greater commercial and prestigious achievements. So you have to look at it from a lot of places. But in any case, I basically support all the steps that can be taken at both local and national level to help these people survive, to help their culture survive and to make this culture an attraction that will also help these people survive economically. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U137	Thank you. There doesn't seem to be any more calls, I'm closing the negotiations. Now we are going to the proposal of the lead committee, which goes against the initiators' proposal. The proposal is to reject the draft 273 at first reading. According to the Home and Working Procedures Act, we must vote on this proposal. Dear colleagues, I am voting to reject the draft proposal by the commission at first reading. Please take a stand and vote. With the result of 41 members of the Riigikogu, no 28 abstentions found the proposal supported. Draft 273 has been rejected at first reading and falls out of the procedure. We have finished addressing the first item.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U138	We will move on to the second item, which is the first reading of the draft law amending the Administrative Reform Act initiated by Mark Soosaare, a member of the Riigikogu. I ask Mark Soosaare, member of the Riigikogu, to present a speech chair!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U139	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Allow me to congratulate us all in this Chamber on the 150th anniversary. In 1866, Emperor Alexander II issued a ukase that a rural municipality reform must be carried out in the Baltic States, and from there we can talk about the existence of European governments. Even in Soviet times, they survived under the name of village councils. Democracy was quite few then, but formally, we had them in the country. Indeed, this bill is reminiscent of 150 years ago. In short, the municipalities in which the elections were held in 1866 began to hold a municipal council from that year onwards, which was renewed every year. One in three men had to switch out. Elders and municipal courts were also elected. It is noteworthy that I do not know of any cases in Estonia where some parishes would have celebrated their 150th anniversary, but there are many who celebrate their 25th anniversary this year. Is our historical memory really that short? Have we learned so little from history? This bill was actually born in the head of a good colleague, Toomas Kivimägi. Unfortunately, he's not among us today, he's doing country business abroad. I'm sure he would have taken the floor. I want to talk about these great, outrageous metrics and criteria. It's not astronomy. Man wouldn't have made it to the Moon, and he wouldn't have made it to Mars if the accuracy class wasn't absolute zero. There can be no pros or cons here or there, because there are laws of nature. These laws, by which we live on this earth, are our own, and must grow and change with us. The presentation of this draft in the autumn was due to two factors. One fact was that quite a number of municipalities had approached the Supreme Court. And the state can't last long if it gets into trouble with the local governments or if the local governments get into trouble with the state. There is still a need to live in cooperation, and for this to happen, the Government of the Republic must be given more freedom to deal with the relevant criteria and to avoid coercion. Everything that's done voluntarily ends well, everything that's done forced doesn't end very well. The purpose of this draft is to give the Government of the Republic the opportunity to change the accuracy class. The last census in 2011 showed that our population was registered with an accuracy class of 10 to 15%. In fact, on average, data on people's actual place of residence and registered place of residence vary so much. This issue also arose during the debate on this draft in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. Once again, thanks to Maestro Jüri Adams, we had a rather thorough debate on the Population Register Act, because the state still needs to know where its people really live and how people move in the country. Currently, data are one indicator as of 31 December 2011. The census showed that in some municipalities the difference between the number of people registered for them and the number of actual residents is not 101⁄2%, but the difference is even multiple, say, 300%. It is likely that we will have to deal with the Population Register Act very soon in this Chamber and do something about it. There is nowhere to learn from, let's see how it is organized in Scandinavian countries, and let's try to figure something out. I would not like to dwell here on how the matter was discussed in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. This will be done by a good colleague of the speaker, Kalle Laane, who will certainly read to you the opinion of the government. But I've been reporting my introduction to you, and if there are any questions, I'll be waiting for them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U140	Good manager! Good waitress! In the summer, when the three of you came up with an excellent and highly sensible proposal approved by all the local government leaders in Pärnumaa, it was killed. Yet, two former governors, Metsoya and Kivimägi, stood beside you. Now, as a death pilot, you're on this bill here, even though you know that the bill has already been sentenced to death in the committee. Why did our two esteemed colleagues, the two former governors, now give up?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U141	I wouldn't say they gave up. But that was the second day of the presidential election that I had to cool off a little passion. And it was just announced that a few dozen local governments had gone to the Supreme Court. One idea already lost in the summer heat had to be revived. That's when I prepared the bill pretty quickly and gave it to the procedure.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U142	Siim Kisler, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U143	Thank you. Honourable waitress! You will explain in the explanatory memorandum that it is reasonable to provide for such a change in order to prevent the population of municipalities from being structured. I agree that this is a problem: the figures in the citizens' register are really being played now to get 5,000 full. But the question is, how does your bill solve this problem? The essence of the bill is that the minimum size of 5,000 inhabitants is simply transferred to 4500, that's all. If at least 5 000 inhabitants are needed now, then in the future the requirement would be 4500. Ficative layout continues, only the limit is lower. Or do I misunderstand something?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U144	The calculation made in August showed quite clearly that in Hiiumaa, for example, only 1.6% is missing when three rural municipalities merge, not 10% at all. We need 80 more people. In East Saaremaa, three rural municipalities would be missing if I wasn't mistaken, about 4%. It's just one idea to give the Government of the Republic a little more discretion. We know that the terrible word'sundification' has upset quite a number of municipalities and upset the public. We can't find that word in the law, by the way.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U145	Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U146	Thank you, Honourable Manager. Respectable waitress! Please, could you give some concrete examples of municipalities or groups of municipalities who would be relieved to become the law on this draft? What reasonable mergers could occur in Pärnumaa or elsewhere?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U147	There's quite a few of them, and two of them I already mentioned, in the case of the others, I haven't done any calculations. But the islands are close to you and to me, we've been chosen from these regions. In the interests of the preservation of Estonian islands as cultural islands in particular, but also of the communities and historical values of natural islands in the middle of the sea, the government could have a little more discretion.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U148	Andre Sepp, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U149	Now, those citizens of the Republic of Estonia who, for some reason, are not included in our population register or who do not live in any administrative unit of Estonia are conceptually excluded from these calculations. If we are currently designing a legally perfectly possible situation that one of our citizens has decided to start living in a sailing boat between Tallinn and Helsinki and not associate themselves with any register, where does he belong? What's his status? Or someone lives in the city of Helsinki and decides, for example, that he or she would like to pay his or her income tax instead in Estonia. A number of questions arise that are not answered. The second question I would like to thank for Kalle Laane's mention of it is that our practice of living in this era of great mobility and urbanization is such that half of the Estonian community has settled from land to cities for a few decades. In this situation, it has developed that perhaps even more than 5% of people, who are certainly dominant in economic activity, have more than one place of residence and have a legitimate interest in obtaining various services, either at the same time or one after the other, in different times of the year, for example, from different municipalities. This raises the question of the right to vote, etc. I'm going to end here by calling that, if we have any resources, please, let's plan to make the crap called the Population Register sound. And as soon as possible. Because we are now involved in this draft, which proves that nothing can be done on the basis of such data from the population register. And this will not be the last consequence of the confusion in the population register. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U150	Thank you very much. I now ask for the speech chair of the Riigikogu, representative of the Social Democratic Party Group Mark Soosaare!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U151	Good men and women! The ancient philosopher Hercules said such a famous sentence that you cannot enter the same river twice. In the spring we were in the same river of time. In the meantime, a lot of water has flowed into the sea and a lot of the river of time has flowed through us and through the middle, and now we are in the second stream of time. We're smarter, we're mature, and we've discovered here together, all 101, that there's really no coercion in this law that has excited us so much. Let us no longer be fooled in the future by the media or by an afderist. Indeed, the Government of the Republic has an unlimited opportunity to demonstrate its wisdom. He's got a chance to initiate all sorts of connections, but he might not be able to finish them. Maybe it's smarter that way. But so that we can really vote according to our conscience, as we feel, in order to do so, I will pass on a piece of paper. I can't read it to you myself because I left my glasses on that table. Please be so kind as to read the paper!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U152	Mr President of the sitting! My main message is that the members of the Free Party Group will vote in favour of this draft. Why they support these reasons may be more than one. Today we have a long day ahead of us and we will soon go to discuss the issues of the state budget. However, the time has come to discuss the conceptual basis of the Administrative Reform Act. But this is a subject that should have been discussed when this bill came to this hall, perhaps even earlier. Politically, however, it was decided that we would not speak ourselves or let others speak, even though they wanted to argue and debate. It's not like the troubles are coming one after the other. Today we have, as if, received a long list of all the problems and minor bottlenecks associated with this law. We are now at the end of October, and I predict that before we go on summer holidays around Midsummer Day, we will be able to discuss the issue of administrative reform again and again in this Chamber. As others have already mentioned today, there has been some shift: at the beginning it was said that there is nothing to discuss here, we know what is right and what is best, now the positions of the representatives of the government have obviously become less favourable. I would like to reiterate a little by drawing attention to what Kalle Laane said on this board when he read the minutes of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, also mentioning the subject I have raised. I think two things are very important about this. One thing is that we have to understand what the function and meaning of numbers is in this kind of law. In my opinion, the limits can only be illustrative and indicative; nothing can be meaningfully associated with them. Where did this mistake come from? I think there's just two different genres screwed up. One is the practical work of state order, which takes place between the writing of laws and government decisions, and the other is the observational activity of population scientists, which collects and distributes data into sectors or boxes or deciles. Then it is quite clear that some factor with a figure of 2999 will remain in the box with a figure of 2 0003000, and the other one with a figure of 2 more will remain in the following box. In the reviews they give, when there are enough elements, statistically everything converges and comes a pretty reasonable picture. And there's no way back from there to draw any conclusions. With regard to the population register, we have a very important issue in the air, regardless of administrative reform. There are a number of registers in Estonia whose entries have decisive legal significance. For example, the land register is like this. With regard to these registers, we assume that what they say is correct, and we think that if there should be a mistake, it must be corrected. The population register is certainly not one of those registers. The entry in the population register has two main meanings. First, an Estonian citizen living in Estonia or a non-citizen is associated with one of the administrative units currently in existence and it does not have any meaning whether he actually lives there or not. The second thing is that the same citizen is linked to administrative units in the sense that that is where he must turn if he wants to receive certain social benefits. I'm asking for a little extra time!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U153	Yeah, good co-worker Mark, I'll read it. No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. It is now that the lead committee has proposed to reject the draft 274 at first reading. But it seems to me that there is an even more important proposal, hierarchically higher. It has arrived on yesterday's date and it reads as follows: 'A declaration of withdrawal of the draft. Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu! (Welcome him! J.R.) According to § 95 of the Riigikogu Home and Working Procedures Act, I wish to withdraw the draft law amending the Administrative Reform Act initiated by me on 30 August 2016 from the procedure of the Riigikogu 274 SE. Respectfully, Mark Soosaar, member of the Riigikogu' and signature. Today's second item is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U154	Good waitress! You have questions. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U155	Please, three minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U156	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! When you answered the question, you mentioned discretion. But you are aware that the current law already gives the Government of the Republic a discretion, not an exact percentage, as you have proposed in your proposal. But there are also those municipalities that do not fit into this particular percentage. What is the broader idea of the proposal: simply to increase the discretion of the Government of the Republic or to base itself on a specific minus 10%? But what if, for example, 10.08% is missing?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U157	Thank you. I am grateful for this question, even if it is because, indeed, any such numerical criteria will not help us much further. The Small Islands Commission currently employs a legislative working group to discuss which islands could be included in the list of permanently established small islands. The first thought was to consider as inhabited islands only those where at least ten inhabitants live at three addresses. Now, after the second working group meeting, the Commission has considered that at least five people must have three addresses, no less. If, for example, one person dies, the island is no longer inhabited. I think that it is already important to have this debate in this Chamber and in that committee. We cannot measure the sustainability of a single municipality or a single community with a certain number of people because it can change very easily.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U158	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U159	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! You're on the side of "aquarium glass" state rulers. Explain to me what you two have discussed in the coalition! For example, why does the government not want more discretion, but dogmatically all the time multiplying this limit by 5000? Explain to us who we are on this side of the glass!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U160	I don't really see that glass, my good friend Peter Ernits, even though I've been eating porridge with you in the Amazon jungles. It's just sometimes, sometimes. We have been consensually elected here, for example, by the President and, last week, by some small islands, by supporting them to become equal, among 11 other islands. I think it is worth working together for us to continue and not to care about those who build this glass wall here. But when you build it yourself, look in the mirror, and those who build it from the other side must also look in the mirror.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U161	Kalle Laane, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U162	Thank you, Mr President. Good Mark! You said coercion was a very scary word, and you used it in your report. I was trying to find a word in the law of administrative reform like 'undification'. I didn't find it there. Can you explain where it came from and why you think that word has to be used?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U163	Thank you for that question. I was just trying to find that word there with a search engine, with glasses and a glass, but I really couldn't. I don't know where it came from, whether the media has smeared it on all 101 of us here, or if someone stupid among us had the idea of using that word, but it's been used from the very beginning when it comes to the draft law on administrative reform, which bears the fateful number 200. Folchlorists and linguists should start looking for where it came from.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U164	Cameron Maruse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U165	Thank you! Dear colleague Mark! Are you sure until the end that this current version of the Administrative Reform Act does not provide for any discretion to resolve such borderline cases, so that it must therefore be supplemented by the law?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U166	Thank you, Mr Rait, for this question. Indeed, there are infinite limits to considering any way. We will probably have to discuss in the future the problems of local governments, which, also from the point of view of Estonia's security, are not right to merge in the way that the reform states. But I hope that these questions will be resolved by the wisdom of the peasant.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U167	Good waitress, thank you! No further questions. Let's move on to the next report. Chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs Kalle Laanet, I would like to ask you to attend the speech chair of the Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U168	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I will give you an overview of what has happened in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. We discussed this bill the same way on 17 October 2016. Jüri Adams, Andre Sepp, Andres Anvelt, Anneli Ott, Kalle Muuli, Lauri Luik, Jaak Madison and Mikhail Stalnukhin took part in the debate and Mart Nutt and Peeter Ernits were absent. Mark Soosaar was invited to initiate the draft and Olivia Taltud, Legal Adviser to the Regional Development Department of the Ministry of Finance, was also invited to attend. Mr Mark presented his point on the draft. As he has just introduced it in this Chamber, he has also told us that the idea comes primarily from a member of the Riigikogu, Toomas Kivimägi. Mark explained in detail the meaning of the proposed change. He pointed out that he had also studied the position of the Government of the Republic on the draft, which made it clear that the law on administrative reform was adopted as it is, and that it could no longer be changed. At the same time, it is always possible to change the laws, and the Government of the Republic could, however, take greater discretion when uniting the municipalities. It is quite sad when, for example, in Hiiumaa, one municipality lacks 1.4% of 5,000 people in the case of voluntary mergers and 4% in Saaremaa. This is the order of magnitude that can vary from one year to another, and in some years it will be, for example, +1.4%. This absolute figure does not determine the sustainability and sustainability of the resulting municipality. In addition, there is also a problem in Pärnu County, where the merger of eight rural municipalities with Pärnu City does not work because many people are very upset about the fear of being forced to join in several municipalities. It is not a normal situation that the state is looking for a fight with local authorities and people are stressed because their opinion is not taken into account. Administrative reform must move forward, but it must be done on the basis of smart and prudent decisions. Mark Soosaar found that some inconsistencies were also encoded throughout the administrative reform. For example, there are exceptions to the Administrative Reform Act. If you look at § 9 (3) of the Act, we see that the internal contradiction is that if three municipalities join and form a municipality of at least 5 000 inhabitants, it is the least sustainable government. If three municipalities join and form a municipality with a population of at least 3500 inhabitants, this is also considered sustainable and the exemption applies. Until now, legislative progress has been made on the basis of prudent and wise decisions, not just formal numerical criteria. Olivia Taltud presented the opinion of the Government of the Republic to the Commission on the draft and explained that the Government of the Republic discussed the draft at its meeting on 29 September and decided not to support it. Any additional exemptions will further fragment the process and make it difficult to achieve the objective of administrative reform. The proposal with the same content was also discussed in the process of processing the Administrative Reform Act in the Riigikogu and then it was decided not to take it into account. As regards the reference that both a municipality with at least 5 000 inhabitants and, by way of derogation, a municipality with at least 3500 inhabitants are both sustainable pursuant to § 9 (3) of the Administrative Reform Act, this exception cannot be obtained automatically, but the municipality must convincingly justify how it is sufficiently administratively able with at least 3500 inhabitants. The Government of the Republic has discretion in allowing this derogation. The recommended population is significantly higher in the context of the administrative reform: at least 11000 inhabitants. This recommendation has also been based in practice on regional committees. The analysis carried out in preparation for the administrative reform has found that the optimal size of the municipality is at least 11000 inhabitants and a minimum size of 5000 inhabitants. A certain degree of flexibility is not excluded at the time of the compulsory merger of municipalities. If the municipalities are invited to join in the compulsory merger phase, but can prove that they are also administratively able, for example, to have 4900 inhabitants, then the Government of the Republic has the right to waive the compulsory merger. It cannot therefore be said that the requirement of at least 5000 inhabitants is absolutely rigid. In any case, however, the Government of the Republic has not based itself on the fact that many exceptions must be granted in the implementation of administrative reform. The granting of derogations would only distance away from the objective of administrative reform. Mikhail Stalnukhin said that the Group of the Estonian Centre Party supports the draft, but there are still a few questions. If it is clear that the size of the population will change in local governments over the years, the draft proposal also offers at least 90% of the requirement too rigid. Shouldn't some more flexible criteria be used instead? Mark Soosaar replied that the point of the bill was that if a certain proportion of the population requirement was met, the Government of the Republic could consider the situation and allow such a government to be formed. At the same time, the large number of inhabitants may not be an indication of the sustainability of local governments. For example, in some large rural areas, the majority may be made up of pensioners who do not receive personal income tax as well. Sometimes, however, the sustainability of local governments depends on which people have come to run the local government. Mikhail Stalnukhin asked that if people in the municipalities wishing to join Pärnu were very disturbed because of possible coercion, what were the views of these municipalities earlier? Mark Soosaar replied that the accession treaties between the eight municipalities had previously been concluded. But when it turned out that the city of Pärnu received two thirds of the votes in the council of the merged municipality, because 40,000 people live there and the rest of the municipalities only 20,000 people in total, the municipalities did not like it. After all, they would only have one third of the votes. Several municipalities feared that they would no longer have the opportunity to participate after accession. Andre Sepp asked what the overall picture of the merger of local governments across Estonia has developed today. Olivia Taltud replied that there is not yet a complete picture of all Estonian regions, as many regions are still negotiating in several directions and final decisions have not yet been made. There are examples where it is not known exactly who will be joined. However, it has been pointed out that there are between four and ten municipalities that do not meet the criteria for administrative reform. The government of the Republic must be forced to unite them. But October 1 was the deadline when the accession negotiations had to start. You didn't have to make final decisions by then. So the final views of the municipalities on the merger are not yet known. But I've got a really relevant card with me, so I can show it to you later if you want. I'm not keeping it. Andre Sepp asked whether the Government of the Republic had any discretion in the event of the situation that, just before the deadline for voluntary accession, some municipalities, for example, had fewer residents than the law provides. Olivia Taltud replied that the Government of the Republic must make its proposal at the time of compulsory reunification, and those municipalities which do not meet the requirement of at least 5 000 inhabitants would receive a proposal to do so. However, if the municipality justifies that the population criterion is scarcely met, but the capacity to provide public services still exists, then the Government of the Republic has the right to waive compulsory consolidation pursuant to § 9 (9) of the Administrative Reform Act. This is the discretion of the Government of the Republic, which is applied on the basis of how the municipalities can justify that they do not need to be forced to join. Jaak Madison asked whether, now that several municipalities have turned to the Supreme Court on the constitutionality of the Administrative Reform Act and several proposals have come to amend the Administrative Reform Act, the Government of the Republic has defined the concept of access to public services. The law cannot be implemented without knowing its purpose. Olivia Taltud replied that the criteria contained in the Administrative Reform Act were proposed on the basis of the local governments' current duties as stated in the Local Government Organisation Act, namely § 6. In addition, several requests have been made from different ministries for information as to whether they have proposals for tasks to transfer to local authorities or to change the way in which they operate. To date, the Government of the Republic only has an agreement on a few tasks. One concerns the restructuring of regional public transport, the other concerns the planning of the development of the region and the establishment of joint strategic development plans, and the third concerns the development of the business environment. Other tasks within the Government of the Republic were not agreed that they should be handed over to local governments. It also depends on how state reform is implemented and what is planned to do with rural governments. Jaak Madison asked whether, according to the Government of the Republic, the exception made by the government is subjective and could offend the sense of justice of other governments, better than the exception offered in Bill 274. Olivia Taltud replied that stricter criteria were included in the law, which did not allow a very large margin of discretion to initiate a change in the administrative-territorial organisation, precisely because, otherwise, a very large number of municipalities would be set aside from the requirement of at least 5 000 inhabitants. It is the Government of the Republic that approves the change in the administrative-territorial organisation at the level of the regulation. In any case, the government must be guided by the circumstances laid down in the Estonian Administrative Division Act. It is therefore correct to give the Government the discretion to assess whether, by way of exception, local authorities may be allowed to fall below the minimum criterion. Jaak Madison asked whether the Government of the Republic's decision not to support draft 274 was consensual. Kalle Laanet replied that, as a rule, the decisions of the Government of the Republic are consensual and are not voted on. Olivia Taltud replied that she had not been present at the meeting of the government in question, but that since no one had previously disagreed, it can be concluded that no one had any objections and that there was a consensual decision. Kalle Muuli asked whether, in fact, pursuant to § 9 (9) of the Administrative Reform Act, the discretion of the Government of the Republic is even wider than that currently requested by the initiator of Bill 274. Can the Government of the Republic now take a broader decision on the matter, regardless of the 90% criterion proposed in the draft proposal, and also keep municipalities with, for example, 4500 or 2000 inhabitants? Olivia Taltud replied that, in principle, the Government of the Republic has some discretion in deciding on a change in the administrative-territorial arrangements, but apparently no such exceptions will be granted. Jüri Adams stated that he became aware of this discretion of the Government of the Republic at the Supreme Court meeting on 4 October 2016, where the constitutionality of the administrative reform was discussed. While the Constitutional Commission dealt with the draft Administrative Reform Act in spring, the representatives of the Government of the Republic expressed the opinion that there would be no exceptions except those listed in § 9 of the Administrative Reform Act. At the sitting of the Supreme Court, the Chancellor of Justice referred to the fact that the Government of the Republic has the discretion to grant any exceptions in the combined effect of the Administrative Reform Act and certain other laws. What are the laws that, in conjunction with the Administrative Reform Act, have the right to grant exceptions to municipalities that do not meet the criteria? Olivia Taltud replied that the Government of the Republic does not have the right not to initiate a merger of municipalities unless the municipalities themselves have joined in such a way that it will be a municipality with at least 5000 inhabitants. Four exceptions are provided for in § 9 (3) of the Administrative Reform Act. Otherwise, in February 2017, the Government of the Republic will not be able to waive the proposal for a forced merger. The Government of the Republic shall consider whether, before submitting a proposal for compulsory merger, the municipalities have sufficiently justified that they can be sustainable in applying the derogation to them. If the Government of the Republic does not have the conviction that the municipalities requesting the derogation are sufficiently sustainable, it will propose a compulsory merger. Once the government has proposed a forced merger, the municipality can raise its objections. This draft is accompanied by an explanatory memorandum which sets out all the facts listed in subsection 7 (5) of the Estonian Administrative Division Act and referred to by the Chancellor of Justice at the sitting of the Supreme Court. If any inconsistencies are found or the municipality gives rise to an overriding public interest or any other argument that has not been known so far, then the Government of the Republic can consider whether the decision on the compulsory merger is taken or whether the government will waive it. This is where the Government of the Republic will have discretion. Jüri Adams stated that the Government of the Republic is therefore obliged to propose to the municipality, but this proposal may be unrealistic, a 'empty proposal'. Olivia Taltud replied that this was not the case because the government had a duty to motivate under the Administrative Procedure Act and no decision could be taken without respect for the principle of investigation. The Government of the Republic will certainly propose accession in such a way that they are realistic. Jaak Madison asked whether the Government of the Republic had the right to grant an exception under the law in force if the municipalities justified why their population could be less than 5000. Does the Government of the Republic therefore prefer to make exceptions and not allow them to be made by the Riigikogu, which is more involved with local government leaders and has better contact with local governments where problems have been encountered? Taltude replied that since the Government of the Republic always has fresh information from regional committees, the government has in any case the most accurate overview of what is happening in different regions of Estonia. If you write additional exceptions into the law, it will in any case violate the current positive picture. Madison asked if it was a positive picture that 26 municipalities had turned to the Supreme Court in opposition to administrative reform. He replied that this was a democratic process. Lauri Luik found that the Government of the Republic has the best picture of what is happening, because all information runs right into them. There is little difference between legalising exceptions at law level and allowing the Government of the Republic to exercise discretion in this respect. It is worth trusting the government on this issue, however, because they are constantly in contact with the municipalities. Anneli Ott noted that the problem of any discretion is that it is a very subjective process, where all kinds of people-to-people relationships and contacts often play a role. How to mitigate this risk and how to measure how well the municipality has justified why it should be exempted? He replied that there is indeed a wide margin of discretion, but the Government of the Republic must certainly not treat two similar cases differently. Lauri Luik felt that this is why it is good that the government has talked about the criterion of 5,000 inhabitants from the very beginning. This is a very specific signal to the municipalities. The government has left discretion to the very last option precisely because, when there is finally a stalemate, a decision must be made. Andre Sepp suggested that the representatives of the Government of the Republic give the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, for example, during the last working week of this session, an overview of how the own-initiative accession of local governments has gone. Luik added that, at the same time, current information could be sent to the Committee on Constitutional Affairs about how local governments are progressing and which municipalities are facing problems. Olivia Taltud replied that the administrative reform website www.administrativereform.fin.ee is constantly running information on mergers, which is updated every week. Jüri Adams noted that he supported the initiator of the draft, as the state of Estonia is increasingly sinking into a deep form of self-deception, which includes the population register. The two main problems of the population register are that, firstly, the reliability of the data in the population register is rather low and, secondly, the concept of the population register has become obsolete. Today, a large part of the Estonian people do not live in such a way that a person has one and only place of residence, which is certainly fixed somewhere and which should give rise to legal consequences. This should be taken into account in the organisation of the entire local life and municipality, so far this has not been the case. The concept of administrative reform is called into question by the starting figures of the population register, which does not have much in common with the facts of real life. As you have heard, we in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs had a very substantive debate on this draft. The following was decided: to propose that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda by 25 October 2016 (consensus decision), to propose that the draft be rejected (by 5 votes to 3, with 0 abstentions). By Kalle Laane, Andre Sepp, Andres Anvelt and Kalle Muuli. Jüri Adams, Anneli Ott and Jaak Madison opposed. Mr Kalle Laanet, President of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, was appointed rapporteur (also a consensual decision). Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U169	Thank you. You have questions too. Meelis Mälberg, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U170	Good chairman of the sitting! Good colleague! You were also present at the Supreme Court hearing where this topic was discussed. Did the minimum criterion and discretion come up there and, if so, what was the key?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U171	Thank you. Yes, it was discussed at the Supreme Court hearing, in particular as raised by the Chancellor of Justice. He was supported by Jüri Raidla, who represented the government as a sworn advocate. Both considered that the discretion of the government has been combined with the two laws, they are the Act on Administrative Reform and the Act on Administrative Division of Estonian Territory.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U172	Good waitress, thank you! No further questions. I'm opening negotiations. Please ask Anneli Oti, representative of the Estonian Central Party Group, to the Riigikogu Chair of Speech!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U173	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The topic of administrative reform is still on the agenda both in Estonia in general and at the level of the Riigikogu. This is also the way we are discussing today in plenary the draft law relating to the law on administrative reform, which entered into force on 1 July. It must also not be forgotten that the Supreme Court is in the process of discussing whether or not the reform of the local government complies with the Constitution. It is the minimum number of 5 000 people who have become the main dispute point, which is legally incomprehensible. The draft Act on Administrative Reform, initiated by the Government of the Republic in spring, emphasises that only municipalities with at least 5 000 inhabitants are able to perform all legal tasks and provide high-quality public services to local people. 80% of Estonia's current municipalities are smaller than the minimum size prescribed by law. It is still unclear why, in the opinion of the State, a municipality with at least 5 000 inhabitants is capable of providing the necessary capacity, but municipalities with fewer inhabitants are not able to do so. According to the Centre Party Group, the requests made by the municipal councils to the court for the annulment of the minimum criterion are fully justified. In our opinion, the number of inhabitants and the capacity of local authorities are not directly linked when the tasks assigned to them are financed from the state budget. The number of people living in every municipality has to be seen in areas with very different historical, demographic, employment and business environments. In deciding on the size of the municipality, account should also be taken of the specific nature of the municipality. Following the foregoing, in the spring, the Central Party Group proposed to amend the draft administrative reform law by more than half a hundred proposals to prevent only the minimum population criteria being met. On 13 October, we also launched a draft decision aimed at proposing to the Government of the Republic to take account not only of the number of people residing on the territory of the municipality but also of the specific characteristics of the municipality, to bring the regulation of compulsory integration into line with the Constitution, and to amend the basis and order for the payment of the accession grant in such a way as to eliminate the discriminatory distinction between voluntary mergers and forced mergers. It seems that now, six months later, representatives of the coalition have also understood the problems raised in connection with the law on administrative reform. On 17 October, in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, we had an unexpectedly peaceful debate on the reform of the self-government regime. While there have been rather heated debates on administrative reform in the Commission in the past, this time the opinion of the ministry representative was much more lenient in commenting on the minimum criterion. The Commission stressed that the Government of the Republic does not necessarily rely on the number of residents for compulsory mergers; the government can also exercise the right to weigh in case of mergers. Of course, the Centre Party Group sees a certain development in the state of affairs when at least 5 000 people are no longer jealously kept to the limit. However, the fact that the Government of the Republic is making a decision on compulsory accession cannot still be held right. The government does not have a comprehensive picture of what is happening in local governments. Nor can it be ruled out that party interests may arise when forced mergers are possible to create advantages over other municipalities. It must be understood that the Centre Party is not against administrative reform, but we are not in favour of the conditions currently in force and do not want to accept the country's arrogant attitude towards local governments. At first, there is no room for distinctions. This attitude and coercion basically shows a lack of willingness to cooperate and, unfortunately, we cannot support this administrative reform. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U174	Thank you. I now ask Jüri Adams, representative of the Group of the Estonian Free Party, for a speech chair in the Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U175	Let us move on to the third item on the agenda. This is the third reading of the draft Act amending the VAT Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. I am pleased to open negotiations between the political groups. I would like to ask Kalvi Tõud, representative of the Social Democratic Party Group, for the speech chair of the Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U176	Good vice chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the group, I came to the floor to say a few words about the draft law amending the VAT law, which will soon, I hope, become the law. This bill, which will soon become a law, concerns companies whose VAT turnover is estimated to be EUR 16000 to EUR 40000 at the beginning of the year. Good friends! This threshold has remained unchanged for 21 years. When we think about what has happened in this period in our business landscape, which has happened at prices that have happened to our money, we realise that this limit has really long been in the way of time. VAT taxable persons with an annual turnover of EUR 16000 to EUR 40000 in 2014 amounted to 11637, which is close to 15% of the number of VAT payers. In fact, the amendment concerns almost 3000 VAT payers who, in this group of turnover, mainly sell to the final consumer and, overall, have paid VAT on the revenue of the State. It has to be said that these businesses that sell to the final consumer are predominantly rural small businesses, which can also be called farmers. Companies belonging to the target group will have a choice as to whether or not they want to be subject to VAT. There are certainly many companies whose turnover is not that high, but who still want to register for VAT. They're gonna have that chance. A person other than a person liable for value added tax is not required to keep VAT accounts or to submit a monthly VAT return. Thus, the administrative burden for such a person is considerably lower than that of a taxable person. Of course, this measure will also be of economic benefit to some operators. That is why we Social Democrats see this as a small step towards improving the small business environment. It has to be said that we Social Democrats have had this principle in the programme for several years. We're very glad it's gonna be a law today. The Social Democrats support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U177	Thank you very much. I would now like to ask Priit Sibula, representative of the Isamaa and Res Publica Union faction, for the speech chair of the Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U178	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, With each bill, we solve some problems, but it is also clear that no legislative amendment can solve all the problems. The draft to be approved immediately regulates the market for the processing and brokering of metals in part. In the case of some products, we are going to apply reverse charge for VAT. Then it is clear that the goods will be taxed and the state will receive its share. Reverse taxation was proposed by companies in the metal sector because VAT fraud in the metal sector is much higher than in other areas, and it is difficult to remain competitive if we act honestly. Some time ago, we implemented the obligation to declare at least EUR 1000 of invoices in Estonia, which, according to the tax administration, has also helped to reduce fraud and significantly improved the possibility of detecting them. We will always have the question of how much and what areas to regulate and, to that end, to seek the distinction of reverse charge in Europe. In addition to the metal sector, there are areas where the country is being deceived and the market is being squandered and fair business is being screwed up. We must also take into account that there are always some smart people who still find new ways to fool the country. Some time ago, it was discovered how VAT was defrauded for the sale of agricultural products from the country. Allegedly, the same shipment of goods moved across the border several times on paper and then back again, and so the country was charged VAT each time. VAT fraud was dealt with explicitly. Under such conditions, goods will not have a fair price because fair competition has been violated. Such schemes undermine the market and create problems for honest entrepreneurs. In addition to not getting a fair price for goods, it is also necessary to accept the additional and often unnecessary bureaucracy that the tax administration requires. I have not personally met any entrepreneurs who would like bureaucracy. The subject of the draft we are discussing today is metal-related business and I hope that it will help to make business in this area more transparent and fairer. Now we have to ask ourselves what could be the next area where the market needs to be cleaned up. Now, let no one misinterpret me! Reregulation of entrepreneurship is disgusting, but often inevitable, especially if it contributes not only to increasing tax receipts but helps honest entrepreneurs to get on the market normally. In that case, our task is to adapt the laws to the needs of today. Another important change in this draft is one step that has not been taken for too long: an increase in the minimum rate of VAT liability from 16000 to EUR 40000. Of course, even in the case of lower turnover, you can register for VAT, but the obligation now arises from EUR 40000 instead of EUR 16000. This should help smaller operators who do not need to invest heavily and whose added value is high. Hopefully, this will contribute to the growth of entrepreneurship. Let us take a closer look, move from here to new ideas to promote entrepreneurship and allow for exceptions in areas where they are really needed! We also support the draft. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U179	Thank you. Any more calls? No, it's not. I'm closing the negotiations. We shall begin the preparation of the final vote on the draft 276. Dear colleagues, I'm going to put a draft of 276 to the final vote. Please take a stand and vote. With the result of 64 members of the Riigikogu, no respondents or impartial parties have been adopted as 276 laws of the draft Act amending the VAT Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. The third item is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U180	We will move on to the fourth item on the agenda: the third reading of the draft law amending the law on the External Action Service initiated by the Government of the Republic. Do the representatives of the political groups want to open negotiations? There's no call. Let us begin the preparation of the final vote. I will put draft 241 to the final vote. Please take a stand and vote. With the result of 66 votes against and no abstentions, the draft law amending the law on the amendment of the External Action Service, initiated by the Government of the Republic, has been adopted as 241 laws. The fourth item is closed. Good fellows, I'll take the chairman's break five minutes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U181	Ladies and gentlemen, The break taken by the President is over, and we will proceed on today's agenda.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U182	The second reading of the draft Act 310 on the ratification of the Paris Agreement initiated by the Government of the Republic begins. Mr. Rainer Vakra, Chairman of the Committee on the Environment, as a rapporteur.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U183	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, You have before you the draft law on the ratification of the Paris Agreement. I will give an overview of what has happened between the first reading and the second reading in the Steering Committee. I would remind you that the draft was initiated by the Government of the Republic on 11 October this year. The first reading took place on 19 October. By the deadline for submitting amendments, 20 October, the members of the Riigikogu, political groups and other committees did not submit any proposals. However, at this meeting on 20 October, the Committee on the Environment discussed a proposal for a second reading, which was drafted by the Commission as an amendment. The content of this only amendment is briefly as follows: to add to the draft that the law will enter into force on the day following its publication in the Official Journal of the State, because it is important for Estonia to ratify the agreement at the latest, including 7. 22 November for the 22nd meeting of the Parties to the Framework Convention on Climate Change in Morocco. I encourage all MPs to vote in favour of this bill. At the time of the first reading, there were those in this Chamber who thought that since the ice age was 12,000 years before our Common Era, man's influence on the climate was almost nonexistent. However, I assure you that at least 98% of scientists today are convinced that human activity and greenhouse gases have a specific impact on the climate of the world. Let me remind you that the main objective of the climate agreement is to keep the global average temperature increase below two degrees compared to the time of the industrial revolution. I hope you will support the draft. The Committee on the Environment took the following procedural decisions: the draft was submitted to the plenary session of the Riigikogu for a second reading by 26 October and it was also proposed to put the draft to the final vote. Both decisions were taken by the Committee on the Environment in a spirit of united cooperation and consensus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U184	Good manager and waitress! Everything is nice, and we need to reduce storms and prevent the rise in average temperature. That's good, but let's talk about money. In fact, the European Union should support developing countries with 95 billion, plus another five billion green climate funds. I read that Estonia's contribution is currently one million euros a year. How has this been calculated and will it cost more than EUR 1 million per year after 2020?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U185	Thank you. The Committee on the Environment did not discuss this issue between the first and second readings. But I can say that the total amount worldwide really is almost $100 billion, but it is not only countries that are involved, but also private companies and third sector organisations. The amount of Estonia will not change; it will continue to be one million euros.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U186	Imre Sooäär, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U187	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! We are experiencing a change in the climate, especially of the giants, who have been cut off from the great land because of the lowest water level ever seen. But you said 98% of scientists agree on this. However, the countries of the world have not agreed on the Paris Agreement. Do you have any insight into the state of ratification in other countries today? How smoothly is this going and by the same deadline as we hope to get it ratified, will it be done in other countries as well?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U188	Thank you. This is a historic agreement approved by 195 countries. Today, more than one third of the countries have ratified it, and the Republic of Estonia hopes to be among them. I stress that this climate agreement is historic precisely because those countries that have previously avoided any cooperation in China, India, have signed it. Yes, it can be discussed whether the subsequent sanctions are sufficient or not, but it is clear that climate issues without them, if they do not sit at the table with us, will certainly not be able to be resolved. The fact that information is exchanged with these major polluters alone, that there is also a known amount of these emissions, is, in my opinion, a very good thing. Then you can also make cuts. In the meantime, we are actually talking at the so-called village level, we are not aware of these figures.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U189	March Sults, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U190	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good waitress! Climate warming in clear, pollution in clear. My question is this: how much of the components that affect climate warming is carbon dioxide, or greenhouse gas? Scientists believe that this is one small factor in addition to those that affect climate warming. What's your position?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U191	Thank you. There is an important principle in environmental policy: big things start with small changes. So, in any case, I support the Paris Agreement.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U192	Thank you. If the draft is approved, the Estonian peat bogs will not be covered with a film.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U193	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U194	Thank you, dear waitress. You have questions too. Please, Peter Ernits!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U195	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good waitress! One component of greenhouse gas is methane and methane is a decay gas. Should Estonian peat bogs be covered with a film in principle?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U196	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! If we press the green button in a moment, we'll sign a million-euro bill. But how much do we have at all to decide on the use of this million euro and to assess how effective its implementation is in developing countries?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U197	Thank you. The issue of EUR 1 million cannot be linked specifically to the ratification of the Paris Agreement. The Estonian state has supported and will continue to support many environmental projects in the past. This decision has been made by the Ministry of the Environment. So the link of EUR 1 million to the ratification of the Paris Agreement is arbitrary.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U198	March Sults, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U199	Thank you, dear waitress. No further questions for you. Do colleagues want to open negotiations? There is no wish to negotiate. A proposal for amendment of the draft has been submitted and submitted by the Committee on the Environment. The position of the commission is to take this fully into account. No further amendments have been tabled. The Governing Commission's proposal is to put the draft to a final vote of 310. We are going to the final vote. I am voting on draft law 310 on the ratification of the Paris Agreement initiated by the Government of the Republic. Please take a stand and vote. 55 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the draft, 6 against, no abstentions. The bill has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U200	Let's keep going. Today's sixth item: Second reading of the draft law amending the law on the implementation of the common agricultural policy of the European Union initiated by the Government of the Republic. And I would like to ask the Chairman of the Committee on Rural Affairs, Ivari Padari, as a waitress!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U201	Ladies and gentlemen, The draft was initiated by the Government of the Republic on 30 May and the first reading was completed on 28 September. By the deadline for submitting amendments, 12 October at 5.15 p.m., the members of the Riigikogu, the political groups and other committees did not submit any proposals. The Ministry of Rural Affairs has put forward one proposal that the existing school milk aid and school fruit and vegetables support should be combined and replaced by the school scheme aid in accordance with the relevant European Union legislation. The Committee on Rural Affairs discussed the draft for the preparation of the second reading at its meeting on 18 October with the representative of the Ministry of Rural Affairs. Two Commission amendments had been prepared for the meeting. As I have already said, one of them is submitted by the Ministry of Rural Affairs and relates to the support for the school scheme, the other is a linguistic change. The Commission decided to propose the termination of the second reading and, if the second reading is completed today, to submit the draft for the third reading on the agenda of the plenary session of the Riigikogu by 9 November and to propose the final vote on the draft then. All the decisions were consensual. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U202	Thank you, dear waitress. No questions for you. Do colleagues want to open negotiations? There is no wish for negotiation. Two amendments to the draft have been tabled. The first amendment is the position put forward by the Committee on Rural Affairs, the lead committee: to take full account. The second amendment is also the position put forward by the Committee on Rural Affairs, the lead committee: take full account. We have examined the amendments. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the second reading of draft 249. Second reading is over.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U203	Today's seventh item is the second reading of the draft law amending the Law on organic farming initiated by the Government of the Republic. I would like to ask Mr Tanel Talve, member of the Committee on Rural Affairs, to serve as a waitress.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U204	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The draft was initiated by the Government of the Republic on 12 September and the first reading was completed on 28 September. No amendments were tabled by the deadline for submitting amendments, 12 October members of the Riigikogu, political groups or other committees. The Committee on Rural Affairs discussed the draft for the preparation of the second reading at its meeting on 18 October. As there were no amendments, only procedural decisions were taken. The committee decided to put the draft on the agenda for the plenary session of the Riigikogu for a second reading by 26 October and to propose that the second reading be terminated. It was also decided that when the second reading was completed, the draft would be placed on the agenda of the plenary session of the Riigikogu for the third reading by 9 November. It was also proposed that the draft be put to the final vote. All these decisions were consensual.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U205	Thank you, good waitress. No questions for you. Do colleagues want to open negotiations? There's no call. No amendments to the draft were tabled. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the second reading of draft 282. We're done with second reading.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U206	Let's keep going. Today's eighth item is the second reading of the draft law amending the 2016 State Budget Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. I would like to ask Remo Holsmer, Chairman of the Monetary Commission, to serve as a waitress.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U207	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, You have before you the text of the second reading of this year's draft amendment to the State Budget Act. The Committee on Finance discussed the draft on 17 and 24 October. By the deadline for submitting amendments, i.e. by 19 October, two proposals were received, made by the Group of the Estonian Free Party and a member of the Riigikogu, Külliki Kübarsepp. The Finance Committee, in cooperation with the Ministry of Finance, drafted one amendment, which in turn consists of 31 amendments. In short, the content of these amendments. Further changes made by the Commission propose that funds be earmarked for IT costs, for the purchase of additional infrastructure and special equipment for defence purposes by the Ministry of Defence, for financing applied research by the Ministry of Rural Affairs, for compulsory treatment and methadone treatment, as well as for the development of IT systems in hospitals. The National Audit Office had money for the development of the document management system, the Ministry of the Interior for the acquisition of patrol vehicles, some of the changes were related to technical redeployments. In total, one of the three proposals made by the Commission in cooperation with the Ministry of Finance has been supported and two proposals made by the Free Party Group and a member of the Riigikogu, Külliki Kübarsepp, were not supported by the Commission. Külliiki Kübarse's proposal was to allocate 60000 euros to the Estonian Evangelical Lutheran Church's Pistvere Congregation, a proposal made by the Free Party Group, to allocate 5.3 million euros to agriculture. These two proposals were not supported by the Commission. The Commission has taken consensual decisions to put the draft on the agenda for today's sitting on 26 October and to close the second reading. The deadline for submitting amendments is 5.15 p.m. on 3 November. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U208	Thank you. Good waitress, no questions for you. Do colleagues want to open negotiations? There is no wish for negotiation. Three amendments to the draft were tabled and we will examine them together. The first amendment tabled by the Committee on Monetary Affairs. The position of the lead committee: take full account. The second amendment tabled by a member of the Riigikogu, Külmiki Kübarsepp. The position of the commission is not to take this into account. Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U209	Thank you, Mr President. The Free Party Group is asking for this proposal to be voted on.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U210	We are going to vote on this amendment. Ladies and gentlemen, I shall put the second amendment to the vote. The position of the lead committee: not to be taken into account. Please take a stand and vote. 17 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the proposal, 42 against, with no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. The third amendment tabled by the Group of the Estonian Free Party. The position of the lead committee: not to be taken into account. Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U211	Thank you, Mr President. We are asking for this extremely important amendment on support for agriculture to be supported in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U212	Thank you. We are going to vote on this amendment. Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on the third amendment tabled by the Group of the Estonian Free Party. The position of the lead committee: not to be taken into account. Please take a stand and vote. 23 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the proposal, 40 against and no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the second reading of draft 296. Second reading is over. I will set the deadline for tabling 296 amendments, including 3 November at 5.15 p.m. We have passed the eighth item.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U213	Let's keep going. The ninth item is the first reading of the draft State Budget Act 303 of 2017 initiated by the Government of the Republic. I'm asking for a presentation from the Minister of Finance, Sven Sester!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U214	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear Members, It is good to see that before you start speaking, there are already the names of the questioners on the screen. You will have the 2017 state budget before you, which will increase by 7.3% and will have a growth budget in all respects. This budget will boost our economy, our defence capabilities and people's well-being. Our special attention is to families with children and people who find it difficult to make ends meet because of a small salary. We want to promote rural areas and reform so that our country does not have to take on debts now or in the future and life will be better everywhere in Estonia. This budget is designed to make every person in Estonia a part of economic growth. First of all, what are the sources of this growth? The analysts of the Ministry of Finance appreciate that our economy is starting to grow faster again because the economic situation of our main trading partners, Finland, Latvia and Lithuania, is improving and the Russian economy is recovering. This means that foreign demand and its support will increase the opportunities of Estonian companies to export goods and services. As people's incomes continue to grow rapidly, consumption is also increasing. This, in turn, increases the economy and tax revenue. There will also be a surge in public investment and the use of European Union money, which will once again support economic growth, as there will be additional money in the economy. As a result, the Estonian economy will grow by 5.2% in euro next year and by 2.5% in terms of price changes. If you ask me if it's enough, I'll say no, it's not enough. We would be able to achieve much faster growth if our external environment supported such growth. What is the state doing to grow the economy and support entrepreneurship? When you ask what he is doing, I will highlight some of the main steps of the government to support growth. State investment in infrastructure and real estate provides employment on the construction market. Better roads and connections support the movement of goods and knowledge. The planned large investor measure, which costs EUR 3 million and is at a pilot project stage, is intended to bring large foreign investors to Estonia. We are making energy investments in infrastructure energy savings and homes. New and expanding education and labour market measures and apprenticeships support labour market entry and the acquisition of the necessary skills. The measures to support entrepreneurship directly through the Enterprise Estonia, the Agricultural Registers and Information Office and other institutions will soon be enough to allow me to quickly run out of time when I start reading them. Next year, the country will channel more than 0.8% of our country's total production into R &amp; D, with which we are far ahead of most European countries. Our ambitious target is higher: 1%. This objective, which we have set ourselves, and which we are moving towards next year, is really very ambitious. The level we dream of has only reached the Nordics. Our bottleneck is not the state's contribution, as some say, but the fact that private sector companies cannot keep up with this pace or be a strong and competent partner in our science. How best to move forward here is the question of a million dollars that most countries are wondering about. Many of these measures are implemented with the support of European Union funds. The amount of the European Union and other external grants is planned to be EUR 961 million in the state budget for 2017 and EUR 81 million in national co-financing. Of the external grants, 60% of the resources of the Structural Funds and 30% of the resources of the Agricultural and Fisheries Fund for the period 2014 to 2020 are available. With the support of European Union funds, public investment will also increase in 2017. I stress that these are the instruments that will enable us to make growth-friendly investments without borrowing. It should not be said that it is European money and it does not matter. It does, because the money is no longer on the label in the Estonian budget. What matters is what the money is used for, not where the money comes from. It is also far exaggerated that Estonia will no longer receive a cent of euro money from 2021. So our main task is to make the best use of this money. Honourable Riigikogu! Lower labour taxes increase income, consumption, savings and investment. That's a fact. It is therefore government policy to support growth and boost the labour market by reducing labour taxes. For the first time in the following year, low-wage workers will be able to apply for a new refund of income tax when submitting their tax return. It is natural that the state does not charge income tax on people who earn a minimum wage or a salary close to it, because it is already difficult to cope with such a salary. Tax refunds will boost the economy as it quickly returns to the economy through consumption. The tax refund also favours employment as only those who have worked full-time for at least six months in 2016 and have paid income tax will receive tax refunds. A total of around 100000 adults with an annual income of less than EUR 7818 can apply for a return when submitting their income tax return. In addition, we will also reduce the social tax by half a percentage point and increase the tax-free income by 10 euros per month. In total, EUR 100 million more will be available to people and businesses as a result of the reduction in labour taxes. It can be consumed, saved or invested. However, for the next four years, this amount will already be EUR 800 million, which will directly support economic growth. A few words about wages and pensions. Honourable Riigikogu! The main income of most people working in Estonia comes from salary. The Ministry of Finance forecasts an increase of 5.5% in the average wage in 2017. The fact that such wage growth is real and not taken from the air shows, even if it is, that the social tax on wages will increase by nearly 6.7% this year. Together with wages, our pensions are growing, and pensioners are also taking part in economic growth. There are several reasons for rapid wage growth. On the one hand, the minimum wage will rise to EUR 470. This calls for companies to raise the salaries of people on lower wages. As I said, this remuneration is basically tax-free also due to the tax refund in 2017. On the other hand, our borders are wide open, and a few hours' sailing away is far more prosperous than we are in Finland. But we must remember that if the level of wages in the country rises too quickly, it will put at risk the competitiveness of companies and the jobs of people. That is why we have agreed in the government that our wage policy is conservative. We believe that, in the current economic situation, the state should not be the driving force behind wage growth. In shaping the salaries paid from the state budget, the government prefers police, rescue and social and higher-education cultural workers, whose payroll fund is set to grow by 3.3%. Teachers with a special status whose salary fund is planned to grow by at least 4,6%. As a result, the teacher's minimum fee reaches EUR 1000. However, this amount is probably not final and the Minister of Education is still looking for ways to move faster towards the target set. For health professionals, we have planned an increase equal to the average wage. This does not mean that the salaries of other staff and officials do not necessarily increase; ministers simply have to look for austerity and reform. In this way, wage policy also contributes to making the country more effective. A few words about the cost. Honourable Riigikogu! If you look at the comparative tables, you will see that the budgets of almost all areas of government are growing in this budget. In only a few cases, there is a small decline due to the end of some of the larger investments. For example, this year the Estonian National Museum was completed. This means that we have achieved a balance in the budget between areas, because growth in one area can only come at the expense of another or because of a higher tax burden. We will not increase the tax burden. A word about families with children. As I said above, our families with children are of special attention. In order to improve the well-being of families with children and promote births, large families receive an additional allowance of EUR 200 per month for families with three children and EUR 370 per month for families with at least seven children from 1 July next year. This means that, for example, a family with two children will receive a total monthly child benefit of 100 euros from the state, while a family with three children will receive EUR 400 from 1 July 2017, a family with four children of 500 euros, and a family with seven children will receive EUR 970 from the taxpayer every month as child benefit. In addition, you can receive child care allowance and support for a single parent child. The up-to-date maintenance fund shall ensure that the child receives at least part of the unpaid maintenance allowance. If a new citizen is born into the family, the state will also pay parental benefit. If the income of the family is too low, the state will come to the aid by providing income support to ensure that the rent is paid and that an income of at least EUR 130 per month is guaranteed for each child. In addition, needs-based family support is provided for families with low incomes. All in all, this means that the confidence and coping of families with children will improve, and raising children more and less often means getting into a poverty trap for the family. We hope that with all this support, our population will start to grow again gradually. A few words about pensions. Honourable Riigikogu! As I said above, pensions will grow along with salaries. The total budget for pensions is EUR 1.67 billion. The average old-age pension will rise by 20 euros, 416 euros and will remain exempt in the future. By the way, in many countries, pensions are not tax-free. For pensioners living alone, the state will pay an additional EUR 115 per month next year. This is a completely new support scheme that will apply from next year. Next up, health care. The opportunities of the Health Insurance Fund will increase by 66 million euros in the coming year, to 1.09 billion euros, as wages and social security contributions on wages will increase. The claims that the reduction in social tax reduces the income of the health insurance fund are misleading and incompetent because the law contains a compensation formula which ensures that tax changes do not affect the income of the health insurance fund. In addition, the establishment of first-level health centres with the support of the euro will take place next year. In order to support healthier lifestyles, we are planning to give employers better opportunities in the future to take care of workers' health. To this end, there is a draft in the Riigikogu, according to which, as of 2018, the employer's expenses to promote the health of the employee will not be considered as a special benefit of 100 euros per quarter, i.e. 400 euros per year. A few words about self-government and regional policy. Honourable Riigikogu! If we look outside the central government, the opportunities of local governments will grow during the new year, thanks to the fact that our people's salaries are increasing and local governments are getting a fixed share of this, 11.6%. In total, municipal income tax revenues will increase to 952 million euros. This is EUR 218 million, or 30% more than for local governments at the peak of boomtime, in 2008, with which municipalities mostly compare their income base. In the run-up to the elections, but also with increasing euro money, local government investment will increase nearly twice next year. It also supports our economic growth and as a result, public services will improve throughout Estonia. In addition, the state makes investments and supports communities and good initiatives across Estonia. The Ministry of Education, in cooperation with the municipalities, starts the construction of the Viimsi, Rapla and Paide upper secondary schools. For Pärnu police and rescuers, we are building a new joint building. The new building and better working conditions are also available to Vändra and Vastseliina rescuers. Ida-Viru Central Hospital and Viljandi Hospital receive money to design planned constructions. The main projects of the road plan are the construction of 2 + 1 bypass trails along the section of the Tallinn road from Pärnu and Tallinn to Tartu road and the construction of the Sillamäe traffic junction on the Tallinn road from Narva to increase road safety. In Narva, reconstruction of the transit route through the city will begin. For better communication between Saaremaa and Hiiumaa, we buy a ferry. As a result of the increase in funding for regional programmes, we will allocate a total of 0.84 million euros per year to the Setomaa and Peipsivere programmes and a total of half million euros per year to the Vana-Võromaa and Mulgimaa programmes. Support for cultural programmes, including Setomaa, Mulgimaa, Vana Võrumaa, Virumaa, Kihnu, Peipsivere and island cultural programmes, and folk culture centres, will be provided through the Centre for Folk Culture. Tallinn Airport is directed to AS to maintain small airports of regional importance, such as Kuressaare, Kärdla, Pärnu and Tartu Airport and Kihnu and Ruhnu Airport. As I said above, a programme has been launched to set up new primary health centres across Estonia. The Estonian Concert organises international music festivals, one of the largest of which is the Saaremaa Opera Days. The Ministry of Culture supports the Black Night Film Festival and the Pärnu International Documentary and Anthropology Film Festival. We also support the Narva Vaba Lava Theatre Centre. Investment support is granted to Vanemuine, Endla, Tehvandi Sports Centre, Tartu St Paul's Church, Narva Alexander Church, Rääma Rowing Base and International Arvo Pärt Centre. And no matter what the relationship between Toompea and the sub-urban area is said, but with the help of European Union grants in Tallinn and Harju County, the construction of the Jüri-Väo section of the Tallinn ring road will continue for 2+2 real time. We also support the construction of Reid Road and the reconstruction of Haaberst intersection and Gonsiori street. We will begin reconstruction of the Hunt Head Harbour and continue the overhaul of the railway of Tallinn, Keila-Keila-Paldiski and Keila-Keila-Riiisipere. In summary, the government's goal is to make investments to make life better throughout Estonia. Honourable Riigikogu! As the last cost, so that this information doesn't get lost in other things, I'll tell you about the defense costs. We have agreed in the coalition agreement that our defence costs will be at least 2% of gross domestic product, and that is what we will achieve. In fact, we are going to exceed this because we have agreed that there will be additional costs for accepting allies. Defence costs will increase with the economy and will amount to 477 million euros in 2017, which is the highest ever level. An additional EUR 26 million is foreseen in the budget for the adoption of the Allied Forces. In 2017, we will also devote money to the development of rapid response capabilities and the development of the eastern border within the area of government of the Ministry of the Interior. Now a few more words about responsible fiscal policy. Honourable Riigikogu! In summary, it can be said that with this budget, the government is implementing a coalition agreement. The economy, wages and tax revenues are increasing because our working people and businesses are doing good work and the external environment is also improving. This has also led the government to put together a responsible budget for the next few years, which will boost our economy, our security and people's well-being. The government, ministries, officials and many others in both the public and private sectors have been working since spring and the result is in front of you. I invite all of you, honourable members of the Riigikogu, to be critical and find places where the government has been too generous in spending planning to do something you think is more necessary. I assure you, we have done our best. For the economy to grow and economic growth to reach everyone, the government as a whole is responsible to taxpayers, and each minister in his own government. This budget gives ministers greater freedom to make their own decisions on how to make the best use of taxpayers' money entrusted to them so that the lives of the Estonian people can improve next year. All the good things I said earlier, we will also do next year so that our fiscal policy is responsible. For the new year, we are planning a structural surplus of 0.2% of gross domestic product in the general government budget. This means that public finances will be in good order at the end of 2017. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! This growth budget helps to boost our economy, our security and people's well-being and to bring economic growth to every person in Estonia. I ask you to support the draft state budget for 2017! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U215	Thank you, Minister. There are some questions for you. Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U216	Thank you, Minister of Finance. What do you have to say to those Estonian entrepreneurs whose competitiveness you seriously undermine with this budget? I am thinking in particular of the planned increase in diesel and petrol excise duties, once again, in a situation where Latvia will not increase excise duty next year according to the Latvian Ministry of Finance. As a result, our diesel excise duty will be 44% higher than in Latvia. Our southern neighbours Latvians and Lithuanians pay their farmers transitional payments that we do not pay. This also puts our farmers at a competitive disadvantage. What message will be left after the negative ones from this budget?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U217	Thank you. I'm going to take this opportunity first, and I'm going to specify a little bit of what we talked about a few days ago in connection with our enquiries. You have just asked about excise increases in different countries, and I mentioned that Latvia will in the near future increase the price of diesel and petrol from 411 to 436 euros. I used the data on the 6.1% increase on 1 January 2016. At the moment, I do not have any additional data on whether this price will still rise in 2017. You asked what we were doing to make it good for Estonian entrepreneurs to be here so that they would like to develop here, create businesses and hire new people. If you look at the whole picture, which I also told you about in the introduction to the item on the agenda, you will see that many of the steps that Estonia is now taking will contribute to the development of Estonian companies to a greater or lesser extent. Starting with the tax policy changes that I have told you about, which will leave more than EUR 40 million in social tax to businesses, a half-per cent reduction next year will mean money that will be in the pocket of companies and will end up with various support mechanisms through KredEx and EAS. Finally, our own legislative changes will also create a situation where non-payment of taxes will not give anyone a competitive advantage. The reason why I stress that there should be no competitive advantage in non-payment of taxes is that in many countries taxes are not collected at the same level as in Estonia. And that raises problems in these countries.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U218	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U219	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, A year ago, you missed the growth forecast, with only 1.3% remaining for real GDP growth this year. To be honest, I also do not see that this budget supports growth in any way. What is currently saving is wage growth and domestic consumption, which may continue for some time. You rightly pointed out that the public sector does not need to dictate wage growth. It says here that 6% is accounted for this year and 5.5% probably next year. Can you distinguish between wage growth in the public sector and in the private sector this year and next year's view?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U220	Thank you. I don't have any specific data for you right now, but I can certainly send them to you because we have also had government-level reviews of wage increases. However, I can say that for three years in a row, the public sector has been the leader of a pay race, the last three years. It's not this year anymore. During the first half of this year, the private sector has been the leader of the wage race. And when we look at what the government's steps have been, you will see that last year the government allocated 4% to the so-called priority areas. I am going to list them once again: social workers, educators, higher education cultural workers and internal security workers, customs workers and rescuers. To them, we allocated 4% last year for that year. When ministers in another sector, starting with the Minister for Finance and ending with the Minister for Rural Affairs, wanted to raise their salaries, they had to make further structural reforms. So the state is currently holding this line so as not to lead the race. I will also mention for a moment the introduction to your question, where you spoke about forecasting and related matters. The Ministry of Finance, OSCD, IMF and all commercial banks make a forecast. We need to monitor what the forecast for the Ministry of Finance is going to be compared to other forecasts. That is the key question. Is the Ministry of Finance more optimistic in its forecasts than in other forecasters? If he's more optimistic, that could be a problem for us, because on the basis of his prognosis, we're putting together a state budget. We do not put together the state budget according to Swedbank, SEB Bank or IMF forecast. We're putting it together according to the Ministry of Finance forecast, and here I, a good colleague, can tell you that the Ministry of Finance has not been optimistic. If you look at the best knowledge of other forecasters at that moment, you might notice that the Ministry of Finance was one of the most conservative forecasters. And you can see that these words also have cover, perhaps in reality the receipts have been better than we have expected.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U221	Marika Tuus-Laul, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U222	Thank you. Honourable Minister of Finance! I'd like to ask you more about the Rescue Board's work. You mentioned a number of items to which the country will contribute next year in this area. But let's talk about Piirissaare. The residents of Piirissaare have suffered several fires this year and we have not seen the country come to such aid until today. The people there live in fear, they don't even dare sleep anymore. Tell me what you're gonna do. How do you support them?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U223	Thank you. The state, of course, works closely with all local authorities and also with Piirissaare. Local authorities have various agreements, programmes, and the possibility to apply for Structural Funds funds. Piirissaare has not at any time been in a situation where it would not have the opportunity to communicate with the State under the same conditions as other local authorities. There are exactly the same possibilities on the border island.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U224	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U225	Thank you, manager. Minister, thank you very much. My question is a little backwards. I ask how our state-owned companies are doing and how the government deals with these companies. As we know, Eesti Energia has had a relatively difficult period to serve its loans. The loan volume is about a billion. I am asking how much money the state will put as owner next year into expanding the share capital of state-owned companies.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U226	Thank you. I do not agree with you that Eesti Energia has a difficult time because it has loans. The existence of a loan in itself does not mean that someone is difficult. It's all about cash flows, it's all about the business plan and what it's for. Charging in nature does not automatically mean that there are problems. As far as share capital is concerned, Eesti Energia will have a larger share capital contribution in 2018 rather than Eesti Energia will make larger investments in wind energy production in Toots, according to its business plans. It's more of a 2018 story.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U227	Anneli Ott, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U228	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. My question concerns the plan of the Police and Border Guard Board to unite three police stations in South Estonia into one. It is claimed that this merger project contradicts the previous commitments of both the Prime Minister and the Minister of the Interior that the new budget will not lead to redundancies. How do you comment on whether, in the new budget period, the Police and Border Guard Board is responsible for expecting such large redundancies?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U229	Thank you. Of course, each minister has a duty, and the obligation also involves the right to take decisions. However, if you have a very specific need and a desire to know what the future fate of one or another particular border guard cordon will be, despite the fact that, as Minister of Finance, I am almost ready to talk about classical swine fever and the thickness of desomats during the budgetary procedure, I may not know everything by heart. I think that more specific things should certainly be asked by the Minister in this area. However, I can tell you that at the moment, all ministries are working, on the one hand, to ensure that citizens do not lose access to services, do not lose their sense of security or the opportunity to be taught at school, and, on the other hand, to ensure that the state is as effective as possible. I think that it is certainly worth asking the Minister for Industry to question which changes are specifically intended to be made in the future, and how much risk you think the service is not available and the sense of security may disappear.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U230	Dmitri Dmitriev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U231	Thank you, Mr President. Minister of Finance! The Rescue Board is already in a very difficult situation, where some of the work is done with the help of volunteers. The state budget foresees that next year the salary of rescue officers will only increase by around 3%. At the same time, the macroeconomic forecast shows that the increase in the budget from the wage perspective is 4 to 5%. This means that the wages of the rescuers will not grow again at the same rate as the average wage in Estonia. What can you explain? Does the state simply not appreciate the work of rescue officers enough?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U232	Thank you. On the contrary, I would say that this is one of the country's greatest priorities. I repeat once again: we have agreed that there are four priorities. These priorities include the area of internal security, teachers, social workers and cultural staff with higher education. These are the areas where the country is the most channelling money and, accordingly, the salary fund of the Ministry of the Interior has grown in this order of magnitude.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U233	Enn Frontland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U234	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister! I ask my question despite the fact that next year's budget is in deficit at EUR 150 million. According to Eurobarometer opinion polls, 75% of Estonians believe that helping people in developing countries is important, and almost half of those surveyed believe that aid to developing countries needs to be increased. Estonia has officially announced that our direction in the coming years will be to reach development aid at 0.33% of GNP. However, there was still a promise in 2010 that in 2015 development aid would be at 0.17. This year it will be 0.16 and, unfortunately, next year it will remain the same. Tell me, is it not good if Estonia's promise to raise development aid to 0.33% of GNP is quite impossible to meet, especially given that, in the not-so-distant future, the European Union's financial assistance will be lost to us?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U235	Thank you. The priority countries and areas for development cooperation and humanitarian aid in Estonia will determine the development cooperation and humanitarian aid development plan for the years 2016 to 20200, according to which the priorities will continue to be the same as in the 2011 to 2015 development plan. Priority countries, partner countries are Georgia, Moldova, Ukraine, Belarus and Afghanistan. There are also areas where specific money is being channelled, such as education, health, strengthening democracy and the rule of law, supporting peace and stability, and supporting environmental sustainability and economic development. In 2015, the State contributed a total of 30.6 million. We see that in 2017 the costs will remain at the same level as they were in 2016. We have a desire to participate in civilian missions next year with up to 20 experts and to look for opportunities to contribute to the United Nations civilian missions. Next year, European Union missions will be in Palestine, Ukraine, Georgia, Kosovo, possibly Afghanistan and the OSCE Special Mission in Ukraine. So there is a clear desire to move forward on development cooperation and humanitarian aid.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U236	Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U237	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear Minister, The International Monetary Fund, which completed its mission in Estonia this week, expressed its opinion that several economic indicators are contradictory in Estonia. In the calculation of the economic cycle, in the calculation of the rising balance, the Ministry of Finance has estimated that our gap is negative and the economy is developing well below the potential level. But at the same time, we have employment at the highest level in the last 20 years. Unemployment is very low in Estonia, i.e. the labour resources are maximised. In a number of areas, resources, production capacities are maximised. Tax receipts are very good, consumption is very high. What can we do to justify that, in this situation, our economy is below its potential level? The next year's growth of 2.5% will also be quite considerable in Europe's current context.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U238	Thank you. That is a very good question, and it is very good that you are pointing it out! The Governor of Eesti Pank has also stated that there is an anomaly here. Because the true story, as you just described it, is true. If we look at some indicators, for example, the increase in average wages is really very rapid, 6.7% now and 5.5% next year. We will see almost the same increase in the next few years. Very fast climb! Unemployment is currently very low. These figures say we should be somewhere in the boom or near the boom. However, at the same time, looking at other indicators, we cannot say this, even in the context of economic growth. If there was a boom, economic growth would be at a different level. There are some anomalies here, and ex-analysts are working on it. An analogous example is that, with lower growth, our tax receipts are better at the same time, people's wages are growing three times faster than growth. I'm sure there are anomalies in this sense. Looking at the economic growth of our neighbouring countries both this year and next year, a true story, Finland, where the economy was essentially standing for several years, when it was not even negative, is achieving that next year, one percent growth is expected. In Germany, economic growth is in the order of 1.6 to 1.7%. Such countries, as an example, are marked. Looking at this context, Estonian economic growth of 2.5% does not seem so bad. But this is definitely not a place to rest on laurels and say that it satisfies us. No, it doesn't satisfy us, of course it doesn't. There has been a period in Europe that I would call a little depressive. One positive thing is that almost all countries have shown some kind of growth, except perhaps Greece. Everyone has shown no economic growth, but at the same time it has not been as great as it has been used to seeing. Many analysts have also said that perhaps this modern 1 to 2% growth is a new normality. I don't know if this is the case, but analysts say that this may be a new situation to get used to in Europe. I agree with what you said at the beginning of your question. Yeah, there's a mismatch, because certain signs indicate that we could be at the top of the boom or going to the boom, but you can't see it at the same time. True story, our analysts say, and not only our analysts, but also the IMF stated that our GDP should be much higher than it is now. And now, if you look at the current GDP, or gross domestic product, and what GDP should be, this difference is negative, or the GDP gap is negative. Here is also the answer to the question put by one Member: why is it that our structural position is in surplus, but the nominal position is 0.6% in deficit? The answer is that if our GDP has not reached the level it should have, then the country must therefore stimulate the economy to achieve this level of GDP. In other words, if our GDP level is higher than it should be, then the country should cool the economy.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U239	Andrei Novikov, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U240	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, The explanatory memorandum to the national budget states that the measures contained in the Green Paper on alcohol and tobacco policy will be implemented, followed by EUR 10.4 million in brackets. Does this point refer to the adoption of the Alcohol Act and the Advertising Act, initiated by the Minister for Health and Labour and amended several times? What elements of substance have been specifically taken into account?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U241	Thank you. Of course, excise policy is accompanied by various programmes, including information and control programmes. The Minister of Health and Labour has proposed a new vision in the Alcohol Act, which is currently in the process in the government office. This includes a number of nuances, starting from, for example, how close a liquor store can be to an educational establishment. If the government approves this bill at one point, it is part of a larger alcohol policy.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U242	Thank you, dear Deputy Speaker. Minister, thank you very much. You spoke very nicely about how different areas and areas have gained more money, and you said that municipalities will also receive nearly 30% more money than in 2008. But this is a natural increase because of wage growth, not because of the kindness of the government. In 2009, the municipal income base was reduced, which has not been restored. Perhaps you better get out how much less money the municipalities have received.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U243	Oudekki Loone, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U244	Thank you. I have a question about the DOD's jurisdiction. In particular, point 3.9 of the explanatory memorandum states that there are other costs in line 46 of the budget. While some EUR 16 million was earmarked for other operating expenditure in this area in the 2015 and 2016 national budgets, more than EUR 30 million have been planned for the following year, i.e. more than 90% of the change. However, no justification is given, stating that this is a state secret. However, it has been said that the scope of other operating costs has been extended. Please explain to the taxpayer why the vague 'Other costs' section is protected by state secrets and what things have shifted to other costs since last year that this scope has expanded.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U245	Thank you, good questioner! I'm always happy to explain everything I know. As regards state secrets, I cannot speak because there are certain prohibitions here. But in reality, it's a lot easier. Other costs include costs related to allies. And as I mentioned in my introductory speech, the Estonian state has taken the view that the costs associated with the allies, NATO's presence in Estonia, are more than 2%. In some countries, the cost of the President's official car is also included in the cost of defence, as the President is the Commander-in-Chief. However, Estonia has its own development plan for defence capabilities, and if we took up 2% of allies' costs, it is very likely that this development plan would not be able to be completed to the extent expected. Therefore, the current coalition has made a political decision that the costs associated with NATO and the presence of the Allied Forces exceed 2%. Next year, it will then be an expenditure of 2,17 to 2,18% of GDP.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U246	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U247	Thank you. I can't comment on your beliefs. Whether you believe it or not, it's your inner feeling. I can't make your beliefs better or worse. Really, try to cope with yourself in this context. Let us look at the resources allocated by the state. And if you feel that it is impossible to manage this money, then it would certainly be worth asking the Minister for Industry a special question about how to manage in 2017, in your example of the rescuers.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U248	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U249	Thank you. I do not agree with you if you say that the government has not made efforts to increase the income base of local governments. Since the government is making an effort for people to have the desire and will to work here in Estonia and their salaries to rise. And as you note, true story, wages are rising, perhaps too quickly, as we have said here today, looking at both this and last year's and next year's salaries. When we talk about activities that are directly funded by local authorities, the local governments' equalisation and support fund, which is EUR 389 million, will grow by 4% next year compared to this year. In addition, we have politically agreed on support for the activities of children and young people, which will be EUR 5.7 million next year. Next year it will apply from autumn, 2018 is already a full year, and then the amount of support to local authorities for the activities of children and young people will be 14.25 million euros. Local authorities receive 2.2 million euros to develop waste management and 2.6 million euros to support child care services for children with severe and deep disabilities. These are the money that goes to local governments. In addition, we finance local roads to avoid 29 million euros. We have taken a political decision: in 2019 we will channel an additional EUR 15 million of taxpayers' money to strengthen local authorities and EUR 25 million in 2020. After that, from 2020, every year it will be 25 million already in the base. That's the situation.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U250	Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U251	Thank you. By the way, we have also asked the Minister of the Interior about internal security in this Chamber. And as far as local roads are concerned, this money was once, before being cut, bigger than it is now, but in the meantime, all proportions have increased. So there hasn't really been any restoration. However, this 15 million relates primarily to administrative reform. Today, both the issue of internal security and education have repeatedly run through it. Unfortunately, I do not agree with colleagues from the Free Party who think that education is our role as a beating boy. On the contrary, as you have even pointed out, education is funded across the European average. The thing that nobody wants to draw too much attention to is that internal security has been funded below average. If you come to education, you invest a lot of money in education. However, the same IMF delegation pointed out that the investment was highly profitable or had little effect. Can you tell me how much is invested in the public sector and what are the real benefits of these investments?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U252	Thank you. First of all, I like to have a debate between the parties, not just between me and you. I think that discussing the budget is a sensible place to highlight our political priorities. And, of course, there are different opinions in this Chamber too, even if there is opposition. I think that makes a lot of sense. Secondly, in the introductory part of your question, you said that this 15 million relates to administrative reform. No, you didn't. You got things a little mixed up. The administrative reform involves one-off allocations, which the local authorities will receive in the same way for Estonian taxpayer's money, EUR 65 million over the next three years. A further 15 million already in 2019 and beyond in 2020 are not related to administrative reform. Their separation is a purely political decision to strengthen local authorities. As regards the investment, which was the substance of your fundamental issue, we are at the top of Europe in terms of public investment. As an average for the last five years, government investment in Estonia was almost one of the highest in Europe, reaching 5.4% of GDP. And if you want to know what the European Union's average level of investment in the general government is, it is 3%. So on the government side of investment, we have nothing to be ashamed of.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U253	Kersti Sarapuu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U254	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! Let's still talk about the same salaries and payroll. The explanatory memorandum states that 3%, or EUR 7.7 million, has been allocated to the teachers' payroll fund. At the same time, Maris Lauri at the Forum said 4.6%, and you yourself called it 4.6% before that. Which percentage is correct, and how much is the teacher's pay really going to increase, say, the average salary?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U255	Thank you. I find it difficult to comment on your question in this sense, because it is a question of belief. You say you do not believe that this money is being spent effectively. I'd say let's see how this year goes. Or the other way around, for example, look at this year's years. See when this year is over, how the money of a specific project, a specific measure, has been spent in some sector and whether the result that has been expected has been achieved. Believe me, the aim of all current leaders, starting with the Minister and ending with the heads of the agencies, is to spend taxpayers' money as efficiently as possible. In any sector, including the education sector. We take the view that there is a will and a desire to take action so that taxpayers' money achieves the best result by the end of the period. Let us not question that. I have no reason to look at it the other way, believe me!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U256	Honorable manager! Honorable Minister! Dear colleague Martin Helme! I am saddened to note the shortcomings in education, even in this respectable hall, not to mention the rest of Estonia, so that there is a need to invest in education. But that's not what I wanted to talk about. Minister, thank you very much. The IMF also said that we have a disproportionate number of people working in the public sector and that their number should be severely reduced. You started out boldly last year, and the first 1,500 came out like a funny man. In higher education, the number of students decreased, it was good to concentrate, the number of students in vocational schools decreased, the number of students could be taken, the number of vacancies could be lost. That first 1,500 came pretty easy. Why did you chicken out now, why don't you just go ahead with it? Why are you satisfied with this and saying that last year we did twice as much, we did two adjustments instead of one, and now we're good? You know very well yourself that they were laid off where it was easier, not where they really should have.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U257	Thank you. No, we haven't chickened out, not at all. How did you get into that kind of undertone with your question? Absolutely hasn't chickened out. Let us start from a distance and first of all ask why the current government coalition wants to reduce its working hands in the public sector. The reason is very simple. Our working age population is declining, so the public sector must go hand in hand with it. In the medium term, the number of employees must be reduced by up to 1% per year, i.e. 700-750 people in the order of magnitude, this is such an arithmetic average. Now, if we look at what has been done this year-and-a-half, it's like a decent schoolboy can still report that we did twice as fast. As they once said, a five-year-old in three years. We've done what was planned for two years in one year. In time, I think we're becoming more and more professional. We have set out for ourselves that, by the end of this period of governance, in four years, the number of employees in the public sector should fall by 3000 to 3500. This can be measured very clearly in the coming years. We've also figured out how it should look, so it's not just a number. We have described a large number of reforms that the government wants to do, what the coalition wants to do in order to make taxpayers' money more effective, so that the work is more effective, from school network reform to judicial reform, rural government reform, etc. A lot of reforms. As a result of these reforms, we are discovering at one point that this work can be done much more effectively. No, we certainly have not lowered the bar, rather the input has become increasingly professional, more understandable, more accurate. It is not that he has not been understood in the past, but we are increasingly aiming to achieve our goal.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U258	Good manager! Good minister! The government wants life to improve in Estonia. I opened a budget on page 221, which revealed that there were 280700 relative poor people. The number is expected to decrease by 0.3% or 930 next year. There are 82000 people living in absolute poverty and the number is expected to decrease by 0.1% next year, i.e. by 82. Consequently, it will take 280 years to eradicate relative poverty and 1000 years to eradicate absolute poverty. Do you think this step is long enough?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U259	Thank you. Look, you manipulate a particular number and then you ask a question about that number. I could tell you that in February of this year, 500% more alcohol duty was collected than in February of last year. If we were to do a "projection" for the next few years, we could say that thousands more percentages have been received. Why did this happen? Because it was this particular month that more was mobilised than last year because there was an increase in excise duty. In this sense, it is certainly worth looking at the bigger picture. And if you ask whether the state is working to improve the lives of people in poverty, even those in absolute poverty, then yes, the state is working, starting with income support and ending with the re-training programmes of the unemployment fund. Until people who have come out of absolute poverty but do not yet receive an average salary but are among the low-wage earners, below the median wage, receive EUR 500.600 per month, the state will pay back income tax in full or in part next year.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U260	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U261	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, Rail Baltic is a project on which the public is asking and on which clear answers must be given. These answers must also be very clear and unambiguous in terms of numbers. When I read the budget and the explanatory statement, I got confused. I hope you help clear this mess up now. On page 153, it states that the Rail Baltic project will continue to be implemented in the amount of EUR 51.7 million and an additional 6.3 million will be provided in 2017. On page 162, the investment grants for the Rail Baltic development project are EUR 34.8 million. Are these sums to be added up, or what is this sum?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U262	Thank you. I will start from a distance and say first that Rail Baltic is one of the biggest projects in Estonia's history, if not the biggest one. A political decision on this has already been taken earlier, before the time of the current government, and it will take many years to realise the project. According to current information, the total cost of this project is 1.3 billion, perhaps even a little bit after, most of which comes from Europe and some of which is to be paid by the Estonian taxpayer as an "own contribution'. During these years, we will also have an obligation to invest in the various stages of the construction of Rail Baltic. If you come to your question specifically now, there are different economic content here, and together there will be an amount that will be invested next year in Rail Baltic, 51.7 million.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U263	Thomas Vitsu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U264	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Mr. Secretary of Finance! When I listen to you, I have the impression that you have not been honest or consistent in your presentation. On the one hand, you are talking about how taxes will decrease and how you will benefit businesses. On the other hand, you are silent about the adoption last year of a cluster law that will forcefully raise taxes, and in fact you are putting your hand very deeply in the pocket of entrepreneurs. On the one hand, you are talking about how you support the economy and entrepreneurship, on the other, you are saying that you are not dependent on anything. Wouldn't you like to put your hand to heart and honestly admit that the budget doesn't really support entrepreneurship or growth?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U265	No, that's not what I'm saying.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U266	Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U267	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. I actually have the same problem as the previous speech. You yourself said that it is a growth budget in every way, that the budget is growing. In this sense, it is quite obvious that this is a so-called Santa's budget, where everyone is given something. This is the best example of 115 euros for pensioners. For years, your own party has criticised the Tallinn City Government for making a one-off annual payment to pensioners. Now there are three times as much taxes planned. I'd really like to know who invented it, who put it into the budget of edgarism and the coalition agreement. Before you asked the question of a million dollars how to get productivity, productivity to grow. In fact, there is no question of a million dollars here, or at least it is easy to earn: the solution is to cut red tape, reduce administrative burdens. What has the government done to improve the economic environment?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U268	Thank you. I've always liked to discuss it with you because you always ask practical questions in that sense that you really want to know. Sometimes people ask for something they don't really want to know. I'm going to open this up a little bit more. First of all, the question whether the Minister applied for support in the first stage in the spring of this year. Yes, he did. Now, if we look at what's been going on by now, I have to say that you're a little unfair. That is, in fact, that subsidies have been granted. By 2017, Estonian taxpayers' money has been allocated in addition to external funds. As you know, there will be more than 8 million coming from Europe next year to provide exceptional support to Estonian farmers. Estonian taxpayers' money has been allocated an additional 4.6 million euros for next year. Moreover, just an hour ago, the chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs closed the 2016 amendments, which is this year. An hour ago! And with these changes, the government has committed an additional EUR 3 million to emergency assistance. And we have come from transferring money to those sectors where it is most needed at the moment to pig farmers and dairy producers.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U269	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U270	Thank you. You had a number of questions. I try to answer them all in turn so that nothing gets overlooked. I will start with a measure aimed at pensioners. The measure addressed to pensioners was, for example, on the IRL electoral platform and we are proud that it also became part of the coalition agreement. Please note, this is a single-living pensioner. It has been assumed that a person is left alone, and it is likely that the support he had while living alone is lost. This is not an automatic payment, but there are certain additional conditions. I believe that paying attention to those people who have worked for the Estonian state for years and paid taxes on it, by the way, is certainly not too much for us, neither you nor I, who are young people. As far as bureaucracy is concerned, I agree with you that this is an issue that needs to be addressed. If you ask what the country is doing, that it is not just a word of speech, then this government has initiated a very large programme, the name of this thing is zero bureaucracy. Four ministers, the Minister for Finance, the Minister for Economic Affairs, the Minister for Enterprise and the Minister for Public Administration, probably sent letters to various business organisations with a request to highlight the problems and proposals relating to bureaucracy more than a year ago. And, you know, over 200 suggestions came in. Some were dubious, but there were a lot of proposals. We mapped out these proposals, looked at the ministries they're under, which are under the Tax and Customs Board, which is under the Statistical Office, which is in the field of an implementing unit. We also looked at what can be done, what can be done quickly and what cannot be done at all. At the moment, we are working to ensure that a large part of the proposals that businesses have put on the table are also implemented. Believe me, if this very ambitious zero bureaucracy project can be implemented, I believe it can be done within the four-year electoral cycle, you will see that bureaucracy is quite shrinking.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U271	Kersti Sarapuu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U272	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! The wage fund for internal security staff will grow by 3.3% next year. Can you specify how much the wages of rescuers, policemen and border guards will rise in this regard and how high their average wage will be after the increase?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U273	Thank you. We have had such an agreement, and not only next year, but also this year, 2016, that we are talking about the growth of the payroll in internal security and education. The salaries of cultural and social workers with higher education will also rise. However, within the administration, it is already the responsibility of its managers and the ability to differentiate salaries. Wage increases do not automatically mean that, for example, in the area you mentioned, everyone will have a 3.3% increase. Somebody might get it up more, somebody might get it up less. And this, of course, is best decided by the head of the specific administration. So the payroll is separated and there will be differentiation within it. It is the same in education.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U274	Jaak Madison, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U275	Thank you, Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu. Good Minister of Finance! I would like to ask for some clarification on the growth forecasts prepared by the Ministry of Finance. When I look at the figures, last year, growth was forecast at 2.8% this year. In fact, growth was 1.7% in the first quarter and 0.6% in the second quarter. Last year, growth was projected at 3.4% in 2017, which is next year, and has now been reduced to 2.5%. These percentages don't match reality in any way. Maybe you can explain if there's a problem with finance analysts or if there's a budget error and targets. Where's the mistake and who's lost?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U276	Thank you. To some extent, I've already touched on this subject, but then I'll open it again, maybe you weren't in the hall before. For all forecasts, it is worth monitoring whether one forecaster or another forecaster is significantly different, whether in a positive or negative key, from those of other forecasters. That should make you feel dangerous first. Whether the basic data used to make the forecast are those that may give us an illusory idea of whether we are going to live better or worse. If you look at the Ministry of Finance's economic forecasts in all previous years, not only in the context of the forecast for 2017, but also in previous years, you will see that the Ministry of Finance has always been in the family of conservative forecasters. Only a few days ago, the IMF stated that they think we will actually do better next year than we think. What did they propose? They said that we would also bring a half-per cent reduction in the social tax for 2018 to 2017, because the potential results show that we should do better. They were even more optimistic than us. I've always said that the best way to know is when the year is over. Then it is precisely known how much economic growth was, how high we finally had the unemployment rate, how much people actually paid and how much one or the other tax was collected. But once again, it is always worth observing how one or the other forecaster predicts and how much someone's forecast differs from that of the others. Here you can be sure that the Ministry of Finance has been a conservative forecaster.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U277	Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U278	Thank you. Minister of Finance! You may feel that interest in your answers is lukewarm. In the case of the Centre Party, this is due to the fact that we are in the middle of a meeting with the leaders of the representative organisations of Estonian agriculture. That is why my question also relates to agriculture. In today's Question Hour of the Riigikogu, the Prime Minister was dim or confused with emergency crisis assistance and transitional support. He repeatedly identified the 7.6 million foreseen in the budget for the coming year as one and a second. The truth is that next year's budget does not have another cent for transitional support. Is it because the Minister for Rural Affairs did not apply for this aid at all, or is there any other reason why there will be no transitional payments for farmers in the budget for next year?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U279	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good Minister of Finance! Here's the question. For a year, the state has planned the ratio of teachers' salaries to 1.2 of the average wage. Right now, the rise in the pay of our teachers is not going to give us that pace. Assuming the country's future economic policy and wage growth rate, the wage growth coefficient for teachers is not 1.2 of the country's average, but is expected to fall below one. How do you comment on that?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U280	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, I have such an observation that every autumn of next year's economic forecast is somehow going up. This is really not only done by finance analysts, but it is a more general trend. And then somewhere in August-September there's a whisper and the forecast is brought into line with reality. It's kind of a constant trend that recurs year after year. However, I would like to ask you more precisely about the forecast of the gross domestic product, which is on page 10 of the explanatory memorandum. Here's a very interesting section of this, this is an increase in value added, i.e. how productivity moves. Rows 12 and 13 are the primary sector and industry. Both fall short in 2016, especially drastically in the primary sector compared to the previous year. Now it is predicted that next year they will suddenly jump out of the minus, and then this value will start to fall slowly again. Why don't you explain to me what these numbers mean and what the prognosis is from?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U281	Thank you. I'm starting from a distance again. You made a criticism of the forecasts. I will also look at the Board's assessment, which describes the summer economic forecast of the Ministry of Finance and according to which the forecast is adequate. The Board considers that the accuracy of the Ministry of Finance's macroeconomic and financial forecast is comparable to that of other forecasts. This is clearly stated and the reasons are also set out. Just as we have pointed out by the Fiscal Council, the acceleration will be conditional on an increase in foreign demand for export goods next year. There is a very clear and uniform understanding. Moreover, I would tell you not to question the competence of the forecasters. If we start politically influencing the "end result" of one or another forecaster, it will not take us far. If we say add more VAT, because we have this and so much costs, predict it higher, then everything can run up quickly. I'm sure that's not gonna take us any further. So the projections are clearly dependent on some basic principles, and other forecasters are almost always based on the same basic values. And what is certainly important about this budget is that we move from the cash-based principle to the origin, which also gives the budget a whole new face.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U282	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U283	Thank you, manager. Minister, thank you very much. A few days ago, it was recognised here before the Riigikogu that we lose about 10 million euros a year with excise policy. I think it's going to be a lot higher than that, but let's keep it on the estimate. I ask this question: who gives the government the right to adopt laws that are harmful to our country and favourable to neighbouring countries and to implement the same excise policy? This is how we voluntarily give money to the secret market and neighbouring countries. Who gives you that right?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U284	Thank you. It would be easy for me to tell you that all laws are passed by the Riigikogu in our parliamentary country. I could say that the Riigikogu is legitimising any draft law, and that is the limit of its reply. But knowing me, you know I won't give you that answer. I'll open the subject a little bit longer. I think you're being unfair, and I'm also explaining why I think that. If we look at border trade, for example, you are a product of border trade, then border trade is currently in the order of 4-5-6% and the existence of such border trade is quite deliberately predicted. If you want the country to shape its policy by border trade, I think that would not be right. The question then would be how Denmark and Germany, Finland and Estonia, Finland and Russia should behave in border trade. I think that we cannot only look at border trade and therefore make decisions. What we need to monitor is definitely what will be like for border trade. If, at one point, border trade is to be so large that, to be notionally speaking, everyone is going to buy in another country, it is, of course, an anomaly that needs to be responded to. I have also said that if I look at tax receipts in the state budget, I would rather be worried about strong alcohol in the future. I have said before, looking precisely at the context of the tax revenue, that excise duty on fuel and also on lean alcohol and tobacco will come in this size as planned. Better yet, so-called raising forecasts.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U285	Anne Sulling, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U286	Good President! Good Minister of Finance! The recent mission under Article IV of the Statute of the International Monetary Fund mentioned in its conclusions the need to increase productivity in Estonia in order to maintain competitiveness in the context of rapidly growing wages. According to the IMF, the current gap between labour costs and productivity growth does not make it possible to be sustainable. How do you estimate the planned state budget will contribute to productivity growth and will it be sufficient?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U287	Thank you. You're paying attention to the right thing. True, the IMF admitted this, and our analysts have already noted this problem before that our productivity is not at the level that could and should be. There are also reasons why productivity is not at this level. We have rising wages very quickly, businesses are forced to raise wages in order to compete. And that means they're losing their chance to invest, to increase their productivity. It's like a vicious circle. If you do not invest or increase productivity, you will not be able to sell your goods competitively. If you ask what the country is doing, as you asked, then one thing that the country can do is to take various measures. There are business-related measures, regulations. Tax measures are one example: the state can focus its attention on labour taxes. This is what the country will do this year, next year and beyond. Labour tax is brought down to strengthen the competitive potential of companies. These are some examples of what the country could do and what the country is doing, because this problem really is that wages are growing too fast and eating the same productivity.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U288	March Sults, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U289	Thank you. What relates to teachers who are generally involved in education is one of the highest priorities in the budgets of this government. And you can see it in real money, not just in words. When we are talking about wages, I also said in my introductory speech that if most public sector employees, workers in the central government sector, do not receive any extra money from the budget, then our priorities, social workers, cultural staff with higher education and internal security staff are specifically set at 3%. With the reduction of social tax, there will be additional money, which will remain in the ministries and increase it to a percentage of 3.3. Teachers are still separate, with the amount of money allocated to them next year being 4.6%. Now, during this time, from the moment I speak to you here, until 7 December, when the budget is approved and this will be locked on 13 December, I remember as déjà vu our similar debate exactly a year ago, all ministers, including the Minister of Education, are looking at their internal resources with a view to whether redeployment within the ministry is possible. But, as I said, teachers are already the highest priority, and this is also seen in the budget for next year, on the side of the increase in money.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U290	Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U291	Honourable President! Respectable Minister of Finance! Please, let's look at the bigger picture together! I would like to address you as a conservative view of the weather. We have developed such an intimate atmosphere here, I would like to ask you a sincere answer to a serious question. One politician and another has acknowledged that, in our demographic situation, the current pension system, the current financing of health care, is not sustainable for a long time. We can now keep our election promises, accept all sorts of nice things, help the weaker. It's all noble and good. But tell me the truth how long it's gonna last like this. Would you like to be Minister of Finance and put together a budget in five or ten years? So how does this budget ever come together? You understand the meaning of my question. How long are we gonna be able to do this? How do we support this country in the future?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U292	Thank you. You had a very philosophical question, and as you said, in an intimate atmosphere. I will then try to develop a conversation with you because, as you know, dialogue is still the one that leads to the goal, and it should be the place where you can say your thoughts. If we look at the state budget for next year, the state budget for this year and the state budget for the next few years, I think the Estonian state will behave correctly and fairly. What do I mean by that? We can see that Europe has, over time, been experiencing so-called 'loan races'. If you look at the servicing of current loans in different countries, also in the old major European countries, if you look at the servicing of loans through your budgets, then a very high percentage goes to servicing the loan, repaying the debt, paying interest. After all, we are saying that the average European debt-to-GDP ratio is in the order of 90%. We're talking about 10% in our own case. This is actually the money that we are not paying back at the moment, for example, in the form of interest on loans, but we can put it specifically in economic support or in some third place, which is currently our priority in this Chamber. This means that we need to feel whether we are capable of fulfilling the promises that we have made to ourselves when we process the budget at all times. I really like that in 2008-2009. In 2006, when the crisis was not just in Estonia but around the world, we felt that revenue would not be what was hoped for. The Estonian state was able to form a so-called Crocodile Commission and limit the salaries and costs of the public sector. Later in Europe, they wondered about this and said that they could not possibly do such a thing. However, people understood, and in the next elections, the same parties who had made these painful cuts were re-elected. These parties continued in the government. People understood that these cuts were necessary. Let's go to the big picture, as you say. I think if we're talking about 20, 30, 40 years, we're gonna have to make some changes. I think we need to make changes, and precisely for the reasons that you have actually brought yourself. Our population is ageing, and we are falling short of working hands. This is beginning to affect all of our systems at one point, and it will become a burden on the pension system, by social security. There will certainly be changes in the future. And I think that all political parties who want to contribute in a good way to Estonia's welfare, who do not think destructively, but constructively, should take part here. I think, in the long term context, we have no escape, we have to think about it. Estonia is, unfortunately, an ageing and shrinking society, and nothing can be done. We're making some changes. We've brought parental benefit to life. Next year, we will implement an additional support mechanism for the third child. There are, and there are, mechanisms, steps by the state, up to the point that the environment around us is safe, that people want to live here and feel that they dare to go out tonight. These examples, however, can be found, which directly or indirectly determine whether a person wants to be here, whether he wants to start a family here, etc. For this big picture, as you have stated, I would rather say that we need to think about it now.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U293	Oudekki Loone, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U294	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister of Finance! I'm returning to defense expenses. We are raising defence costs at peace by over 2% of GDP, while farmers have a difficult time when doctors continue to emigrate. And unfortunately, we also spend 2+ per cent of it a little hectic and unreasonable. In Estonia, there is virtually no picture of integrated maritime surveillance that meets NATO requirements, our coastal defence is non-existent, and there is nothing again foreseen in this budget to develop this area of orphanhood throughout our second republic. Doesn't the government think there's a need for maritime security?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U295	Thank you. We need maritime security.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U296	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U297	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, Let's take another turn and go to R &amp; D May. In today's society, it is not enough that we have people with higher education. A very good level of research, innovation capacity, is also essential to be able to be successful in the world. All these very beautiful things. My question is why we are not raising the doctoral student scholarship, which is EUR 442. According to the forecast for the current budget, it will probably remain at the same level next year. Why?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U298	Thank you. I'm going further away from funding science. I also said in my introductory speech that funding for science and education at all is one of our country's priorities. The total public expenditure for next year is 0.85¢0.86% of GDP. We are at the forefront of Europe, with these spending, with public spending on research and development, we have nothing to be ashamed of. If we look at next year, we will see that an additional €8 million will be allocated to R &amp; D in 2017, of which 3.2 million will go to the research library to buy licences for databases. There's nothing to be ashamed of in this context. As regards the specific question of whether the monthly money of doctoral students could be greater, it is always a question of what our ability is. There are a lot of things in the budget that I would like to do to make Tallinn's roads faster, I would like to increase pensions etc. Of course, it is also possible for every minister in his field to monitor where he wants to direct the money more precisely, what his priorities are and what his capacity is. If we look at all the budgetary demands of all the ministers they put on the table in the spring, they amounted to EUR 500-600 million. Our capacity was about 100 million. That's the question. I wouldn't want to contrast one with another. One questioner opposed two investments and two ministries. I don't want to do this kind of confrontation. Everyone's important in the same way.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U299	Thomas Vitsu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U300	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Mr. Minister! From the answer to the previous question, I learned that no matter what happens, you have no problem with conscience. However, I would like to ask you about the administration of the Ministry of the Interior. I know that there is an additional EUR 16.5 million in the budget. At the same time, it is also known that the Rescue Board needs at least EUR 10 million to maintain its existing capacity. I don't think there's enough of that 16.5 million for everyone. What should be done to ensure that the Rescue Board remains at its current level in the future?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U301	Thank you. I mentioned this in reply to the question asked by the good Member, Mr Sults, but then I will go over a few things. That's 4.6%. And when you ask how this 4.6%, which is almost 11 million euros, is formed, it is formed as follows. I have reiterated here several times today that four target groups are our priorities: security workers, social workers, highly educated cultural workers and educational workers. There will be an overall increase of 3% in the payroll fund, each of these priority groups will gain 3%. An additional 0,3% comes from the fact that the state will reduce social tax by half a percentage next year. They don't take that money away from the ministries. It will remain in the hands of the ministries and they will be able to increase their payroll. Half a percentage point of social tax is in the order of 0,3%. It's not exactly one-to-one, it's a 0.3% increase in the payroll fund. As you might notice, this is going to be 3.3%. The remaining 1.3% is due to the agreement that was made then, remember when we had these major disputes concerning the operating costs of private schools. Then we agreed on a model for financing private schools. And since the national budget strategy also provided for certain buffers for private schools, it was now decided that the difference between this agreement and the buffer would be paid to teachers. This agreement was properly respected in the autumn when the state budget was processed, and this money was also directed to teachers. So 4.6% is really right. You asked me what the final raise would be. As I have mentioned, the Minister for Foreign Affairs will certainly review the specific possibilities for him to raise wages further. And that knowledge now arrives within the next two and a half months.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U302	Viktor Vassilyev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U303	Thank you, Mr President. Good Minister of Finance! This was a few or three years ago when the reserves of the Health Insurance Fund and the Unemployment Insurance Fund were consolidated into the Treasury and now they make up almost 80% of the liquidity reserve. In time, it was said that under no circumstances would the sickness fund reserve be used to carry out other tasks or to patch up budget holes. Now the National Audit Office has pointed out that they have obviously been used. This is probably the case, since 80% of the liquidity reserve is funded by the sickness fund and the unemployment fund. Is it good and beautiful when the money from the health insurance fund has been used to carry out tasks outside the health insurance fund? And if you say it has been done for some kind of overdraft, then this overdraft must still be returned in the same amounts, i.e. from the liquidity reserve, i.e. from the funds of the sickness fund's reserve.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U304	Thank you. Of course I'm ready to explain it. I think it is also reasonable, from the point of view of taxpayers' money, to look at the whole picture today. What do I mean by that? After all, the state actually pays interest on the financial resources of both the unemployment fund and the sickness fund. It's not like the user has them. We could, if necessary, if we wanted to show that we have a lot of reserves, take out a loan and put it in reserves. Does that make any sense? We said just before that we have not achieved the level of GDP we should have. That is why I say, on the contrary, we must not cool the economy, not withdraw money from the economy, but instead stimulate the economy, put money into the economy. A brief answer to you: The National Audit Office has not said that this should not be done. He said that the laws in force should perhaps be reviewed and specified so that there would be no potential contradiction in the use of specific funds. The state has always complied with so-called 'orders' when additional money is needed. We'll take the Health Insurance Fund, who spent over 30 million more in the first half of the year than he earned his income, and it was negative. According to these warrants, he got the money that actually belongs to him, of course. So in that sense, there is no question. I do not think it makes sense for us to keep money artificially simply on accounts, because we are about to arrive at a situation where we are forced to start paying some negative interest on the money on the accounts at some point. In the context of cash flow management, I think it certainly makes sense to look at the whole picture and to the taxpayer on the basis of the best possible option to do what has been done. And if there is a need to make changes in the legislative picture to make it even clearer and more understandable, then I am prepared to do so.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U305	Marika Tuus-Laul, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U306	Thank you. Good Minister of Finance! Health funding is still on fire right now. We also know that health professionals have recently told the national mediator that they are not willing to enter into any collective agreement. They will only do so if the government has taken a decision guaranteeing the budget of a health insurance fund that can cover the actual need for treatment. That is exactly what they have said. You have also given no assurance that anything will improve in providing people with treatment. We know there'll be nearly 200,000 in medical order soon. Please tell me what you're going to do! At present, we see patients being completely deliberately left out of medical treatment and no medical allowance.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U307	Thank you. I'll give you the fortress. I'll give you the assurance that next year, there will be more than 60 million new, fresh money in the system. I'll give you the assurance that in the next four years, there will be nearly 300 million more money in the system. Believe me, that's the way it is.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U308	March Sults, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U309	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good Minister of Finance! Here's the question. It's full steam to clean up the school network to save money. With full steam, the national upper secondary school network is once again being given birth to save money and optimize money. The results of the so-called state exams, which I am not in favour of, however, do not show the effectiveness and tide of these schools. How do you comment on the targeted use of this money? This thing has the smell of spending resources. What efficiency and quality gains have every euro put into this project given to you if other things, such as content, are not improved and money is not spent on it?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U310	Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U311	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Good Minister of Finance! If we look at OECD studies, which we have in Estonia, as references in several areas, we can see that the OECD has highlighted as a concern that in our small country the differences between regions are incredibly large. This is the case both in terms of the standard of living in the regions and in terms of the added value produced and other economic indicators. Now, if you look at the 2017 budget, how do you feel as Minister of Finance, which measures could we at least try to alleviate these problems a little?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U312	Thank you. Of course, the differences are, there's nothing to talk about. The government is on the table right now. One thing to mention is the measure relating to the financing of local authorities in the future. We necessarily want to implement measures to reduce marginalisation and regional differentiation. I do not deny that there is a great deal to be discussed in the government. Political parties can see different ways of smoothing regional disparities and the resulting backwardness, even with the same additional taxpayers' money that they receive in 2019/20. That's definitely one thing. I am absolutely certain that there will certainly be some change in the financing model for local authorities. I am sure that we will take greater account of the aspect of peripheralisation in this regard. Looking ahead, it can be said that administrative reform in its integrity should strengthen local authorities. Instead of the current around 200 municipalities, we will see 70-80 municipalities in the future. Municipalities should become stronger, which means better services for Estonian residents. That is the question of the near future.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U313	Arno Bridge, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U314	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. We all know how consistent agriculture is now as a decline in one industry. Only a hundred of the 1500 pig farmers in 2010 are left. The dairy herd is reduced by 10000 cows each year, and this does not only mean a reduction in the number of animals. This means failing the work of families and stopping rural development altogether. I have not received a concrete answer from either the Prime Minister or the Minister for Rural Affairs as to whether the government has any chance of contributing to at least halting this decline. I understand that we cannot exponentially start increasing these herds again, but can we at least stop the decline? This is not the way to go in our economy. But now no one has any certainty, on the contrary, the decline continues. Can the Secretary of Finance tell me anything about this? What am I going to say to farmers in Võrumaa and other people in agriculture? To be calm, the decline continues, but there's nothing to be done?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U315	Thank you. The Minister of Finance will, of course, do his best to convey his thoughts to you. Here I highlight some of my thoughts, but these are not just my thoughts, but the actions approved by the government. You were talking about dairy cows here, and you gave this as an example. Just so you and other listeners know that true story, the number of dairy cows has decreased over time. In 2015, there were 94,800 dairy cows in Estonia, currently 88,300 dairy cows with a difference of 6500 dairy cows on 30 June of both years. However, if we look at milk production, although the number of dairy cows has decreased, in 2016 milk production was 398000 tonnes instead of 386000 tonnes in 2015. Thus, fewer cows have achieved higher production levels; cows are more effective. If you ask what the country is doing to improve the situation of dairy herds, please tell your voters that on 1 July 2017 a scheme for applying for direct payments for dairy herds will be introduced, under which the target group and budget will increase. What does that mean? As compared to today, the rate of support for up to 100 head herds doubles and adds up to 400 head flocks. I'm sure you'll let me know. At present, no aid is paid to farms with 101-400 dairy cows at all, but from 2017 onwards, the amount will be EUR 100 per dairy cow. Make sure you let your voters know.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U316	Aadu Black, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U317	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Good Minister! Your answer to the first question suddenly led me to see that, despite all kinds of boundaries, we think in a relatively similar way about some important things, the coalition and the opposition, etc. This will increase my optimism in raising the next issue. One member of the Riigikogu has said that Estonians are divided into two pages. They say one of them is the religion of the song festival movement, and the other is the rest. The impression that maybe we are done here again will deepen the memory of how we once attended the session of the Baltic Assembly, Mr. Minister, together we sang the Estonian anthem so well that everyone else was jealous. But in 2018 a Gaudeamus student song festival will take place, for which the Ministry of Culture applied for budget money, but it was rejected, forgetting that it is important for the Song Party movement and for the 'Estonian Republic 100' and for the entire Baltics. Is it reasonable, on the basis of all this, to hope that, Mr Minister, if we put forward a proposal for improvement and believe that, in order to prepare this party, we should still find EUR 70000, the state will view it with maximum goodwill?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U318	Thank you. We in Estonia have, as you know, legislative and executive powers apart. Today, when the budget is in this Chamber, I humbly answer all the questions before you in my best knowledge. But if the budget is actually in your proceedings, then surely the Committee on Monetary Affairs and the entire Riigikogu will make their contribution to ensure that this budget exits as well as possible. I would point out that the state budget has never left the Riigikogu as it came to the Riigikogu. There have always been changes. I certainly do not want to use any veto in a positive or negative sense. Of course, it is up to the ambassadors to decide what changes will be made. Remo Holsmer, Chairman of the Monetary Commission, is still in this Chamber and he is handling the draft state budget with his best knowledge, just as he did last year. I'm sure under his hard arm this budget will come out of this house even better than he came here.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U319	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U320	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. Defence expenditure is saddened by those who find that there is too much money, as well as those who find that it is not enough to develop our own defence capabilities. In the coalition agreement, we read: 'In developing our military capabilities, we are based on threat assessments and military advice from the Defence Forces'. We know the threat assessments, we know what these real black clouds are like in the sky. We also know what the Defence Forces need, which is missing: armoured capabilities, anti-aircraft capabilities, coastal defence capabilities, etc. If there were budget negotiations in the government, did the Minister of Defence not apply for any extra money or would he not be able to do anything with the extra money if it could be obtained?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U321	Thank you. All ministers, including the Minister of Defence, are up to their responsibilities. Believe me, the Secretary of Defense is a very good defense minister. As I mentioned to you, in spring, when the country's budget strategy was put together, there were five to six times as many applications as there was money: 500 to 600 million were applied for, but only 100 million could be covered. Of course, all ministers have made various requests in their area of responsibility. I wouldn't look at the ability to cover defence costs with the sad look you're looking at. Quite the opposite. Let us be proud that we are among the few NATO countries that have met and exceeded the target of 2% of GDP. I don't know, I'm guessing, maybe there's five countries on this level. It is the US, Greece, Poland, Great Britain and Estonia that allocate at least 2% of GDP to defence expenditure. I think we have paid very strong attention to making sure that you, as well as everyone else, can feel safe in this country. We will continue to pay attention to this in the future.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U322	Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U323	Thank you. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. However, I did not understand from the answer to the first question whether the presence of British soldiers in Estonia would fit in 2% or not. But I want to ask you a little bit about the other sphere. It has to do with teachers' pay. Life shows that the teacher of the state gymnasium receives a bit more, about 100 euros more, for the work that takes place at the local government gymnasium. My question is whether the new budget will lead to something new in this sphere or whether it will all be the same in 2017.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U324	Thank you. I don't know what you mean by the new one and what you think is the old way. Those who have worked through the state budget will see which financial resources will be channelled into different sectors, including education and teachers' salaries, including strengthening local government. I can see it all. As far as Britain is concerned, maybe I really talked crazyly, you said you didn't get an answer. I repeat. The presence of the British military, or our allies, in Estonia, means that more than 2% of GDP must be spent for defence purposes. Let me make it clear that there is no misconception or loss of information.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U325	Mailis Reps, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U326	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. I have a question about support services. We've been talking about teachers' salaries today. I will leave other questions, I do not know, school food and some other issues aside for a moment, and I will ask about the support services that have been discussed in the Riigikogu on quite a number of occasions. You have certainly talked about this in the Government of the Republic, and the local authorities have also repeatedly raised the issue with them in the negotiations. The 2017 budget does not provide specific support for the provision of support services under education support. At the same time, local authorities have expressed the view that, in view of the perspective of 2020, that all children with special needs should attend mainstream schools, it can be predicted that they will not be able to do without support services. Have you discussed this with the Minister of Education or, more generally, in the government? What is the financing perspective for support services?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U327	Thank you. As you know, as you have also pointed out in your question, this area is currently to finance local authorities. So far, no change has taken place or is taking place. If there is a desire to make changes in the future, then surely everyone should also be prepared for this debate, but this is not the case at the moment. Of course, it is important that local authorities lose the obligation to provide upper secondary school education. In this context, and also in connection with the emergence of state secondary schools, the financial capacity of local authorities will be increased in the near future and this will of course strengthen local authorities.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U328	Siret Eagle, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U329	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. As we know, agriculture is in crisis and one of the solutions to the crisis is that crisis assistance is being provided. Between 2014 and 2016, the European Union has targeted crisis assistance to Estonia at 22.54 million. At the same time, Estonia has paid only 15.16 million euros during this period, although it would have been possible to pay 22.54 million euros. In fact, next year's state budget, crisis aid will be smaller than it is possible, i.e. if the European Union would allow us to give it. Is the capacity of the Estonian state so low that we will not be able to pay more crisis aid in full, i.e. 480000 more, or is it simply a goal to gradually undermine the competitive environment of farmers?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U330	I think that we must certainly put our energy into making the idea of e-residency and the activities that have been developed from our pilot programme of the past reach the best goal. If you look at it, the e-residents' registration forecasts are now well exceeded. We "update" or set our new projections far higher. One final example is that just a few days ago, I signed a regulation which gives e-residents the opportunity to open their bank accounts 'from a distance'. Surely this is the next step to ensure that there are more e-residents. It will, of course, extend to Estonian residents, but if the Estonian resident is still able to come to the bank, then e-residents will certainly find it much more convenient to open bank accounts from a distance and in the future also via the video bridge. I fully agree with you that Estonia should exploit its legislative potential as well as its innovation and knowledge in the IT field. I believe that all of this, together with IT, the legislative party, innovation, the will to develop Estonian entrepreneurship, can give us a good result in the future. I'll support it with two hands to put energy in it. With regard to Mr Eagle's question, I remembered one more thing. Siret Kotka specifically asked why we should not give money as 'transition grants'. There's one more thing I want to say here. If we were to grant support on the basis of 'old' payment entitlements, as I said earlier, this would not be the case with the current need for support. One thing is the priority that we want to channel this money to, but these former sharing mechanisms have now become obsolete. If we shared this money now on the basis of old references, 20% would go to those who don't have any cows. That is what shows that we definitely need to review the whole package.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U331	Martin Repinski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U332	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Minister, thank you very much. It is actually very unfortunate that I can only ask two questions. It is particularly unfortunate that you are so good at not answering questions when you answer questions. In fact, I would like to ask why you do not analyse how much of the top-up paid out would, for example, bring taxes back to the state budget immediately or in the coming years. The government very often treats the European Union's subsidies as a contribution to agriculture, but farmers earn money for the state budget. And then, when there is a time of crisis, as is clearly the case now, the state could also contribute a little, all the more so as this money will definitely come back to the country and come back repeating more than the top-up payments to farmers.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U333	Thank you. You started your assessments, and you certainly have the right to your assessments. I cannot deny them because you have the right to assess both questions and answers as you wish. I have tried to convey my best knowledge, and if it doesn't satisfy you, I will try to make it much shorter. As far as the substance of your question is concerned, I do not agree with you. I do not agree if you ask why the country does not contribute to the sector for a particular problem. I have said here several times before that you must not look at money coming into the sector in different ways. In summary, you should look at the overall picture of how much money comes into the sector over a period of time. And then you'll see that there'll be 226 million more in 2014/20. That's a fact. We can't confuse facts and estimates. It's a fact that there's more money than there was before. The second fact is that, in addition, Estonian taxpayers' money will be diverted to where the shoe squeezes the most. Taxpayer's money is what we are going to send there in addition to 4,6 million next year and 3 million really already at the end of this year.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U334	Ain Lutsepp, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U335	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear Minister, I will specify my question. What is the one-off financing of the National Defence Development Plan with EUR 623000? And what does the long-term financing of the National Defence Development Plan in next year's budget mean with EUR 2064000, given that the development of the National Defence Development Plan has reached a relatively final stage in the Ministry of Defence's administration?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U336	Thank you. I would not like to speak very specifically about what the Minister for Foreign Affairs specifically wants to do with one financial instrument or another and what this instrument means in its nature. I don't want to give you these answers. I am really trying to know everything about most of the numbers, but, as you can see, if you go into a very specific and very specific one, then the Minister of the Sector will certainly be much more competent to answer. I will also give you myself after the written answer on what this specific number means in the development plan. Just in case, I'm not going to be over-specific right now. But I promise you, you will have an answer.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U337	Arthur Talvik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U338	Good President! Good minister! I'm still coming back to those transitional payments. In the last sentence, you said that the Minister of Industry was more competent. But the Ministry of the Sector, or Ministry of Rural Affairs, proposed to the state budget a transitional payment for farmers. A study commissioned by the Chairman of the Committee on Rural Affairs, which has just appeared, shows that it is the transitional support that has left Estonian farmers in less competitive conditions than Latvia, Lithuania and Poland. How, then, did you reject this transitional support and why did you not listen to the Minister for Industry?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U339	Thank you, good Arthur Talvik. It's good to see you. I have talked about this before, but then I would like to repeat that, under the conditions of a limited resource, we must all, not only of the government, but also of Parliament, channel the budget resources as precisely as possible. What I mean by that is, as I said earlier in response to one of the questioners, that these transitional national subsidies are based on historical production references which do not characterise the current need for support. We need to think where it is actually needed when channelling taxpayers' money. I gave an example before, and it really is that in this case, those who do not have any cows would also receive subsidies, but a historical production reference would require it. Consequently, we must direct the money, the taxpayer's money, the chairman of the committee, as well as you must ensure that taxpayers' money is correctly directed to where the shoe actually squeezes. And that's what the Minister of Rural Affairs is doing right now. The Minister for Rural Affairs has fought in the government for money to come to the sector where it is needed. As I said before in reply to one question, next year we will see that in addition to the euro payments or the Structural Funds, an additional 4.6 million will be provided. And now, just two hours ago, you adopted the changes to the 2016 budget, with which we will channel another 3 million into agriculture, precisely in order to alleviate the problems that are clearly in this sector.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U340	Arthur Talvik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U341	It's nice of you to be proud of these numbers. But if you look at this research again, you'll see what Latvians and Lithuanians do. They protect their farmers, they fight for their farmers to have better conditions of competition. Our Minister of Rural Affairs tried to fight for it, too, but you opposed it. Can't you think of a way to give it up at 20% to protect your own? And since I have 30 seconds left, I want to tell you that the 3.3% pay rise for the rescuers means that they won't even catch the average wage increase, which is 4 to 5%. Do you think this 3.3% slope is something to brag about?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U342	Thank you. I'm not proud of anything here. I will try to pass on to you what are the priorities that the coalition has highlighted through the government in the state budget. And I think the measures we see in the state budget are good measures in the big picture. One measure or another may have different political priorities and different visions, but I think that action aimed at ultimately reducing the tax burden on both employers and employees, direct taxes is sensible. I think that the activities, which are also targeted at priority areas in the case of wages, are good, once again given the limited resources available. We have very clearly focused our attention on internal security, as well as on education and social workers and cultural workers with higher education. If we had not done so, the level would have been lower under the same resource conditions. So we've clearly focused and prioritised. I do not think we should be ashamed of that, a good Member.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U343	Jaak Madison, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U344	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Good Minister of Finance! I am talking about this topic, which is that next year's budget says social tax will fall by 0.5% and the budget will be EUR 41.5 million. On the day before yesterday, when you answered one question on Monday, you repeatedly stressed that our social system would not lose this EUR 41.5 million, but would be covered by other revenue from the budget. You didn't specify what the other revenue from the state budget was. Could you now point out more specifically what are the other sources of revenue from which this missing EUR 41.5 million will be covered?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U345	Revenue is not indexed to costs. In this sense, there is no situation in which we could say that teachers' pay comes from alcohol duty or the compensation of the health insurance fund comes from another type of tax. They are not indexed. This is the general revenue received by the State. We even have a lot of indexation, our state budget is very busy, a lot has been indexed. Rather, the state budget should be made more flexible and everyone in the world is working towards this. So, in the case of teachers' raises, it cannot be said that this came from alcohol excise. Similarly, in this example, it is important whether the compensation mechanism works and whether there is money in the state budget to compensate for EUR 41 million. It's important.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U346	Thank you, Minister of Finance Sven Sester! The members of the Riigikogu have no further questions. The rapporteur for the Monetary Commission is Mr Remo Holsmer, Chairman of the Committee. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U347	We didn't talk about refugees today.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U348	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good guys in the hall! The finance minister cleared the hall, and there's a dozen of us left. You've got the draft state budget for next year. I'm gonna start my presentation with commendations. I believe that this practice, which was practiced by the government for the first time this year, was, in essence, already in spring, a framework for both the budget for next year and the budgetary strategy of the country for the next four years, is certainly right and could continue in the coming years. In terms of the process, ministers did not spend many hours in budget discussions in the autumn. As regards the procedure in the Riigikogu Committee on Finance, the Minister of Finance introduced the state budget for 2017 to the committee on 29 September. On 19 September, the Ministry also gave an overview of the economic situation and the summer economic forecast. If you go to the content, the draft estimates that the budget for next year will amount to approximately EUR 9.5 billion in revenue and expenditure, with a structural surplus of 0.2% of GDP. The main objectives of the budget are strengthening Estonia's security and promoting economic growth, reducing labour taxes, supporting people with lower incomes, further helping families with children, reform of state and local administration and successful conduct of the EU Presidency. Let them once again be handed over to all members of the Riigikogu who have been debating budgets in this Chamber for hours. I reiterate the budgetary priorities: what the budget takes into account, which expenditure has been covered and thus foreseen. First of all, the cost of protection. Overall, defence costs will account for 2.19% of GDP next year, which is the highest ever level. The development of the eastern border, which is set at EUR 20 million, will continue. From tax changes, I would point out that the tax-free income will rise to 180 euros per month and that the social tax will fall to a total of 1% by the beginning of 2018, i.e. 32%. Let it be said once again to all MPs that the reduction of social security contributions does not affect the budget of the Health Insurance Fund. The amount less received next year will be covered by other budgetary revenue. Mr Madison asked the Minister of Finance about this just before. And also to create a context: the budget of the Health Insurance Fund will increase by just over 60 million euros next year. As regards grants and pensions, I would highlight an increase in the allowance for families with three children from the middle of next year to 400 euros. A single-living pensioner's bill on this subject is currently in Riigikogu proceedings, with a one-off grant of 115 euros. A maintenance fund shall be set up. The average old-age pension will rise by 5%, to 416 euros, and will remain exempt in the future. External support, an important component of public investment, will be EUR 961 million next year. In addition, the State will provide EUR 81 million for its co-financing. Public sector wages have always been an important issue, and these were the last questions. Pay attention, Mr Talvik, to the employees of social welfare, cultural workers with higher education and workers in the field of internal security. The salary will increase next year. I reaffirm that these are priority areas where overall wage fund growth is 3.3%, but by organising internal reforms and using internal resources, I hope that wages can be increased even more. The budget for the following year will also take account of the implementation of the state and administrative reform, and this will include expenditure related to accession grants. This is a substantive reform, which will also receive additional support from the budget. Overall, the budget is a growth-friendly, forward-looking and structural reform with long-term implications, and I am thinking in particular of labour capacity reform and administrative reform. All these matters have been covered by the ministers of the sector to the members of the Committee on Monetary Affairs in October, after the transfer of the budget. The Committee on Finance has yet to meet with the Minister for Culture, the Minister for Education and Science, the Minister for the Environment, the Minister for Rural Affairs and the Minister for the Interior, but we will have these meetings in the coming weeks. Tomorrow we will meet with the Minister for Education and Research and the Minister for Culture to present their budget to the Committee on Finance. It's a very logical process. I hope that the review of the budgets for the administration of ministers has also reached all political groups, so that each nationalist will be aware of the priorities for the next year in the area of interest to him. Finally, I confirm that the Commission's draft work in the debate was harmonious, as usual. We do not have very many disagreements in the Commission. The decision was this: to put the draft on the agenda of the plenary session of the Riigikogu by today, 26 October and to propose that the first reading be closed. By the deadline for amendments, we propose ten working days, so the deadline could be 9 November at 5.15 p.m. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U349	There are no questions for the members of the Riigikogu for the rapporteur on behalf of the Commission. Thank you, Remo Holsmer! I'm opening negotiations. Kadri Simson, on behalf of the Centre Party Group, please! Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U350	Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, It seems to me appropriate to start reading the first reading of the state budget with the statement that when the Minister of Finance reached the Riigikogu with the state budget, the major tax increases had been pushed through by a cluster bill some time ago. Thus, the Minister of Finance could only bring us his positive programme. However, the amount does not depend on the order of the add-on. The government is talking about a reduction in social tax, but it forgets to mention with joy that next year will also lead to a series of tax increases: another 10% increase in excise duties on fuel, as well as an increase in VAT and other excise duties on accommodation. On Monday evening, we had an intellectually interesting conversation with the Minister of Finance about Estonia's excise policy in relation to neighbouring countries in response to our inquiries. Since a lot of people lost this conversation because of the late night hour, I'm coming back to it. The fourth question of the inquiry concerned the refueling of transport companies' vehicles in Latvia and Lithuania, and the specific question was how much Latvia plans to increase its excise duties on fuel next year. As the Minister of Finance acknowledged earlier in his speech, he presented us on Monday evening with the rise in the Latvian excise duty on fuel that has already taken place this year. For the sake of the Steinogram, I repeat that Latvia does not intend to increase excise duties on fuel and, after 1 January next year, there will be 512 euros of excise duty on petrol in Estonia, 436 euros per 1000 litres in Latvia. Thus, for petrol, the difference is 17%. The difference between the excise duty rate on diesel fuel is 44%: 493 euros in Estonia and 341 euros per 1000 litres in Latvia, respectively. The Minister of Finance was also forced to acknowledge that Estonian excise duties on alcohol have long been higher than those on Latvia. In 2016, we have reached a situation where we have an excise duty on beer of 98% and an excise duty on strong alcohol of 55% higher than Latvia. Against this background, the Prime Minister says that our excise policy is in order. However, we need to read the news about how the Tax and Customs Board wants to install number identification cameras on a dozen previously uncovered border crossings and requests a legislative amendment to allow blind purchases to expose illegal distributors of alcohol from Latvia. And all this in order to obtain the euro needed in the revenue section of the state budget. Emor has rattled that if the difference in the price of alcohol gets even bigger, 26% of all the alcohol purchased by the people of South Estonia could come from Latvia in the future. We have also seen alcohol tourism in the Port of Tallinn for years, but it seems that we have not learned much from it and are directing the same flows to our southern neighbours. In doing so, excise duties on alcohol, tobacco and fuel cannot be spoken of in a single pot. Indeed, when it comes to tobacco and alcohol, we are restricting harmful consumption, fuel, at least in rural areas, is an essential consumer in order to get to work or shop. But every time the opposition raises the problem of fuel excise, the government starts talking about alcohol and tobacco. This is just demagoguery and shows that for some members of the government Estonia ends at the Tallinn border. Another important issue with regard to the budget for the coming year is wage increases. We have seen how this issue has been embellished over the last few months. The government is talking about valuing people in the field of education and internal security, but unfortunately it is only rhetorical. On Monday, Minister of the Interior Hanno Pevkur admitted that the wages of the rescuers could not increase even at the same rate as the average wage growth in Estonia, as wage money will be increased by 3% next year, but the macroeconomic forecast will show an increase of the average wage of 4 to 5%. By quoting the Minister for the Interior: if we wanted to increase the wages of the rescuers equally at the average rate, the deficit would amount to millions of euros a year. The situation is no better for raising teachers' salaries. The commendable objective of raising teachers' average wage to 120% of the overall average wage is difficult to meet by constantly looking for excuses why this cannot be done, which are obstacles. It was absurd for the Minister of Education and Research to apologise for the fact that the teacher's average salary in Estonia in general is far too high a rise in average wages. The calculations of the Estonian Educational Workers' Association show that raising teachers' salaries to 120% of the average wage in the country will require an increase in teachers' salaries by 11 to 12% next year. 4.6% of the state budget for next year will clearly have a partial effect on this knowledge. The third important issue is entrepreneurship, the competitiveness of our businesses, and also the competitiveness of our farmers. In the latter part, we have heard in Question Time again the stifling of the Prime Minister's mouth. The Prime Minister spoke in turn about crisis relief for farmers, both under the name of top-up and the country's transitional support. However, it does not double the amount of aid when it comes to a number under two different names. The fact remains: the Estonian state will pay 7.6 million euros in emergency aid next year and the transitional support line will be around zero for the fourth year in a row. However, transitional support is the support that our southern neighbours pay their farmers. This clearly puts our farmers at a competitive disadvantage. Unlike the government, the opposition cannot table its amendments to the budget in such a way as to create a minus in the state budget. The government has brought us a budget where there are more costs than revenue, but every proposal from the opposition must have a specific source of cover, and that is what we are based on. At the same time, the negative budget and the difficult situation of the Health Insurance Fund deepen the opinion that Estonia needs more capitalising than fine-tuning. If the government wants to break the current stagnation, then come along with our proposals. Together, we can improve the state budget. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U351	Thank you, good manager. Dear Minister, First of all, I would like to congratulate this budget and the process of drafting it. After all, in the spring we were practically aware of where we were going with this budget by autumn. Perhaps you too have often had a major challenge in how to finance spending expectations and, at the same time, to deal with revenue. One very good and very potential revenue project for the Estonian state is e-residency. As we know, every company established by e-resident already currently leaves an average of 250 euros per month in the Estonian economy. Given that it is almost 10 million per 1000 businesses, should we not invest more money in promoting the e-residency programme, introducing the wider world, especially now, where interesting processes are going on in Europe?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U352	Aadu Black, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U353	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Good Minister! I am interested in the general mentality of the government in the design of the budget. There has been enough talk today about teachers' salaries and other priorities. I remembered, however, the teachings of a coalition politician, which he once said to me, yes, in Tartu, when I tried to fulfill my election promises. The basic truth of politics was made clear to me: don't do anything fast! Economic decisions must be made quickly, but the rule of politicians is to stretch as long as possible, even 20 years, give a little, don't give too much, and here begins the quote: '... Then they're like puppies on your titties and they're not going anywhere. " I have watched teachers raise their wages, and in the meantime it seems to be being tried to avoid giving more money or giving as little as possible. Is it true that the Minister of Education has the whole point of finding money to raise teachers' salaries by losing another necessary thing, the educational coefficients? In the meantime, however, the educational coefficients have helped rural schools a great deal.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U354	So it's a smaller and bigger picture. I will start with your introduction, where you recalled what your colleague from Tartu said. As I understand it, my colleague's message was to keep the subject in the process. I think people are different. For example, I am, on the contrary, a result person, if you could say so. It could have something to do with anything. I have said that the process does not matter, the question is whether there will be a result. When a person rubs his shoulder against the wall for eight hours, his shoulder gets sore and he's sweaty, but the wall hasn't moved anywhere. The question is the result. We should be result-oriented in our day-to-day work process, but perhaps someone is really process-oriented. As far as education is concerned, I would like to congratulate the Minister of Education. He hasn't been an education minister for a very long time, but believe me, his eyes are shining. I see it in the cabinet, his eyes shine, and he, who in his previous life has been a very strong analyst, also senses how the processes should be managed. Believe me, he's doing a good job now and in the future. And as I have already mentioned today in my speech and in answering a number of questions, even in relation to the same salaries, the true story, the most taxpayers' money, is precisely in the education sector.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U355	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U356	Good manager! Good minister! I'm not going to ask how those people in absolute poverty will disappear next year, but let's look high. You promise that the birth rate will be 1.63 next year. My question is this: how do you ensure that the birth rate is next year according to your promise of 1.63?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U357	Thank you. I'm sure you won't expect me to finish the trial here quickly and so on. We ensure with the various measures that the government has in the budget that are aimed at ensuring that the people of Estonia have the desire and will to raise the birth rate. I have also highlighted a number of measures here, a very large package. And I mean not only the tax measures we talked about earlier, but also, for example, a secure environment around us. These should all add up to our coefficient.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U358	Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U359	Thank you. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. When you were talking about the defense block, you said that we agreed that we would contribute more than 2% to national defence. I'd like to know where that decision was taken and at what level. Today I read that Britain is sending a military unit, 800 soldiers, tanks and armored vehicles to Estonia. It is good that we are discussing today the 2017 budget. Who will pay and where will the money come from to receive this assistance?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U360	Thank you. We can use it. Let's try to make it easier.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U361	Thank you. It is a good question in this sense that for us, security is really one of the greatest priorities. I've said it many times. At this point, it is certainly reasonable for me to also mark what we are talking about in relation to these costs exceeding 2%. Oudekki Loone must also have paid attention to the costs associated with the presence of the Allied forces. So I'm going to break it up a little bit, and I'm going to specify these costs. The cost of the allies is first the maintenance costs related to the stay, household, catering, communications and other running costs are in the order of 7,52 million next year. The biggest cost is actually investment in infrastructure. Two barracks are to be killed, and the carage of the maintenance training will cost just over 30 million euros, namely 30.07 million euros. These costs are higher than 2%. If you're asking me where this money comes from, it's a state budget bill. Things are not so connected that, for example, teacher's wages come from income tax and excise duties on fuel go specifically to defence equipment. There is overall revenue and overall cost, they are not indexed.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U362	Meelis Mälberg, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U363	Thank you, Mr President. Good Minister of Finance! Recently, we have seen rapid wage growth above productivity growth. It is good to ask you, as Minister of Finance, if you consider this to be a problem. After all, the state budget is a state-owned instrument for cooling or accelerating our economy. Is this a problem in any way inspired by the state budget, or do you even consider it a problem that productivity growth is below wage growth?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U364	Thank you. I've already answered a basically similar question before, but I'll go over it. If you ask me if I see a problem in this, yes, the rapid increase in wages is, in the end, a problem with great probability. After all, it is a pleasure for the person who gets paid that wages have increased year after year with quite a good step. This is rather a problem in the context that in the long term, companies need to keep up with wage growth in order to remain competitive. This means, however, that they have fewer opportunities to invest profits, for example, to improve their productivity, as you said exactly. And that's a long-term problem. If you do not invest in improving your productivity, but you have to take part in a pay race to keep your people, you will have a situation where productivity is not very good, you do not have the ability to remain competitive, and your goods will most likely no longer be competitive. That is the problem that we have already talked about. Yeah, it could be that way for a short time. For example, when you talk about the benefits of the health insurance fund, it is very good that the health insurance fund receives more social tax due to such rapid increases in wages. This means that the revenue base is currently growing very strongly. I think at some point this has to stop, this growth cannot be kept at this rate. If you answer your question, I really think that from a big point of view, it will certainly be a problem if the productivity of our private companies is no longer at the level we have expected.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U365	Viktor Vassilyev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U366	Thank you, Mr President. Good Minister of Finance! I will continue this pleasant conversation with you about the Health Insurance Fund's reserves and the National Audit Office. Yes, the National Audit Office stated that the reserves of the Health Insurance Fund have been used for other purposes, but since there is no specific procedure that regulates it, no one can be punished. However, the health insurance fund does not need to assess the so-called moral aspect that I pay social tax in order to treat people who need more treatment than I do, but the money is used for other purposes. When you answered my previous question, you said that there was no point in saving money for nothing. Personally, I am not saving my money for nothing, because for what to fatten Swedish banks, I am still channeling the money into consumption. But from this point of view, would it not be appropriate to channel this reserve into the medical budget of the sickness fund, where it is eagerly expected?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U367	Thank you. I think that, in this context, as you have asked, the sickness fund's reserve should remain at the time when the income of the sickness fund is not at the level we expect. I think it might be a moment when we're introducing reserves. And it doesn't just apply to the health insurance fund. I think that in special units or places where there are reserves, they could be introduced in the absence of revenue. If we were to create a new reality, which would be that the costs would exceed revenues each year, for example, 30.50 million.. today there are just over 100 million reserves, even between 100 and 200 million, then we would create a situation where the health fund's reserves would disappear over four to five years, there would be no reserves at all. After all, you can't usually lower your expenses, but you don't have a reserve anymore. That is why I think that, in the case of an example of a sickness fund, the reserve should still be in the event of a situation where you have foreseen your positions, open positions or closed positions, but there is no income. I think it would be very reasonable to introduce reserves. The reason I have been critical is precisely because in reality the benefits have been received by the sickness fund much better than we have planned. This, in turn, has created a situation where the minus is smaller. If these revenues had not been received, if the revenue had been budgeted as we expected, then it would be minus even higher. That is the reason for my criticism that, if we get better income, we are still sitting in the deeper minus. This is not sustainable.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U368	Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U369	Thank you. Dear Minister, My question is either financial terminology or linguistic, difficult even to say. I will also monitor the analyses and forecasts made by experts and by the Ministry of Finance. They use different terms. For example, if the budget and GDP increase, it is growth. And I've seen that when they were down here, we had negative growth. Hence my question: if we have negative growth, do we have a positive recession? So, if GDP and budget increase, can we talk about a positive recession? Why do we use these terms? Can't we just, logically and in Estonian, say that there is economic growth and recession, not negative growth?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U370	Thank you. You spoke half-sister. The full truth is that if we look at the two periods of the years, 2007 to 2013 and 2014 to 20.20, we will see that the difference between the two periods is EUR 226 million. And the difference is that there will be 226 million more funds between 2014 and 2020. If we also look at what the government is doing and it covers everything, both direct payments and national co-financing, co-financing, then, as I said earlier, crisis measures will take just over 50 million in 2017. The crisis package for next year will amount to EUR 52.5 million. These measures will be more effective, because we will direct them to the sectors most in need. At present, pig farmers and the dairy sector are facing the greatest problems. The Minister for Rural Affairs has said that the payment of transitional payments would be increasingly ineffective, as the payment entitlement for the transitional national aid is based on time-bound production referendums which do not actually characterise the current production needs. This is the vision of the Minister for Rural Affairs. So you will see how the government, in this case through the budget, contributes taxpayers' money to problem sectors. You started your question by having a difficult situation in agriculture, and I agree with you. It's really a difficult situation. That is why it is necessary to allocate 4.6 million more next year, and now, with the changes made to the 2016 budget a few hours ago, another three million will be allocated. Okay, here's the problem.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U371	Martin Repinski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U372	President-in-Office of the Council. Dear Minister, The truth is that according to a fresh survey by the University of Life Sciences in Latvia, support per animal is paid approximately twice as much as in Estonia. It's also full of truth. Let me get this straight: next year, it is not possible, according to your plan, to pay top-up to farmers in Estonia? If that is the case, I have a question why you do not talk to the Prime Minister and tell him about it because he said in Question Time today that the farmers will be paid top-up next year.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U373	Mailis Reps, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U374	Thank you. I have said several times today, and I am ready to reiterate that we are paying emergency support to those sectors where it is necessary. I have said this several times, and I have brought out the sums of money that are about to enter this sector.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U375	Ain Lutsepp, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U376	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Honourable Minister of Finance! On page 213 of the explanatory memorandum to the State Budget Act, it can be considered that the operational costs of the Police and Border Guard Board will decrease in 2017 by the following amounts: one-off financing of the National Defence Development Plan EUR 623000, border construction costs EUR 270000 and one-year funding of e-residents EUR 173000. This is followed by a 2 million 64000 increase in the long-term financing of the National Defence Development Plan in 2017 in the operational costs of the Police and Border Guard Board. Is this two national defence development plans? As far as I know, there's a national defence development plan under development at the Ministry of Defence?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U377	Thank you. It is not two national defence development plans; it is one development plan.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U378	Siret Eagle, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U379	Thank you, President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. The question of agriculture remains: why do you still call transitional support ineffective? The Farmers' Confederation has made its calculations and said that this money would go to the whole sector, that 80% of the transitional aid would go to the dairy sector and that 20% would then go to cattle or other animals. So it is still very effective support. Why does the Estonian state not see the possibility of supporting its farmers as much as neighbouring countries do for the fourth year now? Why do we not see 20 million or 19.9 million in transitional support in the state budget next year, to be more precise?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U380	Thank you. There are two things I'd like to take care of. First of all, I quoted what the Minister for Rural Affairs has said. I certainly trust the Minister for Rural Affairs, who is another good minister in this government, doing the right thing. I have no reason to doubt that he has done a good job in his willingness to help Estonian farmers. And I think that the best example of this is the same subsidies that have been put on the table both in 2017 and in 2016 in the form of changes to taxpayers' money. If the Minister for Rural Affairs had not brought them on the table, these issues would not have been discussed so actively. But he brought them on the table and has also stated that current subsidies, which go into specific sectors, are well targeted. They go right where the shoe squeezes the most. It's an analogous situation that if you live under limited resource conditions, when your money is counted, you don't have oil coming out of the ground all the time, then you have to transfer the money exactly where it's most needed. Just as there is a tax refund for low-wage earners, which is equally aimed at a specific sector.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U381	Kalle Palling, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U382	Andres Herkel on behalf of the Free Party Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U383	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable representatives of the people! Dear Minister, When we called last year's state budget a ticking budget and now we are asking what has changed this year, there is not much. But I think it's appropriate to call the 2017 budget a sloping budget. What's he on? I guess he's leaning on the knowledge that the pay race and internal consumption are still on, but it doesn't seem at all that the economy is growing as fast as we want. Basically, growth has stopped. The government is trying, yes, to make small bows all over the place, to make some minor changes, minor benefits. But in general, this budget is perhaps the face of good officials, not the face of politicians, because there is no vision here. Yeah, that swinging isn't the stenching curl of the downfall that once was written by poet Henrik Visnapuu. He's still shaking safely right now. But Andres Ammas here asked the Minister of Finance if he would like to be a minister in ten years, for example. I wouldn't envy him because the big questions in this budget are unanswered. And the steps that are being taken are really steps that are either too small or too complicated. You are talking about a 0.5% reduction in social tax. But businesses and their organisations say that this is such a small change that it is not properly felt and better to do something else, whether or not to introduce a social tax ceiling that would allow more highly paid jobs to be created. That'll cheer you up. Or we could look for measures to create more flexible working relationships, as the Free Party has proposed. You're talking about refunding income tax to low-paid people. In an effort and for a long time, you have talked about this, but we find it too difficult to administer it. Increasing the tax-free minimum would be a measure that would have a clearer and better impact. Ten euros a year is a small win. At the same time, you are not very happy to talk about the issues that lie ahead of our healthcare and pension systems in the long term. You acknowledge the existence of these problems, but have not offered solutions. In order for the current minister to be able to be Estonian Minister of Finance and to be responsible for what is happening in ten years' time, something needs to be done now. You are not talking about significant tax changes. Social and labour taxes at all need to be reduced not only by 0.5%, but perhaps by ten per cent. But how do you do that? This requires far greater structural reforms. The Estonian tax system is probably humped under labour taxes and, in particular, social tax. But what do we do? The property we have is essentially non-taxed. The argument, which everyone agrees with and which has been repeated for a long time, that, once taxed, not to become rich, but to be rich, is not reflected in politics. We still tax wealth rather than passive property. We have any tax changes untied from the budget and this also limits the opposition's ability to make its own amendments. And I assure you that this tax structure, which is the basis of this budget, is not what suits the Free Party. This is not particularly the case with excise duties, especially excise duties on fuel. This package of amendments adopted in the past by the cluster law is anything but the basis of the budget for economic growth, which is so much talked about here. I'm asking for more time!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U384	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U385	I would like to use this three minutes to make some comments on the budgetary procedure. I am afraid that most of the people in this Chamber have almost forgotten that the Riigikogu's Home and Rules of Procedure Act contains paragraph 105 (2), which says that the representative of the initiator of the draft, if he wishes to do so or if the commission so decides, can also come to the Riigikogu at second reading. I'm really asking Sven Sester to do this. This will increase the quality of our budget procedure and it will also provide an opportunity to get answers to those questions that were very specific and to which we did not receive an answer. Yes, to some of these questions, the Minister promised to send a written reply, but not to everyone. I also recall that in June this year, my colleague, Kristjan Kõljalg, presented a very important report on the possible changes in fiscal policy in the Estonian parliamentary system, on behalf of the Special Committee on State Budget Control. He admitted that most of the members of the Riigikogu interviewed were not satisfied with the role of the Riigikogu in the budgetary process, regardless of whether they were in the coalition or opposition. Let us at least bring the approval of the state's budgetary strategy before the Riigikogu. After all, this determines the future direction of more than one budget for the current year. At least this can be done and this proposal has been tabled by the Free Party. The explanatory statement on the budget is a somewhat chronic problem. Some things have really gotten better. However, with this improvement, comparison with previous years' budgets has often become more difficult. The transition to accruals is certainly the right step, but it does not facilitate the reading of the budget. Now a little bit of the roofing money. We will come to this, although this has not been discussed at first reading. Two very simple proposals. It's a grey area that's unregulated. But let us make sure that, if it is already done, this is not done at third reading under the Commission Secretariat's desk, but these clear proposals will be brought to second reading. And all MPs, including representatives of the opposition, should be equal in this respect. Finally, I would like to thank the ministries for the answers they gave to the written questions about expenditure and budget structure for 2016 by Andres Ammas. I am not hiding here that we are looking for ways to find sources of cover in these answers. In our opinion, there is a shortage of money in the periphery, but at central government level, there are certainly searches where money can be squeezed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U386	Martin Helme on behalf of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia Group, please! Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U387	Mr. Speaker! Ladies and gentlemen, Good minister! This budget here was called the Minister's growth budget. We'll have to agree. The budget is increasing. Of course, the increase is due to the increase in taxes in Estonia next year. Very, very smooth slipping over the fact that tax increases were fixed for us last year, but they will start next year. As I have said before, with regard to tax increases and the increase in receipts, we have a growing country all the time and a growing budget at all times. The result is that it is good to be in Estonia for everyone who is associated with the state.......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Those who do not enjoy being in Estonia are the people who produce the wealth that is being distributed. This year's budget is Santa's budget. We live in a relatively good time, where tax receipts are even greater than planned. There's something you can promise everyone, everybody can get a little bit of fun. Everyone, but of course, except the farmers. I also pointed out before my question that it was the IRL, but also other coalition parties, who have criticised the city of Tallinn for the fact that pensioners in the capital are paid one-off grants per year, while they are proud of the same support when it is paid throughout the country. Interesting: If the government does, it is good if the municipality does, it is bad. It's a little two-faced. I am not arguing that there is a need to find every possible way to increase pensioners' income, I am simply referring to duplicity. Of course, the reason for the increase in budget volume is the cause of the state. We have raised the minimum wage and that is, of course, an increase in tax receipts. We've got a pay race run by the public sector. It has been said how the payroll will only grow in priority areas. In fact, the real hourly wage in the public sector is also increasing in areas where there has not been an increase in the payroll fund, in particular, at the cost of redundancies or, say, a reduction in the number of people, plus, of course, subsidies. The country takes a scoop out of one pocket, and I mean the increase in excise duty, and then it gives out a spoon to certain people. All of this, of course, increases the revenue of the state budget in Estonia. I think that a separate approach is needed because we are, statistically, the most exemplary in Europe in terms of investment. In terms of the money spent on education, we are the most exemplary. And yet we have serious problems with productivity growth. Businesses cannot keep up with the wage race, they cannot produce as much added value as is needed to ensure the sustainability of the economy. There's one more thing I'm gonna do here. Perhaps my question gave the impression that I am opposed to an increase in teachers' salaries. No, it's not! However, I would point out that our expenditure in the field of education is completely poorly structured. Basically, we are dealing with a small educational mafia: very large sums of money from the state budget are spent in such a way that it does not really have much to do with education. This money doesn't reach any further schools and teachers' salaries. If we are talking about teachers' salaries at all, it is very remarkable that all politicians in Estonia are worried about teachers' salaries, which are relatively close to the average figure in the country, but little is said about the wages of rescuers, which are below any review. The reason is, of course, very simple: we have about 15,000 teachers, but ten times fewer rescuers. So all politicians are worried about the area where there are voices. But that's what this is, it's a diversion. It must be completely dissatisfied with how state budget money is spent in the field of defence. Yes, we comply with this 2% requirement and actually put more money in it, but the practice of spending this money under the administration of this ministry has been exceptionally unsuccessful. This money is being spent incorrectly and badly. At the same time, there is no funding available for municipalities, although there is a honking that municipalities will receive a lot of money this year. In fact, municipalities are in the role of orphans, and this does not seem to change in any way. The recovery of the sums that were before the recession has not been achieved, although, as I said in the introduction, we are actually doing the state budget in good times. We're having a good time. So, at least some of the priorities are completely out of place. And within the areas of education and defence, in particular, I would point out that the costs are poorly structured. There is one area that is actually obvious about the orphan, and that is the area of internal security. In summary, it is awfully good to make a budget at a time when money is left over at the moment almost so, but not all of this is well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U388	Aivar Sõerd on behalf of the Reform Party Group, please! Can I have three more minutes, please?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U389	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Minister, The economies of the European Union and the euro area have moved towards stronger growth in recent years, and the economic forecast underlying Estonia's state budget for next year will allow for faster growth to 2.5% compared to GDP. Our employment has reached historical peaks and unemployment is very low. Real people's incomes have increased in recent years, and wage income and consumption have also strongly increased, which has also been mentioned here by the previous speaker and is not bad at all. Tax revenue will grow significantly faster next year than the economy: 5.4% more tax revenue is expected than this year. And looking at the current tax receipts this year, it can be said that the forecast for next year's tax revenues will be rather conservative. Good revenue will enable the country to pursue important priorities. The budget plan for next year will include strengthening Estonia's security, promoting economic growth, including lowering labour taxes, improving people's livelihoods and supporting families. The priority of faster development of defence capabilities has increased the share of defence costs to 2.19% of GDP, which is the highest ever level of defence costs. A total of EUR 477 million will be allocated to defence costs, enabling new capacity development, acquisition of technology and expansion of defence infrastructure. The budget plan also provides for costs related to the presence of the Allied units and since they add to the agreed 2% of GDP, the commitments of the Allied units are not an obstacle to the development of the Estonian Defence Forces. The units of Ämari and Tapa will be developed, the Ministry of the Interior will be working on improving rapid response capabilities and work on building the eastern border. The budget plan for next year will make a significant contribution to people's livelihoods. It will improve the management of families with children and will not forget the elderly. The average pension will rise to 416 euros and will continue to be exempt. Pensioners living alone will receive additional support. I do not agree with the previous speaker's criticism of this support for pensioners living alone is indeed very difficult to cope with. From 1 July next year, a new family allowance will be added to the budget of a family of three to six children, with a new allowance of EUR 370 per month for a family of seven or more children. The allowance for a three-child family shall be EUR 400 per month from 1 July next year. Money to increase family benefits, increase pensions and other expenditure on public finances can only come from a growing economy. Our economic growth has not been fast enough in recent years, but the planned growth of 2.5% of GDP next year is still significant in the light of the current economic development in Europe and the rest of the world. The main challenge is the divergence between labour costs and productivity developments. Public sector pay levels can be raised, in particular in priority areas, and these recipients also include, in this budget plan, teachers, cultural staff with higher education and internal security staff. Wage growth cannot deviate on a lasting basis from the development of key economic indicators and one of the ways in which the state can intervene is to reduce the tax burden on the labour force of companies. The most appropriate measures to this end are a reduction in the social tax rate and an increase in the tax-free minimum. Reducing the tax burden on labour will help companies to remain competitive, improve their capacity to invest and create new jobs. The state budget can also contribute to economic development through investments. The major infrastructure projects to be launched next year are in Tallinn and road constructions and other projects elsewhere in Estonia. The allocation of an additional EUR 8 million for R &amp; D must certainly be mentioned. The initiative to mobilise the support of a large investor will allow for additional foreign investment. Together with the self-financing of businesses, this would provide the basis for the success of the project, which would mean hundreds of new jobs in both industry and services. According to representatives of the International Monetary Fund, the Estonian government sector is still relatively large in comparison with other countries on its regular mission in Estonia this week. In this way, we will certainly need to bring further together the number of jobs in the public sector and reduce the maintenance costs of ministries and agencies, also with a view to consolidation and also using the services of the State Support Services Centre. In society with an ageing population, it is inevitable that social costs, including healthcare costs, will increase. The share of the Health Insurance Fund's budget in GDP has increased by a quarter over the last ten years: from 3.8% to 4.9% of GDP. In the last six years, these costs have increased on average by EUR 60 million per year. Nevertheless, health funding issues are on the agenda. The need to address the potential for increasing private sector contributions in the field of health has become apparent. For administrative reform and the merger of municipalities, the budget plan for next year is set at EUR 14 million, and thanks to good tax receipts, municipalities will receive EUR 42 million more as income tax next year than this year. To sum up, the budgetary plan allows for the implementation of important activities and funding areas in such a way as to increase security, increase people's security, improve families' well-being and confidence, and boost the economy as well. Ladies and gentlemen, next year's state budget is going to be a big job in the Riigikogu. Here I would like to take this opportunity to thank all those who have so far contributed to the completion of the budget plan. I wish everyone constructively and constructively to deal with the budget plan further. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U390	On behalf of the Group of the Hard Social Democratic Party, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U391	Good Chairman of the Riigikogu! Good fellows! Today, our good colleague Martin Helme, in an interview with an Estonian television channel, said that this budget is a simple face. I looked at this budget, and I have to say that it really, really makes the sweat of the sots, but there is also the sweat of the Reform Party and the IRL. It's very well done in the government, and it's draining the sweat of all our coalition partners. And I think the opposition saw this too, because in the Commission, the whole Committee on Monetary Affairs voted by consensus to close the first reading. There has also been no statement of rejection in this Chamber today. I thought it was such a good thing, and I wouldn't stop at these points in my speech for a while, but still. Andres Herkel's speech made me seriously think that it was a sloping budget and that it was going to be kind of fine-tuning. Good friends! In our opinion, the Social Democrats, this budget changes some of the paradigms. If, so far, we have seen at all times, in the preparation and processing of budgets, that the social strata that can manage themselves, who are successful, are being helped, this budget is primarily focused on groups of society that cannot manage themselves well, who need support. And I think that is what Estonia needs today. Whether it is really improving the livelihood of families with children or the support of families with three or more children, is this some kind of fine - tuning? This is a very necessary step in our family policy, with which we value families with three or more children. As has already been said many times today: if there are three children in the family, it will be EUR 400. Or a living aid fund to support single parents is not a small thing. This is a major step to support parents who need to raise a child alone, who are not helped by another parent in this process. There will also be a rental housing programme, under which we will establish rental housing for families who are unable to obtain them themselves. Next: growth, consumption. In particular, all these subsidies aimed at vulnerable families will return to our internal consumption. These people don't go to Bali on vacation, they go to this store and they buy food here, and it increases our internal consumption. So, in any case, the Socialists believe that this is a budget that can go on. Of course, this is the start of many major reforms. Of course, we hope that families and children will receive more support and other activities will continue. The Social Democrats support this bill and ask others to support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U392	Priit Sibul on behalf of the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U393	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable ambassadors! There's been a lot of talk about numbers today. Not that I regard numbers as insignificant, but they still describe in their own language the state of society and the burning issues and priorities of our country. Of course, the key word is security, in the broadest sense: from education and social and economic security to the will for protection. Not always and in everything, we cannot rely on the principle that we only help those who really need help. But I am glad that this is the case in most cases, and only those who really need it receive special attention. In view of our age and future developments, the focus of society's attention must be on families with children. We must be guided by the principle that the more children, the better. The more strong families, the better for society. In our opinion, support for families with children is not just a cost, but an investment in the future. I am now recalling my speech on the draft budget last year, and I have to say that I am still concerned about the fact that Estonia's social costs are increasing, but the country's economic growth is standing. Perhaps, as a country, we should be guided by the principle that if our economy does not grow, social benefits must not grow. Everything doesn't always work out, and sorrows and woes, unfortunately, still pass by people, not along rocks and stumps. This will be the case in the coming year with the much - discussed support fund, which means that the child will receive at least part of the unpaid allowance. This is one of the examples where solidarity is also justified in my opinion. When concluding the coalition agreement, an additional allowance of EUR 200 per month per family was agreed for a family of three children. This is a relief for some families, and it allows them to pay for a few circles of interest so that children can develop their abilities. Our standards only arise and it is natural that we want the best for our children in our families. What could be more important to our society than a child and its opportunities and needs. Our President, Kersti Kaljulaid, said in his first speech that we have freedoms and opportunities for successful people. For those who are unable or unable to do so, others and our opportunities as legislators must be helpful. Yesterday morning, Chancellor of Justice Ülle Madise was reasonably upset when he explained that the environmental inspector felt that the debt of EUR 1400 was not a sum, but that the person would simply pay it. Madam Chancellor of Justice was unfortunately right when he said that this was a very large sum for many people. The low incomes of too many people are precisely the problem that caused my own party to look for a solution to the problem of these people in elections. We believe that it is important for a person to work instead of burdening the country's social system, because, for economic reasons, subsidies are of the same size as low wages. Returning income tax to low-paid people in the coming year should be more motivated to enter the labour market than applying for social benefits. At least one additional argument to arrange your own life. Together with raising the tax-free minimum and lowering social tax, this means lowering labour taxes, which is a small but firm step in the right direction. There are still a number of important keywords in the budget, but not everything can be stopped. When asked whose face this budget is, the answer is, of course, simple: it is the face of our people, the face of their joys and concerns. It is natural that anyone who reads it will find places he or she likes and places where he or she feels that he or she has not been able to contribute unduly. We support the budget and are ready to make it even better in the course of joint discussions. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U394	The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 303. I will set the deadline for tabling amendments at 5.15 p.m. on 9 November.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U395	Now begins the first reading of Bill 297 of the Law on Investment Funds initiated by the Government of the Republic. In the name of the initiators, the Secretary of Finance, Sven Sester, will make a presentation, who will be in a hurry to submit a bill to you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U396	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear Members, I'll give you an overview of the investment fund bill, which bears 297. The draft has two major objectives. First, to make the market for Estonian investment funds more attractive, and second, to promote competition in the pension fund market. First of all, the draft extends the choice of investment funds that can be established in Estonia. Under the current law, it is possible to establish a contractual fund and a fund established as a public limited company. Both of these options will be maintained by the new law, but these funds can be set up under more flexible conditions in the future. For example, it will be possible to form a contractual fund in the future so that the fund will be divided into different investment units, i.e. sub-funds. However, in the case of an investment company established as a public limited liability company, the increase and reduction of the share capital, as well as the issue and redemption of shares, will become easier. The draft provides an opportunity to set up a completely new type of fund, i.e. trust funds. They are widespread internationally as they help investors avoid double taxation. The possibility of setting up trust funds primarily helps to foster the development of the venture capital market, including investment in smaller and start-up companies in Estonia. Thus, new fund types allow Estonian management companies to compete better with management companies from other countries and contribute to the development of fund management as a business area. The draft clearly distinguishes between funds for retail investors and professional investors, i.e. public funds and non-public funds, compared to the current law. In the case of funds offered to the public, investor protection is maintained at the same level as currently, but the role of financial supervision in controlling the activities of non-public funds is significantly reduced. This places a greater obligation on investors themselves to control the activity of the fund manager in the investment of assets and in the fulfilment of other essential requirements. At the same time, this solution is considerably cheaper for investors and reduces their administrative burden. In addition, a number of other important changes will be made. In particular, the information to be compiled on investment funds will be amended in relation to the fund's terms and prospectus, the liability of management companies and the insolvency of funds. This will make it easier to set up and set up an investment fund and will provide a clearer framework for the obligations of the management company. Another major issue is changing the governance of pension funds. The draft facilitates the addition of new pension fund managers, i.e. competition, and significantly reduces the redemption fee to be paid when the pension fund is exchanged. The main changes to pension funds and their managers are as follows: First, the capital requirement of the management company falls from EUR 3 million to EUR 1 million. The bill allows management companies from other countries to operate through an Estonian branch. The redemption limit falls significantly. Instead of 1% to date, the maximum future take-back fee will be 0.05% for a conservative pension fund and 0.1% for other mandatory pension funds. Moreover, the readmission fee will not be received in the future by the management company, as it is now, but will be directed directly to the fund, i.e. the fund's pension collectors will have it. The draft provides for the possibility for management companies to set up third pillar pension funds with different types of shares. The purpose of these amendments is to give employers making contributions to the third pillar more certainty that the shares acquired for their contributions will indeed be used for pension purposes, rather than being immediately withdrawn from the pension fund. This could increase employers' motivation to contribute more to their employees' pensions. It should also be noted that as early as 2015, the current Investment Funds Act amended the investment rules for pension funds, allowing the transfer of pension funds' assets to non-listed securities and real estate and the acquisition of control holdings in companies. Based on the assumption that there are few companies listed on the stock exchange in Estonia and that they may not be much more in the future, these specific changes create greater preconditions for investing pension fund funds in the local economy. These amendments will also remain valid as a result of the adoption of the draft in question as a law. The draft is one of the largest drafts in Estonia and will enter into force in general. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U397	Questions for the initiator of the draft. Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U398	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, I would, of course, first of all like to acknowledge the work that the Ministry and everyone who has participated in this process have done to complete this draft. This is a large, voluminous and obviously necessary draft and has also been recognised by market participants. However, there is a major problem in Estonia with regard to funded pensions. Indeed, we collect about 200 million from pension collectors each year, but this money is not invested in an instrument issued in Estonia or in the Estonian economy, more simply, but goes out of Estonia. I asked over these data, it turned out that only 5.7% of the investments are currently being made in Estonia. The latest legislative changes made a few years ago have not helped to improve this situation. Why don't you do something about it? What is stopping you from remedying this situation?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U399	It's been a long time.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U400	If investments in Estonia were 10%, 15% or even 20%, this would not be a risk.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U401	Thank you, Aivar Sõerd!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U402	Thank you, good questioner! I think we have a parliamentary state. Mr. Aivar Sõerd, it is very good that you dare ask and are ready to make decisions. Today, we have before us the Law on Investment Funds, which is voluminous, there are 283 pages and 536 paragraphs, and it has been done for five years. When we look at the letters that have come from the interest groups, we also see commendable messages. If you sense that your ideas would contribute to improving this draft, then boldly let us know and we will process them properly to the parliamentary state in the Committee on Monetary Affairs. What can be said now about what has been done to make funds more attractive? As I mentioned, we have already made a number of changes in the past in order to allow for listing in securities, precisely those securities that are not listed on the stock exchange and real estate, and to start acquiring control shares in companies. It wasn't before, it was done with earlier decisions, and now it's being passed on. It's all done to bring more attraction. Good Member, if you have any good ideas, do not be ashamed to bring them to the table. Put them on the table, boldly, where you are in the Commission, so that we can deal with them at parliamentary level.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U403	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U404	Good manager! Good minister! In fact, this bill contains 539 paragraphs. But in the previous draft, there were 335 paragraphs and there are only 282 paragraphs in the current mammoth, in the new Public Procurement Act. Why is such a crazy-scale, ambitious draft developed, besides when investment funds do not make up a very large part of the financial world? According to my information, their share is about 3 billion. Why is it so thoroughly regulated in this relatively small world? Is there a lack of trust here, or is it the result of overwork? There is no such law in any other sphere, in the social sphere or anywhere else.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U405	Thank you. I always admire the questions of this Member, Mr Ernits, which are always good and relevant. Although, in his opinion, the problem is that things are being done too hastily and too little to describe, the problem is that things are being done on a large scale and too thoroughly. You don't always know exactly where this golden middleway is. But if we start talking more seriously, let us not forget that this is investor money, which is specifically invested through funds and management companies. It is also about pension funds, which have the money of our own pension collectors. Certainly, the regulation of the relationship between the investor, the management company and the fund itself requires a review. Please note that this is not a clarification of the earlier law, but a rewrite of the entire text of the law and has been updated in the light of today's world. There have been new regulations and new nuances. I'm sure you've read the bill. You must have noticed that a professional investor can make life easier, which is very important because if he is a professional investor, he can follow this world. At the same time, a retail investor who does not have such knowledge of the financial world has a certain level of protection.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U406	Priit Onion, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U407	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Good minister! I wanted to ask you about a nuance. This bill has been prepared many times longer than you've been in office, but maybe it's known to you. During the preparation of this draft, was the opening of the market for "deposit banks" also discussed? There are two of them now, but there are market participants, interested parties, who think there could be more. Do you know how to light that nuance?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U408	Thank you. Yes, there has been talk about whether we should expand this market in the context of depositaries. As a result, of course, competition concerns about deposit bank prices arise immediately, which has been imposed to some extent today. We can't see this discussion right now, but I don't think we should be afraid of it in the future. Right now, we haven't gone that way. On the competition side, as I said before, we are about to give branches a chance to come here when the management company has met the criteria. It's definitely a new thing that's never been before. But the activities of the depot banks, let's say, the possible expansion have been discussed, but this is not really reflected in this bill at the moment.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U409	George Adams, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U410	Mr. Minister! I am one of those members of the Riigikogu, perhaps there are others besides me, who do not have a very good vocabulary and mindset in the field of finance. But that's my question to you. I assume that the creation of this bill is based on some understanding of the economic or political benefits that our country and our country could receive if this bill were to become a law, and which would probably not come if this new law did not come. Can you explain to me and give me the so-called voting instructions that this terrible pile of paper could bring with it?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U411	Thank you. Yeah, sure. I repeat what I have said before to make things clearer. I will highlight two aspects. Firstly, making the market for Estonian investment funds more attractive. I think this is certainly important, because we are in global competition with markets in all other countries. It is very important to bring more flexibility to the system. Investors realise that, on the one hand, their rights must be protected, on the other hand, this creates a different degree of flexibility. I have previously mentioned the example that it will be possible in the future to increase and reduce the share capital of funds set up at the level of a public limited company in a much more flexible way and that the shares can be issued and redeemed more easily than at present. A completely new thing is a trust fund that doesn't exist in the laws in force. This is a whole new thing for us, but in many countries it is a classic option that helps to avoid double taxation. It was about investment funds. Secondly, the pension fund market. With this draft, we will increase competition in the pension fund market through a number of measures. We're bringing the font down to the threshold. We make the redemption fee lower, which gives the customer, the pension collector, the opportunity to change the fund if he or she wishes to do so. It brings more competition. They're a couple of things that could be branded right away. There are a lot more of these things here, as you can see, but these are important things that I wanted to mark.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U412	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U413	Good manager and minister! First of all, I congratulate you because today, seven years ago, your predecessor, Jürgen Ligi, returned to Lipstok, then Governor of Eesti Pank, that he should make a plan for development. That's one. Secondly, in Estonia there is such a saying that a long story... But my question is: what laws could make as substantial as the draft law on financial funds?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U414	Thank you. It's an investment fund law, but I understand what you mean. I really, a good Member, understand that we have done a great job this evening. Literally 20 minutes ago, we finished the first reading of the state budget, and we all feel good, including you. Issues also go beyond the scope of the Law on Investment Funds. But I think that what other laws might be considered in their large volume is left to the decision of the historical people. We certainly should not look at matters on a scale basis, we should look at the content and whether the rights of clients, i.e. pension collectors and investors, are protected. In the case of a specific draft law, we need to see that if the regulations are correct, if market participants understand them, and if the action that is put in place in this particular draft ensures that the Law on Investment Funds works and protects investors.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U415	Priit Onion, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U416	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! I will continue this debate or, rather, I will ask again the question that we had in the Commission. This concerns § 528 of the Bill, which talks about the amendment of the Estonian Development Fund Act. Here, it seems to me, technical changes, but it is likely that you also know that we are dealing with the liquidation of this fund. Does it make sense to amend this law, or should it simply be abolished? In the committee, you advised me to look at § 528 in conjunction with § 46. I see that § 46 speaks instead of the entry into force of changes to the terms of the pension fund, and I find it very difficult to see the connection between the two sections. Do you have any way of clarifying the debate that we did not have in committee?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U417	I think that when we get through with the first reading, the next big sign by going constructively ahead with this long-prepared bill, in order to protect the interests of all investors now and in the future, is that we can certainly review this draft section by section in the Committee on Monetary Affairs. I know that you and Aivar Sõerd, together with the Chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, are prepared to view the combined effects of the paragraphs as well as these paragraphs as separate. That's so we can finally have the kind of law we've been waiting for for a long time.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U418	George Adams, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U419	Mr. Minister! I once had the opportunity to have a company code to regulate a public limited company. One of the questions that remained as if they were hanging in the air, and which is hanging around the world as if in the air, is that when public limited companies buy their own shares, they remain like clouds hanging in the sky because they have no chance of paying out dividends to anyone, and the whole result is only for the staff to raise their wages, even if it goes well. What is your philosophy on this issue? Do you consider public limited liability companies without shareholders to be a normal and economically viable phenomenon or vice versa?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U420	Thank you. We are now going to widen this corridor and start philosophing on different topics. I bow to your long parliamentary experience. True, you were not only involved in this law, but you are also one of the authors of our constitution. A deep bow to you for this! But speaking of the buy-back programmes for shares in public limited liability companies and if they, in turn, are accompanied by possible options for new employees, or are intended to reward for achieving some kind of performance, or are bought back in order to increase the return on an existing stock package, these are certainly topics that we could discuss with each other in another room in the future. At the moment, I would like to try to stick to the context of the Investment Funds Act itself and to the so-called Palette of public limited liability companies and investment funds there. It is certainly worth saying here that the opportunity to move flexibly by reducing and increasing share capital when, for example, some projects end and there is a reason and a need to change share capital positions. It's very important.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U421	Eiki Nestor, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U422	Thank you, manager. Minister, thank you for this bill. This was really a necessary draft, I can say, in order to perhaps clarify the picture to my colleagues, as a member of the long-term Committee on Monetary Affairs and as the person who had to bring the drafts into this Chamber. These drafts were often the laws of amending the amendments to the laws, and in the end no one understood anything at all, not even the Commission's waitress or the Minister of Finance. I also thank you for the sensible steps taken to further develop the employer's pension system. Since the Minister is a polite person and respects Parliament, I ask, perhaps during the procedure of this draft, we could exchange further ideas on how to encourage the employer's pension system and improve the lives of pensioners in Estonia in the future.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U423	Yeah, well, let's talk about it. Now, true story, with this third pillar, we are introducing some flexibility and also giving the employer the opportunity to set up such a fund so that it is not possible for a person to withdraw contributions until he or she reaches retirement age. This gives the employer confidence that there will be no situation in which he invests in the employee, but after a certain number of years the employee will withdraw money from the third pillar. This money would not then have been spent in a targeted way, as had been expected. If you discuss what other options are available, you can say that there are all kinds of issues, starting with tax incentives and ending with some other issues. Well, they're all worth discussing. Each tax credit always comes at a price, so it must definitely be calculated. I think that's where you might have targeted with your question. I certainly never wanted to kill the debate, I am always prepared to take part in a debate with a respected speaker.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U424	That's good. Let's move on to the debate. Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U425	Thank you. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. To be honest, there are quite a few paragraphs that extend the possibilities of investment funds. I may beUtrising, but the pension funds may be going from the second and third pillars to the fourth or fifth, or they're making some kind of change in this sphere.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U426	In my introductory speech, I said that certain changes have already been made to the law amending the law. I'm going to go over it. There has already been an opportunity to channel money into assets that are not on the stock exchange, i.e. non-listed assets, it is possible to channel money into real estate and are also control shares. These are nuances that increase the capacity and opportunities of the funds to invest. By the way, I'm telling you, a lot of funds haven't taken advantage of this opportunity, even though they did. There's your "but." Their 'but' is that certain funds would have had to change their statutes, and this change would have given customers the opportunity to change the fund again. There are nuances inside because of our earlier decisions. I think that, when we process this particular bill, we are creating a situation in which the fund needs to prove itself in front of the pension collectors, to show that it is a good fund and is able to hold the pension collector's assets first and second. If the pension collector senses that the fund is not interested in him or has not acted in accordance with his or her interests, it will now be easier for him or her to change the fund. I think that all these things, in combination, create competition on the one hand and, on the other, make the market more attractive.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U427	Minister, thank you. You have certainly had an interesting and hard-working day here in front of the Riigikogu. Reward to you in the service of Estonian society and certainly this evening in an interesting discussion show 'Forum'! I would now like to ask the Chair of the Riigikogu, Chairman of the Monetary Commission, Remo Holsmer.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U428	Dear Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu, Ladies and gentlemen, You have before you a new law on investment funds, which, as has already been said, consists of 539 paragraphs. Serious work has really been done at the Ministry of Finance. I will bring out three key objectives why this bill has been put into effect. Firstly, the draft extends the choice of investment funds that can be established in Estonia. Why is this important? This is important in order to help investors avoid double taxation. Secondly, compared to the law in force, the draft clearly distinguishes between funds for retail investors and funds for professional investors. This is another important reason why we should vote in favour of this draft. Thirdly, the'mammalian' objective: the draft will encourage new pension fund managers to enter the market, it will diversify the choice of pension collectors and bring new products to the market. As you have probably read, two major pension fund managers, Swedbank and LHV, have brought index funds to the market. There is also an entirely new provider, the future one, who is applying to the Financial Supervision Authority for permission to set up a pension fund. This draft reduces the requirement for the share capital of a management company from 3 million to 1 million and also reduces the fund exchange fee; instead of 1%, conservative pension funds can be subject to 0.05% fund exchange fee and 0.1% for other mandatory pension funds. Does this bill directly increase investments in pension funds in the Estonian economy? There's no connection to one of these. We held a debate on this at the Commission for a long time. I would remind all MPs that, from the middle of last year, there was a law whereby a larger amount of fund assets can be placed in unquoted securities, real estate and precious metals. In the moment, the limits that we raised with this legislative amendment in order to encourage pension fund assets to invest in Estonia have not yet been reached, and this law does not change these limits either. If the MPs have proposals to encourage investment in Estonia, the Ministry of Finance will be happy to discuss them. This was the Commission's main debate. The second point we discussed was the exchange of funds. If the fund exchange charges were to be brought down, logically this should facilitate the movement between the funds. It is currently possible to change the fund three times a year, and according to the new law or draft it will remain the same. It is not quite the case that you can change funds every week, that if you go to the Kristiine Keskus and the Ülemiste Centre in a week's time, and in both places you are immediately persuaded that another pension fund manager is better, you will change. The rule that the fund can be changed three times a year will remain in force. This is also important because the funds will maintain a certain degree of stability. If a large number of pension collectors are going to paddle and jump between funds, then the liquidity of the funds will certainly not be affected, but the stability of the funds will certainly not be affected in a good way. The Finance Committee sent letters to ten market participants asking for an opinion on the draft. As the Minister said, market participants have actually been waiting for this draft for a long time and there does not seem to be any fundamental debate. But yes, out of ten market participants in five, the Committee on Monetary Affairs also received feedback and we will discuss their proposals in depth between the first and second readings. There aren't many, but there are certain points. The Committee on Finance has proposed that the first reading be closed (this proposal was consensual) and that the deadline for submitting amendments be set at 5.15 p.m. on 9 November. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U429	Good waitress, no questions. Good luck to you tonight for the Forum! Thank you. I'm opening negotiations. Priit Sibula, the representative of the Group of the Isamaa and Res Publica Union, will be asked to speak in the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U430	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, The full text of the new Law on Investment Funds will facilitate the creation of investment funds in the future and set the framework for the obligations of the management company. As discussed earlier, the draft extends the range of funds to be set up. In this way, it will be possible to establish both equity funds and trust funds in the future. The latter are internationally common and help investors avoid double taxation. The draft also distinguishes between public and non-public funds, with fewer demands being made on them than is currently the case. It is possible that the most important is pension funds. This draft will encourage the addition of new pension fund managers and reduce the redemption fee paid when the fund is exchanged from 1% to 0.1% and for conservative funds, as the chairman of the Commission said, to 0.05%. The redemption fee will remain with the fund in the future, not with the management company, as it was before. In addition, the draft reduces the requirement for the share capital of the management company from 3 million to 1 million and allows management companies from other countries to operate in Estonia through a branch. We want to contribute with the draft to reducing the management fees for the funds, which have provided a great deal of ground for discussion in the public domain. Hopefully, we will also be able to increase productivity, which has been discussed a great deal. However, it is clear that no draft can solve all the problems, as I have already said here today. The activities envisaged in the draft and competition create a new situation. The representatives of the LHV and Swedbank pension funds, who also went to the IRL Group, have confirmed that they are already in the process of making changes and that the paperwork for the creation of new and cheap funds is in place. Therefore, the activities envisaged in the draft and the competition will create a new situation for us, whether or not, which should, in any case, be beneficial for our people who are saving their pension in the second pension pillar. If there is anything else that we want to change, one of the things that we need to talk about is the opening up of the depot banks market, which I asked the Minister about. At the moment, we only have two depositaries operating and this may not be enough. On the issue of pension funds, this has been another important issue. This relates to investments in our local economy, which Commissioner Sõerd asked the Minister about. After all, it is common knowledge that there are few assets in Estonia where pension funds receive and can also invest according to legal restrictions. We need to be much more active. The State also has some opportunities to do so, with the help of state-owned companies. The lending activities of state-owned enterprises could be started. They should also tender local funds instead of taking loans from foreign banks. Secondly, we need to consider other options for raising capital for companies, i.e. the issue of bonds, which has so far been relatively little used. It is important to talk and also prepare for the sale of minority holdings of companies. I have said before myself that in the case of strategically important companies such as Elering, Eesti Energia and the Port of Tallinn, the so-called'master' role should be retained. The sale of minority shareholdings increases transparency and contributes to better governance of the state company. The combination of all steps can achieve better results for society. Perhaps, apart from opening up the fund market to greater competition, it makes sense to think about depositaries when we talk about opening up the market. Certainly, instruments must be created in the economy through privatisation, bond issuance and lending, where funds can be allocated. We support this draft and we are ready for an active debate on the next steps so that the opportunities created by the draft can materialise and our economy can be a part of all this. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-26_U431	Thank you. Again, please! No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. The position of the commission is that the first reading of draft 297 must be completed. I shall set the deadline for the submission of the 297 amendments, including 9 November at 5.15 p.m. The first reading is closed and the tenth item is also closed. Good fellows, strength for all of us! Today's trial is over. Closure of the sitting at 20.20 a.m.
