ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-02_U1	Good fellows, honourable Riigikogu, good afternoon! We will begin the Monday session of the 13th working week of the 3rd plenary session of the Riigikogu. First of all, I would like to ask those members of the Riigikogu who wish to hand over drafts or inquiries to the Riigikogu. I am pleased to ask a member of the Riigikogu and today's birthday girl Anneli Ott! [[Let's hear it.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-02_U2	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the Group of the Estonian Centre Party, I am handing over the draft Constitutional Amendment Act to enable a popular initiative. Since last autumn the draft law initiated by the Centre Party, with which the Riigikogu would have been obliged to discuss collective popular returns in the plenary hall, we therefore complemented the Constitution with provisions that would involve the people more in the legislative processes. Thus, according to the draft law, at least 25000 Estonian citizens with a right to vote and a European citizen and a person who is not a citizen of Estonia or any other Member State of the European Union but who resides in Estonia on the basis of a long-term resident's residence permit and permanent right of residence and is at least 16 years old. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-02_U3	Riigikogu speech chair Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-02_U4	Mr President! Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! On behalf of the six representatives of the Free Party, I will report an inquiry to the Minister of the Interior, Hanno Pevkur, and this is motivated by the recent report of the National Audit Office on the progress and effectiveness of the establishment of the Police and Border Guard Board. We therefore have eight questions for the Minister of the Interior. In our opinion, this is a very interesting document, which, on the one hand, says that the characteristics of the public services of the PBGB have not changed or have shifted towards better, but at the same time it also points to many shortcomings. As a result of the shrinking and ageing staff of the PBGB, the Agency may not be sustainable in the near future if so many people are retired and young people do not come on board. There is also a lack of resources to implement the 'Inside Security Development Plan 2015-2020', which we recently discussed here, a few months ago, and it is not quite clear what the priorities are. So there are plenty of questions here that we expect answers from the Minister of the Interior. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-02_U5	Speaking chair of the Riigikogu Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-02_U6	Dear Deputy Speaker! Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the ambassadors of the Conservative People's Party, I will report an inquiry to the Minister of the Interior, Hanno Pevkur, regarding the free movement of illegal immigrants in Estonia. In recent days, Estonian press has published stories about illegal immigrants who have remained on the streets of Tallinn since their release from the Harku detention centre. They have no work, no home, no documents, and they cannot be expelled. These are persons who have neither the right to be in Estonia nor the right to legalise their stay in Estonia. In this regard, we have five questions for the Minister of the Interior concerning the acquisition and stay of these people.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-02_U7	Riigikogu speech chair Oudekki Loone, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-02_U8	Honourable Riigikogu! As long as it is not possible for the people to initiate referendums, we will do so for them. Surely we have all noticed that one of the most important political issues discussed by the Estonian public over the last almost year is the principles of how Estonia grants international protection to people who flee or who claim to flee. And this is a debate where the greatest concern for the Estonian people is the lack of clarity on the part of the government, how many people we still defend, how much we spend in common to provide asylum. The Centre Party is of the opinion that this is a decision that should be taken by the Estonian people. If we had an election, we didn't talk about it, but now they're coming every week with some new number about how many people we're taking again. It's not quite democratic. We would like Estonia to act democratically, and so we propose that we hold a referendum on whether Estonia should set a ceiling on the number of beneficiaries of international protection each year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-02_U9	Please ask the representative of the Government of the Republic of Estonia, Heili Tõnisson, to the Speaking Chair of the Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-02_U10	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good Riigikogu! The Government of the Republic is launching four draft laws today. First, the draft law amending the Estonian Flag Act. In the Riigikogu, the Government of the Republic is represented by the Minister of Enterprise Liisa Oviir in the proceedings of the draft law. Secondly, the draft law amending the Order of the Defence Forces Act. In the Riigikogu, Hannes Hanso, Minister of Defence, represents the Government of the Republic in the processing of this bill. Third, the draft law amending the Identity Documents Act, the Credit Institutions Act and the Money Laundering and Terrorist Financing Prevention Act. Hanno Pevkur, Minister of the Interior, represents the Government of the Republic in the proceedings of this bill in the Riigikogu. And fourthly, the bill to amend the Environmental Charges Act. In the Riigikogu, Marko Pomerants, Minister of the Environment, represents the Government of the Republic in the proceedings of the draft law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-02_U11	Good fellows! On behalf of the Management Board of the Riigikogu, I have adopted six drafts and two inquiries, and according to our Home and Rules of Procedure Act, the Management Board of the Riigikogu decides on their further processing. Now, let's go through the presence check. 88 members of the Riigikogu registered as present, missing 13. Good fellows! We will proceed with the approval of the agenda for the 13th working week of the 3rd plenary session of the Riigikogu. The agenda has been distributed and we will begin the preparation of this vote. I am voting on the agenda for the 13th working week of the third plenary session of the Riigikogu. Please take a stand and vote. The Riigikogu has the 13th working week of the 3rd plenary session of the Riigikogu with the result of 86 delegates, 0 and 1 abstention, it has been adopted.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-02_U12	Let us begin the processing of today's agenda items. The first item is the inquiry, which is due on 15 March 2016. An inquiry has been made concerning the replacement and burden of teachers, bearing the number 180 and is answered by Jürgen Ligi, Minister of Education and Science. I ask the representative of the speakers of the Riigikogu's Chair, Märt Sults, to introduce this question!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-02_U13	Honourable manager! Colleagues! The inquiry was submitted on 15 March, including to Mr Jürgen Ligi, Minister for Education and Research. According to the Ministry of Education and Research, there were 12892 teachers in Estonia as of 10 November 2013, but only 10578 teachers had full positions. A total of 2,176 teachers and 3,313 teachers were employed in this process. Thus, the teacher's average load was 0.82. There is also a small hint that according to the rise in the salaries of educators, teachers, the burden on teachers is usually reduced because the wage fund, as such, does not increase. If there are 1,0 posts (number previously tarified, i.e. by hours), the load factor will be 0,8, 0,9 or 0,7. Basically, the salary as it rises, but in reality, the teacher's salary doesn't rise, it's just a mathematical calculation. Whoever hasn't come into contact with this thing isn't gonna get hit with the first punch, but that's the way it is. So 0.82 was the average number of teachers in schools. It is likely that the above figure has not changed significantly this year. At the same time, problems in schools have fallen ill by replacing teachers at an equivalent level. Teachers do not usually get a full load in a single school in subjects requiring specific knowledge, such as chemistry, physics, geography, drawing, etc. Whether it's a plumbing school or not, the teacher doesn't get his 24 hours, which gives him full office, and he's forced to take on other subjects. But it's not a quality hour anymore, it's basically a replacement. Let's just say that my chemistry lessons cannot still be replaced by an Estonian language teacher or a literary teacher. Or even if he can hand over some tasks or independent work, he can't explain if some kind of glitch occurs. Consequently, it is not possible to replace quality lessons simply in the form of substitution activities with another teacher; the curriculum, or study programme, is partially missed. Here is the idea that teachers who do not have a full load at school need not take replacement lessons for another subject, but are gathered together in so-called teachers' buffers or waiting rooms. The teacher, let's say, has 18 hours or 16 hours in one school, and he's on hold with eight replacement hours, a quality hour in the'some' buffer chamber. I mean, in each area, say, in the eight parts of Tallinn there are eight buffer chambers, where the teacher is waiting, that if someone gets sick, someone needs to be replaced, or if there are no teachers at any school, the substitute teacher will fly on it. And when he gets there, the quality class is replaced, and it takes 15 to 20 minutes to go. Within the city's borders, more time is not particularly conceivable. The rural area is also in exactly half an hour with the substitute teacher present. If ordered in the morning, he'll be here in half an hour. Consequently, there is also a proposal to set up such buffer chambers for teachers so that non-full-time teachers can work and, at the same time, the state pays eight hours if they are on hold, its waiting time. Then the teachers shouldn't be doing that kind of work. I'm sorry, if I'm a dentist, I'm not going to a doctor's unqualified appendix. It's exactly the same with the teachers. So that's what we're proposing. Five years ago, I tried to introduce it, but this thing got stuck behind the funds. So this is a place where the state can make a major contribution both to improving quality and to increasing the intensity of teaching work and, in the case of children, to gaining wisdom. Such a methodical approach would be very useful and powerful. But whether it's done or not, it's different. So the introductory text was like this and we are now asking Mr Jürgen Ligi, Minister for Education, for exhaustive answers to the four questions we have asked. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-02_U14	Thank you. I now ask the Minister of Education and Science Jürgen Ligi of the Riigikogu to answer an inquiry that bears the number 180.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-02_U15	Mr. Vice President! Honourable Riigikogu! The first question: what is the average burden on teachers according to the Ministry of Education? That's a load you've figured out nicely. In general education schools, the average burden for teachers is 0.82, in vocational training institutions 0.65. The problem here is, of course, a reflection of the ratio of teachers to pupils, but also of the situation of the school network. There are areas where there are no full-time teachers. The second question: 'What proposals and plans have the Ministry of Education and Research planned for teachers who do not have a full place to offer? ' As you inquisitors well know, these solutions are basically in the hands of the schoolmaster, he arranges whether to make a composite class or let the teacher teach in several schools, for example. For its part, the state offers retraining in universities so that people can study as teachers of several subjects. There are many such examples that several subjects are also taught. Flexible forms of study, compound classes are used. And teachers at master's level have the opportunity to contribute as trainers, mentors and curriculum developers. This will make it possible to increase the burden of giving lessons and other tasks for other teachers. Question 3: "How does the Ministry of Education and Research plan to solve the issue of replacing ill subject teachers? ' Once again, it is still a relevant school. It's always a question when an employee gets sick, it's not just a question of teaching how to replace him. It is certainly necessary to postpone hours at other times, but there is also the possibility of replacements between teachers. Again, continuing training opportunities have been created to provide several subjects of teacher qualification or also a composite class of teacher competence. We also call on schools to maintain contact with teachers who have retired from school so that they can be offered a job as a substitute teacher. Question 4: Has the Ministry of Education and Research thought that teachers working in underburdened schools could be on pay-as-you-go mode? ' No, we do not have such an intention, nor do we consider it reasonable at national level. After all, this means using the salary money simply to wait. What you said about replacing people who are ill here actually means paying money from the sickness fund. At the same time, this money will remain in the hands of the local governments and they will be free to hire a separate workforce for it, but it cannot be done at national level. At the same time, Tallinn is big enough, it is probably easier to organise it here. As a teacher, would you consider it so highly desirable that these hours would force a stranger who doesn't know the class? My experience tells me that knowing a class is one of the essential prerequisites for learning efficiency. But I guess they're all about dealing with the consequences. Such situations arise, as has been said, in every profession. And we're still trying to make sure the school network is optimal and the burden on the teachers, if you ask me about it, is complete. About half the teachers don't. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-02_U16	Minister, thank you. You have questions too. Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-02_U17	Thank you, manager. Minister, thank you very much. Public schools are managed by the Ministry. I ask how the Minister will react if there is not enough burden on the teacher in state gymnasium and, for example, he goes to the secondary school next door and belongs to municipal property. How do you feel about this problem, it's normal, or you say no, it shouldn't be done?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-02_U18	Thank you. It's really good when the teacher gets the full load. I guess I also mentioned here that teaching in several schools may be one solution, but in the big picture, the goal is still quite a network of schools. We also do state secondary schools in such a way that regional policy views are very important; the number of students does not necessarily inspire optimism in this regard, but we have this very knowledge that quality upper secondary school education must exist everywhere. This is also the reason for these schools. But the idea must be that we still choose the size of upper secondary schools that correspond more or less to the population forecast and try not to plan any stock or empty spaces. After all, there are agreements with local governments that they give up their upper secondary school.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-02_U19	Mailis Reps, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-02_U20	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! I'm gonna keep going around the same place. When these state gymnasiums were created, one of the arguments that resonated in this hall was that we collect the students, collect the best teachers, and that means that everyone can specialize only in their own subject. Teachers gain so much from electives and non-electives that they have enough load in school. At the same time, the plumbing schools plus the fact that the teacher distributes his load and so the third grade of primary school and the upper secondary school become a professional teacher. Haven't you had any worries that if the state gymnasium is separate, maybe he can give you enough weight, but basic school can't really find teachers anymore?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-02_U21	Thank you! In fact, we often have problems not finding a teacher, but an increase in the number of teachers per student. The school network is rather too large and optimization is painful. Of course, there are certain areas where teachers' deficits are already felt, but rather the underburden still reflects the fact that municipalities that are away from more prosperous areas, in particular, share this burden on a number of teachers and keep them at work. It is also one choice, and there is no way that the country can condemn it or change it. If it's a preference, it is, but it doesn't come with more money, it's more of a download.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-02_U22	March Sults, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-02_U23	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good minister! You brought in the term "master teacher." If you took a little time back, you said you weren't gonna start banging teachers. Did those pags come now?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-02_U24	No, that's not it.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-02_U25	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-02_U26	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! You mentioned that in our vocational schools, teachers are even less burdened. What are the problems of vocational school teachers? We know the kind of masters who teach a practical field of study that isn't good enough.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-02_U27	Thank you. I guess the problems are the same. However, teachers in vocational schools are likely to have a higher side-load in other areas of activity. Among them are more practitioners, which may alleviate the issue of their income. But I don't have a thorough analysis here right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-02_U28	Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-02_U29	Honourable President! Honorable Minister! Does the Ministry stick to the current situation in the visible future that any graduate of primary school can, in principle, enter secondary school regardless of previous learning outcomes, no matter how poor they may have been? Will this policy continue and what do you personally think of it as a minister?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-02_U30	Thank you. We cannot harass the free will of citizens too strongly, but we are still planning upper secondary schools in relation to the current needs. State secondary schools are not for all middle school graduates, and we still want to increase the number of vocational school voters. Generally speaking, it is based on agreements with municipalities that they give up their small upper secondary schools. In this way, education should become more practical.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-02_U31	Minister, thank you. No further questions. I'm opening negotiations. Riigikogu speech chair Mailis Reps, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-02_U32	Mr President, good members of the Riigikogu. Good Minister of Education and Science! Although the subject of today's inquiry was to find a way to replace teachers and reserve or buffer, we reached again the overachievement school network, too many teachers and the question of how these burdens really are. Basically, the question is that we do not have too many school places in the education system, but in reality we are talking about a very high cost of money in education. If we take the other half of what is necessary and what they expect, then the students really like it when the teacher is able to devote attention to them and can also get additional support from the teacher, for example. So if we can do this financially, then there is nothing wrong with us being able to resist this kind of balancing force around the city for these big classes and overburdened schools that we see here in the larger cities. There are also few places where there is a bigger school in the rural municipality centre and a school in the remotest part of the rural municipality that welcomes students who want to study in a smaller class or need a smaller class, where there are more support opportunities and there are also teachers who can really deal with the child separately after the regular classes. I just wanted to make this remark that if we look at this debate, we're talking about looking for resources, we're looking for money. And we're actually talking about saving money at school and closing schools. When we talk about the student's point of view, there is nothing wrong with his point of view if teachers have smaller classes and there is a smaller school next to a bigger school that offers more choices and maybe more choices. The fundamental question is that we are undertaking major reforms, such as the separation of upper secondary schools and primary schools, but apart from this political decision, no other step is taken. Remember, just a few years ago, we argued very painfully in this very hall about whether the local government had an obligation or whether it was possible to separate secondary schools and basic schools, and then it was promised that there would be student grants, that there would be dormitory facilities or that at least there would be grants to rent private premises, bus subsidies, etc. instead of dorms. Today, there is no system such as vocational education. And actually, it's still for parents, family to decide what opportunities they have. So maybe we should rewind it from the very beginning and say that in this same hidden reform, and also in the administrative reform, we still have to respond to these key issues. How does a teacher get enough load in primary school? How can the subject still be covered with a very good specialist when the upper secondary school degree disappears from the top and, for example, the natural sciences teacher or another teacher can no longer fill the load in his school? Are students a loser or a winner? And if a student is now obliged to go to that major high school, will he eventually win, or will his family actually have a problem, such as financial obstacles? These are the questions we asked here five or six years ago, and now that some of the upper secondary schools have been implemented and we have the first results, it is appropriate to ask them again. On the one hand, we are talking about the school network and the burden on teachers, but on the other, we are also looking at the student's position on how to ensure that, within all these changes, the same student still wins. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-02_U33	Thank you. I now request the speech chair of the Riigikogu to the March Sults! Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-02_U34	Thank you very much for inviting me, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen, Good minister! All in all, from this buffer house. There was another question about money, and again there was a reference to the local government, the city of Tallinn. The city of Tallinn does not have this problem, it is a problem all over Estonia, the city of Tallinn can handle this. But where do I get the money? Now, if you go into a bit of generalisation, who are better producers of teaching tools and methodological tools than not teachers themselves. These active teachers, the top teachers, could be gathered in buffers and, for example, the state would pay the number of hours they would go to full load and give them a job assignment if they did not actively give them lessons, produce methodological tools or test copies, or work during the test period with tests or other things. Better quality or know-hows don't exist at all than the same top teachers who are in the buffer chamber, or standby, and are preparing to go anywhere. Yes, Mr. Near is right: one condition is that you must know the class. But he forgot another condition: a professional gets to know the class within five minutes. If you go to foreign class, I can tell you from experience, it'll take you five to ten minutes to get to know the auditorium and start acting like one. It's a professional trait. The trait of the dilemma is that he rebels for eight, ten, or 24 months in a row and still cannot beat the class. That is another problem, it is not a matter of professionalism. Where do I get the money from? Money is always low, no matter where you look at it. Schools, or municipalities, have been ordered to have training money, teachers' training money taken away and forced by targeted training coming from the Ministry. Troubleshoots are not most of these high-quality trainings, but teachers go there simply to get a tick letter and full of their 160 hours, which they must complete within five years in order to maintain their qualifications. If this money went to the buffers, or standby, then the money would be more than enough and there would be more. Why not try and calculate such things? Innove is not the most efficient operating agency in this area. I mean, in some areas it is certainly indispensable, but in this area it is absolutely not the most profitable undertaking. So it doesn't always make sense to put public money there. So much for that. What I think is that the teacher's full load is not what is said from the top, but the teacher's full load depends on how much time it takes to create an aha-effect for one student. It cannot be written from above, and the wise state will reward the matter. We have so few students in Estonia that each student must be taken individually, by way of exception. I can calmly say for myself that I am a person with special needs, and I also take all my students as people with special needs. I approach them personally, not in general terms, without punching them all into the same length and putting forward what they all need to know in general. Everyone is special and let's take everyone special! And special things have to be paid specially. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-02_U35	Thank you. No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. So the question has been answered.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-02_U36	We will move on to the next question on 23 March 2016. The inquiry is about defending the interests of the state and bearing the number 192, corresponds to the Minister for the Environment Marko Pomerants. Please ask Toomas Vitsut, representative of the speakers of the Riigikogu Chair, to introduce the inquiry to the Estonian public!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-02_U37	President-in-Office of the Council. Minister, thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, An inquiry has been made by me and 14 members of the Centre Party Group. This concerns one of the largest reforms carried out with the state's assets, the land reform, in which 99542 cadastral units have been formed on the basis of plan and map material, making a total of 379285 hectares. These are the data from the Real Estate Department of the Tartu County Court. Land privatized on the basis of plan and map material must be celebrated later in nature. This celebration is not mandatory, so this process has been going on for a long time and is still ongoing. I don't have an overview, and I don't really know that anyone has that overview at all, how much of this nearly 100,000 cadastral units are marked. However, there will be border disputes during this celebration. The parties to the dispute may be private owners, but the state is often one of the parties to the dispute, because these cadastral units are bordering the state land. The different positions of the Land Administration remain confused, who will then be responsible for the decisions made in the course of the land reform. I have the impression that the Earth Authority is trying to take this responsibility away from me. But that's what I'd like to know from the honourable minister, who will be responsible if the Land Office isn't responsible. If there is a dispute between the private owner and the state, how will the protection of the state's interests take place? I would just like to hear a description of how the interests of the State will be protected during this dispute. The Land Office has also questioned who controls the data that will be submitted to the Land Office during the delineation process and how this calculation will be carried out. The representatives of the Land Administration have spoken in the press and argued that the land reform has been successful. But whether the reform has been successful or unsuccessful, we can still assess it on the basis of certain facts. And when we talk about facts, there must also be some figures on the basis. I, on the other hand, have not received these figures from the Earth Administration. Yeah, I have the two numbers I told you. They were obtained from the Real Estate Department of Tartu County Court, but only after long contact with the Real Estate Department. I'd like an answer to those questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-02_U38	Thank you. I now ask the Minister of Environment Marko Pomerants for the Riigikogu's speech chair to answer the question!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-02_U39	Good afternoon, Mr President-in-Office. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! TV viewers! This is an ongoing interest in the progress of the land reform and I expect that I will be able to answer further questions on this issue here at least over the next year. But let's keep going. The first question concerns who will then be responsible for implementing the land reform. According to § 5 (2) of the Property Reform Foundation Act, ownership reform is guaranteed by the Government of the Republic, which appoints ministers responsible for the various fields of ownership reform. Local governments carry out the activities prescribed by the Government of the Republic in carrying out ownership reform under law and law. Land reform, among others, is part of the ownership reform. Pursuant to paragraph 1 (1) of Order No 411 of the Government of the Republic of 28 May 1997 on the appointment of ministers responsible for the various areas of ownership reform, the Minister of the Environment is responsible for the return, privatisation, municipalisation and the organisation of the retention of the land. Pursuant to point 2 of the Order, responsible ministers, together with rural elders, must ensure general monitoring and analysis of the relevant areas of ownership reform, the development of legislation and the creation of prerequisites for the activities of reformers. According to § 38 (1) of the Land Reform Act, land reform is carried out by the Government of the Republic through the Land Administration, county and local authorities under the Land Reform Act in accordance with the procedure established by the Government of the Republic. According to the different provisions of the Land Reform Act, the municipality decides on the return and compensation of the land and carries out the preliminary operations of the privatisation of the land. The mayor decides on the privatisation of the land and, in most cases, on the municipalisation of the land. Paragraph 38 (2) and (3) of the Land Reform Act provides for the rights of the Land Administration in the implementation of the land reform, which is primarily to supervise, coordinate and monitor the implementation of the land reform and, where appropriate, to organise the identification of land to be privatized, transferred to municipal property and retained by the State. Since the Riigikogu, the Government of the Republic and ministers, the heads of the country, the Land Administration and also the local governments have a role to play in carrying out the land reform, it cannot be argued that the Land Administration alone is responsible for carrying out the land reform. The second question: 'The situation in which a cadastral unit has been formed on the basis of plan and map material, bordering the state and in which a border dispute arises, who and how will protect the interests of the state in this matter? "If the bordering land is state-owned land, according to the State Assets Act, all the rights and obligations of the owner under the law are exercised by the sovereign authority of the State or by its authorised authority. In the case of neighbouring state land, the land referred to in § 31 (2) of the Land Reform Act, i.e. the land that is not reformed, continues to be state-owned, is to be the property of the State in accordance with paragraph 211 of the Order of the Government of the Republic of 3 September 1996, in the case of land for which the absence of requests by other persons has been established in the proceedings for the preservation of the land, the functions of the governor of state assets shall be exercised by the government authority to which the right to manage the land is transferred after the decision of the State to retain the land. This authority ends with the transfer of ownership of the land resulting from the land reform to the owner of the land. The third question: 'How many such cases do you know where the Earth Administration or any other responsible authority has had to defend the interests of the state? 'The Land Office has been involved in procedures to determine the location of the border on the terrain, both as a surveyor and as an authorised representative of the landowner. The determination of borders has taken place on the basis laid down by law. I don't have a specific number for you, it's a continuous process over the years or a single piece of work. Question 4: "To what extent do you consider that the State has suffered damage in the form of a transfer of land? Are the entries in which the private owner has acquired state-owned land compensated for by the State and, if so, to what extent? ' If the assignment of land refers to an increase in the area resulting from the excavation of the cadastral units formed on the basis of privately owned plan or map material, such an approach is fundamentally incorrect. A transfer of land from one person to another, free of charge, can be considered as a transfer. The Land Office is not aware of such transactions. We have explained in the past that the area of cadastral units is not a phenomenon in itself, but the area is always derived from cadastral boundaries and boundary data. The change in area caused by the accuracy of the area determination cannot be considered as a transfer of the real land. We have also explained in the past that if, in the case of a cadastral unit formed on the basis of plan or map material, cadastral surveying is carried out to mark boundaries on the terrain, the survey shall be based on the boundaries of the cadastral unit determined on the basis of plan or map material on the cadastral unit plan, the data of the neighbouring cadastral unit or units and other factors relevant to the border marking. Thus, the boundary of cadastral units on the landscape is marked for the first time, which does not mean that the person has actually gained land as a result of the marking of borders. It is expected that it will use the land within its former borders, and no one may give up or acquire any land. As a result of the overslaughting, the precise area of the cadastral unit is determined and therefore it is equally likely that the area will decrease, increase and remain the same. Since the boundaries of the cadastral units formed on the basis of plan or map material on the terrain are fixed in the cadastral plan, there is no reason to claim that someone has acquired land belonging to the State and to be interested in whether the land is compensated for by the State. For cadastral units formed on the basis of plan and map material, the regulation of the boundaries and areas is laid down in the Land Cadastral Act as well as in other legislation governing this topic, and it is unfounded and unreasonable to require clarification which should compensate anyone if the legislation does not provide for any compensation. In the case of cadastral units formed on the basis of plan or map material, the legislator has provided for possible changes in the landscape as regards both the area and the location of the border and has considered it necessary to warn persons who have decided to acquire the land on the basis of plan or map material. The State itself has also taken into account the fact that the sum of the amounts may change the area of the units and that this may change the calculated area of the unreformed land or of the land owned. Question 5: 'According to § 3 (1) of the Master's Act, the Cadastral's controller is the Ministry of the Environment and, pursuant to paragraph 11 of the same section, the Land Board as the cadastral holder. [---] But who is carrying out the verification of the accuracy of these data and how is such verification carried out? ' So it's a question of the verification or accuracy of the data contained in the documents. According to Article 11 (1) of the Land Cadastral Act, the purpose of the cadastral is to record information concerning the value of the land, the natural state of the land and the use of the land and to ensure the quality, preservation and availability of information to the public. According to § 8 (5) of the Land Cadastral Act, the cadastral keeper is responsible for the compliance of the entry made with the original document and, according to § 10 (1), the cadastral unit plan is the original document certifying the location of the cadastral boundary in the cadastral. According to § 16 (2) of the Land Cadastral Act, the surveyor is responsible for the accuracy and legality of the file on the surveying carried out by him and the formation of the cadastral unit. The cadastral keeper shall make entries in the land registry on the basis of the documents submitted to him. When carrying out cadastral entries, the cadastral keeper generally does not know the situation in nature. This is not required by any legislation. The cadastral keeper shall verify the consistency of the submitted documents, such as the correlation between the description of the boundary in the border protocol and the boundary in the cadastral plan, the correspondence of the boundary data in the cadastral plan with the survey data in the file, etc., and the suitability of the requested entry with existing entries in the land registry. If there are deficiencies in the documents, the cadastral keeper shall request the person submitting the documents to remedy them. The verification of the accuracy of the cadastral units or catastrim survey is governed by Chapter 9 of Order No 264 of the Government of the Republic of 23 October 2003 entitled 'Check of the execution of the catastrim survey and the verification of the catastrim survey'. The accuracy of the data obtained from the catastrim survey can always be verified by a surveyor, making a new survey of the catastrim. If, for example, the cadastral recording shows that the latest survey results do not fit with the available data in the land registry, e.g. the boundary sign is different, the difference between coordinates is greater than permitted, etc., the surveyor shall further verify the accuracy of the data provided by it. If the surveyor confirms the accuracy of the data provided by him, the cadastral holder shall submit a request for verification of the accuracy of the data to the surveyor who carried out the earlier cadastral survey. If the situation still does not resolve and the inconsistencies in the data persist, the Earth Office's cadastrim surveying and control department will be involved, which will identify the actual situation in the landscape and assess the accuracy of the existing survey results. A new data verification requirement shall be submitted to the surveyor who made the error in order to correct the measurement errors identified by the Catastrim Inspection and Control Department. The formation of a cadastral unit on the basis of plan and map material is governed by § 20 (5) of the Land Cadastral Act, as well as by Decree No 88 of the Government of the Republic of 29 April 1997 establishing the procedure for the formation of a cadastral unit on the basis of plan and map material. The cadastral unit shall be formed on the basis of plan and map material and the area and boundaries of the land unit shall be determined on plan or map material and no border and situational survey shall be carried out in nature. The boundaries of the cadastral unit thus formed have not been defined on the terrain, the border crossing points are not marked on the terrain and no coordinates have been assigned to the border crossing points. Since the boundaries of the cadastral unit are not marked on the terrain when the cadastral unit is formed on the basis of plan and map material, it is not possible to verify the accuracy of the border data on the terrain either. If the owner of a cadastral unit formed on the basis of plan and map material wishes to know the exact location of the cadastral unit he owns on the terrain and/or the exact area, a cadastral survey shall always be made to mark the boundaries of the cadastral unit in nature. The survey can be carried out by a surveyor with a licence for land management work, who must base his activities on the Land Register Act and the corresponding procedures. When border marking is carried out, Paragraph 7 (4) must be observed in particular, which states that the border inspection post of the cadastral unit formed on the basis of the plan shall be marked on the terrain by reference to the border protocol, the cadastral unit plan, the landscape objects and existing border markings. Question 6: 'Every piece of land receives a cadastral identification when it is entered into the cadastral, which is a unique number code for a cadastral unit with specific boundaries. If the boundaries of the cadastral unit change on the landscape, the cadastral unit with the current boundaries will be terminated and the cadastral unit with new boundaries will be given a new cadastral designation. [---] Do you consider that the cadastral keeper should keep records of which cadastral areas have changed since the result of the cadastral surveying? ' Each cadastral identification and its cadastral identification cadastral unit shall be permanently preserved in the land registry, no cadastral unit shall be deleted from the land cadastral, nor shall the completed cadastral unit ever be erased from the land cadastral. The database only fixes the time of completion of the cadastral unit, i.e. expiry and the legal basis for termination. Thus, the history of each cadastral unit is observable in the land registry and it is possible to view data on the cadastral unit at different time points, including boundaries and area, and the documents underlying each entry are subject to permanent storage in the cadastral archive. Indeed, there is no general statistical record of changes in the area of the cadastral unit in the land registry. We also consider that there is no practical need for this calculation, as any change in the area may be due to different causes and the conclusions drawn from the data analysis on the change in the area may prove very erroneous or at least misleading. However, the land registry records the origins of cadastral units, for example. For example, it is possible to ask how many cadastral divisions or additions have been made in different rural areas at different times, the boundaries of adjacent cadastral units have been changed, or the cadastral units have been remeasured. It is likely that the areas or amounts of areas of cadastral units resulting from each of these procedures have been somewhat specified (with a positive or a negative sign) in comparison with the areas of earlier cadastral units that participated in the operation and were completed, but in a situation where the operation has been carried out within the existing boundaries of the cadastral units, the scope of the conclusions to be drawn on making the area more precise remains somewhat unclear. Thanks!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-02_U40	Thank you. You have questions too. Thomas Vitsu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-02_U41	Thank you. You claimed that the ruler of state property, the state has considered that the area could change. However, on the basis of the position of the Land Board, no legislation requires that state assets be accounted for. I am not quite sure whether this comes directly from any specific legislation, but I think that public property still needs to be accounted for. All the more so, these are very large numbers. We are talking about about a hundred thousand cadastral units and hundreds of thousands of hectares, with the Land Office admitting that these'specifications' can reach hectares. My question is, is it really the case that the state does not have to keep track of its assets?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-02_U42	Thanks! Here's the answer. The State shall keep records of its assets and shall, as regards the criteria of accuracy, base itself on what the legislature has provided to it either in the form of a specific provision of law or in the form of sub-acts resulting from the law.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-02_U43	Rein Ratas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-02_U44	Thanks, manager! Good Minister of the Environment! According to the Land Reform Act, the land reform that lasted for a quarter of a century must be completed next year. At the same time, we still have some 100,000 hectares of unreformed state land. Minister, are you going to the history of our people as the finaliter of the Republic of Estonia's second land reform? I've been talking.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-02_U45	Thanks! That would be very nice, but I won't give you any guarantees. This depends on the length of the term of office.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-02_U46	Minister, thank you. There are no more questions. You don't want to make speeches. So the question has been answered.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-02_U47	Let's move on to the third question. On the 21st day of March, a request for information on the free trade agreement between the European Union and the United States, bearing the number 191, has been submitted. Foreign Minister Marina Kaljurand responds to the inquiry. I ask Viktor Vassilyev, representative of the heirs of the Riigikogu, to introduce the subject of the speech chair! Please, over here!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-02_U48	Mr President! Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, An inquiry was made, yes, on 21 March in the s. a, because we saw that pretty soon the European Union and the United States have been negotiating a free trade agreement for three years. On certain points, as if an agreement had been reached, certain points did not exist. The TTIP is the name of this thing. We had some real questions figured out. What was the state at the time, in March, of the negotiations? What changes would the conclusion of a free trade agreement between the European Union and the US bring to our Estonia? Will we have the opportunity to increase exports, to export something more than we do now, or to buy in something fun? And what benefits would Estonian entrepreneurs, especially Estonian small businesses, consumers and the entire Estonian people benefit from the free trade agreement, because we are here and are sitting for the benefit of the Estonian people? At that time, in March, of course, we had the goal of bullying the Minister of Foreign Affairs and criticizing the government, but now new events have come to light. Somehow, in Germany, 90,000 people have come to the streets, and instead of fighting refugees, they have started criticizing the United States of America. It's getting strange and even somewhat dangerous. And since Mrs Kaljurand has been and still has been the only professional in the Estonian government, perhaps in place, who communicates with very interesting people and has certainly authentic data on foreign policy matters up to Bilderberg Club, and Mrs Kaljurand is certainly not communicating with it, but it is also possible to obtain all kinds of data from them, the Centre Party Group decided very briefly to ask the Minister about this trade agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-02_U49	Thank you. I now ask the Riigikogu's speech chair to be answered by Minister of Foreign Affairs Marina Kaljuranna! Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-02_U50	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! Yeah, I'd be happy to answer that question, what's the deal with the free trade agreement? But I would like to say the correct name of this agreement once from this speaker board. We are talking about a free trade agreement, but its real name is the TTIP. In terms of simplicity, I, too, will continue to call this a free trade agreement between the European Union and the United States. Indeed, negotiations on the agreement started in 2013 and 13 rounds have now taken place. The last, the 13th round was in New York a few weeks ago, and now the 14th round is being prepared, which should take place in July. The negotiations have taken place in three major blocks: firstly, market access, secondly, regulatory cooperation, and thirdly, rules. The agreement covers a very wide range of topics, with a total of 25 to 30 chapters around it. And as is customary and customary in trade negotiations, nothing has been agreed until everything is agreed. If you look at the individual chapters, the different chapters have been agreed at different stages. For example, the most advanced has been customs cooperation and cooperation between small and medium-sized enterprises, as well as the resolution of transnational disputes. The most complex chapters at present are public procurement, services and everything that concerns agriculture, such as geographical indications. On 27 April, the Commission published a very detailed record of what has been achieved by chapter and what has been the subject of negotiations. I'd be happy to share that reference with you. Yes, indeed, an increasing number of questions are also asked in the European Union as to whether the agreement can be concluded before President Obama's term of office expires and whether the change in public opinion on the FTA in Germany must be taken very seriously. Of course, any public opinion must be taken seriously, but I would pay attention to what Chancellor Merkel and President Obama said last week in Hanover. They both affirmed their desire to conclude this agreement because it is in the interests of the European Union and the United States, it is in the interests of our small and medium-sized enterprises, it is in the interests of our people, as you rightly said. According to the division of competences of the European Union, the common commercial policy falls within the remit of the Commission. The Commission will negotiate this agreement and negotiate it on the basis of a mandate to be given to it by the Member States. Negotiations will also take place in close consultation with Member States. For Estonia's most important export goods, sales to the USA are currently subject to a zero-percent tariff everywhere. As Estonia's exports to the USA account for less than 5% of Estonia's total exports and for the larger groups of exported products already subject to low tariffs or none at all, the impact of the agreement on Estonia will not be significant. It will not be as big as any other Member State of the European Union that exports more to the United States. At the same time, it is important that, when an agreement is concluded, the number of regulations is reduced, standards are mutually recognised, non-tariff barriers are removed, or bureaucracy is significantly reduced. This should make it easier for Estonian exports to enter the US market. As of October 2015, the number of companies exporting directly from Estonia to the USA is 691. Direct exports of Estonian goods to the USA account for 3.1% of total exports and about 60% of exports came from products such as mineral products, petrol, fuel oils, fluid measuring equipment, fishing equipment, transformers. At the same time, this number does not reflect the export of Estonian companies to the US via the supply chains that take place through our other important trading partners, such as Finland, Sweden and Germany. The export of Estonian services to the US accounts for 3.4% of the total exports of services and mainly transport services, computer and information services, other business services and travel services. We appreciate that the impact of the FTA on Estonia's GDP will be in the range of 0.3 to 0.4%, which is 40 to 70 million euros. Exports to the USA could be estimated to grow by EUR 40.60 million, or 7.12%. At the same time, these are forecasts and economic modelling in a situation where negotiations are still ongoing and the final text has not yet been agreed. However, on the basis of communication with companies, we may think that the US as a target market can be of potential interest to all Estonian companies, both to the sectors mentioned above, but also to others who are looking for opportunities in the form of new markets. It is estimated that it is small and medium-sized enterprises that are most likely to benefit from the agreement, for whom double checks and double certifications are a bureaucratic obstacle. At the same time, the free trade agreement does not create additional obligations for Estonian companies, but rather creates opportunities for developing trade. So we can hope that the free trade agreement will create even greater interest and confidence in the US as a target market in Estonian companies. As I said, the question of when the Treaty could enter into force is difficult to answer today. But yes, it is believed that the Treaty will not enter into force, perhaps not be ratified in the European Parliament by the deadline for the expiry of the mandate of President Obama's administration. However, efforts are currently being made to also agree on outstanding issues in order to reach agreement on the text of the agreement as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-02_U51	Minister, thank you. You have a lot of questions, too. Anne Sulling, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-02_U52	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good Minister of Foreign Affairs! In today's news, the French Trade Minister answered the question whether, by the end of Obama's term of office, it would be possible to reach an agreement that he would rather not think so. My question is, what is your prognosis? If it doesn't, what happens next?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-02_U53	Thank you for this question. First of all, whether or not an agreement is reached. Yes, as I said, there are critical issues that are currently being negotiated on public procurement, services, agriculture. Today, however, it cannot be ruled out that an agreement will be reached. And it is also always a question that if we want a less ambitious free trade agreement, we can agree on that next Monday. In this case, the ambitious free trade agreement, which covers very broad issues, is intended to cover a very broad range of issues, and that is why these negotiations are going in part difficult. The European elections will certainly be influenced by the elections in France and Germany, i.e. this agreement will also be an internal political debate. So right now, I don't want to speculate about what happens if you don't get it done. At present, all efforts have been made to ensure that the text of the agreement is agreed by January next year.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-02_U54	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-02_U55	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, first of all, thank you for this optimism, which also concerns the expansion of our export opportunities in this direction, but I would like to ask the preceding question in a slightly different way. How do you assess the possibilities of continuity of US policy after the presidential elections, whether there may be any kind of spikes that are unexpected to us? And by chance, I ask you more broadly how you now describe Estonia-US relations both in the context of the upcoming NATO summit and in the light of all the hot events and hot points that we have from Ukraine to Syria.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-02_U56	Thank you for this question. This new administration must be awaited in order to provide a more detailed answer to the policy of the new administration. We must also wait for the results of the election. Yeah, I'm watching what the presidential candidates are saying right now. In the case of some presidential candidates, it's pretty scary what they say. Also, whether or not the United States will continue to support the liberal economy. It was not easy to start negotiations with the United States. It was prepared for years. A high-level group of experts together to prepare the ground for 2011-2013. Yeah, the negotiations have been going on for three years. Yeah, it's been a long time. But I see that countries, the European Union and the United States have a desire to agree. All states of the United States and all Member States of the European Union have been analysed. And absolutely everyone will win this deal. So I very much hope that whoever is in the next administration will be based on the same facts and on what we have now reached in the negotiations. And as far as bilateral relations between Estonia and the United States of America are concerned, our relations are very good. Our relationship is very good as two allies, two partners, two friends, two countries that understand each other and do a great deal together. And we are also preparing for the approaching Warsaw Summit, in agreement with the United States, sharing the views with which they are going to Warsaw. I think that this was confirmed by President Obama's visit to London and Germany, where President Obama reiterated the need for NATO Member States to commit to strengthening NATO's eastern wing, both in terms of deterrence and greater NATO presence. Political decisions by the major European allies to strengthen their presence in the Baltic region were also followed up relatively soon thereafter. So we are working very closely with the United States, as with other allies, so that the Warsaw Summit is a success for all of us, not just for Estonia, but for all NATO allies.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-02_U57	Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-02_U58	Thank you for this question. As far as the agricultural sector is concerned, this is currently a complex area. And it has been said very clearly, both the Trade Commissioner and the Agriculture Commissioner, that, as a result of these negotiations, EU standards will not be lowered. European Union standards remain in force and European Union requirements, such as those established for genetically modified organisms, are taken over. Perhaps there is no easier way of resisting: there is no transition to simpler requirements, to simpler criteria, to simpler standards.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-02_U59	Jaanus Karilaid, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-02_U60	Thank you, manager. Thanks to the waitress! For years, it has been said that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs could protect more the interests of the Estonian economy and capital. Now, at the end of the day, there may be some practical result. But I ask whether this cooperation with small and medium-sized enterprises, as you said, has been regular, systematic in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. And what are these small and medium-sized companies that would like to go to the US market?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-02_U61	Thank you for this question. This is one free trade agreement that has been negotiated. Before that, free trade agreements were with Japan and Canada. Before that, many other free trade agreements have been concluded, including with our eastern partners: Ukraine, Georgia, Moldova. Perhaps the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has experience in participating and empowering the Commission to negotiate free trade agreements. Yes, we are meeting with specific entrepreneurs. We meet entrepreneurs who want to go to some kind of target market. We're meeting alliances representing companies. We're meeting with the Chamber of Commerce. Yeah, these are regular meetings. If you specifically ask about the American market, I can say, for example, that AS Rõngu Mahl and AS Valio Eesti are taking the first steps on the American market. And they, for example, very much want this free trade agreement to be concluded. This would make it easier for them to operate in the American market and reduce red tape.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-02_U62	Viktor Vassilyev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-02_U63	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! I haven't heard such a positive, optimistic story since the school said that Communism was coming in 1961. Well, there's no way there's nothing wrong with it, there's only good. There are still two sides to any process. And when Mart Helme was talking about the big fish that eat the little fish, the big fish are interested in making the little fish as powerful as possible. And while an American and a German are sitting together discussing our destiny, once, quite a long time ago a Russian and a German were sitting together discussing our destiny. It ended badly for us. Can you, however, also tell us about the dangers associated with the commercial agreements of two very large, powerful forms of state?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-02_U64	Thank you for this question. These negotiations are not comparable to those negotiated by the great powers over our heads. Above all, our interests are protected by the fact that we, together with the other 27 Member States, are handing over the Commission's mandate, and within this framework, the Commission is negotiating. Where are the dangers? The danger is that this agreement may not come unless it can be agreed either to open public procurements to each other or to geographical indications, which is a major problem for Europe, Estonia, perhaps less, but for those European countries where production is linked to geographical indications, geographical names, be it Parmesan cheese, for example. Of course, these are problems and, of course, these negotiations are not easy. But why do I say that all the states and all the Member States will benefit from this? It is because those who support the liberal economy, those who believe that trade and trade are driving the economy forward, will win. Today, the United States and the European Union are the largest free trade countries and organisations. And that's why the statistics are also interesting and it shows that they will win absolutely all who more, who less. With the conclusion of the free trade agreement, there will be a larger common market, where the rules governing us in the European Union will be used to acting. If we do not conclude this agreement, others will enter into it, and then there may be surrender in standards, then there may be a compromise in quality. So, in this sense too, it is in the interests of both the United States and the European Union, so that an agreement can be concluded.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-02_U65	Arno Bridge, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-02_U66	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. You argued that there were very difficult negotiations on agricultural matters. We know that the problem of genetically modified food is one of the main problems there. But can other questions be added to this, or is this the only obstacle to agricultural agreements?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-02_U67	Thank you for this question. For example, another not an obstacle, but a difficult place is also what I just mentioned as geographical terms. In America, it is used to producing Parma ham, Parmesan cheese, without thinking that it is linked to a specific place in Europe and that it is a very fundamental, very complex issue for those countries that produce with a geographical name. It is not at all easy for the European Union to open up its market to agriculture. Let us even look at the negotiations that are being held with other countries to open up production to agriculture, which is now so much subsidised, this is a complex issue at all. That is why I referred to agriculture as one of the more complex areas.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-02_U68	Andrei Novikov, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-02_U69	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, At the meeting with the voters, in the light of this agreement, I was asked for more specific things, more popular things, if you could say so. For example, does the harmonisation of standards also mean that we are now going to use and sell, for example, US plugs and, in the case of a vehicle imported from the US, whether the need to exchange red direction indicator for yellow falls. What might be the answer? Is there a list of standards that are changing, and how much do we need to change national standards in this regard?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-02_U70	Minister, thank you. No further questions. I'm opening negotiations. Speaking chair of the Riigikogu Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-02_U71	Thank you for your question. I'm sure there's a list. And I think that if I were to read all the annexes to the communication issued by the Commission now or the review of the negotiations, I would find it. If you wish, you can look at it yourself from the Commission's communication issued by the Commission at the end of April. I can find the answer to these two questions about the plug and the safety issues myself. Right now, I owe you that answer.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-02_U72	Mr. Deputy Speaker! Minister, thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The problem with a treaty called a free trade agreement, short of TTIP, is that it promotes free trade, but in fact it has nothing to do with free trade. I would remind you that there is a free trade agreement between Europe and America since the 1990s. In fact, this agreement or the negotiation process is the desire of the European Commission, on the one hand, and clearly of the left-wing US administration, on the other hand, to further increase bureaucracy and recognise mutual bureaucracy. It is not an agreement that reduces bureaucracy, facilitates market entry or makes it easier for someone to compete. When it comes to the reduction of bureaucracy, it is simply contrary to the plans contained in the Treaty to create a number of new bodies, the sole task of which is to increase bureaucracy. One is the Joint Regulatory Committee and the other is the new tribunal, and I would particularly like to point out that this new tribunal is either a breakthrough by the European Commission or a wish to replace an existing, operational and business-centred dispute resolution mechanism with a clearly national and Commission-controlled dispute resolution mechanism. There is no mention here of mutual recognition of standards, that is, what has already been authorised in America, being used in Europe, or of what has been authorised in Europe, being also used in America. We are talking about harmonising, or creating a new layer of bureaucracy, a new layer of permits. This has nothing to do with free trade. This has been a lobby of exceptionally large multinational corporations, which will help them secure their position on the transatlantic market, preventing new companies from entering this market. At the same time, there is a clear risk that Estonian entrepreneurs, for example, will still be affected by 'fair competition' and this fair competition. In particular, I think that attention should be drawn to access to the market for genetically modified organisms, which could easily result in the complete end of our beekeeping. Let us even think that America as a whole has become fat because the meat industry has gained a competitive advantage with the hormone feeding of meat cattle, which has had long-term and very poor consequences for human health. These are the things that come to us with this treaty. So this whole debate, and all the optimism that the Minister has shown here, shows, on the one hand, very sadly, that there is talk about something else, something that does not exist. They're talking about a different contract than what's really on paper. This shows that Estonia does not have its foreign policy, much less its foreign trade policy. And this time, in the light of this Treaty, we will not even give up our sovereignty for the benefit of the European Union or the European Commission, which we will do every day anyway, but for the benefit of international multinational corporations. This agreement should not be accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-02_U73	Mr President! I don't think Americans get fat just for eating genetically modified food. They get fat because they just eat well. They're good at doing their business, they have big corporations that expand their tentacles all over the world, and that's why they live well. Of course, it is feared that little Estonia will not be asked for anything and that these agreements will be made the way they do. However, there are also historical precedents that have been organised by the United States. For example, the 1992 so-called free trade agreement between the United States of America, Canada and Mexico, or in Estonian, the NAFTA. So some oil ears seemed out of it, even though there wasn't much talk about oil. But all of this ended with wages falling by 20% in Canada, unemployment in Mexico, and Mexico becoming the country of drug trafficking where the inhabitants fled. It didn't do any good. So if there are U.S. corporations, whether Apple or Shell or whatever, it's not a new phenomenon. American writer Graham Greene has written about this 40 years ago. Old people have read this writer, or at least they know him. Young people can google to find out what or who he is and what he wrote about. He brought these corporations under one name, United Fruit Company, who stretched out their tentacles in Latin America, and brought only destruction to the people living there. Now United Fruit Company is also trying to reach out to the European Union. It is not to be expected that large corporations, whether European or American, have such good uncles who only ensure that people live well. They have their own interests, and I have already mentioned this point made by my colleague, Mart Helme, that big fish eat small fish. Of course, the shark is interested in making the little anchovies as powerful as possible and more. That's how it's done, and that's how it works. And I will say this once again, because Estonia, in its time, has a straight back and a straight head to enslave the European Union, so neither do we have much to say, it goes as it does. However, it is worth keeping a low profile in foreign policy in general and not running in front of a train, because squinting in front of a locomotive is a rather dangerous activity that should be banned for small nations, small countries, such as Estonia. Estonia is tiny and, fortunately, the Islamic State may not find it, but there is no other Estonia. We live here, we're a small country and a small nation. We do not have the point of heroically dying for the ideas of a stranger's uncle, but our task is rather modestly to survive, just as a thousand years Estonians have survived here. I will recall and refer briefly to a fairy tale. I like fairy tales because there's always the truth in it. A smart person hears it, a fool can't hear it, but right now, there's only smart people sitting here. The story is about Baron Münchhausen, who was caught between a lion and a crocodile on a famous African trip. Of course, he ran out of ammo, or it didn't match the curve of the barrel. He couldn't shoot, he couldn't go here, he couldn't go there, or they'd eat him. When the crocodile had raised its jaws and the lion was preparing to jump, the baron gentleman just crouched off, so the lion jumped down the crocodile's throat and the crocodile suffocated. And many years later, the baron master could tell this instructive story by the fireplace by popping his pipe and drinking a good amount of Mosel wine. Modesty sometimes gets much further than running in front of a locomotive. There's probably nothing you can do about a free trade agreement, but you have to be careful, because nothing's as good as it's painted on a picture. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-02_U74	Thank you. No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. So the question has been answered.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-02_U75	Thank you, Mr. Vice Speaker. Minister, thank you very much. At the beginning of your presentation, you spoke about some chapters that have progressed further and others that have progressed less. Am I right to understand that the issue of mutual dispute settlement has gone further? As far as I understand, Europeans want to replace the current dispute settlement system for free trade agreements (i.e. investor-state dispute settlement) with a new tribunal. In fact, Europeans are very protectionist and, despite the current free trade with America, tend to break it, lose it all the time in the current system and want to make a new tribunal (investment court system). Do you think it is a good idea to replace the existing system, which is very flexible and effective, with a new tribunal to be created by Europeans?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-02_U76	Thank you for this question. Negotiations are always a bilateral process: there are the positions of the European Union, there are the positions of the United States. Yeah, I think what's going with the court right now is the right direction. Yes, I think that the court, as it is currently being negotiated, will be more transparent, will be more open and will be better.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-02_U77	Jaak Madison, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-02_U78	Thank you, Mr President. Good Minister of Foreign Affairs! The agreement we are talking about provides for the creation of a joint regulatory cooperation body. This immediately raises the question of who will be there and how to get there, whether Estonia's interests are represented there as well, through whom, and how will it be ensured that there will be no increase in bureaucracy in one area again and the increase in regulations within the framework of the transatlantic agreement, which would be the substantive opposite of free trade. Why don't you explain the nature of this organ that will be created?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-02_U79	Thank you for this question. The aim of this agreement is not to create additional bureaucratic or regulatory obstacles. Yes, the interests of Estonia in whatever institution created by this agreement will certainly be represented and protected, just as they are currently in negotiations. I owe you an answer who specifically forms this body, but I will send you this information in writing.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-02_U80	Uno Kaskpeit, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-02_U81	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear Minister, As time has shown, the treaty negotiations have been going on for a long time. It seems to me that the Treaty could clearly result in an increase in regulation and bureaucracy. Does this, in your opinion, help new companies to enter the market, or create more competition, or does it help existing companies to gain a better position on the market, which basically hampers the free market?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-02_U82	Thank you for this question. Yes, indeed, negotiations have been going on for three years. However, I do not know from history that trade negotiations would have gone easily, especially between the European Union and the United States, where we are talking about 28 Member States in the case of the European Union, the United States of America, which all have their own laws, with their own regulations. Yes, I can assure you that the aim of this agreement will result in a reduction in bureaucracy. And when red tape decreases, small and medium-sized enterprises will have easier access to markets.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-02_U83	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-02_U84	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Madam Secretary! We really expect you to send us a very precise answer on how and who will represent Estonia in this future cooperation body. But my question concerns something else. We all know big fish eat little fish. You have repeatedly stressed that this agreement is particularly in the interests of small and medium-sized enterprises. How does this agreement foresee that multinational corporations operating around the world, with their headquarters in the United States, Germany and Great Britain in particular, will not take on even greater power on the world market, an even greater market share, and do not crowd out the smaller ones?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-02_U85	Thank you for this question. Why do small and medium-sized enterprises win? The point is that big corporations can afford lawyers, accountants, lawyers who prepare all the bureaucratic papers they need to access one market or another. The aim of this agreement is to eliminate this bureaucracy, if not once and for all, which cannot be done, to significantly reduce this bureaucracy: to eliminate double checks, to eliminate double certifications. And from that, small and medium-sized companies that can't afford as large an army of lawyers, accountants or lawyers as big corporations can. So this agreement will create better access for small and medium-sized enterprises to the US market and vice versa, i.e. the European Union market.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-02_U86	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-02_U87	Thank you. I now request the speech chair of the Riigikogu, Viktor Vassilyev!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-02_U88	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. It is problematic whether the claims about the usefulness of the contract for Estonian companies are valid. As our exports to the United States are small, instead of the benefits of abolishing tariffs and restrictions, our companies are threatened by competition with US companies in both domestic and European markets. US standards are lower in a large number of areas, and so our companies are in a worse starting position to compete. In addition, they are already losing investment in a higher standard manufacturing process. It is agriculture and the food industry that have particularly expansionary interests in companies in the United States. How can the interests of our companies be protected in a new market situation?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-02_U89	Let's move on to the next question, which is the fourth in line. Inquiry was submitted on 16 March 2016, this is for economic crimes and is number 182. Urmas Reinsalu, Minister of Justice, responds to the inquiry. I ask the representative of the speakers of the Riigikogu's speech, Artur Talvik, to introduce the questioning!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-02_U90	Good President! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! Our question is indeed about economic crimes. This was motivated by the establishment of internal procedures by the Central Criminal Police towards the end of last year, which provides that the handling of economic crimes must only start once the amount of damage has exceeded EUR 80000. It used to be much smaller. According to our data, the Office for Economic Crimes of the Central Criminal Police employs 45 people who should investigate all the economic crimes that are committed in Estonia. There are hundreds of these crimes. The situation is also no better in the prosecutor's office, where the Economic, Corruption and Cybercrime Department employs a total of 15 people. The business sector is confused as to whether the government really accepts policies that allow economic crime to become a daily phenomenon, as we saw during the previous regime. There's a lot of unfinished cases. The current situation favours small and medium-sized economic criminals who, by their activities, violate Estonia's entrepreneurial culture, reduce Estonia's attractiveness to foreign investors and cause considerable damage to honest entrepreneurs and the state. In short, we want to find out what is going on with economic crimes, how they are being investigated, where there are borders and whether we have enough power to investigate economic crimes at all, or whether we should change laws and not call some crimes anymore. The Free Party Group has put six questions to the Minister of Justice about this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-02_U91	Thank you. I ask the Minister of Justice, Urmas Reinsalu, for the speech of the Riigikogu to answer an inquiry, which bears the number 182. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-02_U92	Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, This is a very serious and important problem to which the heirs point. I would like to point out that this line of reasoning concerning the competence of a research institution, such as the offences of economic crime, which are provided for in the Penal Code, would only be examined if the damage exceeds a certain monetary threshold, is incorrect or is, say, partly correct. We have a central criminal police tasked with investigating the most dangerous crimes, killings and the most complex cases. In order for economic crime to be a separate priority, as agreed in the developments in criminal policy, the Office for Economic Crime of the Central Criminal Police was established in 2014. In the case of two types of crime, embezzlement and fraud, the prefectures and the Office for Economic Crimes of the Central Criminal Police have agreed that the amount of material damage for which the Economic Crimes Bureau of the Central Criminal Police will operate is EUR 80000, while the remaining economic crimes must be dealt with by the Prefectures. It is certainly also important to develop the capacity to investigate these crimes in the prefectures. Next, I will answer the questions asked by the heirs. The first question: 'How do you explain the mass nature of ending economic criminal matters in recent years? Will this trend continue in the years to come? ' Statistics show that in 2014, the Office for Economic Crime closed 188 cases and, at a comparable time, 123 cases in 2015, then in a six-month cycle. In 2014, the highest number of cases were closed, 62%, because it was not possible to identify the person who committed the crime, and in 2015 the highest number of cases were closed due to a lack of grounds for criminal proceedings. Due to the expiry of the limitation period, 20% and 16% of the proceedings were closed in those years. It is certainly important, as I have also stressed to the prosecutor's office, that the time for dealing with economic crimes should be shorter. We are now talking about the average duration of proceedings in pre-trial proceedings of 798 days, including the average duration of proceedings by the prosecutor's office is 253 days. Procedural performance is certainly an important objective which should be borne in mind by the parties to the proceedings. The closure of economic crimes in recent years was due, on the one hand, to the fact that a large number of criminal proceedings were on the verge of expiry or reasonable proceedings, while there was a situation where there was no clear picture of the economic crimes that were being dealt with as a priority. Prioritisation of economic crimes in itself led to a positive situation in which all procedures, including those that were suspended due to a lack of resources, were taken into consideration by investigators and prosecutors, and when there was no judicial perspective, a decision was taken to close the proceedings. The termination of criminal proceedings may be due to different circumstances and therefore no general conclusion can be drawn on the basis of the number of graduations alone. The threshold for suspicion of a criminal offence leading to the opening of criminal proceedings is low in Estonia. There are therefore situations where the proceedings reveal that the suspicion of a criminal offence which led to the opening of criminal proceedings was not confirmed, i.e. the offence was not committed, and criminal proceedings may be terminated, for example, by the death of a suspect. In summary, it can be said that the number of cessations of economic crimes is the result of remedial work in police authorities, so that things that are hopeless in terms of effectiveness do not stop. This has enabled us to focus in turn on cases with a court perspective. The second question: 'The mandatory nature of criminal proceedings obliges us to investigate whenever the circumstances of the crime have become apparent. This puts very high demands on law enforcement. How do you assess the principle of the mandatory nature of criminal proceedings against the background of the constant underfunding and loss of capacity of Estonian law enforcement authorities? The third question: "Can Estonia waive the principle of compulsory criminal proceedings? ' Objective data do not support the view as if a decline in the capacity of law enforcement authorities was observed. In 2015, this is the overall statistics, with a 11% increase in crime resolution compared to last year. This figure was 52% in 2014 and 63% in 2015. Crimes which have been brought to an end in the course of the year either for reasons of rationality or which have been brought to court by the prosecutor's office during the year, i.e. crimes which have been settled during the year, may also be registered earlier, shall be deemed to have been resolved. If we look at the dynamics of the average duration of proceedings in the prosecutor's office since 2010, although the average time of proceedings based on 2015 statistics is also such that it is absolutely necessary to speed up the procedures, it is positive that the dynamics show a shortening of the average duration of proceedings. As regards the principle of compulsory criminal proceedings, the principle of compulsory criminal proceedings was partly amended at the beginning of this year. The amendment to the Code of Criminal Procedure, which entered into force on 16 January of this year, will allow criminal proceedings to be brought to an end even if the offender has not been identified and it is not appropriate to gather evidence. The revision of the principle of mandatory opening of criminal proceedings may prove justified in order to optimise procedural resources, but will be analysed by the Ministry of Justice in the course of the review of criminal proceedings. What is important is that, in accordance with current law, practitioners must comply with the applicable law; if there are signs of crime, criminal proceedings must be instituted regardless of whether the offence has caused material damage, the extent to which the damage is, the possibilities for determining the subject matter and the facts and the public interest. The following question: 'If a country is not able to investigate all economic crimes and recognises internally that some of them are not just priorities, should this not lead to the need to carry out a review of economic crimes with a view to amending or repealing those paragraphs which are excessive or too broad? " In itself, the Penal Code has carried out a review of economic crimes, which entered into force on 1 January last year. If we look at dynamics, we can see that a number of criminal acts moved to other chapters of the Penal Code, but if the word 'economic crime' is used as a narrow object, then 2010 versus 2015 will be a reduction of 47% for five-year economic crimes and 14% for 2014 versus 2015. I would stress that part of this is indeed due to the revision of penal law. In addition, I would like to stress that there is certainly no lowering of the bar of impunity under the current law in the case of procedural resources, and the Ministry of Justice does not plan further systemic changes to the regulation of economic crimes beyond this revision of the Penal Code, which entered into force on 1 January 2015. One of the central ideas of the review of penal law was to reduce the number of punishable acts and ensure compliance with the ultima ratio principle in criminal law. 'Do you see, and in what size, a budget deficit so that KriPo and the prosecutor's office have a satisfactory level of performance? What are your activities? ' Last year, the Ministry of Justice carried out an analysis of the practice of economic crime. Its main conclusions were that the average duration of proceedings was too long, that the prosecutor's office was overloaded and that there were not enough support staff in the prosecutor's office and in the investigative bodies. The establishment of an Office for Economic Crimes in the Central Criminal Police is a positive and strong step; this is the only right step, but it is also necessary to ensure research capacity in the prefectures that concern so-called smaller things. There is a need for consistent training and, which is very important, stronger attention needs to be paid to the detection of proceeds from crime. This means that it is also necessary to ensure that property is seized and that barriers are imposed so that, when a decision comes, the good-faith people who have been harmed can recover their property. I discussed the conclusions of this analysis at the beginning of this year, with representatives of companies and investigating authorities and prosecutors. We have come to certain points of view on how to proceed. In order, among other things, to increase the speed of the procedure for the most important matters, it is necessary to start applying the study group principle, as is the case with more complex corruption investigations. I mean, it's not that one detective investigates one thing to the end and then takes the next and the next, but in more critical matters, the ability to apply the study group can be applied. In this way, it will be possible to reach positions more quickly and send a criminal case to the prosecutor's office if the police and the prosecutor's office consider this to be a criminal offence. As regards the burden on the prosecutor's office, there are 28 prosecutors specialising in economic crimes in the prosecutor's office, and I would also like to draw attention to the 45 employees of the Bureau of Economic Crimes, whom Mr Talvik rightly pointed out. There are also 95 officials working in the Research Department of the Estonian Tax and Customs Board. Some economic crimes fall within the tax area and are dealt with by them. We have taken the decision to create more than eight consultants. I have stressed to the prosecutor's office that this resource must be used precisely for better processing of economic crimes, which means that, in terms of staff, the prosecutor's office has received a positive additional boost. As far as procedural laws are concerned, so that there is no mere over-bureaucratic procedure, but the quality of finding the truth and the presumption of innocence are not undermined, a revision of the Code of Criminal Procedure has been launched. The first results of the planned development, I hope, will be on my desk before the summer. This overly bureaucratic evidence-gathering procedure can be made more effective so that the principles of truth recognition do not suffer. The ultima ratio principle still requires that the general legal environment be such that insolvency law supports more honest businesses. This is where we have problems right now. I've launched an insolvency review. It cannot be considered normal that around 60% of the proceedings will be declining even before bankruptcy, that the proceedings will last for several years and that the percentage of creditors' satisfaction will be low. It is also the task of the State to rebuild civil law in such a way that the legal system protects more honest entrepreneurs. The serious problem is also that Estonia has dropped three seats in the insolvency ranking and is ranked 40th in the World Bank's study 'Doing Business'. I would like to emphasise that this area is one whole. One thing is that research institutions have clear priorities in place, the other is that they have sufficient resource capacity, and the third is that, according to the ultima ratio principle, criminal law procedures are still applicable in the most extreme cases and the general legal environment should be such that civil and insolvency law instruments provide better support for honest business and civil turnover in society. Both in insolvency law and in simplifying and speeding up procedural law, we have taken our steps; the prosecutor's office has gained additional resources. As far as the police's resource needs are concerned, I also stressed, during the meeting with the Minister for the Interior, the need for the Ministry of the Interior to consider improving the capacity to investigate economic crimes in the future. It is precisely the capacity of the prefectures to deal with the misappropriation and fraud referred to at the outset of Mr Talvik, the amount of which is less than the threshold agreed in the internal agreement of the Central Criminal Police. It is certainly very important to propose that in the future, the Office for Economic Crimes will need to create specialist positions for the regions in the field of proceeds of crime and asset tracing. The Tax and Customs Board has its own level of ambition, which could be the percentage of recovery of such property in the case of economic crimes. They have a 50% target, guaranteed by arrests and seals. I think it's very important. As far as I have met entrepreneurs, it has become clear that the problem is serious. It cannot be said that the system is satisfactory, far from satisfactory. The system must be reformed vigorously. Apart from the fact that good must triumph and justice must triumph, honest entrepreneurs want to regain the resources that crooks or frauds have committed. Of course, there is one thing we need to think about: more forceful application of business bans. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-02_U93	Questions for the Minister. Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-02_U94	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, The Central Criminal Police have not only the limit of dealing with a crime from an amount of EUR 80,000, but they also deal with large, large-scale, group-based matters. Here comes the very wrong message for the criminals: act a little less, then the prefectures will have to deal with it, and there is reason to doubt their ability. This is a question of performance and probably also of preparation. How can the capacity of the prefectures be improved, and what is the preparation of people dealing with these problems in the first place? Can we be satisfied with this, and how can it be improved, so that it is no longer limited to dealing with big things? It's actually a very demoralizing signal to society.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-02_U95	Thank you. This is exactly the same issue as the difference between criminalised theft and misappropriation of property rights. The important thing is that we do not send the wrong signal to society. That's actually a lot of money. The economic turnover of Estonia is not as if the police authorities had some basis for not investigating crimes in the case of amounts of damage of a certain size. No, they don't have that kind of foundation. The same principle of legality requires this examination. The logic of the work of the Office for Economic Crimes of the Central Criminal Police should be structured in such a way that it aligns its priority chain with the interest of ensuring legal certainty for society, based on its priorities and public interest statements, and consults on this also undoubtedly an interest in which, I think, there is nothing wrong with the application of the legal abiding business climate to corporate umbrella organisations. I would like to say that this issue of EUR 80000 cannot be a matter for itself, it is not a matter of law, but it is a matter of internal agreement between this organisation, just as it is clear in the case of crimes against individuals which of them take over from and deal with the areas of the Central Criminal Police themselves. There is a clear need to approach economic crimes on a problem-based basis and to change the methodology for pre-trial investigations to combat economic crime, using more analytical procedures than application-based procedures. This means that the initiation of the procedure should be based not on a report of a criminal offence submitted to the defendant, but on information from the prosecution's work and analysis. This is certainly one of the most effective methods in the logic of setting these priorities and preventing economic crime. Cooperation with business organisations, honest entrepreneurs, in particular, is very important here in order to clarify how the state can better contribute to an honest business climate. Speaking of developing or raising its level of capacity in the prefectures, I would point out that nothing has changed dramatically. What has changed is that we say we have one priority, in the case of hide-and-seek crime, it is economic crime, which we have formed a separate unit for the Central Criminal Police to combat. Is this the right move? Yeah, that's the right move. If you ask whether, before the Central Criminal Police did not have a separate unit for investigating economic crimes, the situation was more reasonable to spread the burden on regions and prefectures, certainly not. We understand that we have moved in the right direction. If, at the same level, we improve the quality of research and competence in criminal policy through the 'priority chain', it is important that we do not give the wrong signal, as if other matters were not handled. They must be dealt with. Undoubtedly, it must also be important for the state to guarantee the resources and quality of these procedures to those who deal with them. The Attorney General has stressed that he has two priorities, and I think that these are quite correctly chosen directions. First, criminal activity against underage children, and second, economic crime. I think that the prosecution's office, as the head of procedure, is, in a positive sense, a very strong supervisory authority, which means dealing with matters in areas where there is no way to put these things on hold.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-02_U96	George Adams, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-02_U97	Mr. Minister! I was a little shaken by what you just said. In the 1990s and early 2000s, the Central Criminal Police certainly had an economic crime investigation unit. I remember that its most prominent leader was Ain Seppik, who was later a politician of the Central Party. The question I actually have is that you have used the word 'priority' in your answers in both singular and plural. Does the Estonian state currently have any priorities, one or more, in the field of combating economic crime, and what are they like? Who is the person in Estonia who bears political responsibility for this, the current Minister of Justice, the current Minister of the Interior or someone third or fourth?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-02_U98	Thank you. The Minister of Justice and the Minister of the Interior will agree on priorities for criminal policy at the beginning of each year. It may be discussed whether the priorities can be multiple or whether they are one. So let's say these are priority areas. This does not mean that other crimes, whether anti-personal or anti-theft, are not dealt with by the state. On the contrary. I have given an example of normal traffic. An ambulance must always pass, but that doesn't mean that other cars shouldn't drive anywhere. It's all in the public interest. Of course, when we talk about corruption crimes and economic crimes, the priority in the case of hidden crimes is, above all, organised economic crimes. That must be the emphasis. The other such thing is the great damage caused. The extent of the damage is entirely legitimate as a basis for preferential treatment. However, of course, the state in its behaviour and in its proceedings must not give rise to an understanding that other acts would not be dealt with in the case of priority. As far as liability is concerned, yes, since the entire arch of pre-trial proceedings is divided between the two ministries' terms of reference, it is clear that the Minister of Justice, in a particular section, is responsible. I do not want to use the word pair 'collective responsibility' because it would mean no responsibility. That is exactly the case, there is political responsibility in the country, there cannot be an executive power sector in which this responsibility does not exist, because in that case, some sort of chain would have been cut off in the country. But the responsibility between me and the Minister of the Interior is divided by specific paragraphs, not in terms of the so-called abstract percentage ratio.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-02_U99	Arthur Talvik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-02_U100	Good Chairman! Good minister! Listening to what you're saying, I'll come to a conclusion. In the case of economic crimes such as private companies versus the state, there are major cardinals involved. As you even mentioned, there are a lot of detectives at the Tax and Customs Board. But such crimes, that a private company versus a private company, are those that are terminated prematurely and do not achieve results. This makes entrepreneurs angry, they say that the environment is not right when these crimes are unsolved. Isn't it because both the prosecutor's office and the police are not qualified to investigate these complex economic crimes?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-02_U101	Thank you. It is pretty clear that I also emphasised this when I met with prosecutors last summer, that it is not conceivable in a small country like Estonia to have technical know-how at all times. It would be absurd to assume that. If the so-called opposite team uses the help of top-level auditors and accounting experts, it is perfectly normal for experts to be able to buy in, be they auditors or economists. That's what the DA's office uses. I certainly want to stress that I am far from wishing to create an impression that everything is okay, everything works, nothing needs to be done, and we go on with our business. On the contrary, I pointed out that the current situation certainly cannot be satisfied. The question is what we do. Within my responsibility, I told you what we were doing. When it comes to insolvency law, it must be said that once bankruptcy proceedings have started, bankruptcy often fades and there is nothing left to take, the fences are empty. That's what honest entrepreneurs look at with anger. What are we gonna do? In bankruptcy law, from my point of view, the scales have been misplaced. On the bad side, equality logic has given too much abstract rights. We're gonna have to reshape the bowl. To that end, we have started a review of insolvency law. The second question is whether the whole chain of criminal proceedings is too long, too difficult and too demanding of technical and bureaucratic procedures concerning resources. Yes, my view is that it needs to be made more flexible, more efficient and faster. This revision we have started and the first results should come this summer. The third question is my responsibility and concerns the prosecutor's office. Did the prosecutor's office have sufficient resources in the area of economic crime? From my point of view it wasn't, that's why it was the only company the government made an exception to last year and had the membership increased. You see, everywhere it is said that according to the percentage calculation, the share of the government sector has to be cut, but the prosecutor's office has been exempted, and there are eight more seats. That doesn't mean someone got fired for it, but there were eight more places. The priority is to focus precisely on economic crimes. As regards the way in which the overall chain, the whole arch, from the submission of the application to the police units and the prosecutor's office and later to the court, I think that the proceedings are too long. How do you fix it? Firstly, procedural law makes it possible to move faster. Secondly, this can, of course, be achieved with additional resources. Thirdly, undoubtedly, as I said, the principle of research groups is important in investigating more serious and major crimes. The question is whether, on the basis of our logic, the state, in the spirit of Karl Marx's teaching, is capable of defending itself as a apparatus of violence, but, let us say, it does not offer this legal protection to other actors in society. Without a doubt, such thinking must not sound in any way. The business climate, the credibility of entrepreneurship and the extent to which the regulatory environment can provide protection for honest entrepreneurs are essential for the functioning of society as a whole and for creating prosperity in the economy. Therefore, when the Ministry of Justice put together Estonia's competitiveness plan, which included 64 proposals, it was precisely in the view of business organisations that, among the issues of the business environment and civil law and the economic environment, the more effective handling of economic crimes and the reform of insolvency law were important. Business organisations considered that there the state was expected to provide more effective and robust protection.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-02_U102	Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-02_U103	Honourable President! Honorable Minister! I am interested to see how much is being used in Estonia today to impose a business ban, whether you think it has enough impact and whether this option could be used more. Has it been analyzed?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-02_U104	Thank you. Business language was registered 207 times in 2015 and business language three times. The 207 business bans cited were almost all due to the bankruptcies of natural persons. Of course, in all cases of bankruptcy, the courts do not apply a business ban because, in normal economic activity, a large part of bankruptcies are bona fide bankruptcies. One serious issue, which is the place of heartache, is the use of shadows in bankruptcy proceedings and the expropriation of property from insolvent companies. On this point, I look forward to a package of concrete proposals during the insolvency review. One idea that business organisations have considered reasonable in itself is that, following the example of Finland, a bankruptcy ombudsman institution could be established in Estonia; this Ombudsman would be involved in the supervision of bankruptcy proceedings. Speaking of the problem of shadows and tankers, or of a situation where individuals are even providing a systematic service in order to clean up companies from assets and leave obligations on the table, I will not be cheering until the evening, but I say that the prosecutor's office also has its own weapons according to the logic of the current procedural law and the Penal Code. I consider it important that they do well on this subject. It's one of the most painful places. Businesses say that the people who provide this service are known. National prosecutors, police and investigative authorities need to deal with this more vigorously. If it turns out that these procedures are entangled by the wording of a law, then I am certainly not going to be modest, but I am going to put forward proposals to this Parliament. I have also spoken to the European Commissioner for Justice, Jourova, about the need to move towards a single business ban system and a minimum threshold system throughout the European Union. It should not be the case that a crook goes to another Member State, establishes a company there and waves kindly to us here in the Estonian economic space. There is another factor that should be analysed during the insolvency review. One thing is, if a person is registered, he's a partner, a board member, and we can put a business ban on him. The second thing, however, is the real impact, figuratively speaking, of this company. This actual impact is factually identifiable, it is not formally identifiable. We need to see if this person is registered or if there is a wife or a good friend of his or hers or if he or she has some kind of private limited company established in Panama. In this respect, the regulatory environment needs to be better cleaned up. Political or other officials cannot give advice to the investigative authorities because the investigation authorities are independent, but I have stressed that dealing with this area should be a priority.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-02_U105	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-02_U106	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, We have now, through your words, confirmed that work is ongoing and is moving towards analysis-based research, and we have confirmed a number of other things, including that the country's budgetary strategy takes all this into account. But what is your message to an honest entrepreneur who very often feels that his confrontation with the state of fraud, fraud or thief does not adequately support him?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-02_U107	The rule of law must be structured in such a way that criminals should fear, but honest people should not fear or suffer. For this reason, the message of the prosecutor's office must be that I will not enter the shoes of the prosecutor's office here, but the State Attorney General at the last round table, when we discussed the issue of economic crimes, unambiguously confirmed that the doors of the prosecutor's office are open to honest entrepreneurs so that they can come up with a problem and talk about it, be it a specific case or a desire to present these problems with greater generality. The prosecutor's office does not take those companies as annoying individuals who bring papers and burden officials, but, on the contrary, it is one of the central priorities of the prosecutor's office and they certainly take this very seriously. I encourage entrepreneurs that under no circumstances should there be hopelessness, something that will not happen anyway. No, the political will of the country is that the rules of fair play must function in the interests of an honest economic environment and the functioning of society as a whole. If these rules are broken, there's trouble in the house. There was a lottery in Zimbabwe, with a grand prize of several million dollars, and when Mugabe's president won the jackpot, the next time, for some reason, no one bought the lottery ticket. It is clear that the state has to pull itself together more effectively. There's a package of steps. This game is still based on the assumption that entrepreneurs play and contribute in a good way. I think that cooperation with business organisations in making these proposals has also been quite fruitful.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-02_U108	Thank you, Minister of Justice Urmas Reinsalu! I'm opening negotiations. On behalf of the heirs, Jüri Adams, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-02_U109	Mr President of the sitting! Ladies and gentlemen of the House! When we talk about economic crime, what are we talking about? This is certainly not a very precise concept. Three chapters of the Penal Code fall under this definition. One is 'Economic offences', there are 30 formations, subsections 372 to 402, which basically includes the chapter 'Avoidance of Assets' (Section 23) and 'Avoidances against Intellectual Property' (12 paragraphs). There are still more paragraphs here and there, and some people are not in their right place by this definition. But in any case, we're gonna have to deal with 60-70 ignitions. Another name that fits this type of crime probably comes from English, across the ocean. It's white-collar crime or white-collar crime. It is perhaps a slightly better term, because it highlights a significant difference, for example, between crimes against individuals and those we are talking about. Crimes against individuals are mainly dealt with ex-post and the so-called educational effect of punishing crimes against individuals is relatively small, but in the case of economic crimes or white-collar crimes, it is important that they are exceptionally difficult to investigate, they are rarely brought to a conviction and, if not dealt with, a chain reaction is created in society. Every economic crime that goes unpunished is basically an appeal to everyone else: come and follow, because it is not dangerous and it is useful. Here's the bigger question of social resonance. To what extent can these crimes be ruled out ex-post? Personally, I'm not optimistic. I think we need to look at where we have come from by making legal persons subject to penal policy in the Estonian Penal Code, imposing penalties on them, but at the same time we know that economic crimes are mostly committed under the name of a company or company, which is mostly either an offshore company or a shelf company. Even if they are punished, it does not have a significant effect. After all, the field is not novel; after all, it has been a phenomenon in human society since at least the time of Hammurap. Experience tells us that the only effective method in this area is to capture the person behind the crime and not to let him hide behind the company's name, for example. One logic here is that it is never the case that only one economic crime is committed in life and no more is done. It is still the case with economic crimes that those who have successfully done one will continue to do them and will do more and more. That is why I think that all the attempts to ex-post combat this type of crime, as the Minister has just told us, are quite pointless and in vain. The more sensible countries have gone this way to find out who this particular Jüri or Jaan is behind it, they have caught him for an arbitrary act of punishment and proof, and they have taken away his appetite to repeat his actions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-02_U110	I understand that the Minister would like to say something at the end of the negotiations. Please, Urmas Reinsalu!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-02_U111	I think that there was no contradiction between Mr Adams' reasoning and my thoughts in the sense that Mr Adams, too, clearly gave priority in the area of economic crimes. This is a reduction in reversibility in this area. Indeed, there is an extremely high degree of reversibility. I also believe that reducing recidivism should be a priority for our entire penal policy. Of course, it is not like the current logic on which we have built up the investigation of economic crimes is in the fight against those companies that have been discharged and where there has been malicious bankruptcy proceedings. Similarly, the criminal liability of a legal person does not mean that it is an alternative to the liability of a natural person. Of course, the criminal is the person who commits the act, the criminal liability of the legal person is the legal structure. It may be discussed whether a legal person can do something wrong. In principle, the aim is one and clear: not to allow shareholders who have legal personality to benefit from acts committed as a criminal offence at a later stage. There was talk of fighting the consequences. That is one thing, but it is more effective to create prevention or a business environment where, figuratively speaking, there would be less chance of committing economic crimes in a civil law environment. Yeah, that's the right thing to think about. That is exactly where we are going with the revision of economic law, and the area of business bans is not a criminal law area either. I don't think there's any contradiction here. But when it was mentioned here that this person should be caught for any case, of course, this is a recursive figure that the practitioners have in mind, and also the prosecutor's office, in the cases concerning the emptying of companies and the use of tanks, that is certainly what it means. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-02_U112	I will close this item on the agenda.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-02_U113	Members of the Riigikogu Toomas Vitsut, Tarmo Tamm, Anneli Ott, Peeter Ernits, Mikhail Korb, Siret Kotka, Viktor Vassilyev, Aadu Must, Jaanus Karilaid, Erki Savisaar, Enn Eesmaa, Andrei Novikov, Vladimir Velman, Valeri Korb, Mikhail Stalnukhin, Kersti Sarapuu and Märt Sults have submitted an inquiry to the next agenda. In the name of the heirs, Thomas Vitsu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-02_U114	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Minister, thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I and 16 other members of the Central Party Group have submitted an inquiry into the costs of implementing the amendments to the Code of Criminal Procedure. Before I talk about this particular problem, I'm going to open the background a little bit wider. This is a situation where the legislator adopts the law. Before the bill reaches this hall, it's been through a pretty tight sieve in ministries and agencies. The legislator then adopts the law, but when it comes to the date of entry into force of the law, in this case, 1 September, the executive power will question that deadline. At the moment, this was done on the pretext that there is no money to enforce the law. It may also mean that if a law is not enforced or enforced for any reason, it can be declared that there is simply no money to comply with it. I am thinking of draft 770 which provides for amendments to the Code of Criminal Procedure, according to which certain acts are transferred from the prosecutor's office to the judicial system. It is mainly about two types of operations: searches and arrests. This would increase the workload of the judiciary and require additional resources to recruit people and pay them for additional work. If this law were to enter into force on 1 September, an additional EUR 380000 would be needed. In proportion, this law would require an additional EUR 800000 each year. Because of this problem, the questioners have asked questions. In our view, it undermines the authority of the legislator if the laws adopted by Parliament are not sufficiently seriously taken by the executive power. To be honest, it is a little unclear that once the law has been adopted and the state budget for next year is discussed, how can the state budget be left unplanned so that the law can be implemented as foreseen by the legislator? This is what we expect answers from the Minister of Justice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-02_U115	Urmas Reinsalu, Minister of Justice, responds to the inquiry. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-02_U116	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable heir! It's a serious matter again. Indeed, s. a On 1 September, amendments to the Code of Criminal Procedure will enter into force, increasing judicial control in searches and shortening the time limits for arrest, thereby increasing judicial control over the justification of the arrest. This will result in a greater burden on the level of the prosecutor's office and the courts. For example, if the court currently issues a Circa 100 search orders per year, the court will have to issue a thousand orders after the amendment has entered into force. The amendment to the arrest regulation will result in more than 2000 additional sessions or additional procedural decisions per year for the judiciary. The general direction of criminal proceedings, as I imagine it now, is that we have begun the review of criminal proceedings, so that the system needs to be made more efficient, flexible and faster, i.e. optimized for resource savings. This law, which was enforced by the previous Parliament, creates additional legal barriers to guaranteeing the fundamental rights expected of accused and suspected persons. In answer to your first question, do I think that the implementation of the decisions adopted by the Riigikogu can be overlooked and that the will of the legislator must not be implemented for any reason within the deadline, I say absolutely not. I considered it so important that, in my opinion, this was a choice point, as was the controversy in the media and in the public, whether we say that this additional or higher decision-making burden is such a priority that the practitioners must replay all their internal resources. My position is negative. No, this must not be done at the expense of current procedural resources. The previous inquiry was on the investigation of economic crimes. It can't be that we're going to do this on this account. Therefore, here I believe that it is a fundamental choice whether an additional basic funding can be found in the government to implement the changes, or whether the implementation of the system needs to be postponed or another solution to make this law more'sustainable'. That is why I considered it necessary to conduct this debate in the process of dealing with the country's budget strategy, rather than putting together the budget in August, if it would have been very difficult to discuss it, because the law would then enter into force in two weeks' time, on 1 September, and we could no longer discuss whether or not there is money. Before approving the country's budgetary strategy, there was a serious debate in the government. It took the view that the expected funding needed for the realisation of additional competences by the courts, the prosecutor's office and also the barrister's office, to whom additional legal aid needs to be planned, because the persons arrested need to be granted protection, amounted to EUR just over 900000, which had been added as a separate title to the basic financial instrument for these institutions and institutions. It was assumed that additional funds would be required to avoid any risk of other procedural measures being put at risk. It's there, it's guaranteed. As regards the smooth implementation of this legislative amendment, the State Attorney General has assured me that the prosecutor's office is capable of doing so. At present, the authorities are discussing exactly how to organise this and are preparing the work process so that this work is as effective as possible but also substantive as possible, so that the new competences do not simply change in court or prosecutor's office into a formal stamp. The preparation of IT procedures is also being carried out. In short, my message and my answer is that, even if the law adopted by Parliament has not yet entered into force, the executive power must do Parliament's will and provide the resources for it. This resource is at least foreseen in the expected political decision. This gives rise to the assumption that this form of basic funding will work. The second question: 'The postponement of enforcement undermines the authority of the legislator [----]. For what reasons does the executive believe that it is not important to provide the necessary means of implementation to implement the amendments to this Code? ' I think I already answered that in answer to the first question. These funds are foreseen in the country's budgetary strategy for the next three years, 2017, 2018 and 2019. The third question: 'The draft directive 770 SE provides for an increase in the workload of first and second instance judges from 1 September. If you do not have the necessary tools to implement the changes, what do you think should be done to implement the law smoothly? " If there was no money for change, it could not be applied smoothly, but a huge soup would be created. That's my point. It is estimated that this could lead to problems. If the investigative authorities and the prosecutor's office are unable to bring the case to justice in due time due to a heavy burden, the person must be released from custody. This means that a person who is dangerous to society, or who needs to be recaptured, may be released, or it is necessary to suspend the whole process. The problem is also that if the search warrant is not obtained quickly, there is a high risk that the evidence will be destroyed or lost, which may make it difficult to deal with serious tax crimes and drug crimes, for example. If overburdened judges should start doing all of this along with the current great work, because there is no optimal allocation of resources, there is a risk that these decisions will become formalised, or that the will of the legislator might not materialise. The legislator wants the additional burden of proof to be the highest level of credibility in the country, i.e. judges. However, if this work becomes formal, I believe that the will of the legislator would not materialise. If this law enters into force on 1 September, the task of the executive is, of course, to apply it smoothly. However, when discussing this draft law, a number of problems have been referred to and, if they are later reflected in the practice of implementation, you must be prepared to analyse them without stretching and to make adjustments. I consider it important for such important laws that the Ministry of Justice carry out a follow-up analysis of how the law has actually worked. This is again a question of priorities. You see, there should not be a situation where arrests become a priority. For example, if there is a choice as to whether the seizure of property and the recovery of the proceeds of crime in time or the decision to arrest or to extend the arrest, then the arrest must certainly not become a priority. If we look at the social structure of the arrested, who do they usually look like? In the case of crimes against property or against persons, second-degree crimes, they are in many cases addicted. This is not a priority target group for criminal policy. Of course, their affairs must be dealt with. If freedom as a barrier has been applied, then there are objective circumstances. Arresting does not necessarily mean that these are crimes which, as a species, have necessarily been prioritised in the light of the general legal interests of society. The last question relates to the need for sufficient resources to be provided in the state budget on the basis of a proposal from the Ministry to implement the amendments to the Code. Inquiries want to know whether, in my opinion, it can be certain that the amount required for the entry into force of the law will be included in the basic budget of the courts of first and second instance, or whether the judicial system will have to carry out new tasks at some point within the limits of its current possibilities. My clear unambiguous position is the same as that expressed by the court administration council under the chairmanship of the Supreme Court, so that it would be totally unacceptable to do so on the surface of the available resources. The base resource allocation has been foreseen by the government. I can confirm that the government's course of action is unambiguously such that it is necessary to provide additional resources for all these institutions to the courts, the prosecutor's office, the barrister's office, so that this law can be applied.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-02_U117	Questions for the Minister. Thomas Vitsu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-02_U118	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Mr. Minister! Yes, indeed this was discussed quite thoroughly in the court administration council, and it was finally proposed to the government that if the money was not found, the implementation of this law could be delayed. I voted against this proposal because I believe that such an amount, EUR 800000 per year, cannot be a sufficiently serious reason for delaying the entry into force of one law. Could there be such a question in the future that a law could not be enforced on such an excuse? EUR 800000 is not a large amount of money given the size of the state budget.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-02_U119	Thank you. No, I think it's better to mitigate the potential risk in a way that doesn't create that risk at all and not to look at the experiment as to how this thing works out. As I said, if the government had not allocated this additional resource, it would have been my very unequivocal position that there was a choice as to whether to postpone the implementation of the law, amend the law, or so-called experiment, in what way the practitioners would start carrying out the tasks of today as a non-priority. Look, what's the question? The question is that if the number of arrests and searches is to increase and the courts and the prosecutor's office have to start carrying out these additional tasks, it must be borne in mind that these are very critical issues. It cannot be said that the decision to extend the arrest will be taken one month later. No, the law says there's two months left for one case, and then a decision has to be made. Consequently, these things become a priority and some other things are no longer priorities; they also need to be dealt with, but they will be done later. In this case, a clear choice should be made, which will then be made later in any of the areas of activity considered to be a priority today. I would like to emphasise once again that neither the Minister for Justice nor the Minister for the Interior has ever said this, nor did I do so at the beginning of this year, that the priority is to investigate crimes where arrest is possible, or where arrest as a restraining order has been applied in practice, or where searches are being carried out. These things may be possible in a number of criminal files, depending on a specific crime, an environmental crime or some kind of personal crime. We know of cases where practitioners have said that these steps need to be taken to identify the truth or to prevent future crimes. I certainly consider it reasonable, as a general round, that, for both the prosecutors and the public, and in the interests of 'legal peace', it would be long in advance to know what will come into force and how these things will work. This is, of course, a value in itself. So I didn't take this step rashly when I said it was a place of choice for society, legislator and government. I think that one solution has been found at the moment, which allows us to say that this law can be implemented in such a way that the whole system does not fly uphill and we are not going to do any human trials in the justice system.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-02_U120	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-02_U121	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, I understood your answer about the fact that you are not about to change this law or postpone its entry into force, but are hoping for additional funding, but, after analysing the practice of implementation, you will consider it possible to review one and the other. It's definitely one way to get out of this a little weird situation. But how do you assess the preparation of these legislative changes and the analysis of the effects of the previous composition of the Riigikogu as well as the Ministry of Justice? Still, it is quite strange when such a thing comes as a surprise to the public.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-02_U122	Thank you. Yes, the previous Parliament did this law. I think the specialists made it as safe as possible. In fact, the dangers at the time, when you look at this original version, were still very serious. There was a very big problem that, in the case of more complex crimes, hidden crime, identifying the truth could have been intrinsically obstructed. At the time, the Minister of Justice convened a working group of experts from the University of Tartu and an analysis was commissioned from the University of Tartu. It was a long analysis, several hundred pages, I read it. It described the situation in such a way that there are strong virtues for the creation of additional rights or law enforcement mechanisms and criticised a number of the orientations chosen in the original draft law that Parliament had proposed. There was a sample of European countries, such as the Baltic States and Poland. In general, it can be said that the system is in different countries either way or in different countries. We cannot say that when this law comes into force, we are the rule of law par excellence, but there was a complete mess before. It wasn't like that. The countries choose procedural matters according to some logic, and it costs. Anything can be done, it can also be said that judges are going to prove, I do not know, matrimonial property agreements to ensure security, or are going to formalise house purchases and sales, because it also creates legal security in society, but it costs money. The question is, what are we doing this for? These sort of ambitions, which the public was trying to attribute to the original text of the law, were greatly relaxed in my opinion. That is why, as I said, this law will certainly be far from safe. A number of practical problems may arise in the implementation of the law, including additional funding, and if there is a question of whether this law will meet its objectives after 1 September, then, as I said, it is customary or reasonable for the Ministry to make this decision on the most important amendments to the law. I consider it necessary, of course, to introduce these results to the Riigikogu Legal Affairs Committee in order to discuss these matters jointly.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-02_U123	Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-02_U124	Thank you. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. A few days ago, I think the Minister of Finance agreed that there was a small or large hole in the state budget. Is it enough money in your ministry's budget to meet all the responsibilities imposed on the ministry?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-02_U125	It's like a question to a person about how much money he needs to live like he wants. Of course, people also set some limits to their ambitions so that the limit of human wills or human dreams does not sound in any category of infinity. This is the same as we are talking about the'revenue deficit' of local governments in the performance of their tasks. What is the income deficit of one person that prevents it from living as it pleases, or what is it like for public authorities? Of course, ambition is always greater than real objective opportunities. I don't think there's anything weird about that. The purpose of the institution cannot be to grow, although the universal logic of bureaucracy in general also leads to the organisation simply developing and growing as a phenomenon. But all institutions certainly have their own level of ambition. I think that the most important things concerning the development of justice have become additional funding in the coming years. But we also need to look at a more sustainable plan of action. The government wants to reduce both economic costs and the number of officials, and the Ministry of Justice is no exception in this respect. In fact, the aim is to leave more resources to content priorities. It is precisely the legal aid reform that I consider to be more important, which is why we will certainly be able to discuss very seriously the outlines of the legal aid reform. However, we do not have access to the overall contraction of bureaucracy by looking at the proportion of the workforce and the population as a whole, because the proportion of people of working age in society is, unfortunately, decreasing.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-02_U126	Thank you, Minister of Justice Urmas Reinsalu! I'm opening negotiations. In the name of the heirs, Thomas Vitsut.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-02_U127	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Minister, thank you very much. In part, I got the answer to the inquiry, and it was in the main question that I received the answer. I hope I get it right. But in a certain part, of course, you were talking about the subject or walking around like a cat in a hot porridge. I still wanted to know clearly from you whether this practice, if the legislator has passed the law and the executive authorities find any excuse not to implement the law or not to implement it in time, is acceptable or not. You did not say explicitly and directly that this was not acceptable practice. From this, I can conclude that, if there are any other laws that need to be amended, or there is a need to have a moving approach to the matter, it will be done in the future. I wanted confirmation from you that this wouldn't happen, but I didn't get it. As far as money is concerned, I've been working in the municipality for a long time, and I've been a little hurt by your position that the municipalities don't know what they want, want to live better all the time, but there's never a reasonable amount of money for that. No, municipalities do not want to spend unreasonable amounts of money or live better indefinitely, municipalities want clarity on what kind of tasks and how much money the state allocates. This was also the main content of the Supreme Court ruling, but this resolution is still outstanding. I hope that I have understood your answer correctly that this problem, which concerns this draft and the EUR 380000 to be allocated this year and about EUR 800000 to be allocated in the coming years, has been resolved.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-02_U128	Members of the Riigikogu no longer wish to say anything, but the Minister of Justice wishes. Please, Urmas Reinsalu!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-02_U129	Thank you. I say unequivocally that, of course, it would not be a conceivable situation in which Parliament has adopted the law, but the executive power refuses to comply with it, for whatever reasons, either by referring to a lack of resources or by other considerations. No, it's not conceivable. The government must comply with the law adopted by Parliament. In this debate on funding, it was clear exactly that there could not be a situation where there would be such an apparent enforcement. Perhaps the adoption of the law, but the lack of resources to implement it, is the most dangerous legal nihilism. The will of the legislator will not be realised. This would certainly be the most dangerous route in the rule of law. With regard to the deficit of municipal income, I might not agree with the idea that municipalities do not want to live better and do not want more money, but only legal clarity in terms of competence. I do think that the desire of municipalities to receive more money is entirely legitimate when it comes to providing better services. The government therefore adopted decisions in the state budget strategy concerning the expansion of the municipal income base. I guess those weren't the wrong decisions. It makes perfect sense that the local governments' income base must grow vigorously. To this end, we certainly need a new system of municipal income, which needs to be developed in parallel with administrative reform. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-02_U130	Thank you, Minister of Justice Urmas Reinsalu!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-02_U131	Our next item is the inquiry by Tarmo Tamm, Erki Savisaar, Mikhail Korb, Kersti Sarapuu, Andrei Novikov, Kadri Simson, Siret Kotka, Viktor Vassilyev, Märt Sults, Mailis Reps and Enn Eesmaa. Tarmo Tamm, on behalf of the heirs, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-02_U132	Good Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, thank you very much. We have an inquiry into the correlation between Elering's profits and network charges. According to Elering's audited annual report for the financial year 2015, the company made a business profit of EUR 41.6 million and a net profit of EUR 25.1 million at the amount of revenue amounting to EUR 132.4 million. The company plans to pay 31 million euros in dividends to the State this year, which is 11 million euros more than a year earlier. According to the Chairman of Elering's Management Board, the reliability of the electricity transmission network managed by Elering was at its best last year. Only 10 megawatt-hours of energy was not delivered to consumers during the year, which is about one household's annual energy consumption. The number of switch-offs in the electricity transmission network was also the lowest in history last year. All of this is difficult to understand for the ordinary electricity consumer, whose electricity bill currently accounts for 45% of the network fee. While high network charges have previously been explained by Estlink connections and other investments, in a situation where the company pays 31 million euros to the state budget, it seems to be a disguised tax. We therefore have three questions for the Minister. We are waiting for the Minister to answer these questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-02_U133	The question must be answered by Mr Kristen Michal, Minister for Economic Affairs and Infrastructure. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-02_U134	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! Good heirs! I will answer the question and, as usual, I will also read the question so that the answer is more understandable. Question 1: 'Elering made investments of EUR 93.1 million, more than half of which was spent on the acquisition of the gas transmission network. What funds were used to acquire the gas transmission network and the revenues from the electricity grid charges were not used to acquire it? 'The process of acquiring a gas network has no impact on electricity grid charges. The purchase of the gas network is financed in combination with the State's additional investment in Elering's share capital, which is a financing transaction and does not affect the balance of the state budget, and the loan capital was also included. The purchase of the gas network was economically viable, but even more important was the security of the State. At the time of the decision, the joint shareholders of Võrguteenus Valdus AS were also Gazprom and Rosneft via the Latvian company. The second question: 'Why does the consumer make up almost half of the electricity bill? Do you personally consider this normal in a situation where a company pays EUR 31 million in dividends? ' It should be noted that Elering operates in a regulated business and the Competition Authority controls the amount of profit allowed, i.e. a reasonable profit. The payment of the dividend is not unusual. It is important to understand that the recipient of the dividend is none other than the same Estonian resident. The dividend funds the expenses of the state budget, i.e. services for the people of Estonia. The network tariff indicated in the final customer's electricity bill shall include both the transmission service and the distribution service tariff. About two thirds of the network tariff is part of the distribution service and about one third is part of the transmission service, or Elering. Elering's network fee is about one-sixth of the electricity bill. Elering's increase in network charges has been mainly due to investments in connections with Finland and the emergency power plants necessary for them. It is thanks to these investments that it can be argued, as stated here earlier, that half of the electricity bill is a network fee, because thanks to Estlink connections, the electricity price in Estonia has been 30 and a little more euros per megawatt-hour, not 50 and more euros per megawatt-hour. Without Estlink connections, the price of electricity in Estonia would have been the same as in Latvia and Lithuania, and the network fee would have seemed relatively small. The investments of Estlink associations have been good and profitable investments for Estonian society. The third question: 'How did the volume of dividends paid out come to EUR 31 million? How much could network charges be reduced if the State did not take dividends from the company in this volume? 'The profits accumulated in the company can in principle be used in three ways: reinvest, pay dividends or reduce debt. The three options are chosen on the basis of the interests of the owner and the requirements of the creditors. The capital structure and optimal use of resources shall be taken into account when deciding on the dividend decisions of public undertakings. The general rule of the functioning of the economy is that the price of capital must be dependent on the risk of investment. As the cost of equity is higher than the cost of foreign capital, it is more appropriate to mobilise foreign resources for investments. The Ministry of Finance monitors the optimism of the structure of companies' capital every year and presents its understanding of the optimal structure of capital for companies. According to this, companies will expect dividends. When taking the dividend decision, Elering first determines the amount of investment needed to maintain the quality requirements of the electricity grid, then selects a reasonable proportion between the dividend to be paid and the reduction of the net loan burden. It will also be ensured that the financial ratios set out in the loan agreements are met. Network charges are calculated on the basis of the Competition Authority's methodology and there is no dividend component for the costs to be included in network charges. The Electricity Market Act and the Competition Authority's methodology for calculating network charges allow network charges to take into account direct and justified investments and costs related to electricity transmission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-02_U135	Questions for the Minister. Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-02_U136	Thank you, manager. Minister, thank you very much. Technically, you spoke it out very clearly. But why does one company need so much available financial resources, and why does this productivity have to be so high, circa 30%? Will the Competition Authority not be able to determine a proper margin for a public undertaking, as such a margin would be a dream for a private company? What would be one normal margin with which the company could be delivered? After all, this network fee is closing down from both Elering and Elektrilevi, not only can we talk about Elering, although the question concerned Elering. Why does this network charge have to have such high productivity?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-02_U137	Thank you. As you said, I described all the components you asked for. That was actually the answer. But there's still a few more. Elering's return on equity was 8,7% in 2015. If you refer to these transmission charges as electricity price components, once again I say that Elering's share is about one sixth, which is quite small compared to distribution and other components. Actually, I've already turned down all the facts to you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-02_U138	No further questions. I'm opening negotiations. Tarmo Tamm, please, on behalf of the inquisitors!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-02_U139	It wasn't me and the electricity consumers that got much smarter. Technically, it may be that Elering's share is only one-sixth of this price, but we are talking about the net fee at all. Here, the Minister must agree that it accounts for about 45% of the electricity bill. So you shouldn't just focus on Elering. I still ask whether the Competition Authority is working in Estonia. It is now a hidden tax that directly affects the competitiveness of the company and also the purchasing power of the people. We imagine that the EUR 31 million that was paid to the state budget would have remained in the hands of the company and also of the private consumer. The country wouldn't have lost. The competitiveness of the company would have increased and the private consumer would have made this money available anyway. Why would the state be the intermediary for this EUR 31 million? If you come back to the rhetoric of the Reform Party, you have always confirmed that a person is the best decision-maker in which he uses his money, you should not take money from a person or collect taxes, let the person decide where he uses the money. But now the opposite is the opposite. You will take away EUR 31 million from the people without justification and re-distribute it through this country. Is the state a better money provider than a citizen or a business itself? Actually, we didn't get an answer to that. We can extend this issue to electricity grid charges, etc. Still, the question remains why the country collects as much money as it could be left in people's wallets. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-02_U140	The members of the Riigikogu do not wish to speak further in the negotiations, but the minister does. Minister of Economy and Infrastructure Kristen Michal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-02_U141	Honourable Chairman! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! Good inquisitor! I don't agree with you. If you ask about Elering, about Elering's profits and the correlation between network charges, you'll get the answer to that. If you have any more questions, ask. I repeat what I said. Elering operates in a regulated business, resulting in all the actual norms. It will be monitored by the Competition Authority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-02_U142	Our next question on the agenda is Mikhail Korb, Kadri Simson, Mailis Reps, Märt Sults, Kersti Sarapuu, Mikhail Stalnukhin, Oudekki Loone, Andrei Novikov, Dmitri Dmitriev, Enn Eesmaa, Tarmo Tamm, Rein Ratas, Erki Savisaar, Anneli Ott, Viktor Vassilyev and Peeter Ernits. On behalf of the heirs, Mikhail Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-02_U143	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Minister, Now we go from electricity and grid charges to gas. As has already been discussed several times in this Chamber, the topic is again the construction of the LNG terminal and the future of the Balticconnector. I will start by saying that for a long time, the project to build the LNG terminal has been a major issue for us. If you recall the previous elections to the Riigikogu, at some point before the elections, Estonia's energy independence seemed to have a lot to do with whether LNG terminal and Balticconnector were coming to Estonia. It was a very large and wide discussion. Looked like they were really needed. The election was over, it took a while, and there's been a silence on this subject. However, despite the silence, the issue has still not been taken off the agenda, because it is obviously very important. Just a little bit of history. In 2014, the Prime Minister of Estonia and Finland agreed that the LNG terminal will come to Finland and that Estonia and Finland will be connected to the Balticconnector, a pipe that will connect the two countries and expand the gas network, and this will strengthen Estonia's energy security. Finland later stated that they did not want or build the LNG terminal. It turned out that Estonia does not want to build LNG terminal, but Balticconnector is still necessary. For this reason, the request to receive funds was also received by the European Union. We want to know from the Minister how far this request has been made. We have asked a total of three questions to which we would like answers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-02_U144	Kristen Michal, Minister for Economic Affairs and Infrastructure, will answer the question. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-02_U145	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! Good heirs! I'll read the questions and then I'll answer them. The first question: 'What is the current state of financing and agreements with the Balticconnector? What is Estonia's contribution to the project and how does it affect the price of the natural gas network service? ' The Estonian gas system manager Elering AS and the Finnish state company Balticconnector OÜ submitted an application for financing of Balticconnector to the Estonian and Finnish regulators on 6 April. The regulators gave their feedback on the funding application at the end of April. The funding application was submitted jointly by the developers to the European Commission on 28 April. Estonia has made the necessary preparations for the construction of Balticconnector and the works can start after receiving a reply to the funding request. According to the funding request, the Balticconnector will be completed by the end of 2019. If the project receives financial support from the European Commission, the investment of Balticconnector will result in an Estonian transmission tariff of 0.64 euros higher than today's level per megawatt-hour, initially affecting the final gas price to the consumer by 3%. At the same time, the establishment of the Community will enable the creation of a liquid gas market. A functioning regional gas market will increase competition in the gas market and allow a stable price for gas for consumers. The second question: 'When Prime Minister Taavi Rõivas spoke earlier about the construction of Balticconnector and the construction of a regional terminal in one sentence, the rhetoric has now changed. Why has the State abandoned the construction of a regional terminal? For further details, the State has never wished to build the LNG terminal itself. Several private operators have been interested in building the terminal in Estonia. The willingness of private operators to invest depends primarily on the gas market situation and the potential competitiveness of LNG compared to pipeline gas. Since this would be a large investment, the Estonian state is, of course, interested in this investment. However, the decision to make the investment must be taken by a private operator; the taxpayer's money will not be used for the construction of the LNG terminal. The third question: 'What is the impact of Balticconnector on Estonia's energy security with and without the terminal? Is it certain that private companies will build a terminal independently, and how can the state help them? ' Since the beginning of last year, the Baltic region has a LNG terminal in Klaipeda, Lithuania. After completion of the terminal last year, the share of gas imported from Lithuania in Estonia increased to about a quarter. Following the completion of the Lithuanian and Polish gas pipeline GIPL at the end of 2019, the Baltic States will also be connected to the liquid gas market in Central Europe, where gas prices will emerge in competition from a number of suppliers. In Poland, the LNG terminal also exists. Therefore, by 2020 at the latest, the region will have access to at least two LNG terminals. The capacity of these terminals is large enough to compete with the pipeline gas and, where appropriate, to ensure the security of energy in the region. After Balticconnector has been completed, the gas markets in the Baltic States and Finland will merge into a single market area, which will increase the volume of the gas market here by almost half. The size of the Polish gas market is 15 billion cubic metres; after the establishment of GIPL and Balticconnector, we are in a market of 22.5 billion cubic metres a year. The construction of an additional LNG terminal based on private capital in Estonia remains a matter for private operators. It is welcome that companies are prepared to invest in LNG terminal in Estonia, while the state does not need to mitigate the business risks of this terminal itself, as the business model of such terminal must be market-based. In order to facilitate the development of such projects, the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications has set up an interministerial working group to speed up the process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-02_U146	Mikhail Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-02_U147	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. I'm trying to ask two questions. Firstly, since it is expected that the European Commission will approve or reject the funding of the application? Secondly, would the Republic of Estonia be interested if there were companies willing to invest in the construction of the LNG terminal, as well as participating in this project?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-02_U148	Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-02_U149	Thank you. The answer to the other side of the question is that the Estonian state has not planned to place taxpayers' money commercially at LNG terminal. The answer to the first part of the question is that I expect us to be smarter in the coming months.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-02_U150	Questions for the Minister. Please, Arthur Talvik!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-02_U151	Good President! Good minister! You said that the construction of the LNG terminal must be market-based. At the same time, the LNG terminal in Klaipeda in Lithuania is receiving nearly EUR 1 billion of State aid. Are we not, simply because of our stubbornness, behind Lithuania in this policy? Will our future foresee a single gas market, or will we still deal with these LNG things completely separately?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-02_U152	Thank you. The objective is still an open and functioning gas market with a number of suppliers. This is an important principle of energy security. After all, Estonia's attitude has always been that it is possible for the Balticconnector first and then for all the others to see what business model they are trading on this market. If a private operator wants to invest in a terminal, it is my conviction, yes, that it is a private operator's own commercial decision and that it must act on it. About the terminal in Klaipeda, I've even been on this ship, which actually provides gas supply. I think that this will undoubtedly add to the region's gas security, so it will be more useful to us. As I said before, a lot of the gas we've already consumed is the way we're going to get it.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-02_U153	Thank you. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. For the first time, I hear the Minister talking loudly about the fact that we had no interest in this project at all. On the other hand, the President has said quite several times that this is a victory for the Lithuanian state. The question arises, what difference does it make if it is necessary for the Lithuanian state, but it is not an interesting project for Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-02_U154	Thank you. Maybe it requires fingering on the map. In fact, the interest is that the gas market works and the market is open. In terms of size, the Estonian gas market is about half a billion, the Latvian market is one and a half, the Lithuanian market is two and a half, and the Finnish market is about three billion cubic metres per year. Look at the map. The GIPL that I mentioned is an additional connection between Lithuania and Poland. Poland is actually using a lot of gas, and it is estimated that this market is increasing rather. Our interest is that the market is open, effective and has many suppliers. It also adds to energy security. The connection to Finland also adds to Finland's energy security and makes our market bigger. Latvia has also recently opened its market. So our interest is actually an open market. If there is a terminal anywhere, it is already a business venture in the open market, it is no longer a security issue. But we must undoubtedly be satisfied that the Lithuanians have made Klaipeda terminal, they have actually put the same Independence in there and, moreover, paid for it with their consumer tariffs. It also gives us a second place to buy gas and an opportunity to use another supplier at some point, should such a need arise.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-02_U155	There are no further questions for the Minister. I'm opening negotiations. On behalf of the heirs, Mikhail Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-02_U156	I thank the Minister for his meaningful answers. But I also want to make a few points. Firstly, the Balticconnector is indeed very needed to create a single market. Connecting Estonia and Finland, connecting Finland with Lithuania through Estonia and Latvia, this is all sensible and very necessary. When we talk about gas consumption in Estonia, it is not very large, i.e. two LNG ships are enough to satisfy the annual consumption of Estonia as a whole. But I think the answer that the Estonian state does not contribute taxpayers' money is a little short. Estonia buys about 1 billion euros of bonds to support the economies or projects of other European countries. I think that the gas supply or security project could be one of the projects that could be developed in Estonia. There is no need for taxpayers' money to be used for this, but it is the bonds with which we are currently supporting the development of other countries that could be used. Of course, it is good if Poland or Lithuania have these terminals, but it is Poland and Lithuania who will also benefit from the benefits that these terminals bring, i.e. the money that comes as an investment, the price reduction that comes in negotiations with other suppliers, and later the operating revenues, or the revenue of the entire project, which may not be so great now, but that does not mean that they will not remain that way in the future. I think the attitude is completely wrong and it needs to be changed, but we will do everything in our power to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-02_U157	Members of the Riigikogu do not want to say anything else. Would the Minister like to say for the third time that taxpayers' money is not being used? No, I don't. I will stop dealing with this question.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-02_U158	The next question is submitted by members of the Riigikogu Monika Haukanõm, Jüri Adams, Külliiki Kübarsepp, Krista Aru, Ain Lutsepp, Artur Talvik and Andres Ammas. On behalf of the heirs, Monika Haukanõmm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-02_U159	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Good minister! I will briefly introduce to you, on behalf of seven members of the Free Party Group, an inquiry to the Minister for Social Protection, which talks about ensuring the sustainability of women's asylums. I think we all know in this Chamber of Riigikogu that close-up violence is a very serious thing that destroys the mental health of both the victims and the minors who have witnessed it, and, in fact, it is the worst, physical health. According to the statistics provided by the Police and Border Guard Board in 2015, the number of crimes related to close relationship violence increased by one tenth. In December alone, more than 2 000 cases of close relationship violence were reported. At the hands of a close person, ten people were seriously injured or died last year. This is too much for Estonia! So we are talking about a significant number of people, mostly women, who are suffering from domestic violence. It is very important for people suffering from close-relationship violence to receive rapid and adequate assistance, and this is very professional, because this violence must be immediately responded to in order to prevent further damage. Unfortunately, it is the case in Estonia that women suffering from close-relationship violence often wait a very long time before they turn to get help. Fortunately, Estonia has developed a network where people who are mostly women can seek help. At shelters, those in need will first be given safe shelter, but it is just as important that they receive counselling there. A network of women's shelters has developed over long years, a lot of work has been done. Most shelters are concentrated under the Estonian Women's Shadows Association. But not everyone is concentrated there, for example, Pärnu Women's Shelter, Tähtvere Open Women's Centre and Tallinn Women's Crisis Home. To date, it has become difficult for shelters to continue their activities. The worst part is there's a lack of clarity about the future. That must be the most worrying question. Through the Ministry of Social Affairs, EUR 500000 is allocated from the state budget for operating and accommodation support for women's shelters, but in addition EUR 200000 is needed to provide counselling services. The advisory service has so far been financed by Norwegian financial mechanisms, which unfortunately run out of funding and have to be found elsewhere. The confusion with funding has caused quarrels between women's shelters. It is considered that this EUR 500000 has not been distributed fairly, so one asylum has also turned to the court for assistance. The Riigikogu is a well-known group of support for prevention and victims of close relationship violence, where we have been actively working on the subject since January, discussing the situation and bottlenecks that have arisen, often also serving as a mediator between the various parties, and we have also offered a number of solutions. So the question is actually wider than this argument. We would like to know what is the Ministry's understanding of where the development of women's asylums should come, because no one is questioning the need for these asylums, but we are really changing constantly. In view of the above, we have put five questions to the Minister, to which we ask an answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-02_U160	The Minister will answer the questions. Minister of Social Security Margus Tsahkna, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-02_U161	Dear Chairman, Happy Members of the Riigikogu! First of all, I am pleased that the Estonian state has so actively dealt with the problem of violence against women and domestic violence in recent years. It hasn't always been that way. I would like to express my special thanks to those people who, in particular through the citizens' initiative, have raised the importance of this issue in society over these years and who have not only talked about it, but also done a great deal of work. I would like to remind you that 13 years ago, women and children who were victims of violence against women in Estonia did not have the opportunity to receive specialised assistance at all. But by now we've reached the point where we have all the counties covered by the centers. There are 16 service centres providing a specialised service. This means that the service is available throughout Estonia. We weren't in that situation a few years ago. Some numerical examples. While in 2014, 1617 women and 184 children received support from the Women's Support Centres, 1763 women and 188 children received support from them in 2015. It is also true that these numbers are on the rise. Whether violence against women has become more effective is very difficult to say. Over the years, however, more women have developed who, along with their children, have dared to seek protection and talk about the subject. After all, this is a delicate matter that people do not want to talk about in public. Very often years and years of violence are suffered, keeping it to themselves, but eventually children will suffer. As far as state action is concerned, over the last three or four years we have taken a very strong approach to supporting the activities of women's support centres, and there has also been an increase in the amounts allocated each year. But the questioners' concerns are well founded. The question is what happens next and how the country sees the development of this whole issue. I will now answer the specific questions asked by the heirs to the Minister for Social Protection. The first question: 'How do you see a functioning system of shelters in the future? " In order to ensure the functioning of the system of support centres for women, the aim of the state is to ensure that victims of violence against women receive a service of a certain quality and quality, which is financed on a stable basis. That is why the new Act on Sacrifice Assistance has been sent to the government. The government intends to discuss it this Thursday and send it to the Riigikogu for discussion. I hope that we can hold these debates in Parliament even before Midsummer Day; the first reading should take place in this Chamber, in any case, before you go on your summer vacation. The purpose of amending the Victim Assistance Act is to provide a legal basis for the services of the Women's Support Centre, which means safe accommodation available 24 hours a day and seven days a week, crisis counselling, case-by-case counselling, psychological counselling and psychotherapy and legal counselling. So far, this service has been provided and funded on a project basis and there have been no legal requirements for such a service. After all, the Istanbul Convention, which we also have to ratify and debate, is a very important document in this area, calls for a specialised service. The Victims Directive also requires targeted and integrated support services for victims of gender-based violence. The new Victim Assistance Act allows for the description of the service of the Women's Support Centre within the framework of the Victim Assistance Act, i.e. the formulation of the funding and the provision of the service. It also ensures continuity in the provision of this service. The service will be organised by the Social Insurance Board, which will announce public procurement. Contracts shall be concluded for a period of two to three years, which shall in turn ensure greater certainty for service providers. One of the problems in our social field has been the same project basis. After all, these same women's shelters have worked hard every year, both at political level and with the Ministry, to get an idea of what awaits them next year. The purpose of the Victim Assistance Act is firstly to set standards , a specific list of services that must be available across Estonia and, secondly, to provide for a specific partner, an organisation that makes the necessary procurements. This organization is the Social Insurance Board. As a result of a transparent procedure, we would be able to conclude not one-year contracts but two- to three-year contracts with our partners. It gives both financing and service security and also gives the state an overview of how and of the quality of the services provided by the law can be guaranteed. It is particularly important to stress that the availability of this service must be ensured, according to my understanding, throughout Estonia. Thus, further progress is largely based on what has been achieved so far and takes into account the experience gained so far. We have had a lot of meetings and discussions with the parties. One concern has been that, when the new law is adopted, the main condition for the procurement is not to become the cheapest price, but to be able to describe in the law and negotiate with the Social Insurance Board for implementing legislation, that it is precisely the quality of the service and the competence and experience of the service providers. In providing such a service, it is essential that its provider is not only able to offer the cheapest price, but precisely the content of the service and the competence of its employees, the quality of the service and the experience of its suppliers in the procurement process. The plan is this, but it is already within the competence of the Riigikogu and depends on its decision to ensure that the new Victim Support Act enters into force on 1 January 2017. To date, all the rounds of coordination of the draft have been carried out and are waiting for the decision and procedure of the government in the Riigikogu. This Wednesday, I will present the draft to the Riigikogu Group, which has a slightly longer name, to the group that Monika Haukamm mentioned here. The second question: 'February has ended the counselling funds in all the centres and it is not known when the distribution of counselling funds will become clear. Lawyers and psychologists now leave the centres of reference because there is no clarity about the future. Question. What are the Ministry's plans to provide all centres with the necessary resources to provide the service? " First of all, it is not true that all the counseling money and the operating money have ended. Let's look at this year's financing decisions that are in force and in the state budget. The base had EUR 430000 this year, and last year we received an additional sum of EUR 70000 during the state budget negotiations, which means that this service received a total of EUR 500000. The Riigikogu changed the state budget during the proceedings and found an additional EUR 50000, and the Ministry found an additional EUR 150000 for its own management costs. In addition, the Norwegian financial mechanism projects also worked during the first three months. So, in conclusion, this year's funding will, in my opinion, be quite sufficient. With regard to the distribution of these EUR 150000, namely in terms of the provision of services, there have been numerous meetings and negotiations on this subject with the support centres of these same women. The truth is that they also have different ideas about how this should work, but today, as a minister, I have reviewed the distribution of money, and in the near future, I will sign a decision so that no one will miss a service. Lawyers and psychologists can continue to do their job, this information has been available. I don't see a problem here. Last week, the Government of the Republic approved the country's budget strategy for the coming years. One of my very important issues in these negotiations was precisely the fight against violence against women and, more generally, the implementation of the Istanbul and Lanzarote Convention. I can tell you here today that in the country's budgetary strategy, which is a strategic document, apart from the basic funding that we already have, EUR 400000 per year is intended precisely for these activities. Most of this money relates to the financing of women's support centres and their services, such as the same telephone service and other activities. I would also like to say that next year's state budget negotiations will be in the government in the summer and early autumn, so these issues will certainly come to your attention here, too. Significant steps have been taken, and this issue is clearly a government priority, also as seen by the Ministry of Justice. This is not only the subject of the Ministry of Social Affairs, but also the Ministry of Justice is working on this issue, particularly as regards the implementation of the Istanbul Convention, which also provides for its activities. Before the time runs out, I will quickly answer the last questions. The third question: 'It is now known that Tähtvere Open Women's Centre has challenged the results of the competition organised by the Ministry of Social Affairs for the provision of services to women and children who are victims of violence. Question. Please give details of the objective indicators used by the 10 organisations of ENVL to promote the indicators of the Tallinn Women's Crisis Centre, Tähtvere Open Women's Centre and Pärnu Women's Asylum. " Yes, indeed, this dispute is now in court. There's no way I can begin to shed light on the details because the court is doing its job. But the principle on the basis of which we made this distribution of money was precisely to ensure that women have access to the necessary services across Estonia. It is known that there are two women's shelters in Tartu right next to each other. We also looked at the availability of the service in Tallinn. Just because the money was what it was, not everyone got equal money. Although, for example, Tähtvere Open Women's Centre did not quite lose money, it was simply a smaller amount. However, I can already say in advance that, for example, Tähtvere Women's Centre will receive relatively good funding to provide this service. So we've been able to find a point of balance here so that no one has to stop doing what they're doing. I rather rely on the debate on the Victim Assistance Act and on future systemic procedures so that we can ensure a high-quality service with the correct standard across Estonia. Question 4: "What extra-judicial solution/solutions have you offered Tähtvere to the Open Women's Centre to restore work peace and avoid litigation? " The trial requires everyone's own will and actions. We have had communication, but, as I said, in the financing decisions for these services, we have taken into account that Tähtvere Open Women's Centre could also provide the service, because it is one of the oldest and not the oldest women's shelters in Estonia. The Ministry has no confrontation with them. The last question (24 seconds remain): 'What is the state of play of the call for help to victims of close-relationship violence, which was announced on 10 February 2016 at 5.43 p.m. on 18 February at 10 a.m. and the service was scheduled to be provided on 1 March 2016? The outcome of the procurement has not been announced at the time of the request for information. ' In the framework of this procurement procedure, the contract has been awarded, the service is provided and the availability of the service is guaranteed. So we have this phone service, too. I've got ten seconds left! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-02_U162	Questions for the Minister. Monika Haukanõmm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-02_U163	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you for the information you have provided. Hopefully, the new law on victim support will remove the bottlenecks that have arisen. I come for a moment to our second question, which indicated that in February the counselling money ended in all the centres and the staff were forced to leave. I want to be more specific. When did the contracts for these EUR 200000 (the Riigikogu allocation of EUR 50000 and the Ministry of Social Affairs allocation of EUR 150000) reach the shelters? We have information that there was a multi-month hole, which is why people have not been able to do their job properly.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-02_U164	Thank you. As I said in my reply, negotiations have taken place with the parties, who are 16. Most of them are concentrated in one Union, some operate separately. It is up to us to achieve a reasonable balance, not in terms of how to reconcile them, but precisely because we have to ensure that the service is available. As a minister, I want to be perfectly honest that we have seen over the years that all these people want to do this very necessary job, but from year to year they are competing for this same project money. The funding scheme is very diverse, to say the least: part of the money has come directly from the state budget or, let's say, from the Ministry of Social Affairs, part of the money is what the Riigikogu has decided to share in the state budget process its generosity and in fact relatively systemically. The EUR 150000 mentioned, and the money that the Ministry itself found, was intended for the services provided by the Norwegian financial mechanism, which ended in March. Our aim has been that we can agree and make our financing decisions in such a way that the provision of this service does not end with Norwegian money at least as a result of temporary cancellation. We had a number of meetings between 19 February and 31 March, we were negotiating and, in principle, the financing decision is ready. So the availability of these services will in any case not be behind the money. If there has been any other information, it must be noted.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-02_U165	Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-02_U166	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister for Social Protection! It is wonderful that the Ministry of Social Affairs, but also the Ministry of Justice, has raised this issue. Fortunately, the previous Minister of Justice was also very lucky to have this issue. You recognized the good people who offer this service. Undoubtedly, they do their work with a great heart and often for much less than they deserve. I also want to congratulate local authorities, who very often support this work, help with the premises and everything else. But I have not seen this distribution of money, and I understand that this decision on these EUR 50000 and EUR 150000 will be on your desk in the near future. The information is that Järvamaa and Raplamaa together and Võrumaa and Põlvamaa together actually received more money than Harjumaa or Tartumaa. At the same time, the number of people wishing for the service in these municipalities is certainly different. Is that so, and if so, what are you going to do about it?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-02_U167	Thank you. As regards the EUR 50000 that the Riigikogu decided to allocate in the negotiations on the state budget, there is a very clear provision for whom this money will go, which the Ministry cannot change in any way. My recommendation for the future, as an experienced member of the Riigikogu, is that before making these proposals, this matter should be considered systematically. This joint, how I say it, isn't very flexible there. In this sense, it is a separate question. I don't really know what to say right now about the distribution side. However, we have based ourselves on the principle that all women's support centres would receive basic funding for their basic services and the second part of funding would be linked precisely to the number of actual calls, so that the distribution of money would also look at how much is actually being turned to one place or another. That's where the logic comes from. But it's no secret, we can share that information. I just can't tell by heart these sums. I wouldn't want to be wrong here because, in my experience, it might raise questions in the future. But this information is not secret.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-02_U168	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-02_U169	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, Noticeing, talking about and recognising near-relationship violence is, to a large extent, also a matter of our social attitudes and attitudes. We know that shelters and women's support centres provide a service. But did the ministry or the interministerial working group think about how to deal with their social attitudes and attitudes?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-02_U170	Thank you. There have been a number of campaigns and awareness-raising activities carried out by these same organisations, but they have also been carried out by non-profit organisations and the state, such as the white tape movement. When I went to the United Nations a month ago, specifically, at a major international conference to combat violence against women, I was very sympathized with a movement called 'HeForshe' or 'Men for Women'. I attach great importance to the fact that we have started to talk about this issue in society at all, and on the other hand I fully agree that the least we can do is to offer these women and children temporary counselling, this service, up to the point that they will always have one place where they can go and where they will receive this temporary service. The service is this very formal, because they actually get asylum. These people need this shelter, where they can quickly get this very first help. But we have also discussed why one who has been subjected to violence must leave his own home. On the contrary, this attitude should be changed up to the police, so that the perpetrator should actually leave home and not the one who was subjected to violence. There is also practice in other countries. For example, in Austria, Denmark and Norway, it is well-informed to use the fact that a violent person must leave the dwelling, not one who suffers from violence, as a national policy. This is, in itself, one of the fundamental steps that we can show society when dealing with drafts here. We are now taking it for granted that whoever suffers from violence takes his or her couple of heels and children and leaves home. That's one question. On Wednesday this week, there is a draft maintenance fund here in the Riigikogu at first reading. If we look at the policies that support them or, you could even say, the policies that change the state's attitude that we are jointly implementing here, then the fact that the state is very clearly taking up the defence of the weaker side also on the issues of maintenance debt and debts is one very important message that we are giving to these women through organisations that stand up for women's interests. Very often you suffer from family violence for years because you are mentally in a situation where there are threats that you can go if you want, but you can't handle the kids, and I'm not paying you for maintenance, so you're gonna crawl back to me. There are so many cases when a person suffering violence fails to make a decision to leave because he hopes that things might work out. We are sending a very strong message to the weaker party, that the state is on your side, that the state is not only representing your financial requirements, with the implementation of this support fund scheme. I think it is a very strong moral and mental message that the country is on your side, that we guarantee a minimum of EUR 100 maintenance aid payment, and that we demand debts from the maintenance creditor by taking very harsh measures. Straighten your back, and don't take violence! With this law, we extend the payment of maintenance aid to 190 days during the course of the proceedings and increase this amount to EUR 100 per month. So we also send messages to society by introducing very specific and harsh regulations in this very Chamber of the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-02_U171	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-02_U172	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, You mentioned the Lanzarote Convention on Child Protection, as well as the Istanbul Convention on combating violence against women. Both are Council of Europe conventions. We are about to have the Presidency of the Council of Europe. Will you give us assurance that these conventions will be progressing for us during this period?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-02_U173	Thank you. I have made a promise as a minister, also in the United Nations as a representative of the Estonian state, that the Istanbul and Lanzarote Conventions are our priority, we must join them. In fact, we have already made implementing decisions, as well as financing decisions, one we have taken on this very issue of women's asylums. But if we look more broadly at our whole child welfare system, we will see that this year the new Child Welfare Act came into force. I consider it a great victory that this law did not simply enter into force as a new law, but that the implementation plan of the law has been scientifically thought out by the authors of it, and I do not highlight politicians here, but precisely officials and child protection organisations and family organisations. I can say that this scheme has been fully funded. We're taking our child protection to a whole new level. We also managed to find hundreds of thousands of euros in the debate on the country's budgetary strategy in the course of the debate in the government, which will help 100% to ensure the implementation of this operational programme. I would like to say that these conventions should come to the Riigikogu as soon as possible so that the Riigikogu can make these decisions. But I just wouldn't want us to declare, yes, we have joined these conventions. I want real action back there. Fortunately, real action in this area is out of the question of political debate. I see that all parties are betting, and no one is arguing against it. A little more than a few years ago, this argument was still going on.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-02_U174	Thank you, Minister. The members of the Riigikogu have no further questions. I'm opening negotiations. There's no call.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-02_U175	Members of the Riigikogu Dmitri Dmitriev, Kadri Simson, Enn Eesmaa, Aadu Must, Marika Tuus-Laul, Märt Sults, Kersti Sarapuu, Mikhail Stalnukhin, Valeri Korb, Vladimir Velman, Andrei Novikov, Erki Savisaar, Jaanus Karilaid, Anneli Ott, Viktor Vassilyev, Siret Kotka, Mikhail Korb, Peeter Ernits and Toomas Vitsut have submitted the following question. Dmitri Dmitriev, on behalf of the heirs.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-02_U176	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, Minister for Social Protection! On 17 March, 19 members of the Central Party Group submitted an inquiry into special welfare investment support. In particular, last autumn, the regulation 'Reorganising special care institutions' entered into force, which laid down the conditions for granting aid for investments in special care. The action will result in the creation of at least 1400 high-quality special care facilities. The purpose of the grant is to ensure better living, learning and working conditions for people with special psychological needs. New units should have as normal living conditions as possible to ensure privacy and greater personal attention and individual approach. Service sites are created in communities that give customers the opportunity to link day-to-day activities to the local community. At the same time, the Regulation lays down the conditions for the place where the service provider is established. The establishment of up to 30-seater service units in a settlement with at least 300 permanent residents and the creation of more than one to 30-seater service units in a settlement with at least 1000 permanent residents is eligible. In rural areas, we have a number of institutions and companies providing special care services that do not actually meet these criteria. They operate in a smaller settlement than the limit set by the regulation. However, they usually serve a much larger area, ensuring, in cooperation with municipalities, both normal and disabled users of special care services. In relation to this, we have a number of questions. I'll save you some time. I'll ask the Minister to read them and answer them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-02_U177	The Minister for Social Protection, Margus Tsahkna, will answer the question.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-02_U178	Good Chairman! Good questioners, good members of the Riigikogu! The Ministry of Social Affairs has launched a number of major reforms and the social sector needs reforms. One such major reform is the reorganisation of special care. We have a total of EUR 59 million to use for this. This money is not Estonian taxpayers' money, which comes from the state budget, but this money, 47600000 euros, comes from the European Regional Development Fund, which means that this money has specific objectives. The aim of the reorganisation measure for special care institutions is to reorganize 1200 existing service places and create 200 additional new service places. The greater objective of this regulation is that if you look at the current special care system, which we have left behind from the Soviet era, you will understand that we can no longer allow those people who need special care to live in such conditions. But the money from the European Fund cannot be used simply to build new houses, but we must also ensure that the quality of service is improved and we are increasingly moving towards a more personalised service. It must be possible to provide this service in a flexible way in the future so that people do not have to decide whether they care for their loved ones at home or whether they provide them with services for 24 hours a day and seven days a week. That is why, in cooperation with the European Regional Development Fund, we have set greater goals for ensuring the quality and availability of special care services in Estonia in the future. It's also in the development plans. As a minister, I have set the objective that if we are to reform and use the European Structural Fund, we should also achieve a new quality. Perhaps it would be easier if this money could be shared a little more kindly, but that is not what we have done with this measure. The heirs have asked me three questions, and I will answer them in order. The first question: 'Why is the minimum size of 300 inhabitants established by your regulation for a settlement where the service provider can apply for investment support? ' The provision of more precise requirements in the Regulation is linked to the desire to determine more clearly which frame the location of service units can change. If we use the resources of the European Regional Development Fund to reorganise special care, we will take into account the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities and the principles of deinstitutionalisation. The European Commission has allocated resources from the European Regional Development Fund (ERDF) as a pre-condition for the creation of new services in communities and for the availability of public services. Public services refer in particular to the possibility of obtaining food and consumer goods, public transport connections, medical care, business activities or other leisure activities. With new services, we ensure more active participation of people with special psychological needs in society. The restrictions are based on the Government of the Republic's Regulation No 335, of 25 November 2004, entitled "Basics and arrangements for determining the type, name and division of the establishment unit', which states that the densely populated settlement is generally at least 300 permanent residents. We have included all types of settlements in the restriction, i.e. the village, village, village and city, or the settlement with the so-called 300 inhabitants. A settlement with 300 inhabitants is also our interpretation of the European Commission's requirement to create suitable places in communities. Believe me, these units with 300 people seem very small from Europe. It is the least law- and regulation-level unit we have been able to describe to them. According to population register data, as of 1 January 2016, 83% of Estonian residents lived in settlements with at least 300 inhabitants. The Ministry of Social Affairs has met with leaders of community projects and discussed the implementation of projects, including the requirement of 300 residents. At the same time, the Ministry of Social Affairs has separately identified projects to be created by communities and has approached these projects on an individual basis. As a result of a wide-ranging discussion and many meetings, the application is divided into two, i.e. a second round is planned after the first round. The aim of the additional application is to improve the coverage of services and to enable specific solutions, to harmonise the coverage of all-Estonian service sites and to support the creation of services for certain target groups, such as autists. With this solution, through the call for proposals, we can encourage the creation of places in areas where there are not enough service places after the first round and diversify service provision. We have seen many ideas and projects outside the existing system during the procedure. We have been looking for such a flexible approach and opportunity, if funding from the European Regional Development Fund makes it possible. It has been heard that since the state owns AS Hoolekandeteenused, it would be easier if all this money were moved through this public limited company and these places were reorganised. However, we have gone a much harder way, which requires much more time and more substance. In particular, we have, in cooperation with the Touch Points magazine and its initiative group, sought out projects that are not of an appropriate size and scale, but which are innovative and help to bring about precisely the introduction of special care services to communities in order to be sustainable and also to make the provision of services as flexible as possible. Then, even for a certain time, people would be able to place their loved ones in an institution to get some rest for a while. It should also be possible to implement these services as necessary within the same institution. The second question: 'Do such restrictions treat the providers and users of special care services equally in different areas of Estonia? How does such a decision affect regional access to services? ' The regulation governing the implementation of the European Regional Development Fund action does not in any way restrict the activities of existing bodies or restrict the provision of services in existing locations. It is important for the Ministry of Social Affairs to encourage the provision of services and the creation of new service places by both existing and new service providers. The Regulation does not impose any restrictive conditions on the creation of new service sites, and projects for the creation of new sites may be submitted, inter alia, by municipalities and non-profit organisations, as well as by new and old service providers. Service places in places with fewer than 300 inhabitants, where service providers currently exist, account for 15% of all service places. According to statistics, 43% of 24-hour service places are located in settlements with fewer than 300 inhabitants, while 17% of the Estonian population lives in settlement units with fewer than 300 inhabitants. In addition, there are approximately 13% of 47 institutions per month in a place where residents of these institutions account for more than 50% of the population of this population, and 10 institutions, i.e. 29% or almost a quarter, are located in a place where the residents of these institutions account for more than 40% of the population of that establishment. Question 3: How much of the total amount of the measure is the Ministry planning to direct Hoolekandeteenused to AS and how much to other service providers? 'For AS Hoolekandeteenused are not dedicated European Regional Development Fund funds planned and all applicants are treated equally when submitting projects. Due to the fact that AS Hoolekandeteenused has the largest number of service places, it is assumed that the volume of applications and the resources applied for are also the highest. The precise breakdown of the measures is not foreseen as the projects to be submitted are not known and the final decision becomes apparent after the assessment of the investment plan and the coverage of all resources and commitments. I've had to talk about one thing several times. Namely, a myth or a myth is spreading that the state is taking this money, which amounts to 59 million euros, and simply gives it to AS Hoolekandeteenused. It's not like that. The truth is, AS Hoolekandeteenused is the largest service provider and they also own the most places that need to be reorganized. The conditions in which these people live are simply not what we want. But above all, we are based on the fact that we can reorganize the existing institutions, because they no longer go along with the times. Secondly, it is quite possible that the current seats of AS Hoolekandeteenused will no longer belong to AS Hoolekandeteenused after the implementation of this measure, but that other sites will be able to submit applications to them. We rely primarily on ensuring that the service is available throughout Estonia. Thirdly, as I said, we also have a second round in place so that we can finance smaller, more flexible initiatives that provide special care in the community. So I see that, although this measure provides for major constraints, i.e. we can reorganize 1,200 existing places and create 200 new places, and this in itself imposes restrictions, we can actually bring about a substantive change through the reform that we are implementing using these instruments. AS Hoolekandeteenused is also prepared to behave very flexibly. Their interest is to keep up with the times and make the service flexible, modern and accessible to all those in need throughout Estonia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-02_U179	Questions. Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-02_U180	President-in-Office of the Council. Minister, thank you very much. I know you've probably answered that question before, but to calm your heart, I want to ask if this system is completely rigid and inflexible. As a Westerner, you understand me when I find it hard to understand why Koluvere and Kullamaa, which are three kilometers apart from each other, are not good enough for two because they both have a little less than 300 inhabitants, but for example, Uuemõisa or Lihula are good. What are the benefits of the customer of the nursing home in New Manor or Lihula compared to Koluvere? Wouldn't it really be wise to make exceptions here?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-02_U181	Thank you. Let us be honest, this 300 comes from the logic of how we ourselves have interpreted it or, rather, determined what is the smallest settlement we have recorded in the regulation. After all, the point is that we can bring the provision of special care out of the forests and bring it to communities. When we talk about a European understanding, they see it so that this service should actually be provided only in our sense in large cities. To explain to them that we also have 300 units on the level of the law, we need a skill in itself. It's not just the money we take out of our pockets and put it on the table. That's the problem. The second thing is that if we look at what we want to do in the long term, I am rather concerned that these three hundred units may not be more than three hundred in ten years' time. We don't know how many of them are left. However, a good questioner, we have indeed chosen as flexible an approach as possible. Indeed, we have had cases when the municipality has separated the land for a special care unit, but this land is beyond the borders of the settlement. We've been negotiating with the municipality, and they've changed their decision. At the same time, we have a few other cases, if this institution really is located outside the settlement, for example, the institution located near Tartu will stay up to a kilometre away. Now, together, we are figuring out how we can fund the good initiative that has been devised there. In any case, the Ministry is on the side of these good initiatives and ideas, and we will work together to figure out how we can do it now. That's right. What else can I tell you? In the social field, investment money is very low. This measure, which is intended for investment, is a measure that clearly has its own rules. I also consider it a very great victory in the negotiations on the country's budgetary strategy that we will receive additional funding for social investment. We were able to figure out that this would be the appropriate means for selling the CO2 quota. Each country has a certain amount of CO2 quotas and, if they can be sold, will generate money and can be invested. We were able to agree with the Ministry of Finance that as early as next year, if we actually have this money, this quota trade will also be based on what is demand and what is the price, say, this market is not very active, then EUR 14 million of this quota money can be used to renovate kindergartens and EUR 12 million will be considered a very big victory for next year's investments in welfare institutions, or nursing homes, and other such social institutions. Looking at all this together, I'm saying we're trying to find reasonable solutions. If we don't get those resources, maybe we'll find some other way.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-02_U182	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-02_U183	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, Let me get this straight. You've come up with this 300-person criterion yourself? As far as we know, this regulation was discussed with representatives of the NGO association just over two years ago, and then there was no criterion. In September last year, it came from somewhere at once, and the NGO association was quite surprised that such a criterion was in it. We believe that this will take away flexibility. Estonia is scattered. This example of Goldland and Koluvere is absolutely vital.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-02_U184	Thank you. The negotiation of these instruments with the European Commission has been going on for some time. The previous minister, Helmen Kütt, also held them, and they have also taken place before that, as I well know. But there are certain conditions. They are written in such a way that new service places are created within communities and public services must be accessible, i.e. it must be possible to obtain food products, other essential goods, etc. That's what I read here. We have had to establish some criteria to explain to the European Commission what our unit is. That's where the logic came from. The 2004 decree of the Government of the Republic, where we describe what these units are, is also taken as a basis: village, village, village and city. These are the settlements with at least 300 permanent residents. That's where the logic came from. The problem is, of course, that there will be fewer and fewer units in the future where so many people live, but we must stick to certain frames.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-02_U185	Monika Haukanõmm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-02_U186	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. In Soviet times, it was a practice that all people with mental disorders had to be taken to the forest, as far as possible, so that they would not disturb others. Now we have reached the other side of the scale and bring them all to the settlements. Not that I think it's bad or wrong, but we should still retain the diversity of services, because not all people with special psychic needs are suitable for living in an urban environment, a settlement, and not all are suitable for living on land. So there should still be an opportunity to live on land, such as Camphill's village. Please comment on this! But my second question concerns the Valkla Home. You said that all of these homes should be made in areas with more than 300 inhabitants. I would point out that Valkla Home is not interested in providing services under a court order, there are more than 300 residents in Valkla, but those people who have exceeded the limit of 300 people are old people in nursing homes who were registered there years ago. In fact, there are no more than 300 people living there. How do you deal with this situation?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-02_U187	Thank you. I wouldn't mention one thing. This one criterion is taken between the teeth, and now it is said that huge restrictions have been imposed. If we look at statistics where people live and where we are actually able to provide this service in the long term, I would not like to hear the story that 300 people are at the other extreme. No, 300 isn't the other extreme. 300 is the so-called minimum we're talking about. Secondly, this measure does not mean the birth of our special care, it is not the case that we have suddenly received EUR 59 million, some of which are self-financing money, and we are now starting to create some kind of system from scratch. This money is given for a specific purpose, there are specific criteria in place, and for each investment we will have to report afterwards. The representative of the European Commission will also come and see if these places are actually created in a sustainable way, as they have been told and as they have understood. The worst that can happen is that we may be able to share that money, how I say, well understand, but then that money will be recovered. You see, that's a certain logic. What am I saying? This is neither the beginning of special care nor the end of special care reforms. Of course, the aim is that we can also introduce the necessary exceptions. Indeed, in certain cases it may be better for people to receive this service not even in this three hundred unit, but in another place. But if we look at the general situation, we have more than 1,200 places that we should reorganize, we should raise the level of service to a much higher level. But the philosophy that used to be in the Soviet times you described is still in our special welfare system. A simpler solution would perhaps have been really if all this money had only started to move through a system controlled by the state. By doing so, we would also have met these objectives. But we have started, on the contrary, to look for a more complex solution. In fact, we want to get the community involved. Let me give you some examples. Before last year, there were quite a number of these settlements, and I am not going to specifically mention names here in a mental state where signatures were collected to support the removal of special welfare institutions because they did not want to live among them. But, as you know very well, in the meantime, there has been a huge fear of refugees and refugees in Europe. I have now also seen that signatures have been collected to support these people not being removed from this settlement because they are, as if, very much cared about there. This is done in the fear that refugees might be replaced. I would like to say that I would be pleased if we could find such settlements and communities that would agree to the establishment of these institutions, not just to create jobs for themselves, but who would be willing to take these people into their lives and view them in their communities, whether they are 300 or a little larger, understanding and helpful. This change of attitude is a problem in quite a number of places. I take this as an opportunity, as a minister I try to use it as flexibly as possible, but also responsibly, so that we can still make investments that will also make us in 15, 20 and 25 years' time.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-02_U188	Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-02_U189	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Minister, thank you very much. I want to acknowledge that one round is about to become two and perhaps even three rounds, and that the exceptions will also be reviewed. One you referred to is the Haaslava municipality near Tartu. Let me give another example so that those in the Chamber who do not have so much contact with this issue can better understand the problem. Viljandi Hospital Foundation is located in the village of Jämejala in the municipality of Pärsti, which offers both rehabilitation services and special care services to a large number of municipalities across Estonia. The content of the service, its quality and its sustainability, and not the number of inhabitants, should be important. Similarly, 300 inhabitants may not be able to guarantee that this service will work at all. It is precisely how this service is guaranteed that should be taken into account. The concern, however, is that these organisations, which have certainly turned to you too, have said that while this system was still introduced in May and June without restrictions, there was a restriction of 300 inhabitants on 14 September. In the Committee on Social Affairs, this issue was also in the debate. How do you comment on that?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-02_U190	Thank you. As you said yourself, our aim is to find very flexible solutions. Really, this 300 is one particular number. But this debate took place when I took office or before, and such an agreement was reached. I cannot tell you how this issue was introduced earlier, but in any case there has always been a requirement that these places should develop into communities and services must be guaranteed for a longer period of time. I have come to see that, although we want to bring about today with this measure, with this very large investment, one more part of the Soviet era, one issue has somehow been taken out of context and has been overlooked what we really want to achieve and for which we have the opportunities. So I would look at this issue more broadly and think about how we can encourage investment in these perhaps a little smaller initiatives that we have taken a look at. The Ministry will help these initiatives to reach this level so that they can think through the sustainability of this service, up to the point that we will also help with the advice on how to write projects. After all, a lot often depends on how the request for money has been submitted. So we've come all the way to help with our advice and strength. Let's look at the bigger picture.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-02_U191	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-02_U192	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, After all, Estonia's own people wrote the regulation on this measure. Indeed, it is sad, let us admit that this same Koluvere, for example, is now deprived of the possibility of investment support. Before writing the regulation on this measure, what was the analysis or studies that are in the first place with our support system, what is good and what is bad? When writing the regulation on this measure, did the results of this analysis, such as the possibility of regionally developing this network, be taken into account?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-02_U193	Thank you. Of course, it has also been analysed and analysed in terms of where these places are needed in the future. It also follows that we have made our plans more flexible during the procedure. I do not exclude that we will be able to make them more flexible, because, at the end of the first round, the regulation will have to be supplemented or amended anyway in order to make it more flexible. In theory, if necessary, a third round is also possible. I would not send a message to anyone today that I cannot, but on the basis of this analysis, based on needs and also on solving existing problems, we will start with precisely this first round, the evaluation guide for which can be approved in the near future, in order to reorganize these places within existing large units and, if necessary, in cooperation between them. The second round is precisely more flexible, then we look at smaller places and service providers, and also that there may be some areas where we do not have a service provider. It is important to ensure that we do not get into a situation where our actions no longer coincide with the logic of the European Regional Development Fund. There's a border somewhere. I feel that this limit is actually already here, but we just have to be able to justify it all.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-02_U194	Raivo Põldaru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-02_U195	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. Last Thursday, I wasn't a very big knowledgeer, I got stuck with a question about the Butterfly, but maybe that's more of a welfare line. Maybe you can tell me if the House of Butters is one of the renovations or liquidations?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-02_U196	Thank you. As a minister, I cannot say whether it is going to renovation or liquidation. I'm telling you completely frankly, I'm not gonna speculate here. If there are more specific questions that I can answer, I will answer you in writing.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-02_U197	Minister, thank you. No further questions. Is there a desire to negotiate? No requests, no negotiations. An inquiry has been answered.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-02_U198	Let's move on to the tenth question, which is number 178. The inquiry was submitted on 14 March 2016 and the subject is unfair trading practices applied to Estonian small producers. Liisa Oviir, Minister of Enterprise, will answer the question. Please contact Siret Kotka, representative of the speakers of the Riigikogu Chair, who will introduce the inquiry to the Estonian public!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-02_U199	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the Central Party Group have submitted an inquiry to the Minister of Enterprise Liisa Oviir concerning unfair trading practices applied to Estonian small producers. To explain the situation to you in this Chamber a little bit, I would like to remind you that when Rimi stopped selling domestic meat at one point, and there was a major scandal. However, under customer pressure, Rimi re-selled domestic meat. But if you now look at Rimi's shops or even the Säästumarket stores, you will see a lot of Spanish, Danish or other countries' products instead of domestic production. It doesn't just apply to pork. The problem is very simple. We have large retail chains in Estonia, as you certainly know, these are Rimi, Selver, Prisma and Maxima. These retailers have changed their function. It could be assumed that they are only trading so that we can buy the products, but their activities have changed, and they are already producing themselves. When you go to Rimi, you will see, for example, a lot of dairy products with "Rimi" on them. These products are called private labels and actually push these domestic products out of the market. Large retailers are in a dominant position and domestic producers are therefore in a weaker position. They are constantly threatened that if they do not obey or sell their products very cheaply or even at a sandwich price, their contracts will be terminated. Contracts have very often been made in such a way that, even with ten days' notice, the store can say that it no longer sells such products as this or other domestic dairy producer, pig farmer or cattle grower. This has put domestic producers under conditions of unfair competition. Several ministers have been told about these unfair practices, to my knowledge, if I am not mistaken, to the Minister for Enterprise, but certainly the Minister for Rural Affairs has been told about this. Thus, ministries are aware that UTPs are in use, but nothing has been done so far. This is why we asked three questions. In our neighbouring countries, Latvia, Lithuania or even Finland, it has been dealt with, it has been restricted and laws have been created. But we have not done this in Estonia, and the domestic producer will inevitably suffer. So we are waiting for answers to these questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-02_U200	Thank you. I ask Liisa Oviir, Minister of Enterprise of the Riigikogu Chair, to answer the question.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-02_U201	President-in-Office of the Council. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! Good questioners, thank you for your question. It is good to stand here with you again and share a common interest in common issues. This broader question consisted of three specified questions, I shall read them out and answer them in turn. The first question: 'The retailers themselves have also admitted that, in the case of private labels, a separate margin has been agreed by the retail chain, which is certainly lower than the analogue product of the same quality. Do you consider such conduct to be just? How does the government intend to protect producers without significant market power from pressure from retail chains? ' The Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications naturally attaches great importance to the functioning of a responsible business culture in the food supply chain. But since the author of the question has a little misunderstood the content of the private label concept, I will begin by opening this concept. I'm talking about what a private label is. Under this mark, a product sold under a retailer's brand is marketed. However, the retail chain itself is not its manufacturer, at least I do not have any information to make one of our retail chains themselves, they are distributors. Domestic products are not a new phenomenon, and other brand products are sold alongside them, but the difference here lies in the responsibility which, in the case of the production, sale and marketing of private label products, falls on the distributor, the trader. A retailer can offer his own product at a more favourable price for two reasons. This product does not entail separate marketing costs, and it is usually very large volumes that allow for a significantly cheaper purchase of goods. It is probably appropriate to look at the same question from the manufacturer. Own products do not, in most cases, involve product development costs to the producer, are ordered from them, there is no market entry and no subsequent marketing costs, as they are largely borne by the retail operator. This will enable the food producer to make more efficient use of existing production capacities to keep the production lines running in full, as well as to make better use of the workforce. Therefore, the multifaceted functioning of the food supply chain in line with good business practice is to be welcomed, as it benefits both actors and consumers in the supply chain, as the range of products and prices are therefore diverse. However, it is certainly not acceptable for operators who use unfair trading practices in their dealings with other operators, such as imposing a stronger position by taking advantage of unfair contracts, compulsory discounts or unreasonable payment deadlines. I am of the opinion that the containment of such unfair trading practices must be dealt with very seriously and must not only be done by retailers or food producers, but absolutely all the links in the supply chain. The question, then, of how the government intends to protect producers without significant market power from the retail chains, unfortunately I still have to answer in such a way that there is no specific action plan, because it is in work. Experts from the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, the Ministry of Rural Affairs and the Competition Board have worked on this and material on the issue of unfair trading practices is being developed under the direction of the Ministry of Rural Affairs, which will be presented to the Government Office in particular for discussion. Its precise title is 'Developing possible legislative measures to reduce the use of UTPs in the food supply chain'. The working version was supposed to already exist, it is currently being coordinated by the Ministry of Rural Affairs. These issues, allegedly reflected in this document, are unilateral and stronger contracts, unilateral termination of the agreement, claims to participate in paid campaigns and special exhibits, obligation to use a particular logistics centre, disproportionate and unfair sanctions, unreasonable payment periods, compulsory discounts, sales below the cost price of the product and the use of the so-called fear factor, i.e. the removal of the product from the range of shops. We're waiting for the Minister of Rural Affairs to get to the government office with this document. The second question: 'The primary objective of the regulation laid down in Article 13 (2) and (3) of the Law on Competition in Latvia is to protect small businesses from retail operators with significant bargaining power or from whom the producer/supplier is economically dependent. What laws in Estonia protect small businesses from retailers with significant bargaining power? ' Measures to limit the use of directly unfair trading practices can be largely divided into two types, which are used in different ways in different countries. Some are legislation and others are self-regulation initiatives as a guide to good trading practices. There are also countries where these two are used in parallel. I agree with the author of the question that there is currently no regulation in Estonia, i.e. a separate rule that is directly intended to combat unfair trading practices in the business-to-business food supply chain. It's missing right now. However, the private law in force in Estonia, mainly the Law of Obligations Act, provides for a number of standards that can be used to discourage such practices. The relevant provisions regulate, for example, the question of vague contract terms, the interpretation of the contract, the form of the contract, the possibility of amending the contract, the transfer of business risks, the unfair use of information, termination of the contract, etc. I would like to draw attention to § 86 of the General Part of the Civil Code Act, which says that a transaction contrary to good manners is negligible. This transaction, contrary to honest manners, has been furnished by the Supreme Court in a number of cases, including civil case Nos 3-2-1-158-05, which states that good manners are contrary to good manners a transaction which one party has entered into with unfair advantage of its position. In this sense, the Supreme Court has also furnished our current legal regulation by delimiting this issue. I now come to self-regulation. Trade operators have developed a self-regulation guide to good commercial practices, under the leadership of the Traders' Association. Guidance for commercial operators'. Unfortunately, it remains eloquent in this matter and does not define it very precisely, referring only to the laws in force, but also to good practices and fair commercial practices. At the beginning of 2016, Estonian companies, led by the Chamber of Commerce and Industry, initiated the development of good trading practices between the parties to the wider food supply chain. On the basis of the information received from the parties involved, it is understood that the parties concerned will first seek to resolve the problem together by establishing good practices, promoting on a voluntary basis good business practices and the principles of fair trade between economic operators and ensuring that disputes are handled in a fair and transparent manner. They want to solve the problems themselves, in particular by establishing good business practices; they do not want to interfere with the law, or regulation. It seems to me that if the sector is ready to regulate itself, it is always a better solution than excessive state intervention. So I look forward to this document. Question three: '2015. In 2004, Latvia adopted a law prohibiting UTPs from being used in retail trade. A similar special law applies in Lithuania. In your opinion, would such a special law be needed in Estonia, or would it be sufficient to supplement existing laws? ' Given that Latvia adopted this Act in 2015 and it entered into force only at the beginning of this year, it is probably early to talk about its advantages or its practical impact on solving the problem and to assess its real suitability for the Estonian context. If you look at the experience of other EU countries in this area, the legislative approach to regulation varies from one Member State to another and the general and single position on whether to regulate business-to-business relations with legislation or guide good commercial practice or to use both synergies is not at present. It was nicely mentioned here that it was regulated in Finland, Latvia and Lithuania. It is not regulated or regulated in the sector, for example, in Belgium, Great Britain, Spain and a number of other countries. I would also like to add that issues relating to the functioning of the food supply chain have been discussed very clearly over the last year at EU level and a Green Paper on UTPs in the European business-to-business food and other goods supply chain has been produced. The European Commission, together with the Member States and relevant stakeholders, will continue to work to find a solution for the smooth operation of the supply chain between businesses, Estonia being once again represented in this process by the Ministry of Rural Affairs. To sum up, I believe that the problems of UTPs need to be dealt with clearly further. The Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications attaches great importance to cooperation between the sector, but this cooperation can only happen smoothly if it is done in accordance with a responsible business culture. So I consider cooperation important, I support the fact that the actors in the supply chain have voluntarily taken the initiative to find a solution, to resolve these problems among themselves, which is why, at the moment, I do not consider it necessary to intervene in this process by introducing additional legal regulations, especially in view of the fact that we are actually trying to reduce regulation. However, if, as a result of cooperation between the parties, it appears necessary to establish additional rules and sectoral regulation does not produce this result in order to protect all the parties involved in the market, I am prepared to contribute fully, participate in this work and contribute to ensuring that the interests of all market participants are equally protected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-02_U202	Minister, thank you. You have questions. Siret Eagle, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-02_U203	Thank you. Good minister! My question still concerns small businesses, which are more active in the countryside. You are certainly aware that life in the country has been very difficult lately and that there is a very big crisis in agriculture. I have been approached by a large number of small producers, who are genuinely concerned that they are in no way able to sell their products to large retail chains, even if they are able to supply these products continuously. What should I say to these companies, how can they get into Rimi, for example, under the current competitive conditions?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-02_U204	Thank you. First of all, let me make a little bit of a clarification about agriculture. The fact that agriculture is in crisis may have been said a little bit. The grain producers had a very good year last year, but the dairy industry is experiencing difficult times and the pig industry is also experiencing difficult times. How do you get into the big retail chains? There are a number of issues. One of the most serious problems is often quantity, because Rimi has its own structure such that if it takes a product for sale, then the quantity must be significant. One way to meet these requirements is to work together, for example, through clusters. The State facilitates cluster cooperation through a variety of measures. Secondly, it must always be borne in mind that the different chains are oriented towards different markets. If the market requires a cheap product, it is very difficult to prescribe to the retail chain that it should sell a more expensive product than it can obtain from the market, all the more so because the chain has an international background. So obviously, for an entrepreneur, this suggestion is that if it is not possible to obtain a positive outcome in the negotiations, then perhaps another retail chain should be sought. For example, decision-making in the ETC chain has been moved to a lower level, i.e. shops may shop themselves, not only on a chain basis. In addition to retail chains, companies offering a more exclusive and expensive product in individual stores should also be looked at. Unfortunately, the state does not have the capacity in a market economy to impose a more expensive product on the seller. But if there is still an attempt to implement UTPs, it is my guideline to use existing legal regulation, including the decisions of the Supreme Court, and to go to court to protect your rights.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-02_U205	Raivo Põldaru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-02_U206	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. You were talking about unfair trading practices. Is it not fair trading that we already have dumped goods on our market? How should the state still stand for its producer and for Estonian production to be available on food counters? As far as prices are concerned, I think that the prices of pigmeat are currently very low because of the swine plague, but yet we have Spanish meat on our counters. I think there is a great deal of room for thought, why our counters do not have our own domestic goods and why the number of pigs is decreasing and the number of cows is decreasing, while the neighbours do not do so. Would it still not be necessary for the country to intervene and to stand up for domestic goods?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-02_U207	Thank you. Given the above, but also the fact that we are part of the European Union and very many regulations have been introduced in the European Union, including the free movement of goods, we cannot, for legitimate reasons, put in place such protectionist measures that we reject goods coming from some European Union countries and prefer our own. I want to stress once again that retail chains offer the goods their customers want to buy. Trade chains are quite sensitive when pressure is put on them, for example, to make some products available for sale, regardless of price. At the same time, a very large proportion of consumers are price sensitive; it is not so important for them where the same pork comes from, for example, but rather important for them to be able to afford this meat to their families. Given both the regulations of the European Union and the consumer's right to make their own decisions, the country does not have the possibility to impose restrictive measures on our retail chains, demanding that they prefer their own country's production.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-02_U208	Arthur Talvik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-02_U209	Good President! Good minister! Please don't say yes! Is the so-called private labelling an unfair commercial practice?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-02_U210	No.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-02_U211	Erki Savisaar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-02_U212	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, Of course, all cases are different, but when we are talking about a market economy, the consumer could first and foremost decide what kind of goods he wants to buy, and the assumption is that the goods would be sold in the shop. When we look at the issue of unfair practices, I recall a story with the New Year's Meat Industry, which was already quietly placed in several chains between the doors, but then he started to be pressured. First, it was said that their product would no longer be purchased at the same price, but at some lower price, and they would also have to buy spices marketed by this chain, for example. There were other conditions. Today, the meat industry is no longer there. I'm not asking if the chains did well or not. I ask what to say to those entrepreneurs who are in exactly the same situation right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-02_U213	Thank you. First of all, I have to admit that I am not familiar with the details of this particular company's bankruptcy process and, therefore, I do not have the ability to say whether this company's communication with the retail chains was the only or the main reason why this company ended the bankruptcy or liquidation process. When it comes to contractual disputes, these disputes will, in fact, only be settled in court in our legal system. Similarly, I expect that this process will be greatly facilitated by the conclusion of the Chamber of Commerce by identifying within their sector the good trading practices that the sector says it is, yes, an acceptable trading practice. This document becomes part of the legal system or part of the contract and is equally used in litigation. The consumer, of course, has the right to choose, but the retail chain also has the right to choose the goods. It cannot accept goods from all bidders due to a space restriction. There are quality conditions that retail chains need to control, but they have also studied relatively well what customers expect of them. For example, Rimi or Selver are both quite important retail chains. Although there are no retail chains in Estonia with a market share of more than 21%, these two are retail chains with significant participation. But when you go to these shops and look at the range of goods, you can see that they are oriented to a wide range of target groups and that is why the quality and price levels offered are different. There are trade chains where Estonian goods are more widely available, often more expensive, and there are other trade chains which, precisely because their customer prefers a more affordable product, have used the option of offering this to the customer when buying food in their shops. This is actually the right of choice for the consumer, which is already taken into account by the retail chain when selecting goods in its stores.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-02_U214	Mikhail Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-02_U215	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, Listening to your answers gives you such a fatalist feeling. If you answer questions of inquiry, you speak a very bureaucratic language, you mention directives and laws, but if you answer the questions asked in this Chamber, you say what we can do, we cannot dictate prices to chains. But our questions are not because we are in opposition. Our questions are due to the fact that we want the Estonian entrepreneur to do well. 80% of companies are enterprises with up to eight employees. This means that these are all small companies that want to offer their products somewhere. I ask you what are the real measures by which we can break out of this circle and the chains will take on production. Chains are the only places where groceries are offered today.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-02_U216	Thank you. First of all, I am sorry if my answers have been in bureaucratic language, all the legislation and directives referred to. I'm a lawyer from my education, and I guess that kind of language gets stuck in 20 years. I'm sorry! I'll try to answer it more easily. But, in coming back to the substance of the question, I am forced to say once again that, in the light of the very same regulations that have been put in place, it is not possible for a Member State of the European Union to have a clear protectionist policy. This is simply no longer possible in the current legal environment. We can support certain sectors, and this is what is happening on a regular basis. Support for our agriculture will also be reallocated from the state budget. There are support measures for small producers, which I will also talk about separately in response to the last question that has been put forward. Similarly, there are quite a number of regional measures in Estonia. We can support our own small business, and this is what the country is doing. We can support regional development, and this is what the country is doing. However, we cannot keep subsidised products at a price level that is acceptable to the most price sensitive customers. Unfortunately, this cannot be done in our legal environment.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-02_U217	Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-02_U218	Thank you. Madam Minister! You are talking about negotiations and cooperation, which will lead to the necessary decisions. But who are the main partners with whom you prepare these necessary documents, and when will the wider community find out about them?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-02_U219	I assume that we are talking about a document that will be produced under the leadership of the Estonian Chamber of Commerce and Industry. All major business associations in this sector are involved and all companies are involved through them. The Ministry of Economic Affairs will not intervene in this process because it is an internal agreement within the sector. We look forward to the completion of this document. The second document I referred to is what Urmas Kruuse is currently preparing at the Ministry of Rural Affairs. It has developed measures to reduce the use of UTPs in the food supply chain. This is a document developed by the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, the Ministry of Rural Affairs and the Competition Authority, thus working together between the three institutions, but above all, this work has taken place, of course, under the direction of the Ministry of Rural Affairs. This is a document that should come to the government office for discussion in the near future. Since these are neither documents that the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications would make a mistake in drawing up, unfortunately, I cannot tell you the timetable. From the information I know, both are in the final stages.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-02_U220	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-02_U221	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Minister! We live in the European judicial area; our country is one of the countries of the European Union. But I ask you, as Minister for Enterprise, what are the three important steps you would like to take to support the development of Estonian small producers. Let us not talk about money and European Union measures, but what you think is very important now, no matter what, it concerns the supply chain, valorisation or whatever?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-02_U222	Thank you. There's a lot of things here. Most of the projects initiated or under way are not very clearly oriented towards food products, as it is, in fact, a matter of the Ministry of Rural Affairs. I only spoke to the head of the Farmers' Association last week, and it was agreed with him that we would convene all interested parties here, talking about the dairy sector, and putting in place an action plan, with a very clear direction to find the necessary export markets. They had also done a pretty good preliminary work themselves, even in such detail that, for example, the Egyptian army buys quite a lot of milk powder, and that would be where the country could come to the aid and try to get these deals to support the dairy sector. Exports are really the responsibility of the Minister for Enterprise. This is where I can come to help, although, specifically in the country's budgetary strategy, the allocations relating to agriculture and the revival of exports of these products are under another ministry, but I can see that the efficiency is right there. In our house, as well as in EAS, this competence exists, we can go to help and do it in such a way that farmers will have a place to sell the goods. We now have more capacity than we have consumers. This is one of those very new projects. The second project, which I am convinced will provide better public support to small businesses, is the reform of organisations supporting entrepreneurship. Although'reform' is perhaps too big a word that is understood a little in a negative context, but very many businesses, especially small businesses, with less administrative capacity, have the problem that they are unable to find information where any kind of support or support can be obtained. Because of that, one-stop-window could make you go to one place and get all the information. If not all of the measures are available from this one window, then at least there is all the information you can get from, and you will be guided and you will be kept under surveillance to see that when you reach the next stage of development, how to help you then. This will create a very good and customer-centred support for entrepreneurship. For this, there could be a development organisation or a support organisation where, apart from direct payments, we are trying to reduce their proportion, because they have not, in my opinion, produced enough results compared to the money that has gone there, particularly soft subsidies (trainings, mentoring and a review of business plans). This includes, among other things, the start-up cycle and how to get beyond it to expansion and export. Small businesses should also be able to export. For example, I spoke today to the CERN people who said that it was precisely as their trading partners that they prefer smaller companies, because it guarantees flexibility that large companies no longer have. Another organisation should be a development bank familiar with either the German or British model, based on our current KredEx, but with a slightly larger portfolio, for example, would also offer an industrial loan or a business loan. Business loans are very difficult for small companies, especially micro-enterprises. But it would also be possible to offer an industrial loan, which is usually long-term and which is not currently provided by commercial banks. Perhaps this organisation would be a provider of services that are strategically important to the state, but which is currently not provided by the commercial market. This is another major project, which I think is very important and from which it is small and medium-sized enterprises that could benefit very much. Thirdly, it is difficult for me to choose from the industry, because the industry has a reputation as something where at least 300 people are employed and this company is large, polluting and noisy. In fact, today's industry is very knowledge-intensive and technology-intensive, with very few employees left. I think that this too is very important and, above all, from a certain regional point of view. I will also say that this measure is precisely intended for Ida-Viru County, where there are currently over 7 000 unemployed, this 12.4% is in no way acceptable. The office also agreed with me and we received EUR 3 million by 2017 in order to attract certain investors to Ida-Virumaa to set up their own business where there would be jobs, but which would also be highly technology-intensive and bring life to the region. It is said that one job in industry brings at least two more jobs in service. Smaller companies usually operate in the service again. I think it is very difficult to take out only one part of all economic development, but we need to look structurally and, of course, to solve the problems that are the most pressing. I think it is important that this regional approach is that if the unemployment rate in Tallinn and Harjumaa is 3.5%, but it is already 12.4% when it goes 160 kilometres east, then it is where the state must act together.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-02_U223	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-02_U224	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. We know that Latvia's economic growth has recently been considerably higher than ours. As Estonia keeps an eye on what Latvia is doing, how they have promoted their business, laws, taxation? Is there anything we could consider, learn and take over, especially in view of our small business, which we have a dominant form of entrepreneurship?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-02_U225	Thank you. It has to be said immediately that small and medium-sized enterprises are the predominant form of enterprise in almost the world, so there is nothing very unique about Estonia here. This is also the reason why very many countries have a special focus on smaller companies when it comes to politics. I do not quite agree with you that Latvia would have been very successful in any way. Everything depends on what we call success, everything depends on where we look at something and where we put the zero point. So, to give an example of the average hourly wage, if it is taken as a guarantor of success, it is over 10 euros in Estonia and, as far as I know, just over 7 euros in Latvia. So it cannot be said that Latvia would be much more successful. Estonia is a smaller country than Latvia, but more than 5,000 companies were registered in Estonia last year than in Latvia. On this basis, too, it can be said that there is therefore a quite good business climate in Estonia. The Economic Development Department is keeping an eye on almost all the major changes in our important target markets. Above all, we are looking at innovative things. Very many regulations are quite similar across the European Union, but if a country in the European Union is making a different, innovative solution, we will keep an eye on it to see how it will work. Several quite innovative solutions in Latvia have already been reversed because they have not started to work. It seems to me that, as we as a country constantly have to look for solutions to be better tomorrow than today, we do not have the point of copying other countries' solutions, because they may not work for us. But we will, of course, explore the best experiences and, if necessary and possible, use them.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-02_U226	Minister, thank you. No further questions for you. Mikhail Korb, are you sure you want to talk? It's not yet a free microphone time. Got it. I'm opening negotiations. Please come to the Riigikogu Chair!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-02_U227	Mr President, thank you for the opportunity to present an opinion. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to share some points with you. I thank the Minister for his answers. So, what's it gonna be? The last six months have been pretty harsh from an economic point of view. First of all, we learned that the chemical industry is not a prospective area in Estonia, that oil production from oil shale is no longer economically viable and that this whole branch must be consolidated. One time 500 people were laid off, the other time they were laid off again, and when we heard today that one job in industry provides two jobs in service, it turns out that around 3000 jobs were made redundant. The news now came that transit is not very important and the logistics of transit, at least towards the east, is not a priority for the Estonian economy and people are once again being made redundant in this area, the Estonian Railway is in great loss and the only solution is to connect logistics companies or freight transport companies. It is hoped that freight will increase immediately. We have now heard that Estonia's agricultural production is good, but unfortunately the producers of the trade chain cannot get away with their goods, because these goods are too expensive. Yes, indeed, they are a little more expensive than Polish or Hungarian goods or goods brought from other places, but the reason is that basically all our agricultural production can be called organic production, we do not add GMOs to our produced products, which is why our price level is higher. It's a question of how to be. The Estonian customer is very price sensitive; he usually buys the goods that are cheaper. Chains are pushing their way and their way of understanding. You can't get the chain in if you don't offer a very low price or very large quantities. The quantities delivered must be continuously guaranteed and very high. I think that the talk that regulations and European Union directives unfortunately do not allow, does not mean that there is a problem. It is necessary to develop a system for our production to reach the counters, reach quickly and reach calmly, because the current story is starting to remind us of what is happening in the Estonian banking sector. There are some Swedish banks in Estonia, which are quite large. They dictate their will, collect as much money as they wish, withdraw dividends and make it to the state almost without paying taxes. It is all very similar to the situation in which certain chains dictate their will and we only say that we have directives and, unfortunately, nothing can be done. The angle of approach must be different. Priority must be given to our Estonian manufacturer. If it has to be paid, I do not think it will have a very high price, because the price we will pay for this product, which contains a lot of preservatives and other preservatives, is much higher. Thank you. Good luck!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-02_U228	Thank you. No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. An inquiry has been answered.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-02_U229	We are moving on to the 11th inquiry, which was submitted on the day of 17 March 2016. The inquiry is about burning money in the competitions of the Estonian mark and bears the number 188. Reply by Minister of Enterprise Liisa Oviir. I ask the representative of the heirs of the Riigikogu to introduce the questioning of the Chair of the Riigikogu, Andres Herkel!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-02_U230	Mr President, Madam President, five colleagues from the Free Party, four representatives from the EKRE, six representatives from the Centre Party, one Minister of Socialist and Honourable Affairs. Indeed, we have put such a title to this inquiry about burning money in the competitions for the Estonian mark. If all of this were a phöljeton and didn't happen in Estonia, then it would be funny. But unfortunately, it's sad that things like this happen. I will also say for sure that it is actually a good thing that the competition for the Estonian Mark failed, because an even more mediocre story would have been if all these festive TV shows and all that pompousness around it had reached the formal finals despite the weak outcome. Luckily, the brake was pulled at the last minute. Estonian literature reminds me of Eduard Bornhöhe's Fame Fools, where such characters as the inventor Jaan Tatikas and the poet Solomon Vesipuruul acted. They wanted the best, too, but it turned out like always. It is sad in itself. We probably wouldn't have asked this question if it wasn't a tradition. After burning the current money, we remember 'Welcome to Estonia' and this whole campaign has a lot of fuss about nothing, little wool and 13.3 million. The kroons were then counted; now we count in euro the money that has gone to the wind in these competitions or, at least, spent without a clear vision and result. Furthermore, it is not clear to us what status any other initiative is in. The Prime Minister came here to support the export and foreign economy of Team Estonia. It was sometime last year before Christmas, but we haven't learned much about it either. We also note that an initiative such as Organic Estonia, which we find quite interesting, was left on the Estonian Development Fund's design contest. But in the meantime, these initiatives have gone a little crazy like Kört-Pärt's shirt or we really don't understand what's going on. In fact, with this question of understanding, I would still like to reach the finals in this sense so that we can find out which business support structures we have at all, how they work and how they can make them work in a way that companies can evaluate them. So we also have a question about the future of EAS. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-02_U231	Thank you. I ask the Minister of Enterprise of the Riigikogu to answer the question, which bears number 188!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-02_U232	Thank you. There's a whole lot of questions right here, seven. I'm starting over, and I hope I can finish with the answers within the time allowed. The first question: 'What is the basis for an understanding of the need to seek an additional statemark if even people involved in this project cannot provide examples of where a strong national brand has been achieved through this kind of competition? One of the tasks of the Enterprise Estonia Foundation, or EAS, is to introduce Estonia internationally. As a result, Estonia's communication messages and visual identity have also been periodically updated so that when we communicate with the outside world we can tell the same story and look visually uniform. Instead of developing separate messages for each country, it will be more effective if common messages are sent based on our qualities, our strengths, as well as the success stories that have already received international attention. The design of the Estonian brand was started during the time of Minister Sulling, and on the basis of his decision, an Estonian image team was created at the EAS. In the meantime, the State Chancellery was also strongly involved in the process. Developing the image of Estonia is important for attracting foreign investment here, but also for providing support to exporters, as well as for attracting tourists to Estonia. EAS and other organisations have conducted surveys among entrepreneurs, in the cultural community and in the tourism sector. These surveys show that these stakeholders have a need to market their products and services internationally, but in order to support and facilitate this, they want to make a greater contribution from the state to the image of Estonia. We can be proud of our products, services and start-ups. In Estonia, the largest number of start-ups is per capita across Europe; in the world, we are the second most important apart from Israel. We are proud of our cultural heritage and our e-society, but all these things need to be discussed and introduced more boldly outside Estonia. Today, however, there has been a lack of message that would fit most sectors, logistics to the metalworking industry and tourism to civil society. Introducing makes it easier to have a conscious approach to what the Estonian brand is. What is important is that we are not still talking about looking for an Estonian sign or logo, but about looking for a larger image that would help our exporters export, help us open new target markets, bring foreign investments here and introduce us as a tourist destination. The second question: 'How do you assess the success or lack of the previous Estonian sign 'Welcome to Estonia' and the feasibility of spending 13.3 million kroons spent on creating it? The concept of 'Welcome to Estonia' was structured but also implemented in such a way as to meet the needs of the tourism sector in particular. The tourism sector has clearly stated that they have really benefited from this mark. Other sectors have said that the benefits of this concept and the sign have been very low. For example, Estonian exporters have said that they have used this mark in 4% of cases. It can be said that, if only the tourism sector has benefited from it, its original idea was too narrowly developed and probably aimed at only one place. At the same time, all sectors and sectors surveyed have recognised that creating a strong national image would help them to promote and market their products and services internationally. 'Welcome to Estonia' is more of a sign, there is more of a formal side at the front, but we are now trying to focus much more on the content, which is Estonia, which we then sell with this image. We are quite well known in the world as a country with very strong ICT solutions. But the question is whether ICT is the mark of Estonia or whether our value is innovation and flexibility, so that we can develop our economies much faster than the big countries. All these organisations, as well as the officials who help to introduce Estonia outside Estonia for one reason or another, have said that it is very important that the Estonian ambassadors receive a commonly agreed message that they can use every time and thus sell our image to potential partners. In my opinion, the Estonian sign 'Welcome to Estonia' remained very clearly focused on the tourism sector, and that is why it does not meet current needs. Question 3: 'How do you assess the activities of EAS in the search for an Estonian sign and brand and what are the plans after the badge search competition has failed? ' As mentioned above, this process began in 2014 in EAS. Discussions and interviews with a few hundred people have taken place, with nearly 400 people participating in the workshops. Last year Estonians were trusted to participate in the collection of ideas and are now continuing to formulate common values and messages. Since the 'Welcome to Estonia' sign was set up with criticism for the amount spent on it and for the relatively limited team, this time the team working with the Estonian image decided to do it differently and to launch a public label competition. The competition received many idea designs, of which the jury selected five best works, but unfortunately none of them were capable of achieving the desired end result. Each competition inevitably involves the risk that the best solution will not be found. This risk was actually taken into account by the team, which is why today EAS has involved the team of the best designers in Estonia, with whom the creation of the country's design signature, or the so-called visual identity, will continue. The resulting solutions will be introduced to business associations, organisations involved in external communication, the tourism sector and the cultural sector, as the aim is to make the widest possible use of image and messages so that all sectors can benefit from it. Designs are also awaited by the State Chancellery, who will receive both the 'Estonian Republic 100' and the symbolism associated with the Presidency of the European Union during the process. That, too, is one of the reasons why this approach is now taking place. The fourth question: 'What new have been given by the current roundtables, workshops and in-depth interviews conducted by the Estonian brand team? ' The roundtables, workshops and in-depth interviews held so far have confirmed the idea that Estonia can be introduced through the image of an innovative and innovative state. During this process, concepts such as smartness, flexibility, innovation, sustainability and intelligence have always emerged as keywords. It is very important that this image corresponds to what people living in the country think it can be sold for. The most mentioned topics include digital Estonia and the very rapid development of information technology, our smart, innovative and creative approach to problems, as well as the living environment, clean nature and organic products. So once again: brand is not a logo, brand is an Estonian identity. It is important that all our sectors bear the same values, regardless of whether this sector is education, research, tourism or industry. Thus, the image team is formulating a single value offer based on the position of Estonia as a pioneer and the creator of solutions. During the last ten years Estonia has launched several important projects, which have still received a great deal of attention in the world, mention e-residency or 'Let's do it! ', which is an initiative under World Harvest Day. These are initiatives that we can learn from the success of renewing the brand, but they are also initiatives that we use in brand innovation and are part of our identity. Question 5: 'How do the further steps towards brand renewal and brand search relate to the team Estonia cooperation platform in support of the foreign economy launched by the government? ' Team Estonia's version has not yet been introduced to the government, which makes it very difficult for me to tell you how they relate to each other. I can confirm that the State Chancellery has been involved in the search for the Estonian brand, so I can only assume that these concepts are harmonised and mutually supportive. Question 6: 'In what way does the renewal of the brand relate to the idea of Organic Estonia that remained on the surface in the design contest of the Estonian Development Fund? How do you see the future of this project? ' Organic Estonia's idea has been successful. This team is very active in the implementation of its idea. Workshops take place, ministries are involved, but at the same time they have already reached the first solutions very clearly. The Estonian image team has worked closely with the Organic Estonia working group, but these two concepts are rather parallel, they are not activities that can replace each other. But there are common features in both projects and their value map is similar, so this idea of Organic Estonia or Organic Estonia is also used to create and develop the general vision of Estonia. This is clearly one way to stand out. But this is a very clear niche solution for certain producers to market their products. Clearly, this is stronger than the idea of Estonia's vision. Question 7: "What do you intend to do as Minister for Enterprise to increase trust in business support structures, fragmentation of activities, in particular duplication of activities and various substitution activities, will end? ' In the autumn of last year, after my appointment, I invited all the business umbrella organisations to express their views on the current support system to say how they see it now, what the strengths of this system are, but also the weaknesses, and what are the worst bottlenecks that prevent it from being used adequately. To my satisfaction, the feedback was very active, and the entrepreneurs really wanted to talk to us about it. The whole point of business was that the state would ensure consistency of measures between public authorities, create a common strategy to promote the economy and involve business organisations in assessing the economic situation and the development of sectors. It also stressed the need to make the provision of services more personal, taking into account the specificities of individual companies, businesses and also sectors. A lot of feedback from business organisations went through the fact that, on the previous point, I also referred to the fact that the whole support system is very fragmented. There are currently eight organisations that provide support for entrepreneurship, plus 15 additional county units. That's a lot. The entrepreneurs wanted us to set up a joint, bearing organisation that could say what grants and measures the state would offer and be a real partner for entrepreneurs. On this basis, we have initiated this work. Our bearing idea is that this system has to be at the end of the minute! A common, uniform and business-centred one, rather than a country-centred one.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-02_U233	Thank you. You have questions. Erki Savisaar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-02_U234	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, No known trade mark has arisen in an empty space. When we think about things like French wines, Dutch tulips or Swiss bells, they have always been strong products, with the promotion of the country. We in Estonia have this backwards: first we figure out the sign and then we start to decorate it. Why are we doing this? Why can't we use the practice of other countries, for example, choose three strong Estonian products, which could be invested in production and which could help to market and thereby promote our country in the world?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-02_U235	Thank you. They are, in my opinion, two sides of one thing. It is not quite possible that we are taking three products that we are helping to market, and the rest of us can manage ourselves. But as for the search for the Mark, you're right in that sense. I think we've gone that way too. Behind the Estonian IT display are very real things. Our national IT solutions are those that are set as examples. According to our ID-card system, Japan is trying to set up its own My Number system. Japan, which is a very innovative country and has a very deep IT culture, is actually learning from us here. Similarly, the idea of e-residency, which is taken over by an American company, is trying to do a similar thing in America. There are many of these examples. The last time I spoke to a member of the Panamanian government, who also said that they were trying to get e-government to work. He said they had the money, and I said come here, we'll teach you how to do it. This is what the Estonian state has. Again, this area is developing so quickly, we cannot stop, but we must always find new solutions. I will, for example, bring about the digitisation of the building register and not the current use of PDF-digitalisation, but rather the use of different systems rather than going into 3D for this model. These are the opportunities that we need to use and which are constantly embracing our IT display and innovation. In the same way you can mention the organic Estonia that was mentioned. Again, we cannot say that we do not have such things. For example, Estonian blueberry contains three times more antioxidants than Polish blueberry, as we are closer to the Arctic line. These things must be picked up and made an Estonian image of them. In the sense we have gained in this process, a few things have remained very strong: the same clean organic environment and very strong competence in the IT sector and constant readiness for new innovative solutions.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-02_U236	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-02_U237	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Secretary! What are we gonna do with this EAS now? What grade do you give him, and what happens next? I also ask what happens to these county development centres. Are they going through some kind of concentration or reform process due to administrative reform?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-02_U238	Thank you. I'll start at the back. The county development centres have several owners, so the state does not have the opportunity to make any changes on its own. However, changes arise because they are related to EAS and they inevitably have new functions and new content in the process of changing EAS. I certainly do not agree to give any grade to the work of the EAS and not because I am simply stubborn, but rather because I see that the organisation is actually as good and as strong as the management, or what tasks have been actually given to it. It's up to them to get the result we get there. So I see EAS in a slightly different key than he has been so far. One thing is that direct payments have not produced the result we have wanted. We need to think more about support than subsidies. Secondly, I see that, as a country, we need to move in the direction of providing a fishing rod rather than a fish, i.e. we need to move towards financial instruments. But we also need to move towards a very strong competence centre for EAS, i.e. it would be a partner of companies on the one hand on their development path, but in other respects it would also be a very clear partner of the state. The strength of EAS is that it has a very large client portfolio. This means that he actually always has the knowledge of what is happening in the field, or where the shoe squeezes. They have not deliberately collected this knowledge at the moment, they have not analysed it, and they have not been able to provide it as one of the inputs to policy making. My expectation, which I have also said, is that, too, we are moving towards this, so that they can have a real economic analysis so that the state can react as quickly as possible to changes in the economic environment, and they have the capacity to support a particular company, not with a universal set of money, but rather on the basis of an understanding of what is happening in the economy and in business. The measure of the company's development programme, which opened in January, was the first significant change of direction. The company's representatives go in and talk about their situation, and together with the EAS, they will examine their state of affairs. EAS listens to the company's wishes and development needs, and then these things are brought into line with the desire that the company should develop and expand and start exporting. Our internal market is so small that exports are very important to us. Then the best solution can be found in the country's customer portfolio. Once the solution is offered, the way in which the development takes place will be kept under review, so that when the company reaches the next stage of development, the next solution could be provided to help the company reach the next stage again. I think this change is very important. I really hope that at some point this organisation has become a very good partner for the country and a very good partner for companies.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-02_U239	Let's move fast! Monika Haukanõmm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-02_U240	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. EAS has dealt with and is still working on the search for the Estonian sign and brand. The first contest failed, but you will continue to search, as we have learned. In addition, when you answered one question, you mentioned for me a new so-called brand or design seeker, the State Chancellery. A solution to use for the 'Estonian Republic 100' will be sought. Do these things go hand in hand? How do EAS and the State Chancellery work together, and what amounts are we talking about, is this one pot or is there several pots?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-02_U241	Thank you. I'm gonna start at the end again because I like numbers. This amount, from 2014, when we started until the end of 2016, is EUR 298000, including EUR 220000 of European Union money, and the rest comes from the state budget. Indeed, the State Chancellery also expects designs, but of course they are part of the same process. During this process, the symbolism associated with both the 'Estonian Republic 100' and the Presidency of the European Union is obtained through EAS.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-02_U242	Arthur Talvik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-02_U243	Good President! Good minister, you didn't convince me when you answered Erki Savisaar. I feel exactly the same way that we're starting a company first, looking for a name, getting the logos ready, and then we start scratching our heads and wondering what this company could now produce and sell. In my opinion, the biggest problem is that we do not have a single agreement, which is Estonia at all, and what is this vision of Estonia that we would like to sell. That's where all the problems start. Is there any plan to start putting together an 'Estonian vision' that we could all introduce together and move towards and build Estonia like this?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-02_U244	Thank you. It was about what we want. This is important, but the most important thing is what we can actually display. There are things we can't do because they're not ours. We still have to choose from among the things that are characteristic of the Estonian state and from among them to make the choice that we present. Of course, we also have certain behavioural habits that we do not want to exhibit very clearly outside. But that is precisely the reason why, now, compared to the previous process, when a relatively small number of people put together their vision, the approach to this matter absolutely the other way around, and it has been done with the help of workshops and in-depth interviews. A very large number of people have been involved and the public has been called upon to contribute. We have collected ideas that are the image of Estonia, which is what we have, which is close to our heart and which we want to exhibit outside. If a member of the Riigikogu goes on a foreign visit, he should know what our strengths can be called each time. Then there's a really good idea that we're always displaying the same thing. IT is a very good example. We've actually been talking about this for the last ten years, and now, wherever you go, there are people out there who say, "Ah, you're the ones with the strong IT! " Relatively many people do not know that Skype is Estonian origin, but it is known that we have developed IT strongly. This is why to do it even more consciously, but perhaps not only IT-centred, but rather to switch to innovation-centred, because most solutions are not IT-solutions, but innovative solutions that make the country's life more comfortable and, most of the time, cheaper. That's why the IT themed stays because it's something we're proud of and we have reason to be proud of, but we're trying to make it a little bit wider. It also came out of polls that innovation and flexibility are all available to us. But there's another side. We are natural people by nature, and organic and organic production are important to us. At the same time, they are also something that we can actually sell. Because, as it turned out from the previous debate, we are not really hitting others at a low price. But by adding that our product is organic, it helps to market these export products. Some of our organic producers say that they have more orders than they can meet, precisely because Organic Estonia has already had an impact. So I hope I can convince you that the vision is important. It is a systematic and structured work that gives all members of the Riigikogu, members of the government, diplomats, tools that can be used to tell us how extraordinary a country we live in.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-02_U245	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-02_U246	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Minister! In December 1917 when the first Estonian foreign ambassadors went to Norway and Denmark, they had nothing to introduce Estonia. They wanted to talk about Estonia wanting to become independent, and they found two adjectives: an educated and smart nation. Wouldn't the same organic Estonia that you have mentioned several times be exactly the big vision of innovation, small farming, small business, smart people, cultural heritage conservation, etc.? Is and how well it has been worked out and debated in organic Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-02_U247	Thank you. It has rather been developed through the Organic Estonia project, but it has not been sufficiently developed in the sense of a large image. To limit itself to this organic aspect, it is actually a little difficult to present, for example, what is being highlighted all the time and what you have also highlighted, namely education. It's more difficult to do that, and science might make it a little better to introduce, yes, but here it might be a little bit more restrictive. It's the same with the industry that there's a part here, but the other part stays out. It is precisely this technological and innovative side that we have and want to show, and which is also very well connected with today's industrial trends, and where, I believe, we really have something to offer the world, it would therefore remain outside. I think this vision has to be a little bit wider. It could perhaps consist of only a few aspects, but certainly this organic component is very important. It also encourages the development of the tourism sector, which it is very suitable for. But we would like to find the broadest possible vision that will benefit many sectors. When tourism operators said that they benefited from this label, the rest of the operators said that they did not receive it. That's what we're trying to avoid, and that's why this thing is long-term, because we've just tried to use a lot of engagement, and as little as possible, that five people come together, sit together in one room and decide the vision.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-02_U248	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-02_U249	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good minister! All you're saying is very beautiful, that untouched nature and organic food and technology and IT. You can write all this down and make it a great commercial brochure, but you have to visualize it. I'm sorry, the competition that was made showed that it was a rather hopeless undertaking. 'Welcome to Estonia', well, welcome to it makes most people laugh. In fact, maybe you could limit yourself to a nice television commercial and a brochure. We see on television every day that Turkey and Greece, or whatever countries, are beautiful and wonderful. But it's impossible to visualize all of this, and does it make any sense at all?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-02_U250	Thank you. All I can say is more ambition, comrades! EAS has engaged Estonia's best designers in its team, with whom it is still trying to develop this country's design signature, or visual identity. If important events such as 'Estonian Republic 100' and the Presidency of the European Union were shaped by a similar visual handwriting, they would start supporting each other. It may be difficult, but it may not be. For example, Finland has gone a relatively simple and minimalist route, using its national colours to shape the backgrounds they put everywhere. That, too, is one of the things we are talking about. But again, I am a lawyer from education, and I believe that our designers can find a dignified image for Estonia; I cannot offer it now, and fortunately it is not my job either.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-02_U251	Viktor Vassilyev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-02_U252	Thank you, Mr President. Good madam minister! The strongest brands in the world are quite simple. The three-point star doesn't in any way refer to the motor or the quality of the Mercedes. After all, the toothed apple is a piece of junk, and there's nothing to suggest that there's a hard computer company back there. After all, a virgin Mary, a holy Trinity, and all 12 apostles may be placed on the trademark of Estonia, but the person who has not been here thinks that Estonia is somewhere near Eritrea, just as his list of computer languages is between Eritrea and Ethiopia. Should we not focus, however, on Estonia being a rich country, people being happy here and not fleeing somewhere else? Then let the art school students draw a very simple logo and it won't cost anything.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-02_U253	Thank you. I don't believe in simple solutions like that. We already had five designs, but it turned out that they are not exactly what we would like to have. But I wanted to stress that we're not actually looking for a logo. We're looking for a visual identity that fits all documents or data media, and for this design to be made with a similar handwriting. Secondly, we are looking for a meaningful image of the country, that is to say, this part of the content. So once again, this logo may indeed be simple, but in the case of a country, it may be relatively difficult to achieve such simplicity. I think the logo of a very good country is our flag. But we're essentially talking about visual identity, design writing. The brochures that speak of 'Estonian Republic 100' are also advertising brochures, and their design would have been done with the same handwriting. We are talking about what are the aspects that we want to highlight and highlight as a result of this work, saying that, that is, this is our Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-02_U254	Minister, thank you. No further questions. I'm opening negotiations. Riigikogu speech chair Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-02_U255	Mr President! Honourable members of the Riigikogu, who have been a little short in the Chamber during this process and are now even smaller! But I am pleased that at least one representative of the coalition is here to support the Minister. Thanks for the answers. We have come to the strange conclusion that the flag could be a logo. In a way, this is, of course, very right. I understand that designers have a great deal to do with EAS and this initiative. But is there anything going to happen? It'd be nice if I came. But when I listened to the answers, I remembered that the Free Party made a logo a few years ago, this whole process cost a few hundred euros, and it came out pretty well. Well, I guess it's just that campaigning and national thinking is kind of blocking it somewhere. These things don't come out that way. These things are just done by young people outside the system under completely different conditions, and then they all suddenly exist. We also have a very creative collective. We could, of course, continue the discussions with the Minister on how to establish this identity and these common values. I don't think it takes those sociologists or those guys who interviewed several hundred people for a long time. This thing's a little off. I have to say that I liked the part of the minister's answer that came in the form of answers to questions much more than the text prepared by the officials, which he read off the paper. That's how creative and sparkly moments arise somewhere else. We didn't find out much about this Team Estonia. I guess we'll have to ask the Prime Minister. I understand you don't know that either, and it's a mystery to us. We've had a brief encounter with the Organic Estonia team, their eyes were shining, and it made a really good impression. This is one direction that should definitely be taken forward. I would like to see the intelligence and innovation you put forward as keywords, but right now it is all in such a form that it is more like a substitute. Finally, a word about EAS. If memory doesn't fool me, then EAS was created in its time to bring together business structures and somehow put this thing under one hat. But I guess the rule of bureaucracy expansion and dispersal is that now we're picking up these fragments from somewhere across the country again and concentrating everything. That's one thing we need to think about, why does it always go like this? If we don't think about it, it's gonna be like this again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-02_U256	Thank you. No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. An inquiry has been answered.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-02_U257	Good fellows! We haven't gotten to the free microphone yet, there's another question. Let's go to the next question, which is the 12th. It was submitted on 24 March. The inquiry is about stopping peripheralization and the situation of entrepreneurship and is number 195. Liisa Oviir, Minister of Enterprise, will answer the question. It is a great honour to welcome the representative of the speakers of the Riigikogu, Monika Haukanõmme. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-02_U258	Mr President! Honourable members of the Riigikogu! Good minister! One last effort. I am pleased to present briefly the question of eight members of the Free Party Group on the situation of marginalisation and entrepreneurship. This time we will focus on South Estonia and, above all, on Võrumaa, which is my country of birth. Estonia is undoubtedly a small and at the same time a very flexible country. Our business environment is often set as an example, our companies are undoubtedly good and active exporters, who have been coping with rapid economic growth and an even faster recession over the last ten years, because we have had this development like a railroad that goes up and down. At the same time, it must be recognised that our business environment could be even more open, friendly and more regionally diverse and why not more stable. There is a strong interest in investing, both externally and internally, but we need to work harder to make real progress. Nothing happens and it doesn't come by itself. Attention needs to be paid to employment, the availability of a skilled workforce, training, innovation, as well as support for the establishment of industrial parks by the state, etc. It is also often said that our country is just as strong as its smallest and most distant point, be it Ida-Virumaa or Võrumaa. It is very important that investments and support measures are distributed across the country in a balanced and fair manner. It is also important that development is balanced, ensuring that it is good to live, work and do business in Estonia, both in the capital and, in fact, between the mountains of Võrumaa. The Social Democrats have repeatedly promised to pay particular attention to halting peripheralisation. The Coalition Agreement allows support for the creation of industrial parks and industrial sites and the promotion of electricity and communications networks and provides for other regional development measures. So far, when we talk about supporting industrial parks and development in general, we have concentrated mainly on Ida-Virumaa, but those areas that remain empty are elsewhere. Võru County Government is known to have planned, on its own initiative, the creation of at least six industrial sites (Võrutool, Missos, Väimelas, Kobelas, Vastselina and Rõuge). It seeks to develop a wide range of areas: wood, metal, construction materials, food, electronics and textiles, logistics, agriculture, transport and machinery. They also want to create up to a hundred new businesses with thousands of jobs. We want to know what the county government and the ministry have planned together, where it has come from, and what are the plans, how the development of Võrumaa will be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-02_U259	Thank you. I ask the Minister of Enterprise of the Riigikogu for a speech chair, Liisa Oviir, so that we can hear what is planned in the mountainous Estonian county in the beautiful Võru County. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-02_U260	The mood gets pretty funny in the middle of the night. Here are four questions. I'll start at the beginning and answer them all one by one. The first question: 'Section 5.4 of the Coalition Agreement allows the launch of a programme for the creation of infrastructure supporting regional entrepreneurship in such a way that part of the state, part of the municipality and part of the company contribute. Has the programme started, and what success has it brought? ' The pilot program in South-East Estonia, which includes Võrumaa, Valgamaa and Põlva County, is scheduled to be launched this year. The programme is designed to support enterprises in joining the electricity grids, as the analysis prior to the creation or development of the programme showed that this aspect is, in the opinion of the operators, problematic, and there is currently no such measure. The pilot programme is worth EUR 300000 and is planned to start in September. Arto Aas, Minister of Public Administration, is currently responsible for the programme. It is probably important to mention that next year this programme will come under the administration of the Minister for Enterprise. The programme will amount to EUR 1 million next year, EUR 1 million in 2018 and EUR 5 million from 2019. In addition to this pilot programme, which is intended to join the electricity grids, I think it is very important to talk as an initiative to halt peripheralisation, about the public-supported rental housing programme, which is also under the administration of the Minister for Enterprise. The country's budget strategy foresees EUR 17.5 million for the implementation of the programme for the period 2017 to 2020 including EUR 2 and a half million planned for 2017 and EUR 5 million per year thereafter. We are currently developing the underlying documents for this measure to be ready to start a pilot project in 2017. This project is planned to be launched in several counties. In the development plan of Ida-Virumaa, it is inside, but South-East Estonia has also shown a very high level of activity and one project is coming to the region. The implementation of the rental housing programme requires the contribution of the state, local government and private sector companies. In developing the measure, we have taken the view that the share of public investment as direct aid is minimal in larger centres, which may be slightly higher in smaller regions. We will certainly take the objectives of both the administrative reform and the regional development strategy into account when implementing the programme. The "Estonian Housing Development Plan 2008-2013" already envisaged the creation of 700 municipal apartments. However, due to the economic downturn and budget cuts, this measure could not be implemented. Now we hope to start implementing it next year to enrich our rental housing fund. We did a survey on this, and we got the results at the end of March. We were just examining the readiness to settle in rental homes. One of the reasons we did this was that 10% of people live on rental premises in Estonia. We wanted to see if this is the part of the people who are willing to live in a rental dwelling. As we know, Estonia has a rather peculiar situation compared to several other European countries, because we prefer to own housing rather than rent it. However, the survey showed a bit unexpectedly that 26% of all respondents are ready to settle on public-sector-supported rental accommodation. This exceeded our expectations, but obviously it shows very clearly that there is real demand for such housing due to labour migration. In May, the Ministry will convene working groups composed of representatives of interest groups and other ministries, then the results of this study will be presented in more detail, but the concept of public rental homes will also be introduced. The second question: 'How do you assess the feasibility of developing industrial areas in Võrumaa, cost-benefit analysis and marketing plan? What assistance and advice has been provided by the Ministry under your command to carry out these intentions? In your opinion, what developments in industrial areas in different regions of Estonia are particularly worth highlighting? ' There is certainly potential in Võrumaa industrial areas and this local initiative must be acknowledged. The local initiative is that the leaders of these industries have gone, I think, to every member of the government for now. In order to mitigate the risks, it is probably appropriate to develop industrial areas gradually, starting with the development of the next industrial area once the previous one is in progress. It is important to develop the first phase of infrastructure in the industrial area of Võrusoo. Investments are supported by the state with a measure to strengthen the competitiveness of the regions, as it supports all industrial areas already existing or under development in Estonia. The development of industrial areas in Ida-Virumaa is certainly worth highlighting, because it is very well launched, and there is a very initiativeful leader. It is not limited to the development of infrastructure in the industrial area, but it works to ensure that companies come to Estonia. The first industrial area is basically already full. The establishment of industrial areas will be supported, as I said, by a measure to strengthen the competitiveness of the regions of the Ministry of Finance and the final decision on financing and which industrial areas will receive funding will become clear in 2016. But I want to stress once again that it is very important that the creation of an industrial area alone is not enough to get entrepreneurship in the region. This requires very systematic action to promote and attract investments in these areas. There are four regional investors in the field of investor service in Estonia: Harju Enterprise and Development Centre manages North-Estonia, Pärnumaa Enterprise and Development Centre West-Estonia, Tartu Business Counselling Centre South-Estonia and Lääne-Viru Development Centre East- and Central-Estonia. They have an overview of the possibilities and resources of the region (land, infrastructure and labour). In order to attract investment, a service centre measure has been introduced, which is quite well launched. I have also brought to the government (specifications are still being developed) the measure of electricity excise specialties for energy-intensive industries, which should again provide an opportunity to bring certain energy intensive enterprises to these industrial areas. However, an investment measure for 2017 for which we have received EUR 3 million will also be created today. The third question: 'What effect does the business climate in South Estonia have on the fact that in Latvia excise duties are lower and the environment is more favourable for small businesses? How many small businesses in Estonia have you estimated have taken activities to Latvia in the last year? We ask for a separate assessment of the situation in Valga and Valka. " When I answered the previous questions, I already touched a little bit on the business climate in Latvia. I must say that the lower excise duties in Latvia have a rather limited impact on the business climate in South Estonia, because excise goods are fuel and alcohol. Sellers of these groups may have a certain effect between excise duty levels, but it should be borne in mind that the difference between the 95 excise duties on the most common fuel type, petrol, is slightly less than one cent. So there is no significant difference in the price of fuel in the two countries, at least not in such a way that it would somehow facilitate the crossing of the border to buy fuel. It is also difficult to conclude that the business environment is significantly more favourable or even more favourable in Latvia. This is also demonstrated by the fact that I have already pointed out once in this Chamber that although the number of Estonian residents is smaller than Latvia, we had 5 000 companies registered more than in Latvia last year. The number of new companies registered in Valgamaa and Võrumaa increased in the fourth quarter of 2014. So it could be said that the Estonian business environment is more favourable, as Latvia's relatively complex and narrow corporate tax system has not given them a real advantage. When talking about Valga and Valka, it is likely that in certain cases alcohol is purchased from Latvia, but in the context of the county, this effect is not relevant. Question 4: "What other recipes and solutions do you propose in support of small business and regional development? ' Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, but of course other ministries also carry out quite a number of activities in order to promote entrepreneurship in Estonia. These activities are mostly included in the Estonian Entrepreneurship Growth Strategy. I also proposed additional support for attracting investors to Estonia, which I have already mentioned, in order to boost economic development in the process of the state budget strategy. A measure is also being developed to support regional operators in order to make it easier for them to join the electricity grids, which I mentioned earlier. It is probably worth stressing once again that if 2016 is a pilot project for South-East Estonia and by 2017 and 2018, EUR 1 million has been allocated to this action for both years, but from 2019 there will be EUR 5 million, which will already play a pretty important role in developing regional business and removing bottlenecks. I will take this opportunity to mention a few other measures that I believe are important both for the development of small business and for regional development. First of all, through KredEx, we have made available financial resources to the company, including start-up loans, loan guarantees, technology loans, capital loans, export loans, credit insurance, but also the provision of venture capital through the Baltic Innovation Fund and its sub-funds. Secondly, the support services provided through the regional development centres are of great importance in order to ensure that the services are available as close as possible to the location of the undertaking. Support services are advice (this is intended for both start-up entrepreneurs, i.e. "base advice," but also for active entrepreneurs, i.e. development advice), mentor clubs, trainings, organisation of events. So there are quite a number of activities that encourage entrepreneurship in the countryside. There are services in EAS designed to raise awareness, such as sectoral training, but also export development, such as fairs, joint stands, partner mediation (EAS has export advisors in 11 countries), as well as attracting investments to Estonia, start-up support to start-up entrepreneurs, the company's development programme, this is a tailor-made solution that I talked about earlier, but also tourism development measures are certainly important, such as increasing the visibility of Estonia as a travel destination of 27,6 million euros, and monitoring tourism development opportunities and developing the business environment. The development of tourist attractions of international interest and the development of regional tourist destinations will again cost EUR 40 million. So it seems to me that we are doing quite a lot to do this in order to develop entrepreneurship in the regions, particularly small entrepreneurship. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-02_U261	Thank you, Minister. You have questions. Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-02_U262	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, That's my question. How can we ensure that all these good measures are combined and that there is such synergy that the industrial area is really built where this pilot project, electricity and all the solutions you have foreseen some kind of support are included? Otherwise, it turns out that one place is building a house, another place is building an industrial area, but electricity is in the third place and these things don't meet each other. Unfortunately, we have also seen such examples. How are these measures synergically brought together? I basically agree with what you said, not six industrial parts at once. That's probably not how it works. We should start with one and then see how we go about it.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-02_U263	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. Does this pilot project include the construction of Internet cables? We know that in the current system, the cable can go past a person's home or small business a few hundred metres away, but this last job must be built with its own money. This has been a big enough obstacle for rural people. The second question: does this project also provide for measures to recall our own people from abroad to the industrial parks that are to be built?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-02_U264	Thank you. People come back when the environment is such that they see that their self-realization is possible here. But this pilot programme, which I was talking about, involves infrastructure to support regional entrepreneurship. Since it is a one-year project with quite limited resources, EUR 300000, it has been developed under the management of Arto Aasa in such a way that it actually concerns only connection to electricity networks. However, if this measure is prolonged after the pilot project, as I said, then from 2017 there will be connection to electricity networks, internet and roads on the table. This measure is currently being developed, but the initial project only involves joining the electricity grids, as the people on the ground pointed it out in the studies as the biggest barrier to business.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-02_U265	Monika Haukanõmm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-02_U266	Thank you. In fact, Mr Bridge was able to ask my question greatly. I also very much expected from your presentation that you would have talked about a high-speed Internet connection. We are also closely monitored in South-East Estonia by Internet transmission. I was asked to check with you. The state has promised to ensure the availability of high-speed internet. Indeed, not all companies are large and not located in these so-called incubators or industrial areas. But the other part of my question is this. While you mentioned a great many of the measures that are intended to promote entrepreneurship, could you point out once again those that could promote entrepreneurship on the outskirts of the country? For example, I would like to have a brief overview of the differences in electric excise duty.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-02_U267	Thank you. This pilot project to join the electricity grids, I must say once again, is supportive of entrepreneurship, it is not intended for individuals to have a high-speed internet connection at home. In 2017, it will no longer be a pilot project, but a project over-Estonian project, but this measure has not yet been developed. Currently, conditions are only the terms of the pilot project action. But even later, it remains business-centred; it does not allow a private person to have a fast Internet connection at home. As far as electricity excise duties are concerned, the measure is too crude to talk about it. The Department of Economic Development of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, in cooperation with the Department of Energy and the Ministry of Finance, will examine how certain benefits can be granted to energy-intensive companies. It will also be examined whether these benefits should be granted through excise duty, renewable energy charges or network charges. It analyses where the burden would be passed on in one case or another and whether there is any way to link it to the state budget. These issues are still being resolved. The analysis should be completed in the first half of the year, and then I'm going back to the government office. So you just have to keep an eye on it. But a number of entrepreneurs have said that they are looking forward to it. Since my experience is that many entrepreneurs have chosen another country to start a business precisely because, for example, we have more electricity for large companies than Finland, I am also very interested in it so that we can have such opportunities to attract investments to Estonia. They create jobs, and when these companies start to export, they bring money back to the state to a very significant extent. The third component here was important measures for regional development. This is very difficult to say, because many measures are universal. Entrepreneurship start-up grant or loan is suitable for both urban and rural settlements; there is no clear difference. In Arto Asa, regional measures are envisaged, with a very clear regional aspect such as the development of regional tourist destinations. But the responsibility of the Minister of Enterprise is primarily universal measures designed to make the Estonian environment more suitable for the development of entrepreneurship in general. Estonia is characterised by small business and therefore very many measures are aimed specifically at small and medium-sized enterprises.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-02_U268	Viktor Vassilyev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-02_U269	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Minister! It is very nice that you have excellent plans to settle the periphery with companies, but these plans have been held for almost 20 years and throughout this period the periphery has only run thinner. You pull in no matter how many Internet cables, but if there is no proper bus connection or pharmacy, let alone a family doctor, no post office, then the question arises as to whether the government that you are involved in as a minister has no intention of going the easier way and declaring remote areas outside four large cities as just less suitable areas to live in, where you can live only on your own responsibility. There is nothing new here, because, for example, dental care takes place at our own risk.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-02_U270	Thank you. I can answer that question by saying that the government does not have such a plan.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-02_U271	Minister, thank you. No further questions. Is there a desire to negotiate? You don't want to negotiate. An inquiry has been answered.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-02_U272	Thank you. This pilot program was quite unique in the sense that it was designed for South-East Estonia. That's where the polls took place. What is the biggest and most urgent problem in the region? The companies pointed out precisely that joining electricity networks is so costly, given the spread of settlement and the specific nature of the region, that it is a problem. This was the reason why this particular measure is coming to the region. But what about general? I fully agree that, in certain cases, these measures are fragmented. This will be facilitated if these measures, and often rather similar ones, are offered by different organisations. This is why the reform of my support structures started at all. The aim is precisely that we offer one thing in one place and do not, for example, provide start-up support for a start-up company in three places. It must be provided in one place under clear conditions. The other thing is that these organisations start communicating with each other. Specific agricultural measures are obviously outside this organisation, which is inevitable, because there is a common agricultural policy in the European Union, but the exchange of information must be organised in such a way as to know where it is and to be able to share information. There would also be an overview to rule out misuse, such as asking for money for the same project in three places that reduce limited resources. So my view is that fragmentation will be brought to an end if the state and businesses have a full view of what is out there. We're putting this function on a business development organisation that needs to have this information. It also means having a storage medium or an information base so that we know where it is, where it is, where the entrepreneur gets it, and what companies are in this system. This will also help to avoid double applications.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-02_U273	Uno Kaskpeit, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-02_U274	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear Minister, I'm going to enlighten you a little bit because you're very blue-eyed about Valga. I'm from Valga myself. As far as fuel is concerned, all Valga operators with trucks have entered into contracts with Latvian filling stations and they all refuel in Valka. With regard to the price of diesel, it is between 8 and 10 cents cheaper at Valka gas stations, so individuals also go there to refuel diesel. The price difference between petrol is lower, between 3 and 4 cents. As far as alcohol is concerned, there are two large alcohol shops on the Latvian side. Go to the shop at the border inspection post on Saturday or Sunday. There are cars from Tartu, Võru, Viljandi, buying dozens of boxes of beer.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-02_U275	Please ask me a question!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-02_U276	I don't have a question, I'm just opening the Minister's eyes so he's not so blue-eyed.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-02_U277	Thank you. We're in the middle of a questioning session. Minister, would you like to respond? Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-02_U278	There's no way I can give up the opportunity to present a reclining right now. It is clear that the border regions are and will remain, because we have neighbours, and it is just as clear that we cannot make our whole system suitable for the border area. However, the government's clear goal has been to raise alcohol excise duties, for example, by talking about these shops. Its aim is to change certain risk behaviour, the culture of alcohol consumption in Estonia. The burden that this culture imposes on our health insurance is considerable. How many lives we lose every year because of this risky behavior is remarkable. This is where the difference gets bigger. We must hope that the changed behaviour will also reach the border regions. But it is quite certain that from here in Tallinn there will probably not be going to the border for cheap alcohol, as this will ultimately make the goods more expensive. So with regard to alcohol policy, I would say that we must rather move towards higher excise duty and reduced availability.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-02_U279	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-02_U280	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Minister! For years, support has been provided for small businesses and small businesses in general, for example, for the marketing of products through clusters. Has and to what extent this clustering movement reached south-east Estonia and has it affected the region?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-02_U281	The activities of clusters are a very important target for us, because due to Estonia's small size, cooperation is very important in order to reach export markets. The support measure for cluster development is still in place, but it is in the area of smart specialisation (horizontal implementation of ICT in other sectors, enhancement of medical technology and resources). To this end, cluster development activities are carried out to directly or indirectly increase the efficiency of production and to develop and improve products and services. However, it is also important that the cluster's common market activities are also supported by this measure in order to increase the international visibility and position of the cluster and its partners and to support greater networking of the cluster and the involvement of new partners. I have no information about how many of these clusters are in South-East Estonia, but the division of EAS activities in the regions can be said that South-East Estonia is represented there very well and quite strongly. However, the cluster measure is, yes, what I myself have been talking about during my visit to the region. This is one of the ways in which we can break into those markets where we have basically met all the conditions other than volume. The cluster offers the opportunity to meet this condition through cooperation.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-02_U282	Ain Lutsepp, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-02_U283	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear Minister, How do you assess the sustainability of these projects and programmes over time, as they are regions with an ageing and shrinking population?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-02_U284	Thank you. Here we can bring another dimension and talk about family policy. If I remember correctly, there was a very interesting article in Postimees this morning by two authors. One author was economist Raul Eamets, who said that often in Estonia the third child is not born. He said the support of the third child could be greater. Studies have been carried out which say that it is often the opposite of rhetoric that money does not cause anyone to give birth that is an obstacle. Money doesn't make anyone give birth, but lack of money can make me give up giving birth, I can really say as a woman. If you look at the family policy measures that have been initiated during the previous government and are now coming into force, the first and second children's allowance will be EUR 60 from July 2017 and the three-child family allowance will be EUR 200 plus another EUR 100 for this child. Perhaps our family policy will make it possible for us to no longer be a country with an ageing population and to actually have more children. Our territory is quite the same as Denmark or the Netherlands, for example, but Denmark has five million inhabitants and the Netherlands has 11 million inhabitants. It's important to keep this in mind, because if we increase ambition, maybe we can catch up with them. But you can't quite finish with that bright note. Of course, these things must be borne in mind. But we need to bring more and more older people into business. Again, some of the most enterprising people in Estonia are women aged 45+. We often focus very much on start-ups, very young and modern solutions, but one solution would be, in my opinion, to exploit the human potential throughout his life, including in his old age, given the knowledge and experience he has developed. I do not mean that a person should work to death; rather, the period of life that is not yet in effective use should also be used effectively. This, of course, requires a change in health behaviour so that a person is able to work even at an old age. It can also link this alcohol policy. But with these measures, we will achieve that there is a future for entrepreneurship in Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-02_U285	Arno Bridge, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-02_U286	Dear colleagues, now we have really come to the moment we have long been waiting for, namely, a free microphone. Everyone who wishes to, after a hammer hit, is eager to register for a performance in a free microphone! Since there's no call request, I'm not gonna open a free microphone. Today's trial is over. Good luck in our work! Closure of the sitting at 21.35 p.m.
