ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-16_U1	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. We will begin the 5th working week Tuesday session of the 3rd plenary session of the Riigikogu. Do colleagues want to submit inquiries or drafts? My colleague Kersti Sarapuu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-16_U2	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I am honoured to present an inquiry to the Minister of Enterprise, Liisa Oviir, on behalf of the members of the Central Party Group. The inquiry concerns the Estonian tourism sector. Dear Minister for Enterprise, According to Statistics Estonia, 1.9 million foreign tourists stopped in the tourist accommodation companies in 2015, which is 3% less than in 2014. The number of Russian tourists decreased by almost a third in a year, from 275000 to 186000. The number of overnight stays of foreign tourists fell last year to nearly 4%, or 3.77 million. The Estonian tourism development plan foresees that by 2020, the number of overnight stays of foreign tourists will increase to 5 million, but the current economic policy will probably not support this and will actually move further and further away from achieving this goal. The Association of Hotels and Restaurants has been concerned that last year the number of tourists increased by more than a percentage, but still by only 3 million. In a situation where the number of foreign tourists is decreasing, it is not reasonable for the government to increase VAT on accommodation establishments from 9% to 14% next year, as this will make the competitiveness of Estonian accommodation institutions even worse compared to other countries. That is why we are asking the Minister for Enterprise some questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-16_U3	Thank you. There is no further request for referral of drafts or enquiries. On behalf of the management board of the Riigikogu, I have adopted one inquiry, and the management board of the Riigikogu processes it according to the Home and Working Procedures Act. Ladies and gentlemen, please let's do a presence check. 88 members of the Riigikogu registered as present, missing 13. Before we go to today's agenda, I have two clarifications on the agenda. On today's fourth item, which is the first reading of Bill 151, Jüri Adams, Member of the Riigikogu, will make a presentation on behalf of the initiators. Secondly, on today's seventh item (first reading of draft 169), Meelis Mälberg, Member of the Committee on the Environment, will make a presentation on behalf of the commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-16_U4	So let's go to today's agenda. The first item is the third reading of the draft Act 112 on the amendment of the Family Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and the related amendment of other laws. Do the political groups want to open negotiations? There's no call. Since the draft requires a majority of the composition of the Riigikogu to be adopted, we will do a verification of presence before voting. Requesting presence check! 89 members of the Riigikogu registered as present, missing 12. The Governing Commission's proposal is to put the draft to a final vote on 112. (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on the draft law amending the family law initiated by the Government of the Republic and, in this connection, on the amendment of other laws 112. Please take a stand and vote. 85 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the draft, there was no one against, with one abstention. The bill has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-16_U5	Let's keep going. Today's second item is the third reading of the draft law 113 on the amendment of the Succession Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and the related amendment of other laws. Do the political groups want to open negotiations? There is no wish to negotiate. This draft, too, requires a majority in its composition for adoption, and that is why, before the vote, we will have a presence check. 89 members of the Riigikogu registered as present, missing 12. The commission's proposal is for a final vote on the draft 113 and we are going to the final vote. I will put to the final vote the draft law 113 on the amendment of the succession law initiated by the Government of the Republic and, in this connection, on the amendment of other laws. Please take a stand and vote. 89 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the draft and there were no respondents or abstentions. The bill has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-16_U6	Let's go! Today's third item is the second reading of the draft law amending the Law on identity documents initiated by Riigikogu members Andres Ammas, Henn Põljaasa, Jaak Aaviksoo, Kristjan Kõljala, Mikhail Stalnukhin and Tanel Talve. The rapporteur is Kalle Laanet, Chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-16_U7	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm going to refresh your memory a little bit, which is the contents of Bill 55. The proposal is to extend the period of validity of our identity documents. The draft was launched on 11 June 2015 and the first reading took place in this large hall on 10 November 2015. By the deadline for submitting amendments, 24 November 2015, only a good member of the Riigikogu, Mihkel Raud, tabled the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs discussed the preparation for the second reading at its meeting on 14 December and 9 February. On 14 December, representatives of the Ministry of Internal Affairs and the State Information System Authority also attended the meeting, and on 9 February this year a representative of the Ministry of Internal Affairs took part. The Commission then examined the amendment tabled by Mr Raud and decided to table four proposals itself. First of all, what is the content of Mihkel Raud's proposal? Its proposal is to supplement section 93 (21) of the Identity Documents Act and to provide that the photograph to be entered in the document must not have been taken earlier than six months before the application was submitted. The record may be earlier if the person's state of health does not permit a later photograph to be provided. The content of this amendment is simplified by the fact that persons who are not physically or mentally able to take a document photo within a given time limit may use an earlier photograph. In principle, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs supported this proposal. But the problem is wider. After all, there are people born with such a disability that they will never be able to get a photograph that meets all the requirements. The problem of all these people needs to be solved. In addition, the Commission considered that the requirements for a photograph could be set out in a regulation rather than in a law. The Commission therefore decided to take into account the substance of the amendment, but did not accept the specific wording. The Commission therefore presented its proposal. Therefore, Amendment 2 has been tabled by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and it is proposed to delete the third sentence of § 93 (1) of the Identity Documents Act, 'on photo or facial image, the face of a person must be clearly visible from the lower jaw to the upper part of the forehead and from the right ear to the left ear and with minimal shadows. ' and to amend § 116 (4) and to provide that, when submitting an application for a document, the applicant shall present his photograph, which shall enable him to be identified unambiguously, and that the applicant need not present his photograph if his facial image is taken upon presentation of the application. § 93 of the Identity Documents Act regulates the registration of the applicant's photo or facial image document. Paragraph 1 further specifies how a person's face must be visible on a photograph or facial image. Paragraph 116 (4) sets out requirements that provide that a photograph may not have been taken earlier than six months before the submission of the application. In practice, however, the problem has arisen that some people are unable to present a proper photograph due to their medical condition. For example, people with birth or other disabilities and people in hospital beds under drips may be mentioned. This amendment deletes the requirements for a photograph from the law, including the requirement that the photograph must not have been taken earlier than six months before the submission of the application, and provides that the applicant does not have to submit a photograph if his facial image is taken upon presentation of the application. More detailed requirements for the photograph, including for specific cases arising from health status, will be laid down in a regulation established pursuant to § 15 (7) of the Identity Documents Act. This provision provides that the requirements for the photograph when applying for the issue of a document shall be laid down by regulation of the Minister responsible for the field. The proposed amendment was fully taken into account by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. Amendment 3 is similarly tabled by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. In addition to amending the provisions relating to the requirements of the photograph, the Commission decided, on a proposal from the Ministry of the Interior, to amend the provisions of the Dactyloscopy, i.e. the Law on identity documents relating to the taking of fingerprints. The current law provides that persons must be dactyloscopyed when applying for biometric documents if more than two years have elapsed since the last dactyloscopy. Similarly to the photo requirements, it is also appropriate to lay down the requirements for fingerprints in a decree of the Minister of the Interior. If this Regulation is amended, the possibility of extending the period after which new fingerprints must be taken from the applicant can be considered to facilitate the application for documents. More detailed requirements regarding fingerprints, including the time since the last fingerprinting, can be established in a regulation established pursuant to § 15 (6) of the Identity Documents Act. This paragraph provides that the procedure for obtaining biometric data from the applicant for the document shall be laid down by the minister responsible for the field by means of a regulation. The amendment was fully taken into account by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. Amendment 4. According to the current law, the diplomatic passport is granted to the Chancellor of Justice for a period of five years and to the person referred to in § 22 (3) of the Identity Documents Act for a maximum period of three years. However, the Chancellor of Justice is appointed for seven years. It is therefore proposed to issue him a diplomatic passport for seven years, but no longer than until his term of office expires. According to § 22 (3) of the Identity Documents Act, the Government of the Republic may decide, on a proposal from the Minister responsible for the field, to grant a diplomatic passport to another Estonian citizen if this is necessary for the performance of the state's tasks and is in accordance with international practice. The proposal is to extend the period of validity of diplomatic passports issued under that provision from three to five years, since the period of secondment of holders of diplomatic passports under that provision is generally longer than three years (generally four to five years) and therefore these persons must be issued diplomatic passports several times. This amendment was also initiated by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, which unanimously decided to take full account of it. Amendment 5 was initiated by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and is a proposal to enforce the law on 1 January 2017. This requires, however, a change in the existing contracts for the production and personalisation of documents, which in turn entails additional costs. The Ministry of the Interior has estimated additional costs of EUR 340000 plus VAT. In addition, the implementation of the Act requires changes in the information system of the Police and Border Guard Board. That, too, brings costs. In order to be able to plan these resources in the state budget and have sufficient time to amend the current contract and prepare and carry out the necessary development work, the proposal is to enter into force on 1 January 2017. Furthermore, in addition to the amendments, we also discussed in the committee the possible extension of the validity of the ID cards. Unfortunately, ID cards have a sophisticatedly prepared chip in technological terms, and if we extend the validity of the ID card to ten years, it creates great risks that ID cards may be tampered with. Their use, however, has widened considerably. So we removed this idea from the development table. What were the procedural decisions of the commission? The Constitutional Committee decided to put the draft on the agenda of the plenary session of the Riigikogu for a second reading on 16 February and to propose that the second reading be stopped. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-16_U8	Thank you. Good waitress, you have questions. Please, Mart Nutt!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-16_U9	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! I would like to ask about Amendment 4. I do not know if I remember wrong, but did the Commission not discuss the period of validity of the Chancellor of Justice's diplomatic passport for 7.5 years? In fact, the Chancellor of Justice would still not be able to use this passport over the last six months, because most countries are demanding that the passport be valid for at least six months.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-16_U10	We discussed this and decided that this time would be coordinated with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Councillor Karin Tuulik specified this with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and, consequently, this text has been put together in this way.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-16_U11	Erki Savisaar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-16_U12	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, The period of validity of the ID card was ten years in the past and the validity of the security certificate was three years. The period of validity of the certificate has now been extended to five years. Why can't an ID card be valid for ten years and be updated every five years?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-16_U13	Thank you for your question. Let's just say a citizen has to go to the Police and Border Guard Board every five years with his ID card anyway. The administrative burden would therefore not be reduced. But it is generally a matter of security, and so we decided not to further develop this issue during the procedure for this draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-16_U14	Erki Savisaar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-16_U15	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, The changes to the certificates were made via the web interface. It didn't have to go anywhere, it could be done peacefully on its computer, and at the time no security risks were seen. What are the security risks that have recently appeared and for which reason the validity of the ID card cannot be extended?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-16_U16	The Ministry of the Interior argues that the longer term of validity entails security risks. No one in the Commission specifically pointed out that it was possible to change certificates using a computer. This is not what we discussed, and this opportunity was not proposed. That was our reasoning.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-16_U17	Thank you, dear waitress. No further questions for you. Ladies and gentlemen, is there a desire to open negotiations? Mihkel Iron, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-16_U18	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear colleagues! I don't know about you, but people have often asked me how my work in this Riigikogu affects the lives of other people. I suppose that's what you've been asked. As a rule, I have been forced to lay my hands somewhat awkwardly and say that it does not affect much, and if it does, in some very long and very unfathomable perspective. However, there are also legislative proposals that can be said to solve the problems of very specific and sometimes very individual people in the course of their proceedings. I am pleased to note that this is the draft law that we are dealing with here today. Recently, about six months ago, the work of the Riigikogu is really quite recently written to me by one person, and wrote like this six months ago. 'We all have a duty to have a valid identity document, on top of which the police have a duty to demand the most recent picture of you, because you need to be identified immensely. Everything is okay as long as it doesn't affect, for example, someone in a coma with a hopelessly negative prognosis or a person in its close condition. This is not a nice picture,' he wrote and continued: 'I would be happy to see how large decisions aside from this small decision are regulated, because I think most people have not maintained a black sense of humor like me at this point, and it hurts them and humiliates those who are sick. I'd like to hope that even lying in a coma, your human dignity is protected by law. ' Now I am really happy to report that this issue of human dignity of individual people has finally been resolved during the proceedings of this bill, and I would like to thank the Constitutional Committee of the Riigikogu for that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-16_U19	Thank you. There is no further wish for negotiation. Let us examine the proposed amendments, which are five. The first amendment tabled by Mr Raud has been taken into account in substance; the second amendment tabled by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has been fully accounted for by the lead committee; the third amendment is also fully accounted for by the lead committee proposed by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs; the fourth amendment presented by the committee on Constitutional Affairs has been fully accounted for by the lead committee; the fifth amendment is also fully accounted for by the committee on Constitutional Affairs. We have examined all the amendments. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the second reading of draft 55. Second reading is over.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-16_U20	We will proceed to today's fourth item on the agenda: Ain Lutsep, Andres Ammas, Andres Herkel, Artur Talvik, Jüri Adams, Kersti Sarapuu, Krista Aru, Külliki Kübarsep, Marika Tuus-Laul and Peeter Ernits initiated the first reading of the draft law of the couple. Jüri Adams, member of the Riigikogu, will be present!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-16_U21	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! When we start talking about the draft law of the couple, it must first be said that it is not a very independent initiative. It wasn't that we sat down and came up with a good idea that we needed to write such a bill. The draft is undoubtedly a reaction to the adoption of the Cohabitation Act in Estonia in 2014 and last autumn, 38 more extensive draft laws were issued to the Riigikogu with the signature of a representative of the people, entitled 'The draft law on the implementation of the Cooperation Act'. In a situation where there was obviously a need to criticise this draft, the question arose as to how it makes sense to do so, because purely verbal criticism is extremely difficult for such a draft, and probably less profitable. It seemed more reasonable to present criticism in the form of an 'alternative', to provide an example of what the draft law on this topic might be. The purpose of my present report is not to provide an exhaustive analysis or criticism of the Cohabitation Act and its sequel. However, I cannot fail to mention them completely, because the draft law of a couple is pushing these texts, but I will try to give minimal attention to the cohabitation law and the subsequent bill. The President of the Free Party Group, Andres Herkel, has recently started to use questions of whether or not and how to talk about this issue. I don't know if it's widespread, but most of the things I'm talking about here are still how-questions, to a lesser extent, are questions of whether or not. I will start with the 2014 Cohabitation Act. In this law, I am not particularly concerned with how it was achieved until it was drawn up and adopted, there are elements that I do not approve of. They make up the majority, unfortunately. But there is also at least one element that I think is absolutely commendable. This is the idea that instead of having a pseudo- or quasi-marriage of same-sex couples, such people would enter into notarial agreements with each other. This is a good idea and, in my opinion, the right way to go, better than in most other countries of the world where this issue is regulated either way. The main problem with this law is certainly that the concept of gender-neutral cohabitation was legally and theoretically unfit from the outset, and it could be predicted that there would be virtually no skin on it either. And it hasn't. Now I don't know how many such agreements could have been made between couples of different sexes, I've heard of one. In any case, there is no indication that the number of such common-law couples in Estonia amounts to hundreds of thousands. Clearly, it must be concluded that all those people who thought that they could somehow solve serious problems related to common-law relationships within the framework of that law have basically been deceived or deceived. The most important bad result is that what happened in 2014 had a divisive effect on Estonian society. There were pointless oppositions that persisted until now, and we have no hunch of whether they will ever end and if they do, how. It can also be treated in the same way as a recent Estonian political scientist has pointed out: we are dealing with an attack on the doctrinalism of the New Left, which requires the modernisation of Estonian life and society and also legislation. However, this modernisation has been carried out in such a way that those members of society who are not sufficiently modern are labeled, depreciated and tested for their redevelopment. But there is no united nation. The people can only be considered to be united as a legal concept. In real life, the different groups in society are very different, and if groups that do not want to go along with modernity, as they are presented to them, are not, in my opinion, worthy of professional politicians. If we go to the draft law implementing the Cohabitation Act, its main ideological problem is the fact that it essentially equates cohabitation with the concept of marriage in Estonian law. The legal trick used here is that a second title is placed on the law, but there is essentially an equalisation. I think people who have ever learned a little bit of mathematics or a lot of theory know that the numbers whose elements coincide with each other are essentially identical, although one may be named alpha and the other beta. In law, it is a matter of legal formalism. If we go further now, I would like to address the issue of bad and good law and draft legislation. This is what the basic question of how-to-do issues is all about right now. In a very general way, the purpose of the laws is to contribute to the normal course of life. The Bible book of Ecclesiastes says that one generation will go and another will come, but the earth will stand forever. This latter is not our subject, but how one generation goes and comes another is the subject of laws. The laws must help it, not make it harder. The purpose of the law should certainly not be to restructure life on the basis of any theory. The purpose of the law should not be pedagogical; the law does not have to cultivate groups that are left behind by the people. And all other possible goals, such as the desire to cheer someone up or something like that, are not the subject of the law. Good laws first recognize that they are as short as possible. Secondly, they are clear, which means that the same things are called the same names and different things are called different names. In comparison, the legal analysis of the Cohabitation Act shows that we had a marriage institution before in Estonia, but now we have three basically: first a classic or full marriage, then a partial marriage of different sexes, which, as I mentioned, has not started working in life, so it is not a problem, and then there is a same-sex quasi-marriage. And since they are called by various names and are not clearly distinguished, there is trouble. In principle, it is important for each law to know where it is applied. For example, it can be considered formalistically that a section of a text is found in the law on shipping, which is quite usable, for example, in the field of aviation. However, these are two completely different areas. In Estonian, for example, the word 'airship', which is an aircraft but is not a vessel sailing at sea, goes on by analogy. If someone were to build up a legal structure based on the word "ship," they would get one sub-category "airships" and another sub-category "marine ships." That doesn't make sense! There are certainly some parts of every law that the formalists do not see, but lawyers have seen from the beginning of time these are non-textual things that are not written in the text of the law. Above all, these are principles, but there is also a 'typical model' that is the basis of the law in the area of each law. The reason why family law is not applicable in other areas is that living in real life between a man and a woman or living in two same-sex relationships is essentially different things. The first comes with all sorts of other things: often, for example, pregnancy with all its risks and difficulties, children born, need to be raised, educated, helped to adulthood and eventually passed on to them. It is a model that is meant by family law, and it is a model that certainly does not match the problems of same-sex couples. Now a little bit of terms and terms. I am quoting an article by Vootele Hansen, where he has probably spoken as briefly as possible about the Cohabitation Act: 'It is the fact that the Cohabitation Act confuses the legal relationship and the terms that mean the reality of life. In the event of a marriage, the Family Law distinguishes between the couple's life together and their legal separation, so it is likely that in the case of a registered partnership, we should talk about the partnership and the legal separation of the partnership. ' This line of reasoning is a little over-turned, and I fear that the Estonian people will not understand. In the case of marriage, there is always a need for clarification, since there is a life together without marriage and a marriage without a life together. Historical marriage began millennia ago, and ever since then, marriage and later life together have been analysed on the basis of three important factors that have been briefly referred to as 'top', 'table' and 'bed'. These are the main aspects of the analysis, which are also important in our time. As far as the name of a couple is concerned, that name does not necessarily have to be. Since this is a new phenomenon, it is extremely important that it has a sensible and oral name. So the same-sex couple needs a clear, distinctive name without an emotional nuance. At the moment, the practice of using this word has been completely overwhelmed, more or less like the humor of the joke corner of newspapers. For example, the word "marriage," which is really funny, has come into use. I also came from a person who claimed that he had seen the word "co-sex" in print somewhere. Universal wisdom is that when a person cannot express himself clearly enough, when he is verbally incompetent, he is usually unable to think. The current situation confirms this. Now I'm going to our bill. Why is the proposed law of the couple not only good, but very good and close to ideal? There are three reasons why. First, it deals with one subject and does not confuse the various topics. Secondly, it is very clear on this issue by proposing standard terms for a contract between same-sex couples. Thirdly, it is as short as possible, I can't imagine that it could be even shorter. This shortness is made possible by the work done by notaries. We have notaries as independent justice officers who, apart from technical requirements, are subject to two general requirements. One is that the notary must protect the weaker party of the contract when proving the contract, and the other is that the notary must not endorse a contract that is contrary to good manners. In the meantime, many of the people who were in this hall were so funny that the couple's draft does not prohibit Grandpa and grandson's homosexual couple from signing a contract with each other at the notary. I would like to say that no sensible law must try to include a definitive list of prohibitions. It is quite enough if we leave these questions, which agreements are acceptable from the point of view of good manners and which are not, to the hands of the notaries. The second question is the question of registers. There are certain problems with the two registers we're talking about. Look, we have certain registers in Estonia, the entry of which has legal meaning. These are primarily registers such as the car register, the ship register and the land register. The entries in these registers, which have been discussed in the context of this topic, have only informative meaning. They have no legal meaning in the sense that the information contained therein must be shown separately. For example, in the case of a land register, the opposite is true: it is assumed that it is true and, if there is an alleged error, it is necessary to prove it. Perhaps the greatest omission has been on the subject of adoption. It is quite the same as the reform of the state, which means anything at all, is now being said. Unfortunately, the current family law lacks concepts that have historically been in the law with this name and were also in the previous family law: I am thinking of concepts such as stepchild and foster parents and stepmother, stepfather and stepchild. I can't imagine any reasonable person being able to talk about the adoption of this law using the terminology that is in the current laws. When we recall what a stepfather and stepmother have meant, which has been one of the sub-categories of the concepts of stepfather and stepmother, what is offered in the case of a couple as a couple of other participants is undoubtedly very similar in law to a foreign parent. So there shouldn't be any legal problems here. So let's recap, which is why the law of the couple would be good. First of all, it would provide legal protection in property matters, second, recognise the contract as close people, which is very important both in courts and in medical institutions, and thirdly, if one partner had a child, it would reasonably guarantee the rights of the child. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-16_U22	Thank you, dear waitress. You also have a lot of questions. Igor Gräzin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-16_U23	Highly respected maestro! I was scared when you said bans weren't final and notaries could ban anything. It was a little creepy. But there is one prohibition that I believe is extremely discriminatory. How do you explain that? A couple's contract may not be concluded by those who have already signed a couple's contract. So there's already a couple. Well, a person has a couple of contracts with the mother of his child, but they don't dare marry. But what prevents me from getting married or, I'm sorry, having a relationship with somebody I really respect, who I respect, and who I really need? Such a person can be a cripple of our house, a plumber. I would very much like him to feel obliged to support me, help me fix the tap, etc., mostly free and without having to wait a month. I mean, I'd have two pairs, but maybe there should be more.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-16_U24	That's a nice question. Maybe I used the wrong word when I was talking about notaries, and I could have it from time to time, even though I didn't think I was talking about bans for notaries. What I said was that the most important general principles of the work of notaries are that, if they approve any kind of agreement, there must be nothing in this agreement that is contrary to good manners. They are like basic decision-makers, which is good practice and which is not. These things change all the time. And if no one agrees with the notaries, unfortunately, the decision is already in the court's jurisdiction: the court must examine whether it is compatible with good manners or not in the specific case. Now, the question is, why shouldn't these agreements be made in various ways? Yeah, it's a formal legal approach. But here again, the question arises of the model behind this law. I understood that one part of both the Cohabitation Act and the model behind the Implementing Act is the same-sex couples who live together not only to share food costs but also to hold them together something else, they are likely to be attracted to each other and quite likely to have sexual relations. That's another problem. However, if a member of the Riigikogu, or anyone who wants to sign a contract with a plumber, it is a subject of a completely different opus and does not fall under the point of discussion.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-16_U25	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-16_U26	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! We are in a situation where the Cohabitation Act applies, there is no implementing law, but there are not many contracts under the law, but still. One often repeated question about this was not very much discussed in the presentation of this, which is what happens to such contracts when the cohabitation law is substantially amended, such as removing gender neutrality or completely replacing it with the law of a couple. So what happens to contracts for special-sex couples?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-16_U27	I think the general theoretical answer is nothing's gonna happen. These texts do not contain any such provision that would oblige them to write in these contracts something that should be removed from them following the disappearance of the Cohabitation Act. I can't imagine it. So if the Cohabitation Act were to disappear in the power of a magic wand, there would be no prohibition that would cause any parts of existing contracts to be crossed off. I don't know how to construct anything like that in my mind. But quite precisely, you can only respond to it if you see specific contractual texts. There is a possibility that these agreements are capable of writing something that neither I nor any other remote viewer can imagine and which may prove to be contrary to good manners or to what else. However, the overall view is that nothing is likely to change significantly. No existing agreement shall become null and void. The main political achievement during this two-year epoch is that if two years ago we had no notary seriously thought that he could confirm any such agreement, and no couple imagined that they could go into any such agreement, then now both sides have this 'primary courage'. And I think this practice is going to live its own life. He's gonna be not too much, and there's gonna be some problems. It is now said that there are probably 15 contracts in Estonia, perhaps more, maybe less, there are no very certain figures to be taken from. If I may advise the Committee on Legal Affairs, I suggest that if they have a spare moment, which, of course, is not very likely, they are overridden, then they could sum up the notaries who signed these contracts and ask them what interesting they have experienced or what standard problems they have discovered.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-16_U28	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-16_U29	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! Before the elections, more or less all political parties, or at least those who have been in opposition, talk about the political culture of how discussions are held in Estonia. Unfortunately, this issue has shown that both the previous and this composition deliberately seeks to avoid a substantive debate. My question is for you as a person with a long experience in the Riigikogu and also as the father of the Estonian Constitution, who has thought about how our society should function. What lessons have been learned in dealing with these laws both in the committee, where it has not always been the most correct one, and in the Riigikogu as a whole?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-16_U30	I'm sure there's some experience. I once really had the opportunity to be not full of four years as chairman of the Legal Affairs Committee; it was in the composition of the IX Riigikogu. And in my experience, there was never any trouble in this committee in dealing with draft laws. This is a completely new experience for me. I would very much like the drafts drawn up in Estonia not to be mammoth-euro drafts, as they have been presented here since their accession to the European Union. We have 100-page legal texts that are well sloppyly written and poorly translated from bad English. It would be a good thing if they weren't, at least their imitations weren't necessary. And, of course, it is important that the people who draw up the drafts are based on the principle of realism and minimalism.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-16_U31	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-16_U32	Thank you, manager. Dear waitress, I am asking about good legislative practice. The Family Act and the Cohabitation Act are currently in force in Estonia, and now you want to bring in another couple of laws. You say in the explanatory memorandum that it is counterbalanced by the law of partnership. How am I supposed to understand that? What's really going on here? I don't understand it. In the Commission, you also did not support the repeal of the Cohabitation Act. How am I supposed to understand this situation?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-16_U33	It's hard to say. In my opinion, these facts must be understood exactly as they have happened. It's in the explanatory notes. I am not a member of the Committee on Legal Affairs and I have not worked there, but my personal opinion is that the law on the implementation of the Law on Partnerships is likely to be adopted with the voices of the initiators, because they have a high proportion of votes. When presenting the draft law of the couple, it could not be assumed that I would be able to dissuade the patriots of Mr. Randpere and all the others in the Law on the Implementation of the Cohabitation Act and they would raise their hands up and say that yes, Adams, you had the right to the bill that we did was not the best, that you and your associates were better placed and we would step behind it. I am not an optimist, nor do I believe that their principles or their education or their ego size would allow such a change. But if we manage to make at least a few things different, namely that no one in this Riigikogu is going in with a messy and meaningless pile of paper, then we are also satisfied. We are pleased if we succeed in overcoming the shortcomings in our Rules of Procedure that came out very well in the work of the Committee on Legal Affairs. My main point is that, regardless of what happens to this bill and what its name is, this draft law on cohabitation or the law on cohabitation, I would like it to have a different name, but even if it remains a bad name, the practice of concluding these contracts will live their lives entirely without contact with any law.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-16_U34	Andrei Novikov, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-16_U35	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, I would like to clarify your party partner's question and look into compensation for damages. Your draft § 11 provides for the annulment of the Cohabitation Act. What about those people who have already signed a partnership agreement? Who could be the subject of a claim for compensation for damage arising from this contract against a notary who violated the obligation to observe good manners and proved a contract whose implementation is currently clearly questionable or against a State that constantly amends the law in breach of the principle of legitimate expectations?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-16_U36	Ladies and gentlemen of the House! That is quite certainly the type of question that I have said in my life that this is not the way to ask a question. And the worst thing that can happen is to try to answer them. Legal problems are not the subject of a theoretical and scholastic dispute. If someone in life comes up with such a requirement and it is formulated, you can talk about it. I consider it extremely unlikely, near zero, that such a hypothetical situation will ever occur.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-16_U37	Monika Haukanõmm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-16_U38	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, We are dealing with a variety of concepts: the oldest term 'family' is used, next to it is 'cohabitation' and now 'couple'. How do you understand them all? And please explain what is a family in Estonia and what is not a family!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-16_U39	I have been convinced from the outset that this position also prevailed in the various texts before World War II, which I read in my young generation, that attempts to define a family legally are completely insane and never lead to any result. The content of this concept has, firstly, changed a great deal in time and, secondly, people who speak Estonian are talking about the Estonian word, but are not using it in many different and sometimes contradictory ways. Some draw from the history of the idea that people living in one farm are related to one another, who sometimes also use paid labour. The concept of such a great family has now disappeared. Very many people use this word to mark the circle of their "close relatives." For example, it is said that there are four brothers and two sisters in my family, all living in different places, and once a year there is a family reunion. It's not a family, but that's what they say. Then there will be all kinds of cases where, for example, Grandpa's grandmother raises a granddaughter whose mother or father has neglected. Is that family? A lot of people think it is. I have a feeling that the average Estonian will be happy to call a married couple living together even if they do not have children, but, for example, a married couple living in isolation is not inclined to call them that. Now the question is, has the new concept of the family started to germinate in Estonian: if the same-sex people live in a relationship, could such an association be called a family? I really don't know. I have a feeling that is not yet the case. But the meaning of the word is constantly changing, and I can't predict where it will end up. However, I would like to make one comment. We have developed such a very strange situation that various family matters are being tried in Europe. This judgment is judged in a language other than Estonian, such as Italian, Spanish or French. In these languages, family means more than Estonia, but it has been concluded that the results of these judgments should be transferred to Estonia. Actually, life is a lot more complicated. We do not live in any abstract world of legal formal language; we still live in a world of real use of the living Estonian language.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-16_U40	Imre Sooäär, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-16_U41	Thank you, good vice chairman. Honourable waitress! There were quite a few mistakes in your opening remarks that would mislead the public, or false claims, I don't know whether to be aware or by accident. The biggest of these was the identification of the institution of marriage and cohabitation. You know very well that they have very fundamental differences, whether they go to the altar, whether they are registering a relationship at the Civil Status Office, adopting a relationship, or much more that a partnership does not allow. But as far as this bill is concerned, I have spoken to many representatives of organisations. All organisations that have fought for the Cohabitation Act and for human rights are of the opinion that there is nothing to be done with the couple's law, as its content is only one fifth of the content of the Cohabitation Act. These principles are included in the Cohabitation Act and this draft does not solve their problems. I asked you the same question in the Commission, but I did not get an answer. Why does a bill not solve the problems of the people who are subject to this bill, for whom there is a desire to change something?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-16_U42	You seem to know well what somebody's problems are. In my opinion, there was so much truth in your question that the partnership law took over the task of solving the problems of the various people in very different situations in life. It didn't work. The concept of the draft law of the couple is to solve one thing at a time. We certainly do not want to argue with our draft that the problems of people living in a common-law relationship do not need to be dealt with. We just think we're gonna do this first, and then we're gonna have to move on. After all, the instruments are different. Obviously there is very little need to change the laws at all, there are other regulations. I do not think that marriage fixation, in a way that has been very different in history between nations and at different times, is important in substance. In my opinion, it is important to get three bits of information in the Estonian state, if you could say so. They are not bits, but it sounds figuratively that in the event of marriage it is necessary to get two yes words and yet it is necessary to fix one date from which the marriage will take effect. This is an important difference between "marriage" and "marriage." Once these three pieces of information have been received by the state, he can extend national legal protection to these people. It's not sure what much, but it's something. If this information is completely missing, if the state has not received these three bits, then it is very difficult. During the Soviet era, common-law couples were tried to find the start of marriage through court and this was not very good practice. But as far as marriage is concerned, I have heard that some Muslim lands have had such a custom that marriage has been made with a woman and a man taking one bowl and throwing it against the ground together. In my opinion, this is also a perfectly acceptable way, but the formation of these fragments must be seen by someone; there must be witnesses there.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-16_U43	Madis Milling, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-16_U44	Thank you very much, Mr President. Good waitress! In today's discussion, the idea that a good law must be short and unambiguous has been said several times. I totally agree with that. At the same time, the phrase 'in conflict with good manners' has passed through this hall today, and the same can be said of your bill. It is, however, a matter of ethics that gives infinite opportunities to interpret the concept of good manners over time. Something that was taboo last night, and maybe criminal, can be acceptable today, trendy and nice. In the light of the fact that the law must be specific and unambiguous, how can we decode the word "good manners"?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-16_U45	I fully understand that, formally, there seems to be a contradiction here. In fact, the criterion of good manners, as well as the criterion of reasonableness, is a specific criterion of private law. This is not so abstract; the methods for determining its contents have developed at least since Justinian's time in all the countries where these terms have been used. I'm not a very big expert, but I imagine if we asked some private law professors, he would tell us about a very long historical experience of how it has been used. But it's kind of a crazy concept that has a big plus in terms of lawmaking, because things change in time. Secondly, it should be taken into account that Estonia is a small country, but there may also be regional differences here. The concept of good manners has certainly been introduced historically also because various civil contracts, including marriage agreements, are concluded by people of different origins in different places. This concept has proved necessary.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-16_U46	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-16_U47	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! My question is a little broader. After all, all this confusion and tension both in this Chamber and in society has arisen largely because the previous Riigikogu passed the law, but postponed the adoption of implementing legislation. On the basis of your extensive reading and abundant experience, can you give similar examples that the law has been passed but that the implementing provisions have not been adopted? So how is it solved?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-16_U48	I don't quite know the situation. The concept of implementing provisions was born in a situation where elections were approaching and did not see the possibility of adopting the cohabitation law in full before the elections. This would have been possible before the election campaign. In my opinion, the people who then led this process made a very wise decision. In order not to become one of the main elements of the election campaign, time was taken off. That's the time-out principle of the ball game that turned out to be right in that context. So he kept going. As far as implementing legislation is concerned, it was very common in the early 1990s that the laws were in pairs: the basic text of the law was adopted and then the implementing law was adopted. In this regard too, very important choices had to be made. For example, in the case of the Commercial Code, the question was that some of the politicians at the time and some of the Estonian businessmen did not fully accept the ideas that were written into the Commercial Code. And then it was decided that there would be no compromise in the main text of the law, but that the implementing law would compromise every possible way so that this code would be adopted. And so it was that some of the provisions of the Commercial Code came into force in ten years' time. The result was very good in the end.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-16_U49	Jaak Madison, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-16_U50	Thank you, good Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu. Good waitress, thank you for your answers. I read the free party's website and information about their attitude to the partnership law. You yourself, the honorable waitress, have written about this on 22 January. I quote: 'The legal 'cohabitation' concept of the law, under which it should be possible to place themselves as special-sex couples who, for some reason, do not want to give their relationship the legal form of marriage, as well as the same-sex couples, obviously do not meet the needs of both types of couples. For same-sex couples, the law provides, in essence, only the possibility to enter into some type of joint property agreement. If so, it is unclear why this possibility should not be given more widely, i.e. to give the possibility to enter into similar property agreements with all kinds of other people who might have such a desire or need. ' This raises the question of why the Free Party, by launching this new bill, discriminates against couples of different sexes. Why does a couple's draft law only go the same-sex pampering route?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-16_U51	Thank you. I must admit that unlike you, I am not a big fan of the Free Party website and I am very interested to hear that there is such a text. I don't know how it got there and what it literally says. But the answer is clear yes. conceptually, this is how it should go. The general rule of doing works in André Mauroi in his famous Art of Living, which has also been translated into Estonian, says that if there is a long and difficult job ahead, it must be divided into logical parts and started with the simplest. Once the first and the simplest part is done, you can go from simplicity to the next undertaking, etc. The main topics of the debate on the draft law on cohabitation that broke out in 2014 are divided into three groups. One is the subject of same-sex couples, which I said and am saying now from this remote control that this is the easiest subject. Another simple problem could be the fact that notaries say that they cannot handle collective property agreements that would like to be concluded, for example, by people who are building a monastery or forming a community. The third issue, the problem of common-law relationships, is undoubtedly the most complex. After all, common-law relationship problems are not so legal. Those people who don't get into a fight and want to break up live their lives and raise their children without a marriage institution. The problem is that some parts of the world are experiencing problems in life and usually the ugliest disputes in the distribution of assets. I am deeply convinced that the country should come here to help. But how can the state help anyone when these people say we don't want to hear from you?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-16_U52	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-16_U53	Thank you. I would remind Mr Adams that this passage, quoted by my colleague here, comes from your own pen, your own article. I guess that's the thing about the Free Party that doesn't know who's saying what, and the author himself...
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-16_U54	I would like to get to the question. In the couple's law, you clearly grant the right to adopt children to couples of the same sex in § 7. This has led to a great deal of opposition in society, and I would say that neither the cohabitation law nor the couple's law is so much a matter of democracy, human rights or not a legal issue, but, above all, of morality. In the explanatory memorandum you say about § 7 and the subject of adoption: 'How, however, would such a child get into their care; it is rather a matter of other social laws. ' I'm very confused. What do you mean? Are you giving couples of the same sex the right to adopt or not?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-16_U55	If I may comment, I wasn't against it in any way...
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-16_U56	I tried to mark that problem in my report. This problem has, firstly, a communicative content, which we understand by the words used, and, secondly, its legal content. Adoption is not the term of any law in Estonia, as far as I know, so I get a little confused about what you mean by that. Adoption within the meaning of Estonian law is based on the old-fashioned concept that the state could also be a municipality or someone else would maintain a database of people's parenthood. Originally, it's been on some kind of paperwork. As far as I know, electronic form is used for this, and there are certain cells in this form. These boxes shall bear the name of the child's father and, if known, the name of the mother. Adoption for the purpose of the law currently in force is to delete one entry from this cell and write someone else's name in its place. It has no direct legal connection with where the child lives or who sustains him. If the Estonian state wants to go down the path of changing the parenthood database, for example, so that there is no longer a cell 'father' and a cell'mother', but a cell 'parent No 1' and a cell 'parent No 2', it is conceivable. But then a change with that content must be initiated and the law passed. But I'm afraid it won't pass through the Riigikogu, at least not during its membership. We are talking here about the so-called quasi-neighbourhood or quasi-neighbourhood status. At the time when Estonian law applied concepts such as stepmothers and stepfathers, everything was perfectly clear. Today, laws use a variety of words that are not homemade in the language of the people, and do not follow the historical terminology used in the language of the people, and so there is confusion. I don't think I've been able to explain my point to you, but I imagine that if we sit down with you and discuss the future of a particular child, we don't have very big disagreements.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-16_U57	Imre Sooäär, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-16_U58	Thank you, good manager. Honourable waitress! The reason why I supported this draft in the Committee on Legal Affairs and why, in my opinion, many of the people who initiated the Cohabitation Act support it here today is that, in principle, it is not contrary to the Cohabitation Act. The Cohabitation Act is, like, renamed a couple law, and the content of this draft consists of a fifth of the Cohabitation Act. But the last paragraph of the bill is contrary to the law of cohabitation. The strongest point in this draft is the implementation, i.e. part of the national registers. You have a very successful wording, which I believe should be fully transposed into the implementing legislation of the Cohabitation Act. In particular, if there is a need to enter any data in the register, it is not necessarily necessary to rename the register immediately. When data on ship-owners were also entered in the register of means of transport, we did not start to call this register a register of cars and ships. A perfectly correct principle will help to save the state's costs. If these principles are now transferred from your draft to the implementing acts, would you personally be willing to support the implementing acts with this acceptance in order to make one of these two drafts together?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-16_U59	It was like two questions. I cannot give you such an answer that I certainly support something that does not exist and that I have not seen. Let me stay old-fashioned in the sense that I want to see this thing that I should support first. However, as far as these registers are concerned, I think there is a very serious problem here, namely the property register or, in this case, the matrimonial property register. It was set up in its own time in connection with the replacement of its own family law with the current one and the emergence of various separate property regimes. As I said, it doesn't have any legal meaning if there's no asset relationship registered in that register. In real life, there is still a legal situation. And since this asset ratio has been included there, it can only be concluded in an informative way that these people are likely to have such an asset ratio, but in principle it may have ended. It may also be that the damsel in the register has made an error in the application of this computer entry. Such opportunities are all there is. A more serious problem is who needs and what needs such a thing. In my opinion, the only consumer would be a creditor who would not be able to obtain debt from one husband, for example, because he has fled to the other side of the world. And now he's making sure there's no entry in the register, so he can file a debt claim against that person. In general, however, this is a subject that I personally do not possess very much, and I imagine that no one in the Riigikogu, including the Committee on Legal Affairs, knows it very well. The need for this register could be one of the topics for discussion in the coming years. I have such a hypothesis that it is to a certain extent sucked out of a pen, without which the Estonian state could quite peacefully exist.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-16_U60	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-16_U61	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! First of all, I would like to point out that these extracts from the Free Party's website, which was quoted here, come from January 22nd, but from January 22nd, 2015, and that is why they may not exactly be remembered. But now my question. After all, the controversy that started with the Cohabitation Act directly affects very few people, but indirectly it affects many and even divides society. Perhaps the experienced waitress is trying to point out what these reasons are and could it have been avoided if a different approach were taken?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-16_U62	We are now living in an age in which many elements of the traditional Christian Church and its accompanying culture are in a process of great transformation. The Christian Church originated in an antique society, where homosexual relations were to a certain extent viewed with favor and favor, and in some Greek cities it was considered to be an almost mandatory thing in a man's career. This world collapsed when Christianity came to power in the Roman Empire. Michel Foucault has tried to describe it in his book, I don't know how its title is in Estonian, 'History of Sexuality', I have not read it in Estonian. I still didn't understand how this turn was possible. In my opinion, this problem basically started after World War II, or rather in the 1960's in the millions of towns on the west coast of the United States, where large, separate parts of the same-sex city were created with their subculture. The big wave of modernisation that started there has now reached Estonia. But Estonia's circumstances are, unfortunately, a little different. That's one. Secondly, I have the feeling that there has never been such a sharp opposition in Estonian culture to people with homosexual orientation. However, with clear results, there are no studies on this, it is only my impression. In any case, raising the issue of the 'gay marriage institution' is one of the worst options in many bad cases. No matter what we call this institution, whether we call it that or not, there will be any negative consequences that a milder and less confrontative approach could certainly have avoided.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-16_U63	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-16_U64	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, You mentioned in one response that you believe that things should be resolved in the order of simplicity. So, first of all, simple solutions could also be used on the specific issue that we are currently discussing. Hence my question: would it not be easiest to support the repeal of the Cohabitation Act or the adoption of implementing legislation instead of creating a great deal of confusion with the draft law of the couple and, essentially, paving the way for a solution that we are going to do one of the bad things from our point of view first and then let's see what happens in the future? So, we're gonna slice the sausage, not eat it at the same time.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-16_U65	Yeah, well, it might seem like hindsight. When we discussed the situation with the members of the group, and most of us thought that it would be practical and sensible to put forward such a draft, we did not have the wisdom that you now have on this issue. You might be right. I can't speak on behalf of others, but apart from legal theoretical knowledge, I've learned certain practical rules of logic based on peasantry. In general, I've taken things in such a way that if there's a choice of endless horror or a horrible ending, I prefer a horrible ending. And this process, which began in 2014, is, in my understanding, an endless horror that we do not see at the moment. If today there is a draft coming to the vote aimed at repealing the 2014 Cohabitation Act, I think it is certainly less bad than the two bad ones, and I intend to vote for it personally.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-16_U66	Heljo Pikhof, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-16_U67	Thank you, dear waitress. You spoke here from box 1 and box 2. It's a matter of regulation, it won't make it to the big hall. It's not a matter of law. However, we are discussing today what is in box 1 and box 2, I mean mom and dad. On the other hand, we have about 17000 single mothers and about 20,000 children who have nothing in box 2 as if their father isn't. I don't understand why you're not worried about these kids, but you're worried that maybe box number 1 and box number 2 are two people of the same sex who really love the baby and take good care of it. If box 2 doesn't say anything about the father, the children will feel very bad.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-16_U68	I think it could be that way. During my youth, the father was often absent. They had been killed during World War II or sent to Russian prison camps. The result was mostly that children grew up without a father. But how could I be so worried about the current situation? I didn't raise these women, and I don't have control over who they get their kids with. And the Estonian state has taken such an initiative that our taxpayer will assume all the duties of a lost father. We're gonna do it. This is probably right when the Estonian state has come this far. Such assistance has been used quite a lot in other countries in the world. At the same time, the possible negative aspects of this measure are also at stake. But believe me, Mrs. Pikhof, neither I nor you will be able to bring those women's men or bedmates back to their children. It is beyond our control to find these nonexistent fathers and capture them by scratch. It extends beyond the limits of man's ability.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-16_U69	Jaanus Karilaid, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-16_U70	Thank you to the manager. Good waitress! You are unlikely to be able to vote in favour of a couple's draft law because it will not make it to the third reading. The Reform Party has reportedly made a promise that some part of the couple's draft law will be transposed and transferred to the partnership law. Are there already agreements that will be transferred?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-16_U71	I've read something like this and heard it on the radio. Some kind of record that it's going to be like this, but I don't have it at my disposal. Personally, I am very skeptical about this idea. When mutually exclusive elements, fire and water are mixed into cocktails, I fear there will be no very good result. One of my discoveries when I work in this Riigikogu is that I have to be even more careful about choosing what I say than I usually am. For example, in a television show, I managed to express myself in such a way that Mr. Randpere, the second so brilliant opponent, turned on his head, I have never met in my life, could not claim that we did not launch this bill seriously. We have initiated it in full seriousness, but we have never had the conviction that we will be able to talk Mr Randper and his combatants back, so that they will give up their draft support and vote in favour of our draft, and we will adopt it. We really have never had a real hope of adoption, which does not mean that the draft has not been drafted seriously and is not presented seriously.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-16_U72	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-16_U73	Thank you, manager. I'm gonna ask you this again. The law of cohabitation and the law of the couple could not coexist from your point of view as a lawyer, they are contradictory. First, the partnership law should have been abolished and then it could have gone on with the bill. How could it be that the Commission did not notice that these were contradictory drafts? How do you comment on that?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-16_U74	I basically agree with you that these two laws cannot exist at the same time, but at the same time I say that they actually can. The process is that everything is based on notary contracts. We simply have laws of no importance. It was like the Soviet era: a huge shot of laws that no one needed and had all forgotten. Such a situation can, in principle, arise. I don't know what's gonna happen next. As for what happened in the Committee on Legal Affairs, I cannot comment on that, I have been there very little. Of the members of the Free Party Group, Külliki Kübarsepp participates in the work of the committee and when he comes from the committee and tells me what happened there, it usually seems to me that either there is something completely impossible going on or he is making it up. I have never experienced anything so strange about my work in committees.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-16_U75	Ain Lutsepp, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-16_U76	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! The law of the couple has created a substantive debate in society on this important subject. Please, can you add anything more positive before you slightly talked about it, what this debate has brought about?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-16_U77	Oh... Mr Lutsepp, my groupmate. To be honest, I'm tired of being on this remote control and talking, and I couldn't give an exhaustive answer anyway. But I think that the main positive experience is that both our public in this Chamber and the wider public in national thinking have thought of these things much more clearly for themselves, not only in terms of legal and theoretical terms, but also in terms of their social importance and their numerical proportions. At least this benefit has, in my opinion, been achieved.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-16_U78	Jaanus Karilaid, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-16_U79	Thank you to the manager. Good waitress! How big is this target group whose relationships are being regulated by the law of a couple? And yet, you have previously argued that homosexual relations should not be governed by a separate law, their contracts can still be concluded at the notary's. I'll be waiting for an answer.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-16_U80	It's very hard to tell how big this target group is. It is not known where certain data have been taken and on what basis the forecasts have been made. There are definitely thousands of homosexuals in Estonia. I don't know how many thousand, but there are. How much of them could reach a relationship that is stable enough for problems to arise in their later stages of life, I can't say. I have thought that probably the number of couples who could reach the conclusion of a relationship contract at some point is a few hundred rounds, no more. At present, they are constantly being added. But, of course, it is clear that in this unusual situation, where most notaries have said that they do not do such things, there are probably very many who hesitate. So on the basis of current statistics, or simply from what we know, it is difficult to predict this proportion. In any case, this is not a problem for a very large number of people, but the right to enter into a joint property contract, the right to inherit, etc. should also apply to same-sex couples. People who know the laws in force in Estonia better than I have said to me that, in principle, under the laws governing the work of notaries, all such nuances can be agreed on notarially proven contracts even without adopting any new laws.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-16_U81	Priit Onion, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-16_U82	Thank you, Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu. Dear waitress, first of all, I would like to congratulate you. In my opinion, your draft is an honest approach to this issue, which is only intended to regulate relations between same-sex people. The purpose of the Cohabitation Act is the same, but the aim is to extend it to as many people as possible. Unfortunately, I do not consider this possible, and so, according to my personal beliefs, I cannot support the draft implementation. However, I have a question for you as an expert on private law. What are the additional rights these people would receive under the law of the couple? What kind of contracts could they enter into that two natural persons are currently unable to enter into with each other?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-16_U83	First of all, it is certainly not the regulation of relations, but the regulation of rights. 'Relations' is a word of very many meanings, and I am not going to use it in this context. But just in answer to the previous question, I said that as far as I can see, basically nothing completely new that can't be done now with notaries wouldn't be. All contracts can be concluded with notaries. There are two parts to the draft law of the couple. One is the so-called standard terms. The law provides a rather short list of things that should necessarily be in the contract. These include, in particular, the enforcement of the collective property regime or of any other, such as the separate assets system, as they are currently provided in the family law. Forward, mutual maintenance commitment. As a rule, it is a situation in which the other half of the couple should remain bedridden for a long time or some other serious accident. Third, legal succession ♪ not by the will, but by the law of succession. The latter is the question of a child in a household with such a couple. The other side of the couple should extend in our law the traditional duties of a stepfather or stepmother, not only until the end of the contract. They shall extend beyond what is necessary. Everything about the baby has to be permanent, not the way I want to take responsibility for it today, but hops, tomorrow I don't. Once entered into such a course of life, at least until the child is of adult and independent age, commitments must be met. These are the standard elements of the contract, but there are many other things that can be agreed on in principle. What other things are, that's a separate question. If one day the notaries are gathered together and they kindly explain what points people have wanted and have been able to put into contracts, then we may discover something that we are not going to think of at the moment.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-16_U84	Thank you. Dear waitress, there are no further questions for you. Before a rapporteur from the Commission comes to the remote control, we must take a single vote. Indeed, the Reform Party Group has proposed to extend the plenary session today to 14 p.m. Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on the proposal of the Reform Party Group to extend today's plenary session of the Riigikogu until 14 p.m. Please take a stand and vote. 58 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, with 7 abstentions. We have extended the working time of today's plenary session to 14 o'clock. Let's keep going. The rapporteur of the Committee on Legal Affairs is Mr Valdo Randpere, Member of the Commission. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-16_U85	President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, Jüri Adams is going out, but before I start the presentation on what was going on in the committee, I want to say that since Jüri remembered me so warmly and warmly on several occasions, say, with love, I assure him that our feelings are mutual. George, I love you too. There is one more thing I want to make clear for the outset. I think this is going beyond the framework of the Commission's debate, but there was a long discussion on the subject of 'Cooperation law versus the law of a couple'. The Cohabitation Act is meant for people who cannot or do not want to get married. Can't or won't! Those who do not want to get married in Estonia are also very saddened to me. 60% of children are born in Estonia outside of marriage. The law of the couple is meant only for those who can't get married. I totally agree with the description in the couple's law of how easy it is to get married: two yes words and a signature. Unfortunately, people don't want to say these two simple words, and they don't really want to sign paper anywhere. That is why we are faced with a situation where, in my opinion, the cohabitation law is a very good law. Now we're going to talk about a couple of laws with some mistakes. Maybe we'll touch them, maybe we won't. I must, in any case, tell you what happened in the Committee on Legal Affairs. The Committee on Legal Affairs discussed the law of a couple on 9 February. All the members of the Commission and the Free Party were present to present this draft by Andres Herkel and Jüri Adams. The debate raised quite a number of questions that have already been addressed here. For example, it was discussed whether the law of the couple could be gender neutral. In this regard, the initiators said that they did not rule it out, but did not consider it necessary. Some members of the Commission praised the law of a couple for going beyond the cohabitation law in itself and equating the couple with the family. For example, there is such a place in the bill, I will read it out in case some of you have not found it: 'This law is applied extenuatingly so that the couple are treated in the same way as a marriage and a couple as a husband in the application of the provisions of this law. ' This raised questions, while the representatives of the Free Party were even praised for it. There was also a question of incidents that Jüri Adams had already commented on about the father and son or grandfather and grandson, etc. In this regard, Jüri Adams also replied in the Commission that it was the task of the notary, first of all, not to enter into contracts with which the other party is fooling the other party, and, secondly, not to enter into contracts that are contrary to good practice. In itself, it leaves a little question in the air for me, because people can choose notaries. And as many as there are notaries, there are understandings of good practices. Some notaries would sign the same contract, another notary would be different. I would like the laws to be specific and contain provisions that would exclude actions that society does not approve and neither would Jüri Adams and the Free Party. In that sense, I'm not a very big fan of the minimalist code. I prefer a more detailed approach. They also asked about the concept of family. As Jüri Adams said today, it is difficult to define. I guess he is. There was also a question of these same technicians, but not in the form Gräzin asked in this Chamber, but it was examined whether several people could enter into such a contract, such as three or four people. It was said that perhaps in the future nothing could be ruled out. What's taboo today and isn't very popular may never be again. God knows what the future will bring. They asked why there are no implementing acts and social guarantees of the couple, for example, in the event of the death of one of the female couples serving in the Defence Forces or in other cases. In answer, we found that we did not have to solve all the questions with one stone. They will probably be resolved by separate laws in the future, or they will be resolved by themselves. There was also a question here today in Saalisk about what will happen to those who have already signed a partnership agreement if the cohabitation law is repealed. The initiators did not see the problem because they thought that the agreements concluded would remain in force. A representative of EKRE asked about the Uzbek sheep, and I have noted it to myself, but unfortunately I do not remember exactly what question it was. One question was a little unusual, but these are sometimes: what happens when one pair of same-sex couples living as a couple undergoes a sex change operation? Basically a possible case, but no one could give a good answer, exactly what would happen then. Life is probably more fantasy than it is in our Committee on Legal Affairs. After all these questions and a meaningful and pleasant debate, the following procedural decisions were taken: to put the draft on the agenda of the plenary session by 16 February (by 10 members of the Commission and no one was against, with no abstentions), to appoint Valdo Randpere as rapporteur (by 9, 0 against 0, impartial 0 to 1 person had left or I guess I did not vote), to propose that the first reading be completed (by 10 against 0, impartial 0) and to set the deadline for amendments at 2 March at 17:00. Before I at least give Martin the opportunity to ask a question, I say so much that I was the one who voted in favour of completing the first reading of this draft. I didn't do it because I think a couple of laws should be passed as a law. As George realized when he saw through me, I don't think it's a very good bill. However, I do find that Bill 151 could remain in the process. In the Committee on Legal Affairs, we could indeed take some things from there into the implementing provisions of the Cohabitation Act or propose amendments to the Cohabitation Act itself. Some thoughts are pretty good and clever here. But at the same time, as I said at the beginning, I think that Estonia now needs a law that would give all people who cannot or do not want to have a marriage the opportunity to regulate their legal relationships in a simple and understandable way. That's why I'm still a fan of the Cohabitation Act, but I am also voting for the first reading of a couple's draft law to be completed today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-16_U86	Thank you, good waitress. You have questions. Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-16_U87	Thank you, Mr. Vice Speaker. Ladies and gentlemen, The same 'no' or 'no', or cohabitation law, has not been in force for a month and a half, and during that time the notaries have entered into about 20 contracts, of which about half, a dozen, between same sexes. We are talking about 20 people in Estonia who have needed the Cohabitation Act, but the dance around it has lasted more than two years in Estonian politics. I have this question: does a country really have to deal with the problem of 20 people at the legislative level, especially if it is disruptive to society in this way?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-16_U88	First of all, I cannot scientifically justify it, because I have no evidence of it, but I am pretty sure that couples who have signed a partnership agreement would be much more than that dance and rally around the cohabitation law and its implementing provisions. There's been talk of the law being lifted. People lack confidence as to whether the partnership law will continue to apply, whether the implementing provisions will work. You take the newspaper apart, you read different versions and speculations every day, and it's clear that it makes people cautious. Secondly, the cohabitation agreement under the Cohabitation Act does not apply so that you march through the notary's door and five minutes later you come out because the contract has been concluded. You go in there and you say you want a contract like this, you think about how to do it, it takes your time. Thirdly, the best feature of the Cohabitation Act is that it does not first deprive anyone of any rights and, secondly, does not force anyone to do anything. People who want to take this opportunity do it. I'm sure in time it'll be very popular. We have seen the non-marriage relationship of heterosexuals as very popular, for example, in Sweden and Finland, where marriage is not very popular, but it is possible to regulate living together without getting married. It's very popular there. I believe that Estonia is going the same way.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-16_U89	March Sults, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-16_U90	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good Valdo! I didn't think I'd ask that question. But the question is, what do you think is so good about a couple's draft law that it could be transferred to the bill you submitted? At the same time, as a school dad, I have concerns that you, like, are not interested in promoting a big economy or education, but in this whole life together thing. Why is it that the weight is so unbalanced?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-16_U91	You asked two questions, and for old friendship, I'm gonna answer both of them. I can give you some examples from the couple's law, which have already been a little bit of an inspiration to us and which could continue to be the case if we are working on the implementing provisions of the Cohabitation Act. For example, § 7 'Family and Child' defines in a very general and very open manner that the members of the family must care for the child who grows in the family with due care. I think that is a good idea for the child, a very legitimate position. I believe that, once the implementing provisions of the Cohabitation Act have been adopted, one change compared to the first-reading draft will be that it will be the responsibility of caring for a child growing in the family. The second plus is the solution to the subject of the register, for which Imre Sooäär has already praised Jüri Adams here. The matrimonial property register will not be renamed, as we originally intended, but will be moved on to the same register. I think it's a really good idea, probably we thought about it a little bit at first. And there are more points. The second question was why we do not deal with education and the economy. We'll take care of everything, Märt. And it cannot be said that this topic is somehow much more important than the economy or the economy much more important than this. I think that the economy is growing and booming in a country where people are friendly and tolerant to one another, and everyone feels that the country supports and protects them equally with others.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-16_U92	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-16_U93	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, It's such a hypocritical story that there's just no comment. You're not taking anything away from anyone?! Varro Vooglaiu and his organization were deprived of Luke's mission prize. Isn't this about taking something away from someone? Isn't that political pressure? Is that tolerance? Isn't that some kind of censorship? I'm going to ask you a question, but now from another point of view. For how long does the Reform Party and the Social Democratic Party intend to trick such a bad lawmaking that has caused a clear opposition in society in a way that essentially puts the majority of the people before the fact that they have to swallow things that are very unpleasant to them?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-16_U94	Now I got smarter first. I assume you know what you're talking about when you tell me Varro Vooglaiu was taken away from Luke's mission prize. I didn't know what to say. I remember the moment they gave it to him. It was said, but I haven't heard it taken away. But maybe it is, I don't dare argue with you. Well, in that case, it's very sad. But as for your talk of trickery, it's actually the same. We are returning to the beginning that the law of cohabitation is gender-neutral; it does not make any difference to people. All Estonian people, all of our dear fellow citizens, we do not have much of a support and protection from the state. And that's why I don't think this law is bad. I think that those who have opposed this law have acted in a Phariseeic way, often attacking this law on the very grounds that it gives heterosexual people the opportunity to regulate their life together. In fact, the heart is opposed to homosexuals doing so. And now we've come to a discussion here about whether it's more honest to make a separate law for homosexuals and whether this other option is unfair. In my opinion, this second option is not unfair. From the beginning, I have supported the law of cohabitation because it is gender-neutral. I don't see any problem with that, and I think you don't really see a problem with it either, when heterosexual people can register their cohabitation in a different way than when they get married. But as an excuse, of course, it's good to use it and talk about trickery and anything. One more time, this law won't take anything away from anyone. I'm living my life, and I'm making sure I can do it somehow. Why should I really hurt my heart because of the way someone else lives next to me or who he lives with? What do I care? Why should the state make any moral assessment of people's lives together? Why?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-16_U95	Martin Helme.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-16_U96	Thank you, Mr. Speaker. Good performer! Of course, it takes something away from all of us. This fall in society's decadence will take away our future. But I have a more specific question. You slipped past how the law of a couple and the law of cohabitation and the law of implementation of the law of cohabitation could still apply together. Let me get this straight. You're planning to merge the couple's law into the law on the implementation of the partnership law? In this case, as a result of the current spin, we will continue to have the speech of Bill 114, the draft implementing the Cohabitation Act, and the draft law of the couple is just a small one, I don't know, a wing manoeuvre or whatever.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-16_U97	Thank you, Martin! You've almost got it right. It's been said many times here, and it would be weird if you didn't understand. We haven't made any secret of it, but I repeat: we want a couple of laws. Personally, for example, I support the completion of this first reading precisely because I believe that there are parts of it that could be completely implanted, or Estonian languages, into the implementing provisions of the Cohabitation Act or also into the Cohabitation Act itself as amendments. I have already said that, and so has the previous questioners. So there's nothing wrong with it or anything secret when we find ideas in other drafts that we didn't come up with ourselves, but that we have a better law to take into account.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-16_U98	Jaanus Marrand, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-16_U99	Thank you! Mr Co-Rapporteur of the Commission. I want to see if you have discussed this in the committee that, in fact, the debate that has been going so long is losing its substance. A very symptomatic question was the previous one, which claimed that something had been taken away from someone. For example, Varro Vooglas, who have been deprived of some sort of reward, were brought. But it's a private reward for private donors. They give and take bonuses as they please. This is like the question of how these laws and these issues are understood. In fact, what matters is what we can give to society through legislation and what kind of thinking maybe we can limit. It's like there's no way to argue or understand things at all.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-16_U100	Yeah.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-16_U101	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-16_U102	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Ladies and gentlemen, I have already mentioned, by asking the previous question, that this is not about democracy, freedom of expression, protecting someone, human rights or anything else you are trying to pillage this initiative into. It's a question of morality and ethics and attitude toward all of this. But my question is about the entry into force of a couple of laws. The last paragraph says that the law on partnership is repealed. What are you going to do now that you're still trying to push through the draft law on the implementation of the Cohabitation Act?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-16_U103	Thank you, good questioner! As you know, perfect things rarely happen in life. The law of the couple is not perfect either, and its Article 11 is its weakest link. However, since it is not possible to complete the first reading in such a half way that we finish half of the draft and reject the other half, my proposal is to finish the first reading of the entire draft and then pick out the best parts that we can go on with. These best parts certainly do not include the proposal to repeal the Cohabitation Act.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-16_U104	Jaak Madison.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-16_U105	Thank you. Good waitress! When drafts initiated by the opposition or members of the Riigikogu are presented, which have some impact on the revenue and expenditure of the state budget, the rates of taxes, etc., the Reform Party in particular loves to pay very much attention to how much any change will cost and where the resources will be found to implement one or another change. I assume that the Reform Party has also been very diligent and precise in carrying out background studies on this draft law. How would this law still affect society, and how many people are affected by this problem? Unfortunately, the previous rapporteur, Mr Adams, could not say the number of these people, but the faction of the Free Party is considerably smaller than that of the Reform Party, which has a very high capacity for research. Perhaps you can tell from some research how many people would be affected by the law of a couple and how many would be willing to sign a contract under the law of a couple or whatever?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-16_U106	First of all, we haven't done any research either. We have asked the Free Party Group about some parts of the draft that could be costing, for example, how much the state could cost if the cohabitation law was abolished. But you know the answer. In their view, the contracts concluded would remain valid and no direct cost would arise. How many people would use the law of a couple to enforce their rights on that basis? I think the answer would be somewhere between 0 and 3000.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-16_U107	Andrei Novikov, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-16_U108	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, I would like to ask your opinion. What do you think a couple's laws could require implementing acts? In fact, at the time when the Law on partnership was adopted, the initiator of the draft act acknowledged that one of the major disadvantages of the Cohabitation Act was that it required a huge number of implementing provisions, which refer to bad legislative practice. In your opinion, how many implementing acts could be needed for a couple's law?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-16_U109	Thank you. It's just one of the best questions I've ever heard here. But there's a logic flaw. Yes, the Cohabitation Act is accused of having to adopt implementing legislation at all, but in the case of the couple's law, it is claimed that no implementing provisions are needed at all. I think we need them. By this logic, we could drop the whole debate on the law on the implementation of the Cohabitation Act and say that the Cohabitation Act is applicable without implementing provisions. If this could be the case with the couple's law, then this could be the case with the partnership law. But I don't think that's good. The law still has to give relatively specific instructions on how to do something, how people have to behave, what notaries can do, what cannot. I stopped at it a little earlier. So I think that the law of the couple in itself would certainly require implementing provisions in the future and no less extensive than the law of partnership.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-16_U110	Uno Kaskpeit, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-16_U111	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Honourable waitress! Where does the number 3,000 come from, from which study? It has been said here that these people can be 1 to 2% in Estonia. In my opinion, 1 to 2% totals a significantly higher figure. Where's that 3,000 or 3,500 coming from?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-16_U112	It's a personal assessment because I was asked. I also said no research has been carried out. I think that zero to 3,000 people might be using the law of a couple. No one will be able to respond exactly until we see in practice what will happen after this law enters into force. I don't think anyone has a better answer. As I have already said, the Cohabitation Act would probably be used more than if it were in a "stable situation" if the implementing provisions had been adopted, no one would demand its annulment and society would accept it. People like stability. I think that many people already like the cohabitation law, because they have seen that its entry into force did not actually lead to anything in a crazy society.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-16_U113	Viktor Vassilyev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-16_U114	Thank you, Mr President. Good Valdo! I am aware that the general understanding is that homosexuals in each population are about 3%. In view of the whole LGBT group, there can be up to 5%, plus people who simply have an interest in such side-by-side chips can be about the same. So these people aren't many, and the question we've been discussing here for the second year might interest, I don't know, 10% of the population. Perhaps 90% of it is clay from God, and this kind of cohabitation has as much effect on Estonian life as it does on the sex of flying squirrels. Yet two years have been able to divide society. What's it done for? In fact, even LGBT people have lost interest in the matter, the balcony is empty, but it's still going on.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-16_U115	Thank you. Now I want to remind you that we've only been discussing a couple of laws for two weeks. So don't overdramaticize. There's no mention of two years. But if you're asking me why this discussion and why this salmon, whatever expressions you used, you still need two partners to dance. And to fight, you also need a side that is strongly opposed. I'm not complaining to you that you've been vehemently against the law of partnership since the beginning, so don't you ask me why I'm in favour of it, either.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-16_U116	Thank you to the Commission's waitress. No further questions. I'm opening negotiations. Andres Herkel on behalf of the Estonian Free Party Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-16_U117	Mr. Chairman! Honourable representatives of the people! This story should begin by paraphrasing the literary classic that when the Free Party reached the Riigikogu, the cohabitation law had already been passed. But unlike the previous speaker, the rapporteur on the Commission's side, I think that putting regulation of different sexes and same-sexes in a single law is the basis for a very large number of conceptual confusions. These are completely different groups of people, they probably also need different regulations, and this is a major problem. I have heard that some representatives of the people have tried to justify the law of cohabitation in society in such a way that it solves the problems of dozens, perhaps hundreds and thousands of different sex couples. Well, that's not how it is! It's more like bringing up the problem of same-sex couples, and it shouldn't have been hidden from the start. One could safely say that this is precisely the problem we want to solve. All this stuff makes me think about what we as public representatives can't do here. And one thing really is that we must not divide society. But the law of cohabitation has divided society. In a semantic sense, as paradoxical as it may be, the discussion of the partnership law has been divided and certainly could have been done differently. Secondly, one Riigikogu should not have created a situation where one Riigikogu would adopt regulation and bequeath its tail to another Riigikogu, so be it good, now you must do it and you must do it. I really want the current composition of the Riigikogu to do something like this. The third question also concerns the work of the Riigikogu. In my opinion, this work at the level of the Committee on Legal Affairs should also be quite different and more common. From the beginning, I sensed this problem when there was a project of implementing law around here and they started asking for signatures. I said that we could kind of talk about how to do all this, that we had Jüri Adams and sit down and discuss how this bill could be. That is a very important question. Then we weren't asked for signatures. This is such a more general cooperation problem. Yes, in public space, everything tends to go back to either yes or no, rather than to the question of how. The request made by the Free Party in this draft law could be summarised briefly by the fact that we attach particular importance to how-to-the-issue. It is not the case that a solution is brought before us and that everyone who does not support it is haters or behind time, or how these accusations all sounded. Against this background, there has been a disturbing amount of labelling. The question of how-is completely excluded. Our draft has helped to raise the issue. In the end, the dangers that are in the air. We are now in a situation where the reputation of a European value area in our society is very fragile, yet through this issue, it is associated with European values as a whole. It is very counterproductive and, in some ways, dangerous to our security. Last week, I got the experience here that, during the discussion on foreign policy that occurred and ended it with some of the words that it is in the interests of our country and our people to be with Europe and to bear European values in mind, I suddenly began to get a lot of pretty evil for us from voters who somehow tie European values to the force of laws such as the cohabitation law. We do not need to divide society and push some people towards the value system currently being cultivated by Russia. That's very bad. The Free Party is very surprised that one of the largest political parties in the Riigikogu has gone to one extreme, towards the Soviets, and the other may be a bit towards the EKRE. We're the only ones in the middle floor. We have also tried to do so with this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-16_U118	Please, Martin Helme on behalf of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia Group! Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-16_U119	The old waitress said that the couple's law, which is linked to the cohabitation act or also to the implementing legislation of the cohabitation act, does not take anything away from anyone. In America, a social science survey was carried out in 2012 'How different are the adult children of parents who have same-sex relationships? " or translated 'How different are children who have parents of the same sex as adults? '. If there are normal, traditional families, 17% of children receive social benefits, compared to 69% of children of same-sex parents. Unemployment: 8% of children in traditional families, when they grow up, are unemployed, 28% of children in same-sex couples. But the worst of all: sexual abuse by one parent or his partner is recorded in 2% of normal families, 23% of families with same-sex parents. All of the homo-agenda, all the propaganda of the cohabitation law is taking the future away from society. It takes away the future, destroys normality, redefinitions normality. The previous speaker threw the word 'extreme' into the air, one being at one extreme, the other at the other. It's not like that. Separatists are the ones who want to turn on millennia of traditions and destroy the cornerstone, which has always worn all societies, it is a real family, including mother, father and their children. They're extremists. People who defend the cornerstone of every society and culture are not extremists. It's just the way it is. What is our problem with the law of the couple? Just like Priit Onion, I want to bow down to the Free Party for at least being honest with the law of the couple. He is talking about the national regulation of cohabitation for same-sex people. There's no lying in the face of the public that we're doing things to make life better for all people. But the question is one simple thing: whether or not a law is needed for this very, very small group whose society is made up of couples of the same sex and for a much smaller group that wants to regulate their partnership with agreements. The position of the Estonian Conservative People's Party is that there is no need for a separate law to deal with minority problems. There is no need for a separate law to regulate the cohabitation of a few dozen or even a few hundred people, especially if the cost of this law in society is the repression of democracy, freedom of expression and freedom of conscience, as we have seen in the course of the proceedings on the Cohabitation Act and the draft law implementing it. It is particularly bad when its cost is essentially the collapse of a demographic policy that goes hand in hand with the destruction of a family institution, and when its cost is the total division of society. Since the content of the draft law of a couple is still the regulation of relations between same-sex persons, the Conservative People's Party does not support it and proposes to reject it at first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-16_U120	There are no more requests to speak from the representatives of the political groups. The Commission's proposal is to conclude the first reading of the draft. The proposal of the Group of the Estonian Conservative People's Party is to reject the draft at first reading. We need to vote on this proposal. Please, Martin Helme!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-16_U121	The Conservative People's Party requests a ten-minute break before the vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-16_U122	Break. We'll proceed at 12:35 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-16_U123	Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting against the proposal of the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia to reject the draft 151 at first reading. Please take a stand and vote. 14 members of the Riigikogu were in favour of the proposal, 55 against, with one abstention. The proposal was not supported. The first reading of bill 151 is complete. I shall set the deadline for the submission of amendments to the draft at 5 p.m. on 2 March.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-16_U124	We begin the first reading of the draft law on the annulment of the Cohabitation Act initiated by the members of the Riigikogu Dmitri Dmitri Dmitriyev, Erki Savisaare, Jaanus Karilaidi, Mart Helme, Martin Helme, Märt Sults, Olga Ivanova, Peeter Ernitsa, Raivo Põldaru, Siret Kotka, Uno Kaskpeit and Vladimir Velman. The launcher's report is by Jaanus Karilaid.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-16_U125	Ladies and gentlemen, Indeed, on 23 November, the ambassadors of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia and the Estonian Central Party submitted a draft law repealing the Cohabitation Act. We also wrote to the Committee on Legal Affairs on 9 December, in which we asked for the draft law on the repeal of the Cohabitation Act to be dealt with as soon as possible, because we provided that Parliament would not reach an agreement by 1 January 2016 and that no implementing provisions would be adopted. The explanatory memorandum to the draft act is very simple in nature. By adopting the Cohabitation Act last year, instead of uniting society, society was divided. As there was no required number of votes in the previous Riigikogu for the correct adoption of the law, the current composition had to adopt a separate law to implement it. The adoption of implementing provisions is also blocked, and those who voted in favour of the adoption of the law in their time now do not want to complete their legislative work. This poor legislative practice and uncertainty can lead to a number of court decisions and costs for the taxpayer. By repealing the law of cohabitation, we want to put an end to the confusion that has been created and restore the status of the former majority of society to satisfaction. The Cohabitation Act had a noble motive for increasing tolerance in society, which has been declared very clearly, but in fact it has increased intolerance. Moreover, the very important parliamentary party IRL in 2014 has stated that there is no need for the Cohabitation Act, as almost all of its areas are already legally governed by existing laws. As we know, our legislative work is being supervised by the President and the Chancellor of Justice, but the Minister of Justice, who must see that our legislation is of high quality, transparent, understandable, purposeful, etc., is also very important. Only recently, when we discussed the adoption of implementing provisions here, the Minister of Justice, Mrs Reinsalu, who is part of the Pro Patria and Res Publica Association, had to answer the questions. And what did he say about these implementing provisions? I quote Urmas Reinsalu: 'I must admit that this is a unique situation. You would think that the law of implementation is like a tail, and the head is a subject, or a great animal, is the law of cohabitation itself. The implementing law is larger in size than the Cohabitation Act itself and, paradoxically, the Cohabitation Act itself is amended by the Law on the Implementation of the Cohabitation Act. It can be done, but it's pretty amazing legislation. Rather, an implementing act or an implementing act should be merely a technical way of implementing an application as defined in the basic or mother law. ' To sum up, it turns out that this cohabitation law, which was adopted in 2014, is not a basic law. Base law is still coming, it's being changed. Legal confusion has arisen, Parliament's reputation has been damaged, the political relations between the various camps have been intensified in society, society has been divided. The proposal is to repeal the Cohabitation Act and to start a debate in a more respectful and conventional way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-16_U126	Questions for a waitress from the initiators. Igor Gräzin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-16_U127	Good waitress! I totally agree with you, this whole cohabitation law is a big mistake and a horrible dream. But it is estimated that we now have about 100 redundant laws and 20 of them are directly stupid. So do you think it's legal and technical that we're going to abolish all these excessive and stupid laws one by one? It will take as much time as it will in its time to introduce them and then we will no longer have time for this right lawmaking. I have a technical question: is it appropriate to create a tradition and precedent for the laws adopted in the past to be abolished or improved one by one?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-16_U128	Thank you. It would be a very interesting idea to start making a list of stupid laws. I think we should go here and argue and agree, a consensus agreement, which laws are stupid, which work in society, which are fair and which are unfair, we will of course not achieve in Parliament. I also refer to the former Chancellor of Justice, Allar Jõks, who has claimed that until we have adopted the implementing provisions, the previous law, adopted in 2014, will not apply either. In this case, no one's expectations or rights will be violated.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-16_U129	Heimar Lenk, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-16_U130	Thank you. Dear waitress, You've done a lot of research when you come up with a proposal to repeal the law. Can you tell me why the Reform Party needs this law so badly? Whose order is this?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-16_U131	I guess that is what many people in this House have been obsessing about and there are various hypotheses and speculations about why it is the Reform Party that is so desperate to push through the cohabitation law. It is not surprising that the Social Democrats support it, because the Social Democrats always support everything the Reform Party asks for. The fact that the IRL is currently at a crossroads is by its very nature a community of value, and I hope that the IRL will extend its helping hand to the Centre Party on this issue. What are the motives of the Reform Party? I wouldn't speculate, I don't have the facts, but we have our own vision of it.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-16_U132	Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-16_U133	Thank you, Mr. Speaker. Good colleague! I have about the same question that I had during the debate on the previous draft. Do you think it is possible for us to vote in favour of the implementing acts of the Cohabitation Act, in favour of the couple's law and in favour of repealing the Cohabitation Act at the same time? How long is it possible to sit in three chairs at a time?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-16_U134	Why did the procedure for a couple of draft laws go on today? This is also one of the political technologies of the Reform Party, which seeks to obtain the votes of free parties in its cohabitation law. At first, they'll be lured by the fact that we're taking the best part of your law. But as I understand Valdo Randpere's story, there's only some detail being taken over. It is not a sin to start a law in itself, is it not a debate in Parliament? The question is which laws will be passed and who will vote in favour of which laws. We still have to watch it.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-16_U135	Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-16_U136	Thank you, Mr President. Good Jaanus! Recalling what we've been doing here in the Riigikogu for years, maybe we're doing this stupid law repealing act. We are taking along Mr Gräzini, he is making it clear to us which law is stupid and which is not. We're going to deal with it, but we're going to do it systemically. Not with the complaints, why one by one, why not 20 at a time, etc. I think Igor has a very positive proposal.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-16_U137	Yeah, I agree. Igor Gräzini, in any case, would involve me in the working groups. Only recently, when it came to the question of how to get back the President's official money or the property of the University of Tartu from Voronezh, he had very interesting points of view. If Igor has the idea of making a list of the bad laws in force in Estonia, then I am willing to discuss with him on many subjects, whether it is the Income Tax Act, whether it is our weak housing policy, whether it is our regional policy, non-existent economic or very weak foreign policy. I think Igor and I will definitely talk about this.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-16_U138	Jaak Madison, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-16_U139	Thank you. Good waitress! That's the angle I'm asking. The vote comes on the repeal of a law that has caused very great tensions in society, because one road roller, which clearly represents extreme left ideology, wants to put pressure on 80% of people to agree to something. The hope of the people in this Chamber is certainly the Free Party as a new force, a fresh party who came here to create a new political culture, and also the IRL, a conservative party from the world view. What message do you have right now for the voters of the two parties who are watching a live broadcast on the Riigikogu website? How should they assess the vote of the Free Party and the IRL on this draft cancellation act?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-16_U140	A very good question in the sense of inviting, like the voters of the IRL and the Free Party, to support the Centre Party when it can be seen that the representatives of the Free Party and the IRL are unable to do the work they have been invited to do by the voters. In any case, it is impressive how the Reform Party has managed to wrap its finger around the Free Party. We saw them give their two or three votes to the 16-year-olds, even though we talked about giving 16-year-olds the right to stand as candidates. This is Free Party, like it didn't cooperate. But I still have a very positive view of the Free Party, because Jüri Adams, a member of the Free Party, has shown a green light to our bill and said that it is a sensible draft that we should repeal the partnership law.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-16_U141	Igor Gräzin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-16_U142	I'll pick up where Jack started a little bit. First of all, I would like to dismiss the accusations that the vat Reform Party is the second, third, fourth. The law of cohabitation is no matter to the party of the Reform Party; we are neither in favour nor against it. We have people who are on sides of them there are many, and we also have those who are opposed. That's it. There's nothing about a coalition agreement, our basics or anything like that. However, there is one thing I want to ask you, because that is the point that you and I are absolutely in agreement, i.e. on the substance of this law. Tell me, please, how are you, as well as the representative of the right-wing party - we are both in the ALDE - to interpret what right-wingism means today at all!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-16_U143	Thank you. I'm glad the faculty at the Liberals Academy is asking me that. As a former lecturer, I think you know very well that liberalism is not considered merely a right-wing view of the world. Liberalism can easily also be a left-wing view of the world. What matters is how we are embracing liberalism. The Reform Party has gone this way on the issue of liberalism, that they give freedom, but do not take responsibility. The Centre Party is also a liberal party, but we would like there to be a parite concept of responsibility in addition to freedom. So the right-left scale doesn't really have much to do with this. When we look at society, we both see that society does not understand this cohabitation law. While all MEPs claim to have friends of homosexual people and have some sort of pressure groups, there are people among them who claim that no one is preventing homosexuals from being happy now and that there is no need for a separate law so that they can live their happy lives. It is simply a political agenda, let us say, a tedious issue that is not among the 30 priorities for our society, and it is extremely unfortunate that we have been dealing with it for over a year and a half.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-16_U144	Priit Onion, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-16_U145	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Good waitress! I'd stick to your last sentence, and your answer might be more of such a predictable color. First of all, I'm glad that you've been inspired like this, that you're serious about this bill, and that you're taking the lead. What would have happened if you had been in the Chamber at first reading of the implementing provisions and supported the rejection of the draft? If you remember, there was a matter of votes at the time, and unfortunately you weren't in the hall. They say you were in Knee. What condition would we be in today? Would it have been necessary for us to discuss this issue for weeks, as you said, perhaps the matter could have been resolved then? What do you think's gonna happen now?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-16_U146	Was I in Põlva at the time? You're watching me very closely, thank you! If we could abolish the law on partnership, we shouldn't even see who was somewhere in September, who was in Keila, who was in Põlva, who was in Viljandi. That has nothing to do with today. So let's cancel it. When the "Actual Camera" reporter asked me whose voices I'm counting on and whether I've spoken to the IRL politicians, I commended you. I said that I have spoken with the Chairman of the IRL Group, and we will see how strong he is, whether he can get all the members of his group to walk in the same foot, or whether he can't, or whether there is a civil war or a gap. I hope you're a very talented group chairman.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-16_U147	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-16_U148	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear waitress, Obviously, we have not seen so much tagging, blaming and incitement of anger in Estonia before, as has been the case in the last two years in connection with the draft law implementing the Cohabitation Act and the adoption of the law that preceded it. And above all, it has come from those who adhere to these laws, not from their opponents. Jaanus, what is your idea that rejecting the bill currently under discussion would help to stop such labelling and incitement to hatred?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-16_U149	I'm sure it would. Anger speech has transcended all kinds of boundaries in society. Political hate speech has been developed in Estonian domestic politics over the last 15 years on a variety of topics. I'm not going to read them now, but here, too, Igor Gräzin and I can make a list of topics where hate speech has been highly practiced. Our political culture is not comparable to that of the Nordic countries. Unfortunately, we belong more to Eastern Europe than to our political culture, and this is precisely under the leadership of the government departments, who do not tolerate differences of opinion and are prepared to suppress them with all kinds of political deals. There is no doubt that hate speech is central to Estonian politics, but unfortunately, the electorate has given it a green light at times. Otherwise, people who have practiced hate speech would not get so many voices. Let me give you an example: one politician who has spent the last ten years making hate speech and receiving many votes for it is Jürgen Ligi, the Reform Party.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-16_U150	March Sults, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-16_U151	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good Jaanus, have you thought about it, or have you tried to make a generalization of the state of the property or the degree of the hierarchical ladder to which the advocates of this law are? Maybe they're people who just don't have a single thing to do and then they come up with some sort of trick, or they're like a pill or they're in some kind of fun stuff? The state of the soul is said to be a disease. I wouldn't say so harshly, but is it meant for people of which state of mind this law is directed?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-16_U152	Thank you. I'm not a psychologist, I've studied state science at the university. In any case, the lobby of the Cohabitation Act is very influential, because we have not seen such political statements in other draft laws. For a moment, however, we saw this in the law of the earth when three readings were completed in 14 days. The Cohabitation Act is an example of where a very small social pressure group has a very large impact on legislation. I think that the way the political agenda is formed may be the subject of a master's thesis by political scientists. Why some of the drafts are moving faster in Parliament, why some of them are not going anywhere, it is undoubtedly a matter of their own.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-16_U153	Imre Sooäär, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-16_U154	Thank you, good manager. Honourable waitress! Unlike one of the possible presidential candidates of the Reform Party, Igor Gräzin, we do indeed have pluralism of opinion. As you know, I have met many civil society organisations. I've also met dozens and dozens of same-sex couples who are members of the Central Party. I'm not talking about some media-known person here. I'm talking about your simple members to the board. They are very proud of the fact that the Centre Party was one of the parties involved in initiating this process, that the draft law on partnership reached this house in the first place. They are very proud of their ambassadors, indeed, and you also enjoyed a high level of opinion and very much hope that implementing legislation could be adopted. The current situation does not solve their problems, as the Chancellor of Justice said. What do you have to say to those members of your party who are waiting for the implementing legislation, and what should this draft say to them?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-16_U155	Thank you. I would still repeat what has been said by a good colleague of the Jüri Adams Free Party. The fact that homosexuals still have nothing to do with their happiness when this law is not adopted. If it is necessary to divide property, take responsibility for some material relations, then you can go to the notary and regulate them. In the Republic of Estonia, it is possible to be happy in 2016 without having to adopt such laws. The law of cohabitation has rather divided society, and I would argue that before this law was dealt with, society was much more tolerant than it is now, intolerance has increased. Consequently, the ability to conduct dialogue and debate is not very advanced. So no one's rights are being reduced, all the opportunities to live a full life in Estonia are there.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-16_U156	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-16_U157	Thank you, President-in-Office. Ladies and gentlemen, I fully agree that, since these are issues of such a small and marginal group, it would not be necessary to deal with them at all in the Riigikogu, not even for two years. But I would like to put you in such an ungrateful role as the Delfi oracle and ask how you will see the future of such ambassadors, parties that are completely unashamed to cross the vast majority of the people, over 80% of the electorate's will, rather than being a democratic body to implement democracy as it is meant to be, rather than acting as a roller coaster for a marginal minority. What is your vision of the future of their cohabitation law and the law of the couple, and whatever else you want to impose?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-16_U158	Thank you. This future will not be brighter if Estonia's democracy or the representative body of Estonia, Parliament does not adopt laws that would allow direct referendums to be organised. There are no polls in Estonia, there are no referendums; we do not ask our people for their opinions. The way a politician later looks depends, of course, very much on his own work, but also on the way journalists, the fourth power, reflects and conveys our policies. I think that the quality of policy would be changed if we organised more referendums, we asked for opinions. If the objection is that it is expensive to send an envelope home to a person, to prepare this question, to ask sociologists for an opinion, then I would argue that if you look at what has happened in the air of Estonia or the Port of Tallinn, there is enough money to make even two referendums a year. This will improve the quality of policy and communication with voters. So this could be our future.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-16_U159	Maire Aunaste, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-16_U160	I recently saw a news release from Denmark, where a train takes place because of one person. And it bothers me very much when it is constantly said in this Chamber that 20% of the Estonian people or, let's say, 3 to 5% of the entire population, who are not heterosexual, are a marginal amount, so that we do not need to speak here at all or adopt the law for these few people. Jaanus, I have a question for you: who should protect 20% of these people in Estonia? Who should represent them if, for example, I can't represent 20% who might be there in South Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-16_U161	Thank you. A very clear question, I will also give a clear answer. I think that at the moment there is a political view that homosexuals must be given more rights, very clearly defined by two political parties: the Reform Party and the Social Democrats. The IRL you belong to hasn't done it. So I would advise you to think about joining the Socialists or the Reform Party, because that is their promise. There is no obligation on the whole of Parliament to deal with this. This is the case with the promises that someone has made to their voters. If you gave your voters a promise like this in Võrumaa, if I am not mistaken, then it is your duty to comply with it. But there are very much more important questions in Estonia. It has only recently been pointed out here that the state is still unable to implement the alimony fund. There are over twenty thousand single parents, but I do not see such passion or combatability for increasing their rights and improving their opportunities.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-16_U162	Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-16_U163	Thank you, Mr. Speaker. Dear waitress, I must say, of course, that if Imre Sooäär knows dozens and dozens of homosexuals in the Centre Party and Maire Aunaste thinks that a third of the people in his constituency are homosexual, it gives a new meaning to the saying 'tell who your friends are, and we say who you are'. But as far as the promises made before the elections and also after the elections are concerned, as far as I can remember, only the Social Democratic Party clearly positioned itself in such a way that they would, in any case, support the cohabitation law and its implementation. All other political parties have criticised the law on partnership, how it was adopted and how implementing legislation has tried to move forward. What does it say about political culture if it is now going to abolish the law and it is not supported?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-16_U164	I, after all, commend the Social Democrats. If that is their main promise to the voters, let them fight for it. Perhaps it is also the only thing that the voters will remember after that that they stood for it. However, when we look at the mathematics of Parliament, the Social Democrats are rather the little brother of the Reform Party and they do what the big brother tells them. I guess they're hoping to get some kind of job or maybe support for some other initiative. What exactly is this, I do not know these details, because I have not been invited to the meetings of the Socialists or the Reform Party.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-16_U165	March Sults, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-16_U166	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good Jaanus! What about the party, whose representative Jürgen Ligi answered yesterday's question, Krista Arut of the Free Party, that he would raise up some small interest group, or interest education? The Riigikogu is not the kind of place where the fate of a mere handful of people is discussed. The opposite is done today, today the so-called happiness formula for the marginal part of the Estonian population is being discussed. What do you think of such a party? How credible or competent is this organization?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-16_U167	Knowledge of the life of the Reform Party is an opera on its own. But as I said before, it is why some of the drafts move forward faster than others in the proceedings, really the domain of social scientists or political scientists, social scientists. Is there an influential interest group behind this? What's the lobby like? Did they promise the Reform Party any benefits for this, and has the Reform Party received them? There are a lot of doubts. As we understand it, it is actually possible to paralyze the Reform Party on the basis of doubts. After all, we see from the legal practice of Estonia that there is no need for an accusation, suspicion is enough. That's a very good point, Mr. Sults! Really, who's behind this behavior and what are the promises? We don't know these facts today, but we're looking for them, and we'll find them sometime.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-16_U168	Honourable Riigikogu, I think it is important to remind you that we are discussing draft 149. Jaak Madison, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-16_U169	Thank you, President of the Riigikogu. Honourable waitress! I got the idea confused with this statement that one in five people in Estonia is a homosexual, that's a fantastic statement! But if you ask for real figures and research results, and real statistics, which are at all adequate, then in the previous talks, it also concerns the law of the couple, no one has been able to tell you how many people we are talking about and how many people actually want to sign a partnership agreement. How many people would like to get down on their knees and ask their mates to sign a partnership agreement, dear? Jaanus, how many people do you think we're actually talking about? How big is this small, marginal interest group, which is putting pressure on the overwhelming majority of Estonian people, family mothers and family fathers, to accept their ideology? How big could this group be, what do you think?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-16_U170	I admit that I have not dealt in depth with extending the rights of homosexuals. However, I have found that the extension of these rights as a whole divides society and that this message has not been brought to society so that it can be integrated into society. Jüri Adams, a member of the Free Party, has dealt with this issue in depth and has developed a couple's law. When I asked him the same thing, he claimed that there are 40, 50 or 60 people in Estonia who would like to regulate their relationship on a separate legal basis.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-16_U171	Heimar Lenk, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-16_U172	Thank you. Our beloved TV star and charming MP Maire Aunaste have just asked you a weepy question, who should then protect this little interest group. I have a question to ask you: what must a gay group be protected from by law?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-16_U173	First of all, it is a good thing that you reminded me of the question of MEP Maire Aunas, at the beginning of which she claimed that there was a person waiting for a train in Denmark. I remind the Maire Aunas that 10,000 people in Haapsalu are waiting for a train, but somehow the Stenbock house doesn't start this train. We have over 50 people in Parliament's support group who want to rebuild the Haapsalu railway, but for some reason this is not happening. But for the sake of the 50-60 people, we now have to legislate in such a ferocious way.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-16_U174	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-16_U175	Thank you, Mr. Speaker. Dear waitress, There has been a statement here that dozens and dozens of acquaintances are so- and so-and-so concerned, and, of course, there is an answer to the question of who must stand up for the interests of this particular minority. I have dozens and dozens of lawyers and notaries friends and acquaintances, all of whom confirm, as one word, that Estonian legislation is so advanced that all the legal problems that these people have can be solved. It's not possible to adopt, yes, it's true, but I don't think it's necessary. That is, of course, my personal opinion. Now the question to the waitress: maybe we could get a lot cleaner air and we could put all these debates, disputes and accusations on a more solid and clearer ground if we were to repeal the cohabitation law now?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-16_U176	Yeah, I totally agree with you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-16_U177	Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-16_U178	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, A hero of Fyodor Dostoyevsky said that if God does not exist, all is permitted, and he was talking about Christian morality. The pope of Rome and the Patriarch of Moscow spoke of this when they met in Havana a few days ago. One topic was the preservation of a traditional family, if I am not mistaken, I think that is the 13th point in their approach to a billion people. But it's a reply. I want to ask you something like that. If we think of Estonians from the uprising of George's Night to the War of Independence and say the last war to the so-called heroes, it is a question for me, but for some, it is not a question, what would they do in this Chamber with those who support such a cohabitation law? What do you think? What would the same Riigikogu do if we took the 20s for example?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-16_U179	Thank you. You were talking about George's Night and the War of Independence and asking what these people would think. It is clear that if we went very far with the propaganda of homosexual relations, the Estonian people would soon no longer be there. That's the first thing. But I want to say that there are so many important socio-economic issues in Estonia, living in poverty, the situation of our children, the issue of school lunch is unresolved, the salaries of kindergarten teachers are low. Our economy is already lagging behind Latvia and Lithuania. Our science is underfunded. I cannot see, I will continue to repeat, on these issues, such a passion and such a political struggle as this cohabitation law. This really raises the question of who is really behind this law and what is being promised to their partners for this law. This is no longer a matter of value; it is already a matter of political cow trade. But it's time to discuss it.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-16_U180	Terje Trei, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-16_U181	First of all, I would like to thank the Chairman, who in the meantime drew attention to what draft we are discussing. Good waitress! If the part of society for which this law is made is so marginal, why make so much noise and involve such great crowds, begin to break the law that does not determine the majority of life? Why aren't you just as eager to do all the things you read in the previous paragraph?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-16_U182	Thank you. It's a matter of values. If this law regulates the lives of 40 to 50 people, perhaps 125 people who have exactly counted them, but at the same time irritates thousands, tens of thousands of people, then it does not bring more tolerance or solidarity to society. I would therefore like to state that this debate, this debate, should be held in a different way, so that there is a consensus in Parliament on this matter. You can't discuss certain moral and value issues with the road roller method, so give me your vote, then you get something in return. I would also recommend that members of the Reform Party think about these issues in depth, not just by order.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-16_U183	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-16_U184	Thank you, manager. Good colleague! When you discussed this draft in the Committee on Legal Affairs, the representative of the IRL did not support the repeal of the Cohabitation Act. But look at the miracle, the same day Michal, Minister of Economic Affairs and Infrastructure, appointed three representatives of the IRL to the Boards of State Enterprises. Could there be some kind of coincidence?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-16_U185	Very good example, thank you! Yes, Raivo Time, Member of the Committee on Legal Affairs, as a true IRL politician, has always expressed a reluctance in conversations to the law of partnership. But just before the hearing of the Committee on Legal Affairs, he was kind of reborn. I asked what was going on. He argued that he could not intervene in discussions between the three political parties' chairmen; he expected their results. The result then was that Raivo Aeg did not vote, either left or right at the Legal Affairs Committee. The fact that, on the same day, Kristen Michal appointed people to the councils who were randomly members of the IRL raises doubts, but I would argue that the suspicions must be cautious. Many things can be done in the Republic of Estonia on their basis.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-16_U186	A grain of Thomas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-16_U187	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. I am very sorry to sit in this Chamber and hear the waitress insult people who have long been trying to protect those who fight for those people who love is love, whatever their gender or skin color is. But that's your problem. It's not like I'm so weak, I'm offended at everything. But I can't let go of the March Sults who blamed Jürgen Ligi. I suggest you review the answers to your questions from the verbatim if you are unable to listen to them in this Chamber. Jürgen Ligi protested against Krista Aru's question, not because he did not appreciate science and science, but because several times the question of why one person was made redundant from the ministry has already been raised. Now that was the question. So please be specific if you want us to be accurate too! Take care of yourself, read the verbatim if you do not want to listen to the answers to your questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-16_U188	I think you've just confused something. You're not precise yourself because I didn't ask for this question, and I really don't know what you're talking about. If I've offended you in any way in defending the rights of homosexuals, I'm sorry. No doubt I didn't want to do that. Right now, there's a part of the debate here, that's right.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-16_U189	Rainer Vakra, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-16_U190	Thank you. Honourable waitress! I have a broader and more philosophical question for you. You're constantly operating with the numbers that may be affected by this law, naming numbers like 10, 25, 45 and talking about hundreds in the meantime. And you're also saying that it's all so marginal that there's no point in dealing with it. You're also the vice-president of the Central Party. From where does the Centre Party and for you, the border, when is it wise to discuss a law in this hall? How many people have to be covered by the law? I recall that your colleague, Mr Stalnukhin, has given his favorite draft, perhaps nine or ten times, to the procedure, which he has said that a hundred ladies could use it to buy back their property. Or maybe when we discussed the issue of citizenship of a girl from Ida-Virumaa in the previous composition, it was about one person. How many people must the law be concerned that you consider it important for the Estonian people?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-16_U191	Thank you. Since you claimed that your question was philosophical, my answer is cognitive. I guess that's all about political perception. I gave an example earlier in connection with Maire Aunaste's claim that a person is waiting for a train in Denmark, and that train is still running. I said that there are 10,000 people waiting for a train in Haapsalu, but the Government of the Republic has so far failed to make a positive decision on this. I would argue that the voters of the Centre Party, according to the study by Emor, 90% of our voters, do not support this bill. We rely first and foremost on the wishes of our constituents and want to repeal the Cohabitation Act. The figures aren't so important here, either it's a hundred, two hundred, or five hundred. It is important that there is Parliament's consensus. If it is a matter of morality and values, it is important that Parliament find consensus here and reach an agreement instead of running through agreements and deals between the coalition of power.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-16_U192	Uno Kaskpeit, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-16_U193	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Mr. Waitress! Is it not the case that the border goes where there are tens of thousands of single mothers with children and where tens of thousands of impoverished people have uncorrected teeth? That would be the answer to Mr. Vakra. What do you think?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-16_U194	Thank you. Thank you for listening to my answers. I have repeatedly stressed that there are dozens of important problems in Estonian society, these are then low wages, regional inequality, single parents or an unimplemented alimony fund. That was the observation. But, of course, if the Reform Party and the Social Democrats do not want to admit that there are more important problems in society, I will respect that. It is their choice, their voters have different demands. This is democracy.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-16_U195	Marianne Mikko, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-16_U196	Thank you very much. I have to admit, listening to you, Mr. Karilaid, I kind of feel like throwing up. [[The cavalry.]] I feel sick, and I feel sad. I dare say that when we reached one good law in the previous composition, and now you come and wave it here with figures that can and cannot be protected from this remote control, it's brutal. My question is, how do you feel in front of us?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-16_U197	Thank you for your question. I feel really good. Within the Centre Party, we have been consensually discussing this issue. I myself represent Läänemaa, Saaremaa and Hiiumaa and have discussed these issues there. The Läänemaa region has unanimously supported this initiative and continues to look to the embarrassing social democrats and reform parties who are unable to read the Estonian Human Development Report and to see that, according to this report, there are no problems of the Cohabitation Act that you are trying to formulate here. Rather, there are socio-economic problems, emigration and, in fact, negative growth. I'm sorry you embarrass our constituents. Why are we involved in making the Human Development Report 50.60 social scientists who fix issues that are very important to our society, if you still ignore them and do not deal with them? I express myself more politely, because as a Member of Parliament you have the right to deal with pseudo-problems as well.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-16_U198	Olga Ivanova, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-16_U199	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Honourable waitress! When we talk about the quality and goodness of the law, as the previous questioner said, how do you appreciate the quality of the law or the law that only 40 Members voted in favour of in the previous Riigikogu?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-16_U200	Thank you. This poor legislative practice has been referred to by previous Chancellors of Justice. Urmas Reinsalu, Minister of the IRL, has pointed out that he, too, is embarrassed and ashamed of the kind of action in which 40 Members wish to place an obligation on the next parliamentary term, which requires 51 votes. This is a very bad precedent. There is a question of why our legislative culture is being broken down in this way and why our society is being divided, but we will have a more precise answer to this at some point. In any case, it is the responsibility of the Reform Party and the Social Democrats, and they are primarily responsible to their constituents.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-16_U201	Terje Trei, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-16_U202	Thank you! Good waitress! I have a feeling that you like to listen to your own thoughts, whether or not they are related to this bill. I'm not asking you anything, but you can tell me what you want.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-16_U203	Thank you for a good question. You've done a lot of thinking.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-16_U204	Imre Sooäär, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-16_U205	Thank you, good manager. My question is motivated by the question of a good colleague, Olga Ivanova. He spoke a little about minorities. I have a question: why has only a small minority from the Central Party put forward this draft, why is the whole group not behind it? In itself, it is once again the pluralism of thoughts. To the delight of my fellow Members, you could read these dozens of Middle Party couples, but I think it would be a disservice to them, because they could be faced with repression within the party, in society, hatred, condemnation. It wouldn't be good for them. But at the same time, they are looking forward to the adoption of the implementing acts of the Cohabitation Act. You haven't answered my last question. Maybe you could explain your answer to me where you said it should be discussed in a different way in this Chamber. How is it different? You're not proposing any solution after you cancel.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-16_U206	Thank you. There were now many questions and there were many reproaches, there were talks about sanctions and repression. Valdo Randpere, member of the Reform Party, has only recently claimed that he is ready to shoot the leading employees of the Tallinn Port. It's his own line. Such expressions of the political arsenal of the Centre Party are undoubtedly not included. In the case of this draft, in the case of the annulment of the Cohabitation Act, the Centre Party Group is united. We have discussed this in the Group and in the Management Board of the Centre Party. Even if it were initiated by two people, but the Bureau and the political group have given a mandate, we will act in a united manner. We are a party of the Centre Party in favour of repealing the Cohabitation Act. And as I said, we've been talking to several lawyers. Gay couples can also be happy within the framework of existing laws; they can regulate their relations with notaries.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-16_U207	There are no further questions for the representative of the initiators. The Commission's rapporteur is Mark Soosaar. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-16_U208	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, You're facing a man who was supposed to be in this hall several times during the Soviet era. The congress of creative alliances took place in this hall. In April 1988 we were also together with creative alliances and thought about how to keep Estonian culture and language in a very difficult situation. None of us thought about how Estonia, should it be ready, broken and broken. What is happening here today is nothing more than the beginning of breaking our legal system. As soon as we take one law out of the way, we must begin to abolish all the laws that the previous speaker has spoken about. And as they say, who raises the stone first? I do not dare say whether we have any laws covering the entire population with which everyone is satisfied. Consequently, we should demolish the whole legal system and start rebuilding it from the beginning. Do we have the strength to do so with our shrinking population? I doubt it. However, I am not here to give my own opinion, but to give an overview of the Commission's sitting. This meeting was held on 9 February. We did not have a substantive debate in the Commission, simply because there was nothing to argue with. Everything that Jaanus Karilaid has already told you about didn't bring about an argument. There were only two questions: one humorous question came from Jaanus Karilaid, Mr Valdo Randpere, and the other from me. Then it was a decision. The vote placed the proposal to close the first reading of the draft and the result of the vote was as follows: 4 members of the Commission were in favour of the closure, 5 were against and 2 abstentions. The proposal was therefore not supported and the Commission's decision is to reject this draft in plenary at first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-16_U209	Questions for the Commission rapporteur. Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-16_U210	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, you could specify who voted on the two were impartial, five against and four in favour.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-16_U211	Yeah, I'll repeat the protocol. With four votes in favour, five against and two abstentions, the proposal was not supported.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-16_U212	No further questions. I'm opening negotiations. On behalf of the Group of the Social Democratic Party of Mihkel Raud, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-16_U213	Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu! Dear colleagues! The draft law under consideration is remarkable mainly because it deprives people of the rights they have been granted freshly by law. Let us remember that the law on partnership, which is now being repealed, has been in force since 1 January this year. This law has, as has been said, created certain rights and legitimate expectations for many people in Estonia. Now they're trying to take it all away. Very nice! But why stop here? Why stick to half-solutions on this supposedly popularly approved road? If it is, then it is. I have a small list of regulations and rights for colleagues, which are given to the people of Estonia only out of a groveling desire to please the liberal West. Perhaps it would be wise to review these reactionary regulations in the wind of the annulment of the cohabitation law? Perhaps it is indeed time to return to the 1920s, as was implied in this Chamber today. And why stop at all in the 1920s when you can actually go even further. What do you want to look at? Here you go! Women's right to vote should be abolished. Abortion should be prohibited. The death penalty must be restored. Do you remember how opposed it was to its introduction by the people? Clairvoyants and witches who become inappropriately popular in Estonia must be criminalised and given maximum punishment in the form of burning. Rock music must be banned because it is music that has been invented, let us say, refugees. You should not play saxophone. Who doesn't remember the famous saying, "Today you're playing the saxophone, tomorrow you're betraying your homeland"? The list of such Stalinist initiatives is endless. Let us get off the hook, ladies and gentlemen. The 21st century has been overestimated without doubt. I wish members of the Riigikogu the strength to make Estonia old! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-16_U214	Jaak Madison on behalf of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-16_U215	Good Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, I call for calmness, especially for the social democrats, and for the facts concerning abortion, the death penalty, etc., which were a great word here. But let's get to the point. As regards the annulment of the Cohabitation Act, there were rhetorical questions about why such a problem would be dealt with if there were other problems. We'd rather bounce the ball back. Who initiated this wave of propaganda to press the absolute majority of society to agree to some kind of law that has a very strong opposition that cannot be heard in society? This law was not mentioned in the election programme of the Socialists or Reform Party in 2011, but was pushed through completely undemocraticly and without any indicator before the elections. And when we look at the results of the last elections, they reflected very clearly what happened due to the passing of such a law. Consequently, what we are dealing with, with the repeal of this law, which has been very opposed by the undemocratic and the absolute majority of society, we are defending the absolute majority of the people. The second lie was that the law had entered into force on 1 January. I recommend that Mr Iron, whom I very much respect and who is a very good colleague of mine in the Commission, read the law again. The law clearly states that the Cohabitation Act will enter into force with implementing acts on 1 January 2016. What is not available is implementing acts. Therefore, there is no existing cohabitation law. So we are not talking about the current law on cohabitation, but about the law that has not yet entered into force. Thirdly, when we are talking about real problems, the Social Democrats here are making timid, tearing statements about our poverty and other fundamental problems. But what do we do now? We're dealing with pseudo-problems! I recommend that one coalition party examine the Statistical Office survey, according to which 36% of people aged 65+ live in relative poverty, for example. In 2013, this figure was only 32%, which means that during your reign, the age-old generation will rise the limit of relative poverty. Why aren't you dealing with this problem? Why are you dealing with the creation of a minority, a marginal group of special rights, which divides society, which is what is causing tension in society, and what is wrong with the real problems? You're talking about broken families, children growing up with single parents. That's right! Why don't you deal with emigration, why don't you deal with the problem of why the family fathers go to work in Finland, the children stay here alone with their mothers, and the families go to pieces? These are real problems. And if anyone here feels the urge to vomit, it is the majority of the people, 75 to 89% feel the vomit reflex, if they either hear on the radio every day or read about the Estonian Daily Paper or Delfi, which is a real left-wing ideology propaganda machine, how they should agree to something that is unacceptable to them. It's pukey. Mr Soosaar mentioned that we will be dealing with the repeal of the law. Of course we will. During the rule of the Reform Party, very many laws have been passed, which must be abolished. It's as simple as that! I don't see any problem with that, so it's really big news now. That's right, even Mr. Vakra agrees. Come over here, welcome! I will now go to the statistics on the part we are talking about. If a national envoy here thinks 20% of people living in South Estonia are either gay or bisexual, I was still very impressed by the fact that I had a lump in my throat when I asked the question. But, of course, every national ambassador has the right, according to the constitution, to stand up for his or her worldview and to act according to his or her conscience. In particular, it shall have that right when it is selected as an individual candidate. If you're running for membership of a party that is clearly national-conservative, then you must also protect the interests of your constituents. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-16_U216	Please, let's get some more time!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-16_U217	Thank you. Therefore, it is not a matter of personal conviction or a view of the world here, but of looking very clearly at what voters expect of our work. Social democrats are easy. Of course you know what you're gonna get: If you choose the soups, you get the red ones. If you choose the IRL, the idea should become a national canned ship. Similarly, with the Free Party, who came to Parliament as a new force, as a new political culture, they did not have in the electoral programme that they would support the entry into force of the Cohabitation Act. So many voters had the hope that the Free Party would stand on the side of the absolute majority of the people, just as Mr Adams does and sets a very good example for others. Finally, do not repeal this law anyway, whether this year or next or in 2019. Thank you and the strength to work!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-16_U218	On behalf of Viktoria Ladynskaja Isamaa and Res Publica Union, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-16_U219	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! I will start by thanking my group. At the moment, however, I am expressing and expressing my positions first and foremost. It seems that for IRL, the law on partnership and its implementing legislation is a complex matter. He is complicated because it is known that the IRL as a party and the IRL presidency do not support the Cohabitation Act and do not support the implementing acts. However, our group has different opinions and voting is democratic, free. What is the original material? The Cohabitation Act and its implementing acts are probably the hottest law in Estonia in recent years. After all, society does not really argue about what was in the draft a year ago, but debate was caused by fears from one part of society and another. Fear relates to what lies between the lines of this law ♪ it is the nature of same-sex marriage and the resulting next step, the possibility for same-sex couples to adopt. It's what one side wants, but it hides between the lines. The other side, however, is afraid of it and is trying to read it between the lines. A year ago, the IRL made it clear that we are opposed to declaring same-sex marriage the norm. The Cohabitation Act is not the IRL Act. We have not initiated it, and as a party we are opposed to it. And that is why this law and agreement were not included in the coalition agreement. I assure you, the presidency of the IRL is still in the same position. We are not in favour of the law as it has been adopted. What is the political compromise? It's a complicated philosophical question. So far, the law has been passed. We can see that same-sex couples are perfectly present in society. They have their own problems, which they write to us about. The logic of a Christian person tells me to give a hand to someone asking for help. Yeah, I will, but I won't give up my beliefs with it. Hence the IRL's response to the coalition partners. We understand the concerns of same-sex couples, but we cannot accept this as a social norm. In order to have a norm in place, we proposed to include in the Constitution that marriage is a connection between a man and a woman. Another major problem is the subject of adoption. Protecting children's rights requires very thorough work. In response to the situation a few weeks ago, much of which was written in the media, I would say that there was no agreement. It was our firm position as a woman and a man in the Constitution and adoption completely out of the law. The idea is simple: even in order to reach a compromise, the world view of both sides must be protected. Neither should the rights of those who value marriage between a man and a woman be violated. So what happened a few weeks ago? The IRL Group stressed from the outset that we have a free vote. This means that there are people in the group who do not vote in favour of the Cohabitation Act even if they meet these requirements, and there are also those for whom adoption and the introduction of a social standard may change their position on implementing legislation. That was the position of the IRL. Our interest is that the amendment to the Constitution would actually receive support, rather than become the same piece of work as that of the Cohabitation Act. And then it became clear that the proposal to write a man-woman association clause into the Constitution does not find the support of the coalition ambassadors in substance. We need to find 51 members of the Riigikogu who will be the initiator of the amendment of the Constitution. I admit, we were expecting a very natural thing - a man-woman connection - to receive the support of coalition partners. This would have proved that they also respect our view of the world. We do not agree with hurting our worldview. And the last, very philosophical question: what is living together? The adoption of the Cohabitation Act last year really divided society, not merged. It is the irony of fate that the main character of the absurd theater that took place in Parliament a few weeks ago was the former Minister of Justice in the remote. It was during his term as minister that a law was passed that was not in favour of the majority of society and that was done in a hurry and in such a way that it now does not properly solve the problems of the target group of the law. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-16_U220	Please, an extra three minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-16_U221	Thank you. It seems that everything that is important for every legal act has been set aside here. It was envisaged how the law could be passed without 51 votes, i.e. with a minority in Parliament. At first, society was lied to as if it were regulating the property relationships of unmarried people rather than the same-sex partnership. Further proceedings were left to the next Riigikogu. To sum it up. Bad legislative practice and uncertainty lead to a number of court decisions and costs for the taxpayer. This is a legislative failure, which should primarily be viewed in the mirror by those who do it. This law is not satisfied with the supporters of the traditional family and does not satisfy the needs of same-sex couples. This law hinders the work of Parliament and the resolution of other issues of importance to the state and society. Ultimately, this law does not match my outlook on the world. And more importantly, purely legal, this law is a failure. The legislation that started with the lie is wrong. I am voting in favour of the cancellation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-16_U222	Jaanus Karilaid on behalf of the Centre Party Group.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-16_U223	Ladies and gentlemen, The story of Viktoria Ladynskaja, an IRL politician, was very wise. Each sentence was worth a lot of gold. Thank you for this presentation. I came here maybe to my future comrades, IRL politicians. I would remind the Chairman of the IRL Group, Priit Sibula, that if you have the opportunity, take a break, there are empty benches, perhaps the IRL Group can still be recalled. I will not turn to the Socialists because they have been a political aftercart of the Reform Party through the ages and it turns out that they will remain that way. However, looking at how much the Law on Cohabitation has caused an emotional imbalance in this House, that is why we should abolish it. I am not talking about a society where there is a great deal of tension, but, as has been said here, the law on cohabitation has already hindered the work of Parliament. Let us improve our work on behalf of the people, abolish the cohabitation law and deal with more important issues and issues! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-16_U224	There are no further requests to speak. As a result of the vote, the commission concluded that draft 149 should be rejected at first reading. We need to vote on this proposal. Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-16_U225	Three minutes break, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-16_U226	Break. We'll proceed at 1:48 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-16_U227	Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the draft proposal of the commission to reject 149 at first reading. Please take a stand and vote. 41 members of the Riigikogu were in favour of the commission's proposal and 39 against, with no abstentions. The Governing Commission's proposal was supported. Draft 149 has been rejected at first reading.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-16_U228	Our next item is... Honourable members of the Riigikogu, peace please! Our next item is the draft law amending the Bar Act, which is presented by the Government of the Republic. The minister is waiting for him to come in and report. Please calm down and sit down! Please, Mr. Minister! First reading of Bill 164.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-16_U229	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! This is undoubtedly also a passionate piece of legislation, which is amendments to the Bar Act. There's no secret when I say that...
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-16_U230	I'm sorry, Minister. Honourable Riigikogu! If you can calm down, the minister can continue. Please, Mr. Minister!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-16_U231	The Bar Association has become the country's largest professional body in the field of law. As of last year, it already had 934 members. The purpose of this law is to adapt the organisation of the bar Association to the growth of the bar Association. The current Bar Association Act dates back to 2001, when the Bar Association had 415 members. It should be taken into account that according to the forecast, there should already be 1,300 lawyers at the bar by 2020. The Bar has a number of public-law obligations. The administrative burden has increased considerably over the last decade, particularly in view of the full organisation of state legal aid, the opinion on draft laws, the strengthening of supervision of members and further training. As a result of the above, it is necessary to review and supplement the section of the Bar Act concerning the organisation of the Bar Association in order to respond better to the changed needs and to take account of the future development of the organisation. In addition, the current regulation should be complemented by an option that would allow for a better linking of retired lawyers with the organisation. The regulation of membership also needs to be regulated, as the basis for granting the right to act as an associate member of the Estonian Bar Association is ambiguous in the current law. In developing this draft, the Ministry of Justice worked closely with the Bar Association. If we ask whether these legal relationships need to be regulated in such detail at the level of the law, we have tried to incorporate these legal relationships, which the Bar Association considered necessary, into the law of the Bar Association itself, but questions concerning the exercise of one of the fundamental rights of business freedom in the provision of legal aid, which, in certain cases, can only be done in Estonia through a monopoly, via the Bar Association, must be laid down by law, since this is a reservation of the fundamental right to be exercised by law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-16_U232	Any questions for the initiators' waitress? No, it's not. Thank you. The rapporteur for the Committee on Legal Affairs is Kristjan Kõljalg. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-16_U233	Honourable Chairman! Minister, thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, We discussed the draft law at the Committee on Legal Affairs. a on 26 January and 8 February. Among other things, we talked about the need to amend the Bar Act because, as a result of the growing membership of the Bar Association, the current law has slipped over time and does not allow the organisation to operate with the necessary efficiency. In addition, it should be noted that the draft law has been pending in the Ministry of Justice since 2014 and has been extensively negotiated with the Bar Association. So we hope to process the draft as soon as possible in the Riigikogu, so that the Bar Association can also change its Rules of Procedure on the basis of the amended Act. Their General Assembly will take place on 3 March. a and therefore we hope that the draft procedure will perhaps be a little faster here in the Riigikogu than usual. The previous procedure has been sufficiently thorough, the Ministry of Justice and the Bar Association have reached a number of compromises. We spoke in committee about the difference between the regulation of the law and the regulation of the rules of procedure. It also clarified the issue of suspension of Bar Association membership and justified its differences and their necessity. We were talking about these matters by the Minister of Justice Urmas Reinsalu and the chairman of the barrister Sten Luiga and the lawyer Merit Avekukk-Tamm. Procedural decisions. As I mentioned, we are asking for this draft to be processed within a relatively short period of time. The first proposal was to put the draft on the agenda of today's plenary session. The Commission's consensual proposal is to conclude the first reading. Our proposal is to set the deadline for the amendments at 5 p.m. on 17 February (this was also a consensual decision) and to send the draft to second reading when the first reading is closed by 23 February 2016 (by 6 Commission members and with one abstention). We also propose ending the second reading and sending the draft to third reading when the second reading is completed by 25 February 2016 (by 6 and abstentions). Finally, we proposed that the draft be put to the final vote (by 6 and abstentions). Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-16_U234	Are there any questions for the Commission's rapporteur? Please, George Adams!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-16_U235	Mr. Waitress! For me, it is a little incomprehensible how it is possible to propose the termination of the second reading if the changes to the second reading have not yet been received and do not know what their content will be at all. Maybe there'll be three interruptions in second reading. Hasn't your committee been in a bit of a hurry at work?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-16_U236	Thank you for your question. We will, of course, also await the amendments. In the event that they are received and it appears that they are such that they do not allow the current procedural decisions to proceed, it is possible to review the procedural decisions within the Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-16_U237	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-16_U238	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! I was the only one in the Commission who protested against this decision, finding that this was not normal procedural practice. According to you as a fresh member of the Riigikogu, is such a procedural tactic justified in terms of discipline and procedural education? Would it still not be reasonable to act openly and correctly in compliance with the Home and Working Procedures Act? Or is interpretation normal, knowing that the law will not enter into force by March 3 when the general meeting of the bar Association is held?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-16_U239	Thank you for your question. First of all, the Home and Rules of Procedure Act allows for a shorter time limit for tabling amendments. This procedural side depends on us and on the President of the Republic, who must declare the law. However, we hope that this so-called "lawyer's council" will be able to change its rules of procedure as early as this year. In case there are procedural obstacles, they are really forced to wait a year. But I think it makes sense to meet the barrister by looking at this bill.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-16_U240	George Adams, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-16_U241	Thank you. I have this question: do you, the Ministry of Justice or the Minister, or anyone else, have such a clear agreement with the President that he will announce the law at an early pace and the plan can, how can I say, be fulfilled in due course?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-16_U242	Thank you for your question. Not aware of such an agreement.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-16_U243	No further questions. Thanks to the waitress! I'm opening negotiations. There's no call. First reading of Bill 164 is complete. I will set the deadline for the submission of amendments at 17 February at 5 p.m. The sitting is adjourned. I'll see you tomorrow. Closure of the sitting at 2 p.m.
