ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-13_U1	Good morning, good fellows. Honourable Riigikogu! We will begin the 4th working week Thursday session of the 4th plenary session of the Riigikogu. First of all, I would like to ask those members of the Riigikogu who wish to hand over drafts or questions. Please, Arthur Talvik!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-13_U2	Hello, good President. Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the Free Party Group, I have the honour to hand over the draft law amending the Law on the Rules of Procedure and Rules of Procedure of the Riigikogu and the Code of Criminal Procedure, which aims to strengthen parliamentary control. This is the result of experience with the Committee of Inquiry. I had the honour of chairing the Tallinn Port Corruption Investigation Commission last autumn and spring. This revealed quite a number of weaknesses in the Commission's work, which are now being strengthened. One problem, for example, was that some people who were invited to listen did not show up. This was not only the case in our committee, but also in the previous committee of inquiry on the VEB Fund. Furthermore, in our view, misdemeanour proceedings are not a sufficient means of ordering people who are insubordinate to the wishes of the Committee of Inquiry. We want to impose enforcement and also enforcement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-13_U3	Anneli Oti, speech chair of the Riigikogu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-13_U4	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, During the three months that the Administrative Reform Act has been in force, the Supreme Court has now been approached by 26 local government councils to declare the provisions of the Administrative Reform Act incompatible with the Constitution. In the Riigikogu, we have had an important discussion on the issue of administrative reform. The members of the Central Party Group have also disagreed on administrative reform in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. As a result of the above, on behalf of the Group of the Estonian Centre Party, I will pass on a draft decision which we propose to the Government of the Republic to take account of the specific characteristics of the municipalities in addition to the number of people living in the unit and to bring the provisions of compulsory integration into line with the Constitution. It is also necessary to change the basis and procedure for the payment of merger grants in such a way as to eliminate the discriminatory gap between voluntary mergers and forced mergers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-13_U5	Good colleagues, no more calls. On behalf of the Executive Board of the Riigikogu, I have adopted two drafts. According to our Home and Working Procedures Act, the Management Board of the Riigikogu decides on their further processing. Now, please, let's do the presence check! 69 members of the Riigikogu registered as present, no 32.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-13_U6	Let's move on to today's agenda. The first item is the second reading of the draft law 202 on the amendment of state secrets and classified foreign information law initiated by the Government of the Republic. I ask Andres Anvelt, member of the Constitutional Committee, to present the speech chair of the Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-13_U7	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, I will report to you the discussion of the second reading of the draft law 202 amending the State Secret and classified foreign information law discussed by the Riigikogu in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. The second reading took place in two stages. The first time was June 6. Deputy Secretary General of the Ministry of Defence Meelis Oidsalu was invited, a law-making lawyer of the Legal Department of the Ministry of Defence, as well as Tarmo Türkson, Deputy Director General of the Information Board. As an expert, Märt Kraft, who has previously been the head of a subsidiary which is the main subject of the draft, was present at the hearing. The main topic of the draft is the location of the NSA (abbreviation of the full English name Estonian National Security Authority) in the area of government of the Ministry of Defence. Let me remind you of the substance of the bill. The Ministry of Defence has brought it to the Riigikogu with the main aim of transferring the tasks of the NSA unit, or the authorised representative of state security, from the Ministry of Defence to the Information Board. In fact, for clarification, if the placing under the Information Office is the ultimate objective, the draft states that the authorised representative of national security is a structural unit of a government agency designated by the Government of the Republic, whose task is to organise and control the protection of classified foreign information. In the future, it would no longer be governed by law, but the Government of the Republic would decide to appoint this authority, so the draft bill is a decree of the Government of the Republic. On 6 June, a rather detailed discussion took place on the subject, where the views of former Head of Unit Märt Kraft in this area were heard. Kraft said that he did not think that the transfer would be sufficiently argued because the Ministry is more independent than the Information Office, in the sense that the Information Office is still an intelligence agency, but the Ministry performs much wider functions. In addition, the NSA is by its nature a public body, and its employees carry out statutory tasks. The Information Board, however, is a much more complex and more closed institution, an intelligence agency, which would make it more difficult to take it there, both within Estonia and internationally. The representatives of the Ministry of Defence disagreed with this position and argued against the fact that the Ministry is rather a policy designer and the function of the NSA is not a function of the Ministry. Those were the thoughts of a lively debate. In its final decisions, the Commission continued to support the draft submitted by the Ministry of Defence. In addition, international experience in this field was also clarified. Ministry officials said that there are a variety of practices in Europe. In some places, the same NSA function is performed by intelligence agencies, some places under ministries, some places under the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. It is an independent decision of each country and those who do this work, wherever they are, meet international standards both in terms of supervision and in terms of their activities, and are therefore equally verifiable. It was also discussed whether the unit could be under the Defense Police Department. It also highlighted the fact that the functions of the Defence Police are slightly different and perhaps more focused on resolving national security issues. The NSA is more concerned with authorising the secret of NATO and the European Union. The second debate took place already at this autumn session, on 27 September. This time a representative of the Ministry of Justice was also invited, for the reason that the Ministry of Justice wants to make another addition within the framework of the draft. In so far as the law concerns the State Secrets and the Secret Foreign Information Act, subsection 10 (1) of the State Secrets and Secret External Information Act should be specified in such a way as to make it possible to classify information and communication systems relating to public authorities administered by government authorities. The representative of the Ministry of Defence had a request because the original draft had set the deadline for the entry into force of the same draft on 1 August, which has already passed, to move the date of entry into force to 1 January of the following year. Procedural decisions were also reached in September. Firstly, it was proposed that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda by 12 October, that the second reading be closed (consensus decision), and that when the second reading is closed, the draft be sent to the third reading by 19 October 2016 (as well as consensus). It was also decided (consensus) that if everything went as planned, it would be proposed to put the draft to the final vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-13_U8	Good waitress, there's at least one question for you. Aadu Black, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-13_U9	Thank you, Mr President. I'm only interested in one aspect. Did the Commission compare our classification level with that of other countries? I know that on the civilian side, there have sometimes been attempts to make it possible to classify, just in case, for example, external travel data for 75 years, which is nonsense. Does this draft appear to be in a European context and balanced?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-13_U10	Thank you. In fact, this draft does not increase or reduce the classification regime, which has also been in force in Estonia. In essence, however, the law still speaks of the location of one of the licensing sub-offices for foreign information, which is reserved for NATO Member States. We didn't go any deeper with our discussion. What you have pointed out should certainly be discussed in the future. Oversubsidisation is never a good example of administrative capacity, as it complicates the functioning of the state and requires more resources.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-13_U11	Good waitress, thank you! No further questions. Now, good members of the Riigikogu have the opportunity to negotiate. There's no call. Let us move to the revision of the draft 202 amendments. Two amendments have been received on the draft, both from the commission and both positions to be fully taken into account: Amendment 1, Amendment 2. We have examined the amendments. The commission has proposed that the second reading of the draft be discontinued. The second reading is closed and the first item is also closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-13_U12	Let us move on to the second item on the agenda. Second reading of the draft Act amending the Victim Assistance Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. I ask Liina Kersna, member of the Social Affairs Committee, to present the speech chair of the Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-13_U13	Good chairman of the sitting! Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to introduce you to the preparation for the second reading of the draft Act amending the Act on Victim Assistance. Let me remind you that the first reading took place in the summer of June 1st. The deadline for submitting the amendments was set at 1 August and by this time eight amendments were tabled by a good colleague, Monika Haukamm, but in the course of discussions, she withdrew three of them. The Estonian Psychotherapy Association, the Estonian Women's Shadows Association and Tähtvere Open Women's Centre also sent their opinion on the draft. We discussed this draft at four meetings of the Commission. The most in-depth debate was held in mid-August, namely in Jõgeval on 17 August. From the representatives of the Ministry of Social Affairs, Deputy Chancellor Rait Kuuse, Adviser to the Department of Equality Policy Kristiina Luht and Head of the same department Liina Kanter were present. They all took part in other discussions. In addition to the ministry officials, representatives of several shelters had been convened was Pille Rives, Head of the Open Women's Centre in Tähtvere, Head of the Estonian Women's Shadows Association Eha Reitelmann and, as I said earlier, the representative of the Estonian Psychotherapy Association. We asked the target groups to present their proposals and there was also a debate on them, which continued on 20 September and 27 September. The last debate was on 10 October. In total, we have 15 amendments based on proposals from the target group and proposals from the Ministry of Social Affairs and Monika Haukanõmme. We have already voted through all the amendments in the Committee on Social Affairs (consensually), but the main ones, however, are still on the table, because several amendments have also been made to the original text of the law. First of all, the original text of the law states that the state can also purchase services from psychotherapists. The Estonian Association of Psychotherapists, however, came up with a proposal that the state may purchase services from psychotherapists who are in the Register of the Association of Psychotherapists. The Social Affairs Committee and the Ministry did not agree with this because it would not be appropriate to write the register of a non-profit organisation into the law. The core of the problem is that the Chamber has not confirmed the invitation of psychotherapists. The Ministry contacted representatives of the Chamber of Appeal and it has now been agreed that this issue will be dealt with very seriously during this year and hopefully psychotherapists will also receive their professional standard. At the moment, it remained in the law that the Social Insurance Board must consult with the Association of Psychotherapists and obtain confirmation that the psychotherapist from whom the service is purchased is adequately qualified. The second issue we discussed is the definition of violence against women. The Estonian Women's Shadows Association assessed that the definition in the original text of the Act was too general and asked that the concept defined in the Istanbul Convention be taken into account. The Ministry discussed this with the alliance and thus found a definition acceptable to all parties involved. Then the clause that the service should be provided by a women's shelter was removed from the law until the need had been removed. This amendment was proposed by the associations of asylums themselves, as it may often be the case for recipients that the need does not fall after ten years, but there is no money to support victims of violence for ten years. So, according to the amendment, asylum workers, together with the victim, decide how long the service can be provided and how much would be necessary. It was proposed that there should be a women's shelter in every county. The original text of the law stated that in each region. Now there was a condition in the law that women's shelter should be in every county. We discussed at length the requirements of the service provider. We have added the law that in addition to having to complete at least 40 hours of training on violence against women, this training includes the corresponding course provided in universities, both at Tallinn University and at the University of Tartu. In addition, the law currently maintained that workers in support centres are expected to receive secondary education. If, of course, lawyers and psychologists have to have a corresponding higher education, then the staff of the reference centres will have secondary education, and that is what we discussed for a very long time. The Open Women's Centre of Tähtvere proposed that the staff of the reference centres should have a higher social education level. The Ministry of Social Affairs and the Estonian Women's Shadows Association did not consider this justified, especially because the current system of women's shelters works, customers are satisfied with the service. If such a provision were to enter into force, there would probably be very significant changes among the service providers and there would be nowhere to take employees. Finally, we agreed that the former provision would now remain in the law. I myself think that if we go over this law one day, we could move towards a professional higher education for asylum workers as well. I am recommending that all asylum workers already set their minds in the direction of obtaining a higher education in the social field. This was actually one of the issues that remained unsolved. At the moment, we agreed that we had enough secondary education. The second topic, which gave rise to such a more serious debate, is that the Estonian Women's Shadows Association and also Monika Haukanõm felt that the service of support centres should be described by a decree of the Minister. Finally, we found a compromise that the Union, in cooperation with the Ministry of Social Affairs, is a service standard that is voluntary. However, the preparation of the procurement shall be based on prescriptive standards, which have been formulated together. Finally. The Commission took the following procedural decisions: Send the draft to second reading by 12 October, but the Riigikogu Board put it on the agenda for 13 October. In consensus, the Commission also decided that the second reading could be completed and that the draft should be sent to the third reading by 19 October. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-13_U14	Good waitress, thank you! There are no questions. Do you want to open negotiations? No, I don't. Dear colleagues, we will begin the examination of the 236 amendments to the draft. 15 amendments have been received. When I say that the proposal is from the lead committee, it means that it is fully taken into account. First amendment, from the lead committee. The second amendment, from the lead committee. Third amendment, from the lead committee. The fourth amendment is tabled by the member of the Riigikogu, Monika Haukanõmme, and the position of the commission is to consider the substance. Amendment 5, from the Committee on Social Affairs. Amendment 6, from the Committee on Social Affairs. The seventh amendment is from the member of the Riigikogu, Monika Haukanõmme, the position of the commission is to take into account the substance and it is added that Amendment 11 should be considered. The eighth amendment is from the lead committee. Amendment 9, from the lead committee. The tenth amendment has been tabled by the member of the Riigikogu, Monika Haukanõm, the position of the commission is taken into account in substance and has been added to see the following amendment. And now this 11th amendment comes from the lead committee, which I have referred to several times. The 12th amendment is tabled by the member of the Riigikogu, Monika Hauakanõmme, the position of the commission is to take full account of. Amendment 13 is from the lead committee. Amendment 14, from the member of the Riigikogu, Monika Hauakanõmme, the position of the commission is to consider the substance and is added: see the following amendment. And the next one is the last amendment, Amendment 15, which is again from the lead committee. We have examined the amendments. Thank you! The position of the commission is that the second reading should be terminated. The second reading is closed and the second item is also closed. Dear colleagues, today's session of the Riigikogu is closed. I thank you and wish you the strength of our work! Closure of the sitting at 10:26 a.m.
