ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-05_U1	Good fellows, honourable Riigikogu, good morning! We will start the 13th working week Thursday session of the 3rd plenary session of the Riigikogu. First of all, I would like to ask those members of the Riigikogu who wish to hand over drafts or questions. Arno Bridge, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-05_U2	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Allow me, on behalf of the Group of the Estonian Conservative People's Party, to report to the Prime Minister an inquiry into agricultural subsidies. As it is now a very difficult time for agriculture to move a dairy herd by hundreds and thousands, to grow a pig, etc., we have four questions for the Prime Minister on how to save agriculture from this situation. And second of all, let me wish our female colleagues a beautiful coming day of celebration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-05_U3	Thank you. Please, Krista Aru!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-05_U4	Mr President! Honourable representatives of the people! On behalf of the seven ambassadors of the Estonian Free Party, I am pleased to present an inquiry to the Minister of Education and Science Jürgen Ligi. If you look at our country's budgetary strategy for the years 2017 to 202020, it clearly sets out five priorities for government action. Unfortunately, these priorities do not include the priority development of our education and R &amp; D. Based on the fact that Estonia is the land of the educated and wise people, we want the priority development of education and R &amp; D to be under constant attention and care. We will ask the Minister five questions. Some of these also concern the future activities of the R &amp; D report, i.e. those related to the Oki report, as of today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-05_U5	The speech chair of the Riigikogu, Monika Haukanõmme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-05_U6	Mr President! Honourable members of the Riigikogu! I, too, am delighted and honoured to present an inquiry to Mr Ossinovski regarding the sustainability of the financing of Estonian health care. Yesterday, in Question Time, Mr Ossinovski answered questions relating to the country's budgetary strategy and health care. Since the Minister said yesterday that our questions are a very important issue and they need a much more thorough answer, asking us to make an inquiry into them, that is what we are doing today. These questions concern the country's budgetary strategy up to 2020 and the indications that health funding must be sustainable. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] Thank you, Mr President. We will then ask more precisely how it is planned to do this, given our declining and ageing population, if the budget of the Health Insurance Fund is not enough to meet all the needs already, and especially given that we have fewer than 6 000 people of working age on the labour market each year and that the number of dependants is increasing. By 2040 we are projected to reach 2.0 from 1.6 dependants. In this regard, we have put seven specific questions to the Minister on behalf of seven members of the Free Party Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-05_U7	Riigikogu speech chair Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-05_U8	Mr President! Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! There is another issue that the representatives of the Free Party want to raise in the form of an inquiry. According to our calculations, these questions could be answered before the summer break. And we will ask the Minister for the Environment Marko Pomerants about the completion and presentation of the underground strategy to the public. In our opinion, it is very important that this kind of thing is prepared with the question of how to use Estonia's underground assets economically also in the best way for all of us, while taking into account all environmental and other aspects. In this context, we are turning an inquiry to the Minister for the Environment together with six specific questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-05_U9	The speech chair of the Riigikogu, Tarmo Tamme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-05_U10	Manager! Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the Central Party Group, I am handing over the draft law amending the Social Tax Act, the Income Tax Act and other laws. This draft concerns the excise increases adopted last year. On 25 May last year, the Government of the Republic initiated a draft law amending the Social Tax Act, Income Tax Act and other laws, which amended seven laws, resulting in an increase of 10% in excise duty on petrol and 14% in excise duty on diesel from 1 February. The purpose of this draft is to refrain from increasing excise duties on fuel on 1 January 2017 and 2018. The increase in fuel excise duty has so far been justified by an increase in the cost of living index. For example, by the end of 2018, the consumer price index is expected to increase by 14% compared to 2011, while excise duties on petrol will rise by 33.2% and excise duties on diesel by 37.9%. So there is no link with the consumer price index. With this law, companies will certainly win in competitiveness. People win in purchasing power: they get more opportunities to buy goods, because all families with many children use petrol, fuel. Small studies have also been carried out. Statoil has studied that fuel sales in Estonia have decreased by 40%. According to a TNS Emor study, 40% of trucks are already refueling in Latvia, Lithuania or Poland and 36% are thinking about doing so. Think, if we increase fuel excise duty by another 20% in the next two years, whether our aim is to support the Latvian and Lithuanian economies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-05_U11	Good fellows! On behalf of the Board of the Riigikogu, I have adopted one draft and four inquiries. According to our Rules of Procedure and Homes Act, the Management Board of the Riigikogu decides on their further processing. Let's move on to the presence control. 82 members of the Riigikogu registered as present, none 19.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-05_U12	Let us now go to the processing of today's agenda items. The first and only item on the agenda is the debate on the 'Development of broadband, i.e. fast internet', which is a key issue. And allow us, before we go to this procedure, to briefly introduce the procedure resulting from § 153 of the Riigikogu's Home and Working Procedures Act. First, the presentation by Andres Metsoja, Vice-Chairman of the Special Committee on State Budget Control, will be up to 15 minutes, then the questions and answers will be up to 20 minutes. Then Kristen Michal, Minister for Economic Affairs and Infrastructure, will give a presentation for up to 20 minutes and questions and answers for up to 20 minutes. After that, Priit Soomi, Chairman of the Board of Estonian Broadband Development Foundation, will be present for up to 15 minutes, then questions and answers for up to 20 minutes. Topest OÜ representative Olav Harjo will follow for up to 15 minutes, then questions and answers for up to 20 minutes. A member of the Riigikogu may submit a total of up to two questions to each rapporteur. After the presentations and questions have been answered, negotiations will be opened, the members of the Riigikogu may make speeches. At the request and at the request of the special committee on the control of the state budget, I propose to the Riigikogu that the representatives of the political groups speak first. Following the end of the discussion, the Riigikogu will not yet take a decision. I now ask for the speech chair of the Riigikogu to be presented by Andres Metsoja, Deputy Chairman of the Special Committee on State Budget Control!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-05_U13	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Minister, thank you very much. Dear waitresses and members of the Riigikogu! To be honest, I have to say, first of all, that it is a pleasure to discuss broadband in this Chamber, to talk about it, because it is the first time that women are present. Normally, when we have talked about this topic in the Special Committee on State Budget Control, there are only men around the table and it seems as if this Internet theme is a purely men's ampouay. But today's topic is really very important in the Estonian context and this importance has been highlighted in several Estonian development documents, in some respects also in audits. Is this development really what we've been waiting for and hoping for? Let me start by saying that the Special Committee on National Budget Control has held five Commission meetings on this subject, two of which have been public. One of these public meetings was, in fact, with the Committee on Rural Affairs. The Committee on Rural Affairs has also considered this issue to be very important. In addition, there have been three working group discussions and separate meetings with representatives of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, the so-called Ministry of Infrastructure, up to the Minister. I certainly want to take down some of these statements and fears here, as if we were in an endless bad state in terms of the development of the whole area of broadband. It has been amplified in the same way by the message that we have already started some kind of activity, i.e. the development of a broadband network, and by the end of this period, the basic broadband network in Estonia will be invested in a total of 80 million euros. Several questions have come along with the development of this basic network. Citizens who pass this cable from behind the fence also often ask us, the ambassadors of the Riigikogu, what is going on then the cable is down, but joining it or connecting it is terribly expensive, at times even impossible. As for that, old people's wisdom says that if you start doing something, there's gonna be a whole bunch of questions. Rather, today we must take the view of how to proceed. And this has also largely been a key issue for the Special Committee on State Budget Control. In addition to the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications and EASA, the Estonian Broadband Development Foundation, local authorities have also addressed the issue. We have clear examples (e.g. Viljandi County Suure-Jaani Municipality) where the local government, together with the community, has taken the initiative and contributed money to build a distribution network on the basis of the basic network, and it has been relatively successful. The role of the National Information System Agency, which deals very much with local authorities' data networks, cannot be excluded. Just today, I received a separate e-mail about how to contribute and try to create a basic network based on RIA in schools, libraries and local government institutions to improve the quality of service. There is a very strong contact with the Estonian Broadband Development Foundation. A little more about the problem and the points of thought that fill the public space. Obviously none of us doubt that Internet connections are necessary everywhere in Estonia, and this is not just a problem for rural and rural communities. This problem is actually very clear in cities, for example here in Tallinn in Nõmme or Pirital, Pärnu County in Pärnu, i.e. in county centres. Today, a very large number of businesses and dwellings in rural areas have no proper Internet connection. Well, here's a part of our past. The larger settlements have built a copper cable network. The key question for telecom companies is that when we talk about quality of service and their loyalty programmes, how can they replace existing copper networks, which in fact limit the spread of ultra-fast internet, with a "light cable" network? But the entirely separate question, of course, is that if there has never been such a form of nets in the land, how can it be achieved? As I said earlier, the state has paid for the construction of the basic network, which takes the internet to mobile masts. It has been a little criticised in the same way, but on the other hand, it must be made clear that this has certainly been the very right path as an intermediate stage, which gives opportunities. This whole world based on radio communications has provided additional opportunities, but we also need to be aware together that radio communications have so-called laws of nature that cannot be overcome or changed. There are also volume restrictions that cause problems in a sense or problems for other radio links. As a separate point, it has been suggested that the market still does not work. The market works where there are customers and where there is a network. Whoever doesn't want to provide the service there, I'm sure everyone will be happy to do it. But where there is no customer, the radio link often does not work because radio communication also needs a cell tower and a certain direction. There may be a question for the company whether it is rational to put the mast where there are only ten farms and do not know what the cost/benefit ratio is then really like. So there is a very clear question of market failure. But it is clear that if we did not deal with this, Estonia's competitiveness and the quality of life of Estonian residents will shrink and suffer. In fact, I also mentioned the points of the coalition agreement. Maybe I made the mistake of talking about the development plan that was agreed in the country and then the coalition agreement. After all, the coalition agreement is known to be based on the country's more general strategies and plans. But here are these points and the wordings. This is an important issue, and the coalition is undoubtedly dealing with it. I have already mentioned that the development plan for the information society until 2020 sets broader objectives. One objective is clearly stated there: access to the Internet at 30-Mbit/s speed for all residents. The question is, of course, whether 30 Mbps is sufficient again, but yet it is one of the starting points to follow. However, perhaps the most questions arise from points A and B.Very clearly the output has been written down, we have agreed in this country and given citizens a certain sense of expectation and hope that the availability of cable internet to all households will have a target of 100% in 2020, i.e. all households should in principle have an optical cable in 2020 that will provide them and provide them with an internet connection. And now if we're talking about mobile communications, or from point B, this is even a little lower than the target, 80% is set. Today tends to be quite the opposite, and I think this is one very important forum for discussion. Although I do not believe that there are people in this Chamber who would say that the provision of internet access and this service is not a priority in Estonia, or that we should somehow give in here and say that we do not know whether we should still not fulfil this objective. It's just a question of how it's real. Various calculations and a survey by the Estonian Information Technology and Telecommunications Association have established that the cost of one household could be 2,500 euros in the middle. So you can say the number from this remote control that it could cost Estonia 400 million circa. Is that within our reach, there is one question. Next is whether we can make it feasible, through legislation, to make changes. In fact, the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications has put forward various options in its plans and presentations to our committee. One possibility really is that laws should be amended. This is actually confirmed by European practice. European practice says that it can reduce the cost of building the network by up to five times in the middle. It is also mentioned that the cost of building a network often lies in installing a cable in the ground, carrying out excavation, carrying out appropriate legal procedures to enable it to be transferred to someone's property, etc., etc., and so up to the points of the construction code. I have also outlined the country's budget strategy for 2017 to 20.20, where there is a bit of talk about how much the network has been built up. The next point sets out a noble objective which has been pursued and carried out by the Technical Surveillance Authority. The aim is to determine the actual extent of broadband availability and market failure and to establish a database. This database has actually been created, but not all the data is in it yet. Therefore, this database has not yet been made public because it gives a false picture. There are also legal problems on the data protection side. But this is the kind of database where every citizen could go to click and look at his region, how and how he actually gets an Internet connection and an ultra-fast internet home. And it cannot yet be said that during this period there will be an additional circuit of EUR 23 million for the construction of the basic broadband network. There is also a clear contribution from companies. Businesses put in EASA 15% of their shares in order to complete this network as a whole. And I'm sure companies have an interest in taking it forward. I have also pointed out in particular that the country's budgetary strategy talks about a pilot programme such as the EIT. It has also been written off several times from this remote control, i.e. electricity, internet and roads. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure on studies, meetings of experts, information and publications directly linked to the achievement of the objective of the programme. So these are, in a way, the financial instruments that we should be able to manage. The question is, is this enough? And in order to make the internet as a whole even cheaper and more accessible, the European Parliament and the Council have adopted a directive on measures to reduce the cost of deploying high-speed electronic communications networks. That's a little bit of a problem. I myself have been to the meeting of the Committee on Economic Affairs where this issue was discussed. We're a little out of our way. And I know that many members of the Riigikogu do not like the transposition of any directives. But here it has to be said that this directive has, in a sense, begun here in Estonia and we have our own representatives present in Europe who are intensively involved in the transport of this area. So I hope that soon we will also be able to transpose this directive on a legislative basis and really develop regulations for ourselves that will help us forward. Now, for the main reason why our Commission started dealing with broadband and high-speed internet as a whole. A summary of the audit of the National Audit Office is important here. In the opinion of the National Audit Office, by 2020, due to the lack of a clear state agenda, it will be difficult to make the fast internet available to all people. This is the assessment of the National Audit Office, and it is undoubtedly necessary to accept it, on the basis of which we literally discuss how to proceed. I'm glad it's being dealt with today. I may have to thank Mr Eagle for being prepared to accept our delegation in PERH, in a sick bed, figuratively speaking, to discuss this matter. So people are working on it. Unfortunately, there is no paper on the table in the form of an action plan yet, but in the heads of experts and, let's say, in the small preparatory drafts it exists. And finally, the suggestions. Point 1 is undoubtedly a concrete action plan that has already been discussed. This action plan should also include a description of financial instruments. I think it's a pretty good plan to go on with this same well project application, for example 1/3 : 1/3 : 1/3 with a financial plan. Secondly, changes in the laws that I talked about a little bit. And we cannot overcome or recreate the creation of a competence centre, which is also a matter covered by European Union money. I think it is important to approach the county and to deploy regional development centres to ensure regional views and propose solutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-05_U14	Good waitress, thank you very much. You have questions too. Kristjan Kõljalg, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-05_U15	Thank you, President of the sitting. Good waitress! Looking at the news this morning and listening to your speech, there was one such question. As far as I know, the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications has submitted one document (at least a draft) to our committee and actually introduced it. This is the analysis and proposals for the establishment of high-speed internet connections ('last mile') '. Many of these suggestions coincide with your speech you just made. Has the MKM provided us with a document to work on, or not?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-05_U16	Thank you. MKM has submitted a draft document to the Commission. It is very clear that it still needs to be improved. And we were just talking about it at one of the last meetings. Well, there have been different dates here, and there are reasons and reasons for why it's been dragged down. This document is authorised by February, but it is clear today that this document will be completed in May. It is not a question of bringing a document to the table as quickly as possible at any cost, but of content. We have indeed discussed these various points of content. I think that, as a result of the various debates, interventions and participations, this document will be better and perhaps the perspective will also become clearer for all of us. The idea of these meetings and the idea of today's debate in this Chamber of Riigikogu is, in fact, to keep us members of the Riigikogu in one of the information rooms, because, as I said at the beginning of my speech, this is a regionally important issue, but not only regionally.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-05_U17	Erki Savisaar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-05_U18	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, First of all, this question: do you consider the internet to be a universal service or a vital service, the existence and quality of which should be guaranteed by the State in the same way as electricity, for example? Secondly, how has it happened that we have adopted an Estonian information society development plan, but a real action plan to achieve the objectives of this development plan has not yet been made?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-05_U19	Thank you. The first question concerned universal service. I must admit that, frankly, I am not competent to answer this question. I understand it's not on the universal service list. We have the service of Eesti Post in the universal service, as I understand. But the question is, if we look at what has happened to mail delivery in the mail sector, this service will continue to shrink and the internet share will increase. Basically, you could say that it is becoming the universal service that is needed if we are to build an e-state and an information society. The issue is, once again, that we need to understand that if we make a single service a universal service, there must also be a real financial cover. I think we need to look at these things hand in hand. Let's say, politically, it would be very easy to say that yes, it is very important, but what follows is a question of its own. Here, however, the view and message given to citizens and businesses should be very clear. As far as the second question is concerned, i.e. the context of the development plan, it was probably a very big challenge at the time to move and set up a fibre network, a broadband network, which is not yet actually 100 per cent ready. Work's on. At the time, this route was chosen to cooperate with telecommunications companies, where the competence is probably the greatest in terms of understanding this problem and solutions. What we are discussing today is indeed the question of the distribution network, i.e. how to solve this last mile. According to the provision of the European Union Directive, the base network should not resolve this last mile, but should create prerequisites for doing so. The next national issue is how we can solve this problem with communication companies, with municipalities, perhaps with network associations, with smaller companies. This obviously requires a wide range of technical solutions. To say that you have to take cable everywhere is beautiful and very nice. I mean, that could be a long-term goal. Even so, in the planning law, we require that when a new residential line is built, there must be a "separate canal tube" where a light cable can be inserted immediately, or the possibility of cross-using electrical masts and water and drainage pipes where cables can be blown in. But in order to follow this path, there is a great deal of communication, communication with municipalities and water companies, and very clear objectives already in the action plan. I think today is the moment when it has to be done.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-05_U20	Good waitress, thank you! We will now proceed with our item on the agenda. It is my great honour to ask Kristen Michal, Minister of Economic Affairs and Infrastructure, for a presentation of the Riigikogu Chair!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-05_U21	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! Good Internet base network enthusiasts! I would like to thank Mr Metsoja for this very constructive and, in my opinion, also for his constructive and solution-seeking presentation. For my part, I will try to describe what this situation is like today, and finally also to reach out to what future steps will be like, so that we can all enjoy a good and fast internet. I'll show you some slides. First of all, I would like to thank you for the opportunity to talk more about the development of broadband internet in Estonia. More and more people use Internet services every day, and fast and stable connections are needed. It has also raised the question of how to ensure these connections. The European Union has made the development of the digital market one of its priorities during the current Commission's term of office, and this work is coordinated by the Estonian Vice-President. Estonia's reputation as an e-state is very good both in Europe and in the wider world. Our e-government services are of high quality and development plans are even bigger. However, like other countries, Estonia needs to solve a problem which is often called the digital divide between urban and rural areas. If years ago the digital divide meant whether or not there is an Internet, then the focus is now on how fast and stable internet access can be used. The "Estonian Information Society Development Plan 2020" aims at access to cable internet for 100% of households. Given that the objective of access to mobile internet was 80% of Estonia's territory and has been met today, demand seems to have moved in a different direction than predicted in 2013. Perhaps we are moving towards 100% availability of 30 Mbit/s mobile internet in Estonia by 2020. High-speed internet access at 100 Mbps aims at 60% of households, today it is 7%. Now, just in turn. By fixed Internet connection, Estonia can be divided into three regions. They're on the slide here, too. Firstly, about 70% of households are located in an area where access to high-speed internet access is good. These are mainly the areas of apartment buildings where the number of consumers is high and the commercial return is available for the company. Secondly, around 15% of households are located in a private house area where there is generally no competition to offer high-speed internet connections. Although commercial profitability may even exist, communication companies take too long to reach it, and the risks associated with the lack of consumers and large investments do not encourage them to develop communications networks that allow for the rapid internet. The third and worst-off group are individual houses or farms in rural areas, which account for 15% of all households. There is no competition for high-speed internet access in these regions and no commercial profitability can be created. Thus, about 30% of households face difficulties in accessing fast, fixed internet access. Estonia, however, is certainly not the only Member State in the European Union to deal with such problems. To a greater or lesser extent, this is a problem in all Member States. With the support of the European Union's Structural Funds and financial instruments, broadband networks are being built in scattered areas in Germany, France and England, not to mention our northern neighbours, Finns, who have publicly supported the development of a basic broadband network in rural areas since 2008. Alongside fixed fixed fixed connections, there has been a rapid development in mobile data communications in recent years. With 4G mobile internet coverage, we are the fifth in the European Union, the second in rural areas. In terms of the proportion of users, we are the fourth in the European Union and the price-speed ratio is one of the most favourable. Over the last five years, mobile data speeds and volumes have increased more than ten times. Such rapid development has only been possible due to state support for the development of the basic broadband network, as mobile internet also needs a basic network. It is understood that as data volumes and demand increase, the share of faster connections will gradually decline. Although the roll-out of faster internet connections could take place at a faster pace, the state cannot force anyone here. If a person doesn't need the Internet that fast, he doesn't order it. The price paid for the service also plays an important role in the choice of the Community. It is therefore understandable that the final choice has a decisive balance between the price and the need for the service. To become more specific and talk about access to high-speed internet in rural areas, two issues need to be distinguished: the construction of a basic broadband network and the construction of access networks, i.e. the last mile. The base network is a network of fibre optic cables, leading to a high-speed internet within 1.5 kilometres of the end user. This is particularly necessary to bring the cable-based internet to rural areas, as well as to build mobile cell towers offering mobile internet. For the construction of a basic broadband network across Estonia, Estonia's major communication companies founded the Estonian Broadband Development Foundation in 2009 on the initiative of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, the aim of which was and is to implement the EstWin project. By 2020, the cable network will be ready and as a result 98% of households, businesses and institutions will be closer than 1.5 kilometres to the network. The EstWin project will be carried out with the support of the European Structural Funds, and according to the rules, the money can only be used for the construction of the basic network. According to the European Commission, there is a market failure in the construction of the basic network, which is why it is also allowed to be built with taxpayers' money. For the last mile, there are nearly 30 service providers in Estonia, so it should be borne predominantly by the private sector. To date, the EstWin base network is planned to be completed half of 6600 km, or 3,300 km. A total of more than EUR 80 million has been planned to be invested in the final completion of the basic network, of which just under 70 million are EU structural funds. Large islands, most of Pärnumaa, the western shore of Peipus and Ida-Virumaa have yet to be thoroughly covered with the base net. The project must be completed in order to allow the whole of Estonia to be covered by the basic network. However, only the construction of the basic network will be insufficient to bring the high-speed internet to people; access networks are also needed, i.e. the last mile. This can be achieved by cable and mobile. The mobile internet does not require additional national measures, is more affordable for end-user access and covers the internet needs of the average consumer. By comparison, the 30-mbit/s speed internet targeted by the development plan allows you to view HD-quality TV images, read e-mails, listen to music and watch videos. Today, Elisa, Tele2, Starman and Telia offer the Internet with this speed and unlimited capacity and air travel. For example, on Elisa's website, you can find a bid of €22 for fast, mobile and non-volume-limited internet; in Tele2 the same offer is €21 for Starman and also €21 for Starman. So there are a number of options at a reasonable price. However, the basic network must be able to provide access to the wired Internet, if necessary. A higher obstacle to the introduction of fixed Community end-user is the high cost of installation. There are many ways to solve this. I will start with the simplest proposal, which requires cooperation between those who want to use the high-speed internet with their neighbours at local government level. We are talking about cooperation where the problem of access to fixed internet access on the territory of a village, district or municipality is solved at the same time, which would allow the costs of building to be reduced to the end user by means of economies of scale. This is where I call for people, local authorities and communities to take the initiative. This concerns not only rural areas, but also residents and municipalities of larger cities and their neighbouring municipalities. In these regions, which involve many households, the coordinating role of municipalities is inevitable. As one of the few you can mention Suure-Jaani rural municipality, where the municipality's government has taken the establishment of a high-speed internet connection as a matter of priority and, in addition to coordination, has invested in this rural municipality's budget. Secondly, raising awareness. If residents or municipalities want to do something together, they often do not know where to start and how to organise all this. To this end, we will consider whether to set up a permanent competence centre with an existing organisation, which Andres Metsoja mentioned earlier, where those wishing to receive advice and assistance, or whether to order direct training from specialists. By autumn, we will have a clear picture of what will produce a better result for people. The third area relates to legislation. In cooperation with communication companies and industry experts, we have identified a large number of laws that need to be amended in order to reduce the price and time needed to set up fixed access links. For example, I can mention the Building Code, the Property Law Act, the General Part of the Civil Code Act, the Code of Enforcement Procedure, the State Tax Act and a few others. All these laws are affected by the regularisation of the construction of broadband networks. Based on experience to date, design, notarial operations and other activities account for almost 40% of the construction costs, while the second 40% of the cost is due to cable installation works. Fibre optic cables can also be installed on existing street lighting stations. This is precisely the solution that brings significant savings in scattered areas. In more optimistic estimates, legislative changes result in four to five times the savings. A more favourable price would make the interconnection more economically attractive to the communications company and would significantly reduce the need for state and local authorities to implement support measures. In addition, there are already a number of funding sources under the rural development plan that can support the establishment of access links, such as Leader or farm and small farmers support programmes. They can also provide support for high-speed internet access. However, experience so far has shown that this is not being done very actively. For example, the amount of money received by Leader does not cover the total cost of establishing the connection, and so far other projects promoting local life have been preferred. Finally. Internet connectivity is a prerequisite for competitiveness and jobs. To achieve this, there are two options: cable or mobile. It's clear we need a base grid for both of us. In the meantime, when we thought that we would stop building the basic network and give this money to telecom companies, today it seems that there is an understanding that is, figuratively speaking, the difference between large pipes, the basic network and the end service offered to the consumer, which is in many respects a commercial service. The high-speed mobile internet covers 90% of Estonia and the speed and volume offered is sufficient for people who consume in average quantities. However, it is estimated that moving the wired Internet to one third of households costs 410 million euros. By comparison: more than two 40-km sections of Kose-Mäo, or Tallinn-Tartu highway, could be built almost to the end. That's a pretty impressive number, isn't it? We must also consider the direction in which the future of technology is moving, and I dare say that the future will not be attached to the wire. On the contrary, the opportunity to move anywhere to work or to use the service seems to be the desire that the next generation expects of us. So, to sum up, the base is being built. This base can be built on a mobile connection sufficient for the vast majority, but the last mile can also be wired. There are also thoughts that I described earlier and showed you how to make it cheaper and faster. I think that the debate on this issue in the Riigikogu and in the Ministry, with entrepreneurs and many others, especially the team carried by Andres Metsoja, has produced a good result. Thank you all for thinking along and betting.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-05_U22	Minister, thank you. You have a lot of questions, too. Valdo Randpere, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-05_U23	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good waitress! I have a very specific question. I am one of the victims of the digital divide living in a rural area called Viimsi, and I guess the part of the peninsula where I live has not yet reached the base network or, in any case, no optical cable has been transported there. I've tried talking to Telia, but they show very little enthusiasm. And my question is, maybe you know if there's a base grid planned there, because 4G is only spreading in certain rooms and on certain floors right now. We are indeed victims of the digital divide. When could we change that status?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-05_U24	Thank you. I think you can get a specific answer from the next waitress who does it every day or the next waitress who did it every day until she went to another job.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-05_U25	Kristjan Kõljalg, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-05_U26	Thank you, good manager. Dear Minister, I think you also touched a little on the importance of local communities and local authorities actually playing a role in overcoming the market failure. I understand the Ministry has plans to move on with it. Maybe you'll talk about it in a few words.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-05_U27	Thank you. We have also introduced this in the Commission. Since Andres Metsoja has already said it, I have no reason to hide it, but not to overexhibit it. Indeed, Taavi Kotka has been carrying this project on our side, but because of his illness, some activities have been delayed. And that is why the detailed plan is only now in the Commission. In summary, this plan says that a large number of laws need to be amended, about which I know that people interested in the Riigikogu have already taken it as their own heart and are beginning to amend these laws. Unlike the Ministry, the general principles of good lawmaking do not apply to the Riigikogu, which means that the VTC and everything else need not be developed. That's one part. The second part is, in fact, all that concerns the request for measures. I certainly do not want to create the impression that the state is either taking over their responsibilities from commercial operators or is going to pay them off. But there are measures in which, I very much apologise to the friends of the village swings, but let's just say that instead of a village swing, it is also possible to apply for funding to establish a high-speed internet connection for your community. This has been and will probably be done in the future. And here is an example of the municipality of Suure-Jaani.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-05_U28	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-05_U29	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, I have a specific question. In February, the Estonian Association of Rural Governments, together with the county elders of South-East Estonia, made one appeal to the Government of the Republic, the content of which is that the distribution of broadband subsidies should be reviewed. What is the fate of this referral? Have you responded, do you intend to take account of the proposal made there, or are you satisfied with the development of the current EASA?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-05_U30	EASA, as I referred to earlier, should actually be asked by the current or the former leader of EASA, who will follow me right after me to this remote control. I think you have a chance to ask them about their daily activities. But support mechanisms are being developed by the Ministry of Finance, and I know they have more concrete plans by this autumn. They also deal with their support projects. We will then be able to review exactly what financial opportunities the country still has to support these so-called last-mile connections. Andres Metsoja here showed this slide and the wording of how it would be developed.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-05_U31	Erki Savisaar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-05_U32	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, Why is Estonia's information society development plan still setting a higher target for cable internet coverage than for mobile solutions? According to the development plan, the aim is not to provide one or the other, but to provide all households with an optical data link, as well as a mobile data link for a certain part. Do you have a plan to meet this development plan objective, or are you planning to withdraw from the objectives of the development plan? If there is no withdrawal plan, at what point will a specific action plan emerge? Will all households in Estonia still receive optical data exchange by 2020?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-05_U33	There were a lot of questions here, but the subject is actually interesting, and this can also be discussed in the Committee on Economic Affairs. If you ask why this is written, as I referred to before, I expect that in 2013, in doing this forecast, development was envisaged in a certain way. And then, when it was foreseen that we would build a basic network, we probably didn't have any disagreements about this part of the room. Although in the meantime it seemed that some people had already felt that since there was a basic network in their county, it was empty of this Pärnumaa or islands. But it is now understood that the basic network is necessary for both types of connection. The simple question is whether people would necessarily want this cable connection or whether they would rather want to move and use it around in the future. When we look at the numbers, we see that more and more people have started using mobile Internet. It's actually more comfortable for them, and you're not going home to do anything on your computer or phone. Nowadays, you're using the Internet on the move. So in that sense, this forecast or situation has changed a little bit. That is what I have referred to when we met the Special Committee on State Budget Control in our time and discussed this issue. Now, what happens next, what's the plan? Once again, I have this plan here as a draft, it has actually been sent to the Commission. It requires a number of changes to the laws, as I suggested. As far as the Riigikogu is concerned, I know that this law is already being made, such legislative changes are coming. It provides an opportunity to set up cable connections significantly cheaper, but certainly it is not worth creating an illusion that the cable will come everywhere. Apparently, I don't think the cable has to come everywhere. Rather, the question today is that you also have a high-quality connection on the move, because a new generation and future technology expect it to be available everywhere.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-05_U34	Kalle Laane, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-05_U35	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! In your review, you talked about the percentage of Estonia covered by the high-speed Internet. But can you tell me how many Estonian residents are using the fast internet now?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-05_U36	Yeah, I can even say that. Fixed in such a way that approximately 200000 end-users can use broadband at speeds of 100 Mbps or more. In reality, 15% of such connections are consumed, while 34% are consumed at a lower rate. And at the end of 2015, 60% of households consumed fixed broadband services. So this 15% is perhaps the answer to your question.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-05_U37	Martin Kukk, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-05_U38	Thank you. Good waitress, can you tell me at what point in time would the end of such a classic connection to end-users be predicted? When will this cable be lost and the entire Internet somehow gets through the air?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-05_U39	It is, in fact, a very complicated question of how things will evolve in the future. I was here earlier answering Erki Savisaar, who had the same question. In 2013 today's life was forecast in some way. From the future. Let's say, for example, Netflix is a service that has now finally expanded to Estonia. Their leader actually predicted that in 10 to 20 years, all people would watch these programmes only from computers, iPads and other portable devices. Somehow, I think life and demand are changing a lot faster than we catch up with the cable.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-05_U40	Aadu Black, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-05_U41	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! You spoke very sympatheticly about what good has been done, who cooperates, etc. Unfortunately, in life, it turns out that there have been a series of setbacks that we do not talk about much. You talked nicely about working with the liaison companies to identify loopholes, the role of telecom companies, etc. For my part, I remember the time when, for example, there was a strong need to reorganize EENet, which has squirted the market and provided services to the education and research system much cheaper and more flexible than it has been done since then. Have you ever thought that Estonia might also need a national broadband internet development plan, which would have been done by independent experts rather than commercial structures or the specialists they hired? Perhaps it would appear that there is an option that does not require so much pressure on the municipalities and the state, but which is ultimately much cheaper.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-05_U42	Thank you. There were again several components to this issue. I can't really describe the history of this ancient EENet that had anything to do with the Ministry of Education. I'm sorry! It must have been a long time ago. But as far as today is concerned, in fact, as was mentioned here before, and I am not going to go over it, and Andres Metsoja showed them even on this wall, there are development plans. The same analysis that comes here contains proposals for high-speed internet access, the last mile, which we have also passed on to the Commission. Do all this in purely national form? After all, this is a foundation that actually establishes a basic network with the state, for the state and for European Union funding. In purely national form, I cannot imagine a state having, say, the telecommunications sector up to the last mile. I wouldn't go there. But if there's anything more to ask after, we can always talk.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-05_U43	Arthur Talvik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-05_U44	Good President! Good minister! A strange situation is where MKM has given support to an organisation called EASA. In this organisation, three large telecom companies have a majority vote. The so-called recommendation to distribute this support to EASA was given by ITL, where the same voice power is given to the same telecoms companies. Doesn't it seem a little strange to you that the beneficiary himself recommends who should be the beneficiary?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-05_U45	Thank you. It is difficult for me to comment on these moments or those times when these decisions have been made. But today, the decision has been made that EASA is the founder of the basic network. And the interest of the people, i.e. the state, the taxpayers, is that European Union money should be used as efficiently as possible, so that it would result in a basic network with which either mobile or cable connections could be combined, if necessary. The representatives of EASA may comment more specifically on history here, if you so wish.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-05_U46	Tanel Winter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-05_U47	Thank you. Good minister! I understood from your speech that the situation in Estonia is quite good with internet access and internet usage. You also referred to various tables and surveys. I hold the report of the National Audit Office, which states that according to the European Commission, only 5% of the population, which is 18th place among European countries, and only 1% of the very fast Internet, which is 14th place among European countries, use the Internet. Please just tell me, in terms of my education, if we have a good situation. According to the studies in the National Audit Office's report, we are not; we are even behind Romania.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-05_U48	Thank you. I think that it is always the custom in Estonia to be dissatisfied, wherever we are. I described the question that, when this development plan and these forecasts were made in its time, it was assumed that everything would be connected to a large part of the cable, but today it has actually come to the knowledge that all homes and all consumers with their equipment are no longer constantly willing to organise their departure to the cable area. So, unfortunately, the reality is that people's patterns of consumption have changed somewhat. The sharing economy has been discussed, as will be discussed in this Chamber. People's patterns of consumption are actually changing. If you're asking if everything's okay, if MKM thinks it's okay, then I think you should look for someone with such a larger light source, very carefully, who thinks it's okay. In any case, Estonia must want better. Our e-Governance is not in vain. This means that our interest is also that these connections are of high quality. It is simply a question of where Estonians have always been rational to move cable and where high-quality mobile communication is needed. So maybe that's what we should really discuss, in the future, how it's more comfortable for people, which option they want to use more.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-05_U49	Valdo Randpere, second question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-05_U50	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good waitress! I have a two-part question. At least historically, and I think that even now, wired internet is a little cheaper than the mobile internet in the air. Is it foreseen that these prices will start to converge and that the mobile internet may never be even cheaper than the wired internet? What's the prognosis? And another thing. They're already talking about 5G, although 4G has barely landed. What could it mean, and when would it come?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-05_U51	For the first part, you have managed large IT companies yourself; you will certainly be better able to describe future trends in fixed networks and mobile networks. Of course, to a certain extent, the commercial return on fixed networks, as I explained in the case of slides, is the same in regions with higher density and, obviously, mobile overlaps in others. That's more of a trend. I also named the Hindu. The cheapest packages, if I remember correctly, cost 21 and 22 euros, i.e. 30 Mbits/s. They already allow TV of HD quality, for example, etc. That's one side. Now for 5G. This is undoubtedly extremely interesting, because at least the initial knowledge in the case of 5G is still such that these speeds are going to be comparable to the maximum speeds of the current luminous cable. This is the prerequisite for a new standard. I know, at least there's been talk that the South Koreans are planning to come out at this 5G level for the 2018 Olympic Games. This is undoubtedly very interesting, because if we imagine everything that will be in the future, the self-driving cars, the Internet of Things, as it is called, the networking, etc., the faster the mobile connection becomes, the faster it will all develop. That's why I said here before, and I have said before, that I predict that the higher these standards rise to a mobile connection, the less people need to connect the wire at home. This changes one way or another, but all of this is based on a decent base network ♪ the same orange cable that is now being transported to ditches somewhere.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-05_U52	Martin Kukk, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-05_U53	Thank you. Good waitress, can you describe more generally the state of Internet connectivity in our educational establishments, schools? What's the status today? This is, in fact, primarily the interest of the state in having a proper internet connection in schools. Secondly, if you refer to this quote from Netflix's chief, can it be concluded that television will soon disappear in some form?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-05_U54	I don't know. There are several cameras here, so I guess I should say that television is forever, and without it, we can't. There have been news reports that an Estonian is watching it for about four hours a day. I don't think it's going anywhere, it's probably just changing. But from schools. Just recently, MKM received one of the decrees related to the support measure: around EUR 13 million to accelerate basic infrastructure in just over 170 schools. It is precisely the speed in schools below the required 30 Mbits/s. This means that there will be a greater modernisation of schools in the area of internet access and Internet security equipment in the period from 2016 to 2018.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-05_U55	Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-05_U56	Honourable President! Honorable Minister! If I have understood correctly, the European Union really expects that the use of its support here will be transparent and will be able to compete equally between the various operators. However, we have a situation where EASA is preferred or decides for itself how this support will be used. Here the opponents have previously referred to the risk that it could be classified as illegal State aid, and the parallels with the Estonian Air have been presented. Are you denying this concern? Has it been checked in all respects that it cannot be interpreted as unlawful State aid?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-05_U57	Thank you. We have had this knowledge so far, but we can always consult the Commission on such matters, if there is any doubt. In comparison to this, we are constantly educating ourselves, also on state aid issues, but recently on the same package, which concerns Ida-Viru County and all this resource charges, we already knew that we had to communicate with the Commission. If this draft comes to Parliament, it will go immediately to the Commission to inform. This knowledge is increasing, and I think that state aid competence as a whole must in any case rise in the Estonian state. This is not a concern of private operators, it is rather a concern of the state, i.e. to ensure that we ourselves have knowledge. So far, there has not been such a threat, but we will look at it in all future developments. I think that all such questions need to be critically reviewed, but yes, this question has also been put here recently.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-05_U58	Monika Haukanõmm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-05_U59	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. Since you did not answer or I did not understand what you answered Mr Herkel's question, I will clarify this question. On 23 February, the Estonian Association of Rural Governments and three South-East Estonian governors sent a very specific proposal to the Government of the Republic. It was requested that in addition to the Estonian Broadband Development Foundation, the Estonian Data Network be given the opportunity to apply for support for the development of the basic broadband network. They also point out quite a number of important reasons why they are proposing this. They consider that the current choice is not reasonable or in the interests of consumers. Are you aware of this letter, and is the Government of the Republic planning to discuss it, or is it going to take account of it on the right hand?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-05_U60	Thank you. I'll specify a few things. However, EASA is an NGO and has access to this network. You can't expect it to be some kind of closed-ended phenomenon that no one can access. That's one. And once the letter has been sent, the letter will certainly receive a reply with a statement of reasons.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-05_U61	Minister, thank you. We will proceed with our working on today's agenda item. I ask for a presentation of the speech chair of the Riigikogu by Priit Soomi, Chairman of the Board of the Estonian Broadband Development Foundation!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-05_U62	Hello, Mr President. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! Minister! Thank you for the opportunity to take part in today's debate. I would like to start by saying that my conviction, too, is that the availability of fast internet in Estonia is rightly a matter of national importance. The video broadcast of today's debate in the Chamber can be viewed by all Estonians who already have a high-speed internet connection. We have heard from the Minister's report that 60% of households use fixed broadband services, plus a mobile 4G service that is widely available throughout Estonia. This means that for most people in Estonia, Parliament's work is not necessarily remote and alien, but easily accessible, just a few clicks away. It is precisely access to Internet opportunities that the Estonian Broadband Development Foundation offers more and more Estonian people with its daily work. Cable luck is only a method. Education, culture, jobs, entertainment, a wide range of services, the fast internet, can improve the accessibility of all of them. In my personal opinion, building a basic broadband network in Estonia is perhaps even the most important regional policy project. In comparison, it is as important as the ferry connection for Vormsi residents. Both have been funded by European structural funds, but the establishment of a basic broadband network is also the most direct way to contribute to the creation of national jobs. Investment in infrastructure is a prerequisite for economic growth. We know that 15 minutes is enough to start a business in Estonia, but it requires fast and stable internet access. We also know that there is an e-school in Estonia, e-Tax Board, e-Voting, but their use also requires a stable internet connection. The task of the Broadband Development Foundation is to bring the internet, the basic broadband network based on light cables, to market failure areas across Estonia, i.e. areas where demand does not in itself generate broadband supply. Our task is not just to focus on profitable regions; our task is to unite scattered Estonia. We are now moving at a pace that will ensure access to the basic broadband network at least 1.5 kilometres away from 98% of Estonian residents, businesses and institutions by 2018. I think it is important to stress here that this does not automatically mean that all this 98% less than all Estonian residents will use the fast internet in four years' time. In the example of Vormsi Island analogy: the ferry will be there by then, but the questions about how to operate it and how to buy the final consumer ferry ticket need to be addressed separately. These are no less important things, but their assumption is that there is a ferry. The ferry to be built by the Estonian Broadband Development Foundation is a nationwide network of fiber optic cables that will be completed in 2018, connecting all Estonian settlements. To this end, 6400 kilometres of track and thousands of network connections are built in communication nodes, local authorities and other public buildings. In addition, wells with a space of two kilometres are located on the route, which can be considered as separate potential connecting points. The project is financed by 85% of European Union funds, plus 15% self-financing. As a result of the project, the whole of Estonia's high-speed internet network is closer than one and a half kilometres. The infrastructure already developed makes it possible to create suitable solutions for end-to-end connections in each region. As of May 5, Estonia has developed or is about to complete 4100 kilometres of basic network and 1500 connections, 400 of which are located in local government buildings, such as schools, kindergartens, museums, community houses, parish houses, etc. Good cooperation between the state, local authorities and operators is a prerequisite for an ambitious final objective. Estonian Broadband Development Foundation actively cooperates with local communities as well as with the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications and with Estonian service providers. For example, in the case of our latest procurement, we contacted 25 communication companies and 54 municipalities to explain their wishes and opinions in preparation for the 950 km sections. Extensive cooperation already allows the creation of more favourable conditions for the establishment of future access networks when building a basic network, as the planning and design phase can take account of the needs of the community in terms of possible interconnection points. It is precisely taking into account the wishes of the community that is our priority, because it is ultimately the people we are setting up this network for. I note in particular that, in the context of this procurement, we are also planning to take the high-speed basic internet network to Vormsi Island. I will give you a concrete example of good cooperation, which has already been mentioned here. Suure-Jaani is a municipality where the local government and community actively participated in every stage of the establishment of the access network. In cooperation with the residents, the rural municipality and the communications company, we obtained access to the fast internet on reasonable terms on the basis of a cable of light. Telia, a communications operator, was designed, the villagers bought a cable, the village company dug the cable into the ground, the municipality issued building permits and supported it with advice and force. Each household had to invest a thousand euros. Today, 29 households have joined the optics, with 11 additional households. In addition, 100 households have received a better service on the basis of copper. Indeed, the people of Suure-Jaani contributed financially themselves and it was certainly not a small amount. For its part, the municipality was also required to encourage the establishment of access networks. But in the end, everyone was satisfied with the result, because the urgent Internet, which was essential, reached these homes. At the same time, a substantial part of this, the basic network, was developed with 85% of the European Union's money. Suure-Jaani municipality and its residents are an excellent example of the active Estonian community, which now has access to the fast internet. Collaboration with municipalities will allow faster network building and, ultimately, better results. Although a large number, nearly 40% of the municipalities do not provide input, I am pleased that most of the municipalities are just like Suure-Jaani's active and constructive partners. Thanks to cooperation between all parties, more than 150,000 people can enjoy better and faster internet via the EstWin network. It is estimated that there are more than 140000 mobile networks and 15,000 mobile networks around customers. One question that cannot be overcome or rescinded today concerns the 'last mile' solution. As has been said, the main function of the Estonian Broadband Development Foundation is to bring the fast internet to market failure areas. This is an irreplaceable interim phase, but not the ultimate goal. The cavalry in every village is of no use if the companies and people there are not finally connected to it. As far as the possibilities of Estonian Broadband Development Foundation to contribute to this issue are concerned, as has already been said, there are clear rules for investments in the Structural Funds of the European Union for the construction of the basic network. Unfortunately, these sources of funding must not be used under any circumstances to establish links over the last mile. The last mile needs to be dealt with, but it must not be forgotten that there must be a penultimate, a priori and all the other miles before that. Those miles aren't enough. Four hundred miles, or two thirds, have been built or are about to be completed. The state has invested 35 million euros from European Union funds, to which the Estonian Broadband Development Foundation has added 5.6 million euros from its own resources. The rapid development of the base network has also led to private investments in the last mile development of the EstWin base network, to which communications operators have contributed EUR 30 million. The quality and speeds of both mobile and fixed devices have improved. From time to time, claims have been made that the EstWin network would benefit the main mobile operators and that the network would favour the larger ones. I'll explain the real situation. The broadband foundation currently has 15 clients, i.e. end-of-life service providers for people, but the three largest are those who actually cover more than 90% of the costs of building, maintaining and managing the network. Although there are larger and smaller communication companies among the customers of the broadband foundation as well as Estonia, the development of the basic network in its current form is only possible thanks to three major communication operators: Telia, Elisa and Tele2, whose services are not limited to mobile communications. Without their contribution, there would be no way of using the basic network for smaller local communications companies that are unable to bear the main difficulties of running network costs, and we would not be able to talk about more than 150,000 Estonians who can already enjoy a better quality and faster internet. Good listeners! Let us remember that we are building a basic network that will remain in use for several generations. We do not know which companies will be born in Suure-Jaani or Vormsi in just a few decades' time because of the introduction of a high-speed internet base network. It is possible that there will be a hologram of the performances of the Tallinn City Theatre, which will then be seen at the local cultural centre, thanks to the high-quality EstWin network. Whatever the future will be, we can be sure that we will significantly improve the opportunities of the Estonian people, building this basic network of high-speed Internet covering the whole of Estonia. Thank you for listening.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-05_U63	Good waitress, thank you! You have questions too. Arthur Talvik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-05_U64	Good President! Good waitress! I noticed that line from what you said. You highlighted the Grand-Jaani and said that every household had to pay 1,000 euros to get this internet connection. Let me get this straight. Do you understand that the rural area has a very large amount of money of EUR 1 000?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-05_U65	Thank you for your question. Speaking of the beneficiaries of the cable connection, their own contribution was thousands of euros. Like I said, it's really not a small amount. Unfortunately, people made this choice because they probably also considered this good service to be important for themselves. Of course, 1000 euros is not small money.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-05_U66	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-05_U67	Good manager! Good waitress! When you look at the map of Tartumaa, it is relatively thin at first. When will this map of the future be realised in Tartu County?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-05_U68	To be precise, on this map only the EstWin network built by EASA is available. In fact, there's also Elion's network, TV networks have fiber optics. Let's say that in Tartu County and elsewhere in South Estonia there is a data network and also a light cable, but we do not have their network information here. However, some of Tartu's neighbouring areas are already in our development plan in the upcoming procurement, which is currently waiting for funding.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-05_U69	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-05_U70	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! You mentioned that broadband is perhaps one of the most important regional projects. That's my question. If we know for years that there are problems with industry, work and people in Ida-Virumaa, how is it possible that in Ida-Virumaa this basic network has not been built so far?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-05_U71	Thank you. I find it a little difficult to comment on history on this issue. Maybe the next speaker can tell you more about it, because I've only been there a few months. Why such choices have been made in the past, I cannot say at the moment, but Ida-Virumaa is planning to connect the high-speed internet to the basic network. And by looking at this map, I know that Elion's light cable is definitely going to be there. If he runs out there, it's hard to say, but there's a cable connection in Ida-Virumaa.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-05_U72	Ain Lutsepp, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-05_U73	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Honourable speaker! My question concerns the matter from a security point of view. Do you also cooperate with the security structures of the Defence Forces, the Police and Border Guard Board, the Defence League? If so, what is this cooperation?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-05_U74	Thank you. In the short time I've been in EASA, I haven't had a direct contact. I know the Defence Forces are definitely interested in our services, and I can't comment on others.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-05_U75	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-05_U76	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, You mentioned Vormsi several times in your report. As we know, there are many islands in Estonia. How do you assess the completion of the basic network for all these islands? Do you know how to specific a little? The second question is, I don't know if I can ask...
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-05_U77	Please, you can ask!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-05_U78	Thank you. In fact, technology is evolving. How long do you think this base network will last?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-05_U79	Thank you for asking like that! It's usually different around here. So it was very polite of you, thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-05_U80	Thank you. The islands first. In addition to Vormsi, it is planned to go to Hiiumaa and Muhu in the near future, and Saaremaa will soon follow. Smaller projects have been carried out in Hiiumaa and Saaremaa, with Elion's optical network being represented on both islands, but yes, further developments are planned. Speaking of the lifetime of the network, there is no better solution for the moment. What EstWin is doing, what EASA is doing, when it gets a little more technical, it is a passive network, so we put down pipes and cables, we have no active devices that consume electricity. The transmission of information over this fibre cable or the delivery of high-speed internet depends largely on the active devices used, which are getting better and better. The life span of this pipe and the cables in it is likely to be over 50 years.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-05_U81	Andres Metsoja, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-05_U82	Good President! Dear waitress, I have some information, I hope it's true that your previous background was more connected to the radio communication and link business. That's gonna be my question. Can you see that there is still a market failure in the area of mobile communications? Operators are still directing their directional antennas to where there are larger crowds, higher consumption, and the forest farm therefore may not be so well connected. Or is it okay?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-05_U83	Thank you! It's a little difficult to comment on. Of course, it can be expected that mobile network planning will look at how to manage the largest possible crowd. But yes, based on my previous background in the electronic communications regulator, I can say that the planning and construction of mobile networks is something that does not fully comply with national regulation. They will be granted a frequency clearance and will continue to be quite free in their activities. It is therefore difficult to comment on where their antennas are directed. I believe that given the frequencies used, the number of frequencies and the number of masts, there may certainly be isolated locations outside the range, but most of them should be covered. If this one sector or antenna looks past the house, there should be another area that will probably cover the area.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-05_U84	Dear Priit Soom, thank you very much. Please present the Riigikogu Chair Topest OÜ representative Olav Harjo!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-05_U85	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! The Internet has become a very important part of our daily lives. We use it in our daily activities related to work, study, and communication. It's like electricity. We don't usually think about it, we just use it. We may only start to think about it when it disappears or when its poor quality starts to irritate us. Most of us, of course, do not know how the Internet gets to us, and we do not need to know. We're used to the Internet just being on our computer, laptop, phone or even in the fridge. However, this is not the case everywhere. For many, the fast internet is still not available, whether it is a farm located in a rural area or a private house located on the outskirts of Tallinn. While they are not completely off the Internet, it is not always enough to have an air-borne internet. Its price and quality often do not satisfy our needs. Two different Estonians have emerged: in apartment buildings, on business campuses there is competition, service providers offer better internet connections and lower prices, while in rural areas the market does not work and people have to accept lower prices on the Internet and higher prices. There are many reasons why the Internet does not work in rural areas and there is no competition. The main reason, however, is that broadband networks are expensive and there are not enough customers in rural areas to be acceptable to large telecoms. Given the importance of the Internet in our daily lives, no country can afford such a digital divide between the country and the city. Almost all developed countries have developed and are implementing their own strategy to bridge this gap. In my work 'Broadband Network Development Models', which I think have also been sent to all of you, I have described more precise models of how countries intervene in the market organisation and help overcome the digital divide. There are countries like Sweden, for example, where the development of new generation broadband networks is largely in the hands of local authorities. Most municipalities have set up a special company that manages and builds a broadband network. For example, in Stockholm, Sweden's capital city, the cable network, which connects almost all houses, belongs to the municipal company Stomab. Stomas itself does not offer internet services to end-users, but all service providers and operators can use its network on equal terms and thereby ensure competition in Stockholm, where more than 100 service providers already operate. The development of a broadband network may also take place through a joint venture set up by the private sector and the public sector. For example, it was done in the Italian city of Milan, where the Fastweb success story began. As a result, all Milan houses were connected to a decent cable network, and eventually, when the Milan City Government sold Fastweb, it made a good profit. There are many examples where the state directly finances the development of broadband networks, either through concepts or through subsidies. All these models, however, are always accompanied by adjustments to the regulation. Although models vary from country to country and from region to region and the intensity of intervention in the market organisation varies, there is one thing in common in all of them: wherever we see rapid development, there is a clear plan behind it and this plan is being implemented. How can we be sure that the market is not working, or whose problem is it at all? Who should be dealing with this problem? Who should take the initiative? Estonia has already recognised the existence of this problem. The report made by the National Audit Office a year ago highlighted shortcomings and risks. Today's debate here in the Riigikogu Hall also shows that it is important for our country to close the digital divide between the land and the city. It is still unclear what our plan is and who should do and what to do. The state should be interested in having access to information society services throughout Estonia. Regions and municipalities should be interested in offering suitable conditions for living and entrepreneurship in their territory. If there was competition on the market, private operators themselves would be interested in providing services to end-users. Unfortunately, there is no clear plan in Estonia about who should do and what to do. Looks like everybody's waiting for someone else to take the initiative. Although the plan is now under way, it must finally be implemented. In view of the liberal economic environment in Estonia, models that intervene less intensively in the market organisation are likely to be suitable here, which will contribute to competition rather than create new monopolies. However, it cannot be ruled out that less stringent measures are not enough in some disincentives and that more serious action is needed. Regardless of the model in which a new generation of broadband networks will be built in a given region, three things are needed: conditions, knowledge and money. In order to create the conditions for the deployment of the broadband network, it is necessary to amend the regulation. The main objective of the changes to the regulation is to make the establishment and use of the broadband network cheaper. The Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council of 15 May 2014 introduces a number of measures that can reduce construction costs. In addition, together with other infrastructure companies, we have made a number of proposals that would contribute to the development of the broadband network. With the proposals, we want to significantly reduce the bureaucracy involved in construction. At present, for small networks, more than half of the construction budget may be involved in producing all kinds of paperwork and obtaining permits. The cost of broadband construction can be reduced up to five times by using existing infrastructure instead of building double everything. There is a widespread practice in the world to hang a light cable on electrical poles in places where electricity reaches the house by air anyway. There is no rational reason why a light cable post and an electric mail should stand separately. This is a double cost, and double posts are also interfering with people more. The existing underground pipelines for light cables are also being used instead of building new ditches. If legislative changes result in a significant reduction in construction costs and lower construction costs, these regions will also become more attractive to service providers, thus reducing the extent of the market failure. In addition to creating conditions, however, knowledge is also needed. Knowledge of models, technologies, planning, marketing, financing and much more. There is currently no place in Estonia where communities, municipalities or smaller operators can seek advice if they wish to establish a broadband network in their area. At the end of last year, the European Commission recommended that all Member States set up dedicated broadband competence centres independent of operators. In order to finance this, the Commission recommends using the Structural Fund's technical assistance funds and will contribute to the exchange of knowledge and experience. Estonia has also been talking for a long time about the need for a competence centre. The competence centre should be a place where all communities, municipalities and operators wishing to set up broadband networks in the region would receive advice and assistance. The competence centre should also become a partner for the country to contribute to the development of action plans and solutions. One of the first steps in Estonia's development of a broadband agenda should be to establish a competence centre of this kind. In addition to knowledge and conditions, of course, money is needed to build broadband networks. Depending on the size of the market failure, regions can be divided into two regions: regions with too long payback times or too high risks for operators, and regions with no commercial return on market conditions at all. Areas where commercial profitability exists, but the payback period is too long for large telecoms, for example, are residential areas around cities. The construction of a broadband network in such areas requires long-term financing which is not provided by banks under normal conditions. It is necessary to create financial instruments from a state-wide guarantee, equity support, grant allowing communities and municipalities to pay small operators for broadband network development. Such projects could also be a good place for long-term investment in Estonian pension funds, for example. Areas where there is no commercial return are scattered villages in rural areas. There, more needs to be invested in connecting every house to the broadband network than the consumer will be able to pay a monthly fee during the lifetime of that network. In addition to loans and guarantees, direct financial support must be provided to such locations for the construction of a broadband network, without which it will not be possible to build a broadband network. However, several projects have used a method that subsidises the non-remunerated region at the expense of the paying regions. For example, through a competition, the county can grant special subsidy rights to a company which simultaneously builds up a comprehensive regional network in both commercial and non-profitable areas. Ultimately, the Internet is an area that affects all of us, although we do not think about it every day. However, high-speed internet connections in rural areas do not arise themselves, without state intervention. The first three steps that the state needs to take in order to enable communities, municipalities and operators to plan and build new broadband networks are changing regulations, developing financial solutions and setting up competence centres. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-05_U86	Questions for the waitress. Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-05_U87	Thank you, Mr. Harjo, for this presentation. You were quite critical last autumn of the fact that the creation of the network served not the interests of consumers but the interests of wealthier companies. Now you've brought out a whole series of more specific things. Regulation needs to be amended, construction costs can be reduced, you have given very concrete examples of reducing market failure, etc. I wonder where these blood clots are in our state machine, that the proposals will not arrive. What's the bunk we're supposed to be doing here?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-05_U88	Thank you for your question. We do not have such a problem or opposition in our country. Everyone's gonna know it's necessary. It's more like it hasn't been written down in one place so far. Everyone knows that something needs to be done, but in which direction or how to do exactly such a comprehensive picture is missing. The Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications is currently putting together a document. Once this document is completed, the picture is there and must begin to implement what is planned, perhaps only then will it become clearer what the difficulties are. I don't see a problem here right now. If this paper exists, it must be implemented, and once it has been implemented, the solution is here.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-05_U89	Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-05_U90	Thank you. Dear waitress, In the last slide, financing solutions were linked to the European Union and, let's say, to public funding. Are these current figures seriously taken figures, or are they only available on paper somewhere?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-05_U91	It has been said that the amount needed in Estonia to connect all houses to cable is 400 million euros under current conditions, if nothing is changed, unless regulations are changed, unless something is done differently. If we're talking about a four-to-five-fold decrease in construction costs under certain conditions, 400 can be divided by four, and we're already getting 100 million. This 100 million will no longer be public money, and 100 million will then be the money that needs to be invested at all. Perhaps if private companies see the market becoming profitable as a result of reduced construction costs, they will invest in it themselves. The other side is that, of course, long-term money and guarantees are also needed. To this end, Europe has a so-called Juncker Fund from which such financial instruments can be obtained. Rather, the question here is how to describe how to make it available to smaller operators, local authorities and communities. Financial solutions must be made clear and accessible, but money itself exists in the world.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-05_U92	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-05_U93	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you, Mr Harjo, for this meaningful review. But since I didn't get the answer to my question from the previous speaker, I'm asking you now, because you were the director of this foundation. Why is Ida-Virumaa then left exposed to this base grid? It seems to me, looking at this picture at all, that the basic network was built where the big mobile operators had the hope of earning more. Am I wrong?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-05_U94	Thank you for your question. Ida-Viru County is not in the background. As I recall, Ida-Viru County is very well covered with fiber optic cables. There are double cables, Telia cables and Elering-owned light cables. Rather, it is about connecting individual coastal villages. These plans have also been made and are waiting for a queue. When the new leader of EASA, Priit Soom, launches them next year, these coastal villages will also be connected. In Ida-Virumaa, the situation of the light cable and the basic network has generally been much better than in South Estonia, for example. In South Estonia, the situation was still very, very bad. South Estonia also has a slightly different landscape, there must be more networks, radio coverage is not very good.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-05_U95	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-05_U96	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, I was asked by your repeated emphasis on the need to establish a competence centre. Estonia is known to have competence centres in several areas, from the recreational craft industry to tourism, etc. In the past, when these other centres were created, was it at issue that such a competence centre should be established? Secondly, if there is such an interest in the use of this competence, why not set up mobile consultative groups that are ready to take off to every end of Estonia at any time? A naive question, but maybe you can answer.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-05_U97	Thank you for your question. The idea of a competence center has really been before. EASA has been organising broadband forums for several years, and they have always had this issue on the agenda. We have provided the necessary information in these forums and tried to simply train. But last autumn, the question of the competence centre arose more specifically because the European Union considered it necessary to create a European network of such centres of competence so that each country would have a broadband competence centre. The European Commission also provides information and assistance on this issue and helps countries to cooperate. That is why the issue came to the table more in the autumn. The other part of the question was the creation of mobile competence centres. This is not a stupid idea, we have just talked about it here with Mr Metsoja, and the Minister is also aware of how such a competence centre could work. It could be peacefully located at the county development centres, at the same EAS MAKs located all over Estonia. They can be used to distribute information anywhere. Of course, to take advantage of the existing structure that already works is simpler, better and more effective. Rather, here's the question of how to get information into it.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-05_U98	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-05_U99	Thank you, good Chairman. Thank you, good waitress, for a constructive presentation with both criticism and solutions. But one thing got a little crazy for me. You have pointed out that there is no clear plan and no allocation of responsibilities which should play what role. They expect someone to take the initiative. At the same time, when you answered Andres Herkel, you claimed that MKM had begun to draw up a comprehensive plan to resolve these same issues. Do you think there's a flaw on the MKM side that you still feel that no one has taken the initiative? Is there anything wrong with this plan being made too top-down and not involving experts? What's still your criticism?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-05_U100	Thank you for your question. The criticism was just that there is no plan yet. That plan could have been already. But now there's a plan coming up, and there's a lot of groups involved. Of course, I've seen different versions of it. Maybe this plan isn't detailed enough yet, but the very things that have sounded so much in this Chamber today are inside. It's all there, absolutely. The content still needs to be clarified, of course, and maybe it is also one of the roles of the competence centre, i.e. to complete the plan in more detail. We still don't know how many people should take the initiative in the county, is it a community, is it a local government or is it a rural government? Who's really the locomotive in the county? Take Pärnu County and Võru County, for example. There is no agreement, and we can't give here the kind of leadership that Pärnu County should be run by the county government and communities in Võru County. I have rather stressed that there is no common understanding of who is on the spot a locomotive in this area.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-05_U101	Monika Haukanõmm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-05_U102	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you very much to the waitress for a very good presentation. I was prompted to ask one earlier question to the Minister concerning a possible breach of the state aid rule. My question is to you as former manager of EASA. Do you see the danger here that we are breaking the rules of the European Union? It has even been argued that EASA is only developing the network in the interests of large telecoms and knowingly restricting access to other communication companies which do not belong to EASA, so that large telecoms can keep market control in their hands. How do you comment on these statements?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-05_U103	Thank you. State aid is not my everyday subject and I am not a State aid specialist. With regard to the EASA network, there has certainly been sufficient consultation with the European Commission, and in the EASA network, as such, I do not see a threat. Rather, discussions have gone through how much support can be given to mobile phones. As there is competition for mobile communications, mobile communications must not be supported separately, and the country does not have this plan, as I understand it. So here are the technical details that are common in state aid. I think the Ministry is keeping this line very well right now, that it always checks and clarifies things. It cannot be said that a mobile network is a separate subject right now, we are still building only a basic network.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-05_U104	Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-05_U105	President-in-Office of the Council. Respectable waitress! Unfortunately, the minister did not answer twice a question concerning a letter from the county elders to the government. It included, among other things, a proposal to add Estonian Data Network to the list of persons entitled to apply for support, and there were other proposals. I hope you are familiar with the content of this letter. How do you comment on that?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-05_U106	Thank you. I'm not familiar with this letter because I don't work for MKM. I can't comment at all.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-05_U107	Thank you very much, dear waitress. The members of the Riigikogu have no further questions. I'm opening negotiations. At the request of the Special Committee on the National Budget, I shall first give the floor to the representatives of the political groups. On behalf of the Group of the Kristjan Kõljalg Reform Party, please! Is there a need for more time? There's a wish, we'll give it to you. Three minutes extra time. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-05_U108	Good Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, Minister and guests! I'll start with a personal story. I am from this generation who has considered access to the Internet to be its fundamental right. I've been using it since the first half of the 1990s. I was lucky my parents had the opportunity and reason to let my brother and I share in this wonderful world already in our childhood home. The reason I'm talking about this is because our parents didn't get home at the time, and they didn't get home at the time. Radiowave communication is used to communicate with the world, both at the beginning and now. Over time, it has been in different versions, but mainly from mobile to radio link. You can only imagine what the speed of the connection once was 15 years ago. But my brother and I were very happy to have a connection. Of course, we were not aware of how these connections could ever become, so we did not know what we would miss. Now, on to the subject. Today's crucial national issue of building and developing a high-speed internet is an issue that I believe needs to be looked at on three sides. Firstly, it is the same basic network; secondly, the last mile, or access network, and the third, most important thing is the demand side of the consumer. First of all, do we even need this basic broadband network? The short and quick answer, which we have heard many times here today, is yes. Period. You could draw a line down here and say it's that simple. Actually, it's not. We also have to see the other two components of the equation. The clear task of a partly built and still to be built basic broadband network is to ensure access to fast and ultra-fast internet in rural areas, especially in areas with market failure. The goal once set is ambitious, the network of fiber optic cables must reach 98% of Estonian households, businesses and institutions closer than 1.5 kilometres. We cannot and must not abandon this objective and the EstWin project must be completed. The construction of the base network is a critical prerequisite for the speed of the internet to grow across Estonia. I hope no one doubts that anymore. However, the base network is part of the solution, as the base network does not automatically mean a cable reaching the home or the company. For this, solutions need to be found for the last mile, i.e. how the connection from the basic network to a specific consumer. Here you can talk about a wide range of solutions, such as cable, radio communications. Local small telecommunications companies are also an important part of the last mile solutions, which should find their niche and service in this market with a solution. However, there are regions where the market for this service is not functioning and where cooperation between the community, the municipality and the service provider is the solution. Only together can solutions be found at a more reasonable price for those homes and companies that remain in a market failure area. There is also a market failure here in Tallinn and other major settlements. Here we also need to think about solutions. We also have an important role to play in the last mile of solutions here in the Riigikogu. The experts claim, as we have heard today, and this is confirmed by the experience of the world, that cable networks can even be made cheaper by simplifying regulations and reducing state fees. It also helps to cross-use current electricity networks and to allow light cables to be hung on electricity poles. That's how we're gonna save a lot of money on digging. For example, by digging water pipes into the ground, would you write into the building code to put a pipe for a light cable next to it? We urgently need to deal with these issues in Parliament in order to remove unnecessary bureaucratic obstacles to the spread of the ultra-fast internet. Third, I reach the most important part of the equation: the ultra fast internet in Estonian homes, companies and institutions. This is, of course, related to the end-user of the service and its motivation. I think that the average Internet user is not very interested in the means through which he can connect. He is interested in having a very good relationship between the price and the quality of the service, which is made up of speed and continuity. Cable building is expensive, but its performance is very good. For various radio solutions, such as radio link and mobile communications, the cost of the investment may be significantly lower, but the continuity of activity may not reach cable level. It is there that a decision must be made whether to invest significantly in order to achieve a slightly better performance, or whether it is agreed that the business continuity is not 99,99% but 95,99%. Good fellows! I also come to one of the ungrateful activities of the future. I'm trying to guess something from what I've learned. The next and probably the last generation of mobile data communication, or 5G, will bring us a connection that must make us feel that it is inexhaustible. Given the technological changes that have taken place so far, where the different generations of mobile communications have changed in about a decade, it can be expected that 5G will reach wider masses in Estonia in about 2021. The test network is planned to be completed in Tallinn in 2018. I don't know if that's gonna happen, but in the South Dog, the network will be deployed at the 2018 Winter Olympics and in Japan at the 2020 Summer Olympics. Although 5G will certainly reach less populated areas, the long view is that you expect an ultra-fast mobile internet from the air to be available everywhere, as we expect today to have electricity. In ten years' time, are we gonna think about getting a light cable to every new home we can build? I daresay. However, for these ten years, people also want to use the Internet, and solutions must be offered to those who wish to use it. Both the Riigikogu and the ministries must keep up with the times quickly for this purpose. Finally, coming back to this personal story, I think that my parents will never get a light cable to their home, but they still use a very good Internet connection. Estonia's telecommunications companies must be grateful for this, who have always been the world leader in implementing new technology. I hope that this will continue in the construction of the 5G network across Estonia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-05_U109	Erki Savisaar on behalf of the Centre Party Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-05_U110	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable MPs and everyone who cares about the Internet and its spread in Estonia! The Internet is one of those topics I could talk about for weeks. About how it came into existence and reached Estonia, and about where it goes and where it could go and what it can and will actually be done there. Unfortunately, I only have a little under eight minutes. I will quickly try to refer to the main concerns that I see on the Estonian Internet. Let's start with the title of this theme setup, the word 'broadband'. The word 'broadband' has been squirted. Community speeds sold with the words "high speed" or "ultrafast" or similar are, for the most part, close to average in the light of today's technological progress. For example, a mobile connection of 4G is not even fast in terms of its theoretical maximum, but in reality it is never possible to achieve a theoretical maximum and such a mobile internet is actually slow. So I'm going to use the term 'fast Internet' in the future, with a view to the scale'slow, medium, fast' and leave out all kinds of commercial prefixes, such as super-, mega-, ultra-, et cetera. We are proud that we are an IT state and that we are above and better than everyone in this area. But if you look at the statistics, it's a whole different picture. The tiger jumped, then fell asleep, and has been asleep for more than ten years. Estonia's 19th position in the world does not seem very bad in terms of average Internet access. Only all our neighbours' networks, with the exception of Russia, are faster than the Estonian network, while Sweden is the fourth largest in the world, Latvia in the ninth and Lithuania in the fifth. We're 19th. When Minister Oviir told the day before yesterday about this remote control that Estonia's new trademark is an IT state, this 19th place is far from sufficient. We should be the first, and we should be very much ahead of everyone else, especially our closest neighbours. Secondly, the price of access to the network as a percentage of a person's average income is relatively expensive. We are 39th in the world in this regard, only barely ahead of Latvia. Compared to all other neighbours, the internet offered to our people is very expensive, accounting for an average of 1.47% of income. In comparison, in Russia this percentage is 0.54, in Norway 0.6, in Finland 0.7 and cheaper in all other European countries. At the same time, we are the world leader in 3G cell phone coverage. Looks good. But this fact confirms to me that mobile companies live relatively well in Estonia. Three. Estonia is one of Europe's red lanterns from the point of view of fast internet availability. The Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications has spent a lot of money over the years and has often benefited only large companies. Now they want to retreat from the targets they've taken. This was confirmed just a moment ago by Minister Kristen Michal. According to the National Audit Office, the state (read: government) does not have any plan to move forward with the development of a fast network. Following the active activities of the members of the Riigikogu, a small sketch has reached us, which largely contains the initial thoughts of these members of the Riigikogu, but the actual draft laws have not yet been completed. It is difficult not to call this development corrupt when construction and supervision are shared by the same companies that benefit from all of this. Deputy Chancellor Taavi Kotka of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications has claimed that people do not want a fast internet. But it's wrong. Unfortunately, I have... More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-05_U111	When it comes to local authorities, many of them consider the spread of the high-speed internet to be a key issue for themselves. At the same time, it is acknowledged that the municipalities themselves cannot do much about it. If, not to mention the smaller local authorities in the cities, there is no access to the fast Internet, which we can talk about when we are spreading seriously. I, too, have tried to join the high-speed internet repeatedly, but I have not even been sent a specific offer, just a laconic response has come that if you have a range of 3000 to 30000, we will send you an offer. Real life is that there is relatively little space under the streets of the city and there are not many competing channels available. If the one who has received a large proportion of the physical infra due to his history does not consider the development of light cables to be profitable for himself, he will cut off any new possibilities from the consumer. Fast connections and services form a dead circle. If there are not enough fast connections, then there is no point in developing and promoting services that require a quick connection. If there are no services for which quick connections are needed, people will not demand them. Traditionally, one of the locomotives that drives the development of the Internet around the world has been science with its specific needs. Very many of today's daily online services have been born as a by-product of science. Unfortunately, the current government does not favour or support science. The infrastructure set up by the independent state body which was involved in the development of science and education was abolished, and was given to a foundation which has representatives of telecom companies sitting on the board. Science has disappeared from the priorities. The Internet can be divided into several levels: international connections, national motorways, distribution networks and customer connections. Years ago, MKM once again had a lot of money to do with, and it was then offered to companies to develop a fast internet. A so-called survey was carried out, which led to the claim that the main highways are good enough in Estonia and that the money must be spent on developing the distribution network. In this hall, we know this project as a base network. In fact, experts mocked this study even when it came out. To a large extent, it was the one that was written for the big companies that owned the highways. In fact, the highways were already too slow then and should have been waged on them as well. To conclude: slow, expensive, corrupt and even in this form difficult to access. So how can we proceed? Small steps could be taken, such as separating the trunk network, distribution network and services. A small but fundamental move...
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-05_U112	Thank you, Erki Savisaar, there's nothing we can do, time's up. On behalf of the Group of the Social Democratic Party of Tanel Winter, please! Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-05_U113	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear Minister, Ladies and gentlemen, At the end of last year, I had the honour of being here with the exact same subject. Unfortunately, I could read the exact same text again today, because, unfortunately, in the meantime, there have been no particular developments in this area. So I'm taking the liberty of rereading a little bit of that speech back then. I said then that living in the country is expensive, which is a fact in Estonia today. That is why the government coalition has put efficient and high-quality infrastructure at the heart of its regional policy objective. In the late summer of last year, the government's agreement was complemented by a point that says: 'To ensure that every family living in the country has a reasonable price for communications (electricity, fast internet and decent roads) by creating the necessary additional support mechanisms (the so-called last km support). ' At the time, the Minister of Economic Affairs and Infrastructure and the Minister of Public Administration received a letter. The Digital Agenda for the European Union has set itself the objective of providing 100% of the population with internet access of at least 30 Mbps and 50% of the population with at least 100 Mbps by 2020. Most developed European countries have set national targets significantly higher and will allow internet access to at least 80% of the population by 2020100 Mbps. As we know, Estonia has also set an ambitious target in its information society development plan and has explicitly promised to bring a high-speed and alert-free internet cable to all households by 2020. Sadly, when it comes to the matter, it has become clear that no one is taking this goal very seriously. Of course, it is true that there is no point in transporting a light cable to quite every house, but nevertheless we could at least have a plan to ensure that our people, as well as businesses, have a high-quality internet connection, regardless of location. If this objective in the Information Society Development Plan has been abandoned, this should be clearly stated. If the so-called child or last kilometer of the Internet connection is intended to be provided with over-air technologies instead of its reliable cable, this should also be clearly stated. In any case, we continue to expect a concrete action plan based on the current coalition agreement and the information society development plan. The Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications confirmed at the end of last year when the members of the National Budget Control Committee became more interested in the fact that this scheme existed. A little later, it was promised to be presented in February this year and today, at the beginning of May, it has been thought that it will meet in the coming weeks, but maybe it will not. To be quite frank, I fully understand this situation, because one person in the ministry is dealing with an issue that is so important from the point of view of the country's development. As we know, there are many other tasks on his shoulders, and there are limits to human abilities somewhere. Moreover, it is generally accepted in the Ministry that we do not have a particular problem with connection to the Internet. This worries me, because when I have met with village associations all over Estonia, the lack of a stable, reliable, fast and affordable internet connection is often highlighted as a bottleneck for living and working in one country. The question arises as to whether all these people live in darkness and simply do not know that there is really no problem. We are talking about Estonia as the world's most advanced e-state, and we have certainly done an excellent job in this area, but according to the European Union's report on electronic communications, Estonia is among the last in Europe in terms of the spread and use of the fast internet. Can we be proud of that? Research has shown that the development of high-speed internet has a positive and diverse impact on the country's economy, the natural environment and regional development. It sees, among other things, the possibility of developing health services, increasing access to education, involving society better in decision-making, encouraging the spread of home offices and thereby boosting rural development and making welfare services (such as television, video games, communication, etc.) more accessible. Therefore, a high-quality and affordable high-speed fixed internet connection cannot be just a consumer's concern. Here too, the state and local government have direct interests, especially in view of the ongoing administrative-territorial reform. The Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications takes the view that since 4G covers almost the entire country, the problem has already been solved. However, I would point out that neither access nor the active use of the service is yet to be achieved. Therefore, if we want our country to be truly progressive and can look to the future as well, we need a very good, thought-out action plan which, in addition to the technical possibility of high-speed internet access, also provides our people with trainings and presentations on how to use the ultra-fast internet to open a completely new page in our development. So let us take advantage of the smallness of our country and be swifter in bringing our people into the future today. The Social Democratic Party is of the opinion that an educated nation is one of the main guarantees of our country's success and that the increase in the availability of the fast internet undoubtedly increases this education. In time, the entire electrification program of our large and wide homeland, where electricity was brought into almost every home, was considered unnecessary. Many of us would still be sitting in fartlight without this powerful step, saying that we can do so. Think about it! Ladies and gentlemen, I have a call for you. Let us help the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications in implementing such important developments for our country. We will give them more resources to deal with issues such as increasing the availability of high-speed internet, as well as e-residency, which is, in my opinion, a very important issue for the development of our country, but which has not been dealt with with with with sufficient strength because there is a shortage of resources. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-05_U114	Artur Talvik on behalf of the Estonian Free Party Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-05_U115	Good Chairman! Good members! Good guests! First of all, I would like to thank my colleagues from this very Riigikogu, who have boldly taken up this topic and not act as so-called coalition soldiers, but still see a very serious problem in the basic network! They have also nicely highlighted the problems and weaknesses and what should be done in their speeches today. I would especially like to thank Olav Harjo, who, as a brave citizen in the autumn, highlighted the very constructive criticism and very constructive proposals of this problem. Thank you very much. However, while dealing with the basic network here in the Riigikogu, we have faced an amazing amount of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications in terms of how to say, arrogance, superiority and arrogance. We have been at meetings where we, the ambassadors' proposals, have simply laughed or given very sharp and arrogant answers from a position that we here in the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications know how things have to be, and you better shut up. This arrogance is also proven by the fact that the local governments and county authorities of South-East Estonia have already sent a letter to the MKM in February with their thoughts, with their criticisms, but there has been no reply to this until today, although officially they should reply to such letters within a month. My own experience with the base grid is quite characteristic. It characterizes maybe in many... I'm asking for more time now!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-05_U116	I'll give it to you now. Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-05_U117	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-05_U118	...what's happening in places. I live on one peninsula most of the time. We saw there that some excavation was starting and the base grid was coming towards us, but then, boom, they stopped right next to the cell tower. When we then turned to the local government and finally to EASA, and very loudly yelled, it took a long time and we wrote a number of letters, then the cable started to move on quietly. There is an interesting thing to note. When we shouted even more and very strongly, one of the builders of the basic network or one of EASA's main members suggested that they could make some villages pay for the distribution network. And then when we did more yelling and demanded more, they said, okay, we're gonna make you this distribution network with no money, but shut the fuck up. But the other half of the peninsula probably didn't make that much noise and the base grid doesn't reach it yet. Now it's said that the telecoms are putting their money in, they're big, that the 4G network is what solves the problem, and the cable doesn't have to be dragged everywhere. Yeah, I don't have to drag everywhere, but it has to be done in a balanced, parallel way. Another example of my local life is that in the summer, under certain climate conditions, we often lose cell phone coverage at all. If you contact a telecom company, they'll say what you're doing, summer time, by the sea, who you're still talking to there, hillbillies. Under these circumstances, you can't say that mobile coverage covers this high - speed internet area. I won't. My own personal reason why I went to live in the country at all was that I was beginning to have Internet access. Right now, I have a radio connection there that I pay a third more for than my city apartment's Internet connection. Internet connection is a regional policy thing. We talk a great deal about the reform of the municipality and we need to improve services, but very much of the services are located on the very internet to which the rural population does not have access. So the basic network will become crucial for the reform of the municipality. It has been said here that Suure-Jaani is a tremendous example of how the community and everyone else work together there. But if it turns out that the people of Suure-Jaani have had to pay EUR 1 000 for accession, I would say that this is not very good cooperation. It's just another arrogant attitude towards rednecks, let's just say it. An interesting trend is also what I notice in almost every issue concerning rural areas: communities are now starting to do these things themselves. Excuse me, the community is already in the field of internal security. The community is up, I don't know, the library, it's up, it's up, it's up, it's up, it's up, it's up, it's up, it's up, it's up, it's up, it's up, it's up, it's up, it's up, it's up, it's up, it's up, The community already does all the things on its own and very often for its own money. The community is going to take money from Leader. Well okay, the community takes money out of Leader, the community goes and takes money out of Leader to fix the roofs, etc. So the community is now the solution. So what do we have to wait for? I very much hope that this debate that started in the Riigikogu on a rather broad basis will now lead to the fact that the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications is really making a plan that brings the Internet to every home in Estonia, and not just using the 4G network. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-05_U119	I hope that the issue of the availability of high-speed internet and the reasonableness of its price will be resolved. Everyone understands the need for it. However, there is another problem that has not been discussed today and is not wanted to talk about. The broadband network that is being created is given to the Estonian Broadband Development Foundation, EASA, which was founded in 2009 by Estonia's leading ICT companies: Elion, EMT, Elisa, Telia, Tele2, Telenet AS, Levira, Ericsson and LTL Networks. There is no country among the founders. The audit of the National Audit Office showed that the relations and obligations between the state and the developers of the broadband base network in the construction and subsequent management of the network have not been fully or not even fixed in writing. There is no obligation to maintain assets and to provide the services arising from them. This means that, after five to seven years of network completion, developers may not continue to develop their own broadband network and lease out other internet distributors. According to the audit, small communication operators are already not satisfied with network rents. When EASA was founded, all the founders invested a total of 0.5 million. The construction of the entire EstWin network will cost nearly 80 million according to current plans, which will come from the state. If the foundation is liquidated, which can be done without hindrance, according to the articles of association, all assets, i.e. the established core network of the Internet, will be distributed among the founders and the state will lose all control of the network. On this basis, a public limited liability company can be formed, which no longer has any obligations towards the State or the taxpayers. This means that the government gives the wealthiest companies in Estonia a gift of nearly 80 million and the original investment of the founders of EASA grows 150 times, which they can use to secure their dominant position. It is incomprehensible, not to say criminal, that such investment and asset giving to rich, large foreign telecommunications companies and giving them undue advantage in the market. Last year, Olav Harjo, former Head of EASA, drew the public's attention to this problem, who also made a very meaningful presentation here today. Although Deputy Secretary-General Taavi Kotka confirmed that the matter should be reviewed, unfortunately, there is no record of any action being taken at the Ministry. Not all investments have been made yet. The articles of association of EASA must be amended so that the State can monitor and contribute to rental prices and other important issues and, in the event of the liquidation of the foundation, the entire property of the foundation remains with the State. The state can then either manage the basic network itself, as is done in many countries, rent it or sell it. What is happening now, as I said, is incomprehensible and may even pose a security threat. It is high time to put in place a plan to ensure that internet access is accessible under reasonable conditions, price and quality. To do so without a further deferral to 2020 and in such a way that the State is not...
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-05_U120	...that EstWin remain our national property.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-05_U121	Kristen Michal, Minister for Economic Affairs and Infrastructure, has also expressed his wish to participate in the negotiations. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-05_U122	Thank you. The item has been discussed. The sitting is adjourned. Closure of the sitting at 12.36 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-05_U123	On behalf of the Group of the Einar Vallbaum Isamaa and Res Publica Union, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-05_U124	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-05_U125	Ladies and gentlemen, We know that Estonia is one of the world's leading countries in the IT area. In part, it's true, but in part it's not. It seems that we have come into a comfort zone in certain things or have taken action before a thorough reflection, for example, on how we have started to make the ultra-fast internet available. The basic broadband network is being completed, but the fast internet is still as far away from people as it was before. Estonia is ranked 22nd in 2015 in the World Economic Forum and in the international IT development ranking of Cisco countries. This is not bad in itself, of course, but it means a drop compared to last year. Finland, for example, achieved a second place in the overall ranking and a third place in Sweden. In the case of Estonia, the report points out that we are strong in the social impact category, achieving fifth place among 143 countries and sixth place in the public sector according to the use of information technology. However, we are relatively weak in terms of access to information technology. Compared to other countries, Estonia has a high monthly fee for fixed broadband internet access, for example, in the 56th place out of 143. The problem, however, is not only price, but also availability. In terms of high-speed broadband penetration, we are 15th in the 27 countries of the European Union as of 2014. The high-speed internet was only available to 1.13% of the population. At the moment, the situation is not much better and the so-called last mile issue, i.e. how the broadband network reaches the end user, is unresolved. This is not what the state, the telecommunications companies and people want to do, because cable transportation is expensive. The launch of a thousand to a few tens of thousands of euros to bring the internet to your house even from a nearby broadband network is clearly beyond the reach of people. So we are in a situation where, without a high-speed fixed Internet, there are not only few farms and villages, but some cities. There is no doubt about the need for high-speed internet anywhere in Estonia, but unfortunately the state does not have a specific action plan to address the problem and the market failure. It is good at least that the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications recognizes the existence of a problem. Last year, after the audit of the National Audit Office was completed, when we raised the issue at the National Budget Control Committee, it was reported that this is a non-existent problem, because people themselves do not want an ultra-fast internet. It's pure demagoguery. It's not that you don't want a fast Internet. The question is that people do not want it at that price. Fortunately, the problem has now been acknowledged and the Ministry has taken action in this direction. It is estimated that it would cost about 400 million people to bring an Internet cable to all consumers in the ground. In order for the fast internet to become a reality, the laws must probably be changed so that the cable does not necessarily have to be in the ground, so that existing routes can be used to install the cable, etc. That would make the cost more than a third cheaper. One option is to use various grants for the last mile, for example under Leader and other programmes. It is probably not possible to move cable everywhere, but this means that in these places too, the mobile internet would spread smoothly at the end point of the cable and would be fast enough. But the most important thing is the price that must be acceptable to consumers. Today, we can say that the major mobile internet providers have benefited most from the development of broadband networks, which have been able to offer 4G internet, which is unfortunately not an equivalent replacement for cable connections. I hope that high-speed internet access... More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-05_U126	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! Let me just say a few words in conclusion. A great deal has actually been said, slides shown and material introduced. This plan has also been communicated to the Commission and, as is clear from this procedure, this plan exists. Some people don't think it's enough, but it's okay, we have to work on that plan. I think that the members of the Riigikogu, led by Andres Metsoja, can move forward with this plan from the legislative side. For this, I thank the members of the Riigikogu, especially Andres Metsoja. As far as the last statement by the representative of the EKRE is concerned, these amendments have already been made. Perhaps this information has not arrived here, but the idea that this company would be able to sell or liquidate the core network in such a way that the State is not a party to it is not true. These changes have been made. What else did I hear in these speeches? I think there's a little bit of foam around this thing. I am glad that we have now all understood in the same way that the basic network is needed in Estonia. A little while ago, when people wanted to draw attention to this issue, but in some cases it may have been handled a little recklessly, it was as if they could stop building a basic network and give this money to some telecom company or to some other private company that they stand for here. Fortunately, everyone has realised that the basic network must be completed. It is based on both mobile connections and the availability of home connections. Half of this net is made, half is being made. I think it is a good thing that it has been understood in the same way that it needs to be dealt with. It is also good that there has been an idea of how to make the connection cheaper, how it can be made cheaper in certain cases, as mentioned here, and what I described in my speech, even 4 to 5 times. That could be the goal. However, as far as the future is concerned, I dare to predict that when, in 2013, there was an idea that everything would have to be connected to the wire, this is no longer the case. In 2018, perhaps 2019, 2020 a new standard will come, which is essentially super fast, through the air, through the mobile internet. This means that many of the things that, according to the current idea, only go through the wire are old by then. I recommend that all such plans be made with regard to economic interest and the future. As Mr Vallbaum, the representative of the IRL, said here, economic resources are always limited, including taxpayers' resources. These plans should be made in such a way that what is planned will continue to serve the taxpayer in the future. The base grid will definitely do it. When Artur Talvik described his experience in a humorous key, he did not know the exact circumstances, that is the way we have discussed when looking for solutions, i.e. that the parties must cooperate with each other. The more people in this community, the faster it becomes more profitable, the easier it will be for commercial companies, too. After all, I also showed in figures what part it was already worthwhile and in what part it could be worthwhile. If construction becomes cheaper, profitability will certainly increase. I thank everyone for this debate. I now hope that the Riigikogu will continue to take this legislative initiative. Mr. Metsoja nods that he will. Then, perhaps in a year or two, we will have come to the point that people who want more cable have been transported cheaper and who do not want to use a high-quality mobile connection. For everyone to be able to do their job and not have to arrange, as was said in the case of a mobile operator in the old days, an exit to the cable area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-05_U127	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Minister, colleagues and guests! My message about building and developing a fast internet is short: it must be completed. But when we once set ourselves this goal, didn't we shout out too loud slogans that fast internet to every farm, every village, every cottage? Maybe we overestimated our abilities, or it's been a much faster development in this sense, that we don't have to carry everything through cables anymore, some things can be transported directly through the overhead line, and maybe it'll be a lot cheaper. I am, of course, not an expert on Internet technology, and that is why I do not know how to directly say all things and how to transport and install cables, but I am an economic man and I know that money is needed and certainly not little. That is why we need to think about how to use the money we have more efficiently and better so that the Internet reaches wherever we have promised with these slogans. I am not going to talk about numbers here because my colleague has already talked a lot about how many places we are, how many cables we have put down, how much more we need to put down, how much money we have spent. These numbers aren't small. We better think together about how we can do this better. A project was once designed to build wells in our rural areas. Everyone was involved. The local government and the state also had to put the money in place. The European Union's money could also be used. Perhaps the same option can also be used to move on to the Internet. This is very important for some people, because their work depends on it. It is enough for others to simply watch the news or send messages on the phone. But when people say that a thousand euros is needed for the Internet in the country, it is very expensive for every person living in the country, looking at the salaries of these people. You can't talk about rural areas alone. Even in Tallinn there are holes where there is no Internet coverage. If you drive down the north coast, down the shore, the phone's gone. It shows we're still not okay. Much has also been said about the assessment made in the National Audit Office's report. The need for an ultra-fast internet may sound like some incomprehensible luxury imposed by the state, because a normal, slow internet is enough for ordinary people. The demands on the speed and volume of the Internet are growing at an enormous rate. By comparison: data traffic in Estonia over the last five years has increased almost ten times, television images are transmitted through the air. So I didn't come to you to lecture on the necessary matters, because the Special Committee on State Budget Control has made a number of proposals at its meeting on 7 March on how the legislator, together with the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, can contribute to the broadband deployment process. The plans could be implemented much cheaper if we took advantage of the cables and ducts that have already been built. As I said at the beginning of my speech, it is necessary to complete the construction of a high-speed Internet so that Estonian homes can be covered 100% by the Internet. And if there's a bill coming from the ministry that helps do it, I think we'll support it and move on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-05_U128	Henn Põllaas on behalf of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-05_U129	Henn Põllamaas, thank you!
