ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-13_U1	Honourable Riigikogu! Prime Minister and Minister Pomerants! Good afternoon. Happy new pay year for all the women doing the job! Let's start the briefing. Incoming check, please! There are 53 members of the Riigikogu at the plenary session, no 48. The following members of the government will participate in the Question Hour: Prime Minister Taavi Rõivas, Minister of Education and Science Jürgen Ligi and Minister of the Environment Marko Pomerants. As a result of the number of respondents registered, I will give an opportunity for an additional question for each of the main issues.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-13_U2	The first question is for Prime Minister Taavi Kõivas. Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-13_U3	Thank you, Mr. Speaker. Prime Minister! Yesterday, the European Parliament adopted a decision that European asylum policy should be changed and centralised. Among other things, it states that a certain threshold for the number of arrivals could be foreseen for each Member State. In other words, we are talking about a permanent quota. We know that these plans have actually been circulating in the European Commission for a long time, and it is also proposed that the Dublin regulation be amended so that the country to which it is due no longer has to deal with immigrants, but that it is centrally distributed. Maybe again, we're talking about a permanent quota system. I know that the Estonian Government has taken a stand-off approach to this, but we also know that the positions of the Estonian Government are very flexible. I ask you this: how far is the Estonian Government prepared to go to prevent the abolition of the Dublin regulation and the introduction of a permanent quota system? Are you ready to veto it?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-13_U4	Thank you. As before, Estonia does not support a fundamental change in the Dublin system. In our opinion, a distinction must be made between normal and crisis situations. In a crisis situation, emergency solutions are justified and necessary, but in the case of normal migration flows, we should, however, stick to the current Dublin system. We do not support the automatic implementation of the relocation system. It is very important that every country has the right to speak on these issues through the Council of the European Union, and therefore you can be sure that the positions that have been adopted so far, including in the Committee on European Union Affairs,... [[Technical problem, part of the story goes missing.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-13_U5	First of all, good Riigikogu, please keep it down in the hall! The Prime Minister didn't hear the question. Didn't you hear the answer? [[There's something explaining in the hall.]] Let's make it work! Martin Helme, an additional question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-13_U6	Thank you, Mr. Speaker. I'll ask you again. Is Estonia ready to vote against, or veto, when it comes to changing regulation? Is it clear which countries are on the same line as us, or who are our allies? Who are these countries? All right, we understand that Greece and Italy are one of them, but who are the countries that are in favour of a common asylum policy? And who else are those who share an opinion similar to that of the Estonian Government?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-13_U7	I would point out that the European Commission only made its proposals last week, but it is already known that there are quite a few countries that do not agree with these proposals. However, there is nothing unusual about it. I would remind you that last summer, European Commission President Jean-Claude Juncker, for the first time, came up with a proposal that a compulsory quota should be implemented, with the formula taking into account not only the size of the country but also other components. Estonia, together with the other countries, said that this distribution is not fair; it is not a fair compulsory quota and it is not fair as well as the specific distribution formula proposed under Jean-Claude Juncker. And, as you well know, last summer the Council decided that it would change and take into account the principles that Estonia considered fair. Our mandate was endorsed by the European Union Affairs Committee by consensus and with the participation of all Estonian parliamentary parties. That is how we have been running this route from the start, that all countries must participate, but it must be a free choice of countries. And the distribution must not be based on a quota forced by force, but must be proportional to the size of the countries, the proportion of the countries in the European Union. Only then can it be said that this is a voluntary agreement. That was our position back then. We have been able to state clearly that the original proposal is not suitable for us, and we still believe that no automatic system can be supported and we intend to stick to our opinion.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-13_U8	Marika Tuus-Laul, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-13_U9	Thank you. Mr Prime Minister! Let me ask you a little bit more generally. Looking at this crisis in Europe, we can see that it is far from being a refugee crisis. This is an organised invasion of Europe. But there are reasons for everything. What do you consider to be the main causes of the crisis? Is this perhaps the mistake of the Brussels political cuisine, or is it also a matter of these many wars? American Wars, 2003 Iraq, 2011 Arab Spring, Libya, Syria... Or is it that at first people wanted cheap labour in Europe, but things got out of control? Of course, economic reasons and public dissatisfaction are also behind everything, but what do you consider to be the main reasons? I'm not just thinking about the ones running away from the war right now?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-13_U10	It seems to me that you have both an interest and a reason to go into what is actually happening in the Middle East. The Riigikogu Hall sits near you in Mailis Reps, who will certainly be able to tell you for a long time what the situation in Syria is like. But not one of the factors you mentioned is the root cause of migration, but, above all, the fact that there has been years of very bloody war in Syria against the Assad regime, the leader of Syria. By the way, this regime is strongly supported by your sister party and their attacks have hit not only ISIS, but some of these attacks have also hit civilians. The fighting is ongoing, on one side there is the Assad regime and on the other side the most dangerous organization today, ISIL, or Daesh, in Arabic. In addition, there is a fragmented opposition. So this situation would require a little more clarification than the two minutes I have at my disposal. But briefly, Syria, which is quite a great country, is full of horrors. At any moment, civilians' homes may also be involved in bombings, and it is understandable that this has created a desire for people to flee. These people flee primarily from war and terror.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-13_U11	Honourable Riigikogu! Let me remind you once again that I can give you one more question. I shall finish the first question.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-13_U12	The next question is for the Minister of Education and Science, Jürgen Ligi. Mailis Reps, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-13_U13	Thank you, President of the Riigikogu. Good minister! The latest OECD study, as in previous OECD studies, is not only mentioned in the so-called "large press," but also in social media very much. One of the things that, as expected, has heated up the most passion is the question of how we should still analyze the numbers. If we base the situation in the 1990s on the OECD's figures since 2006, but we also take into account the largest years of decline, we can see that the number of our children has decreased by almost a third, while the number of teachers has decreased considerably. According to this OECD study, we should make two very clear decisions. One of them is that the school network should be pulled together by almost a third or at least a quarter to make it countable to some extent. How do you comment on the bill?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-13_U14	Thank you. The OECD studies and recommendations are spoken too little rather than too much. I draw on my knowledge and expertise and confirm that the OECD is the best international expert. Now, to raise their assessment into the context of local politics, perhaps certain mathematics should be used: I would use the square root or the cube root of their recommendation in some places. As far as regional policy and the school network are concerned, I would slightly ease their harsh assessments, although they actually give them in the interests of pupils, in the interests of the quality of pupils' education. Indeed, small schools are not sustainable, do not provide teachers with a full burden and a uniform quality of education in the long term. It's not the small size of the class, it's the teachers. We have slightly reduced this regionally with coefficients, which the National Audit Office has also criticised. But I'd use expansion, square and cube where they see injustice. It is also linked to the school network, this is an area in which the school network itself extends, building on the unfair privilege you are well aware of. I mean the private school financing scheme. They thought that the private school and the local school would receive equal money, they did not know that the private school would actually receive more money, and they suggested, on the basis of the 2014 knowledge, that the funding of private schools be reduced. What else would they have said if they had known the exact circumstances if they had known the judgment and the current situation? You're gonna have to square that estimate.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-13_U15	Mailis Reps, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-13_U16	Thank you. Indeed, we have been debating here about 4% of children who go to private school, but if it's okay, I'm going back to the rest of the 96%. You mentioned teachers and a relatively effective solution has been proposed to pull together the school network. If we take into account that one in four or almost one in three, so maybe one in three schools should close, that would be a significant increase in teachers' salaries. But how do you imagine this regional policy? Would that really be possible in Estonia? Today, we especially have such small schools in South Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-13_U17	As I said, you have to use the square root or the cube root of this recommendation. That means we have to take the regional component into account and we should also receive support for it. After all, there is great criticism that the government does not take into account the people that the government is responsible for people moving away from the country. No, we are actually allocating a lot of money so that school education is available and that there is a basic school close to home. But the National Audit Office is actually tough when our coefficients are assessed. However, the economic side is important. However, if it is said that betting on a teacher results, that it does not contribute to the class's small size, it means that this aspect has been very emphasised in their statements. And we take it very seriously. Aggregating the school network to ensure that the teacher gets the full load and is motivated is, in any case, essential. The OECD very much emphasises the interests of children and we are based on the interests of children: that the child should not have an inhumane distance from school, that teachers should be given a full load, that the quality of education should be guaranteed and that regional differences in the quality of education be minimised. This is what they recommend, and it confirms everything that we have actually declared ourselves, really adding only a regional component because of the disunity of our settlement.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-13_U18	Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-13_U19	Thank you, Honourable Chairman. Honorable Minister! The section of the OECD report on early childhood education was quite briefly commented by the Ministry in its press release. Please comment on this here and now in two minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-13_U20	This is the second dimension, where we are more social and democratic than the National Audit Office or the OECD. We can't take away their functions from the local governments. A near-home service must still remain a part of the municipality. In summary, it is very strange how much we talk about the municipality's income base and the lack of money, but on the other hand, we are talking about taking on all the responsibility of the state. I say there must be a separation of responsibilities. We separate it in schools of students with special needs, divide it in vocational education, we propose a draft to the Riigikogu on how to take responsibility for upper secondary school education. But the role of the municipality is greater, the smaller the child and the closer the one or the other service is intrinsically home. Of course, I don't mean medicine here, I mean services to provide education. A small child must be able to feel the care of the authorities as close to home as possible, and it is the local community that must organise this activity called early childhood education or kindergarten in Estonian.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-13_U21	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-13_U22	The next question is for Minister of the Environment Marko Pomerants. Please, Andres Herkel!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-13_U23	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, As the underground strategy is in preparation, the general question is how to make better use of the richness of our land for the benefit of the economy, but it will split up into a number of institutional issues, for example, how to step up research into our geology service, which is currently operating as a public limited company, whether it is going to be strengthened in any way. And finally, one bearded question: what ministry will we have to manage the use of mineral resources? Is it still the Ministry of the Environment or is it going to take a step towards the Ministry of Economic Affairs to better balance interests?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-13_U24	Thanks! Good afternoon. First, two small statements. If anyone knows a Postman journalist, let him know I'm in the picture right now. I would like to say that as far as the wage gap in Estonian society is concerned, the Ministry of the Environment barely has the light of this small dean within 3%. But let's keep working! However, now to Mr Herkel's question. As a geologist and Minister for the Environment, I have considered this matter thoroughly, and I can say this at the moment. My understanding is that from a state point of view, it would be rational for the Ministry of the Environment to continue to deal with ground issues in the vast majority of cases. This is quite easy to justify: there are just a lot of interlocking areas, then there is monitoring of nature conservation waste or something else. With a minimum of 80% of this activity, it is also reasonable to continue with the Ministry of the Environment. Then we'll get better at what you mean. Now, as far as the strategy itself and its preparation are concerned, it is indeed initial understanding, but according to them, discussions in the sub-group on the ground strategy have been considered the most sensible way of restoring a national geology service with different tasks: geological mapping, national environmental monitoring, hydrogeological work, research development and a few others. I am running out of time, but I can tell you that the taxpayer will have to start paying more for this than has been the case so far to find out what is in our land.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-13_U25	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-13_U26	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, I understand the Postman has taken part in your response now. My follow-up question is about the geology center and the geological mapping. There's a chain reaction coming up. The field of geologic mapping is quite wide and the needs are great; on the other hand, in the context of Ida-Viru, this is the right step. At the same time, reducing oil shale mining fees also reduces the money used by KIK. The KIC, in turn, has probably supported this mapping to a significant extent. This is a chain reaction and it concerns environmental projects even more broadly. Has the government discussed alternative solutions to ensure the sustainability of environmental projects?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-13_U27	Thanks! As far as geological mapping is concerned, indeed, be it the KIC or the taxpayer of the Estonian state, there is a need to contribute more. I say that as Minister of the Environment. According to current knowledge, if we had EUR 2 million to spend every year, it would take another ten years to map, but we will never have EUR 2 million a year. So it would take us 22 plus I don't know how many years. But with regard to environmental projects and, above all, in the context of Ida-Virumaa, just as during the period of European Union funding has ended, so in the next period, greater environmental work will be done in cooperation with the European Union taxpayer, be it the cleaning of waste sites, the relocation of Kukruse Arenamäe, as well as a number of water projects that will continue to be carried out. The Environmental Investment Centre and all the smaller application-based projects, if they fit into the overall orbit, will certainly not disappear from the ground, will be funded in the amount that we can.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-13_U28	Siret Eagle, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-13_U29	Thank you, Mr President. Minister of the Environment! As regards the extraction of phosphorite in Lääne-Virumaa, I must admit that I am often not sympathized with the statements made by government ministers. But I liked Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, Minister of the Environment of the previous government, who was so bold and said that he would not allow any phosphorite exploration or extraction in Mary's Land. I agree with him exactly. Why has the current government changed its position and started taking steps towards the extraction of phosphorite? This will break down a valuable living environment and a groundwater environment in Lääne-Virumaa.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-13_U30	Thanks! As a hydrogeologist, I can be perfectly clear that the Government of the Republic has not taken any step closer to the extraction of phosphorite.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-13_U31	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-13_U32	The next question is Prime Minister Taavi to Clothes. Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-13_U33	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Prime Minister! According to fuel sellers, hundreds of thousands of litres of diesel fuel has been sold in Estonia after the increase in fuel excise. In a year, it makes millions of gallons. In March alone, almost 18 million, 44% less, received excise duty than in March last year, plus VAT foregone. Many large consumers have started to refuel in Latvia, just as we predicted. Although some excise duty was also raised there, the wholesale price of diesel is more than 10% cheaper and the difference will increase further due to the increase in excise duties in the coming years. Similarly, fuel sales in Estonia are decreasing. This means a reduction in both tax receipts and jobs. Are you prepared to cancel excise increases that undermine the Estonian economy and competitiveness, or are you satisfied with the deterioration of the economic environment?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-13_U34	Thank you very much for this question. I am very pleased to inform you that most of the arguments made in your question are not true. Indeed, in three months of this year, excise duty has been collected considerably more than usual. Yes, it is true that part of what you have said is that in March the excise duty actually decreased, but there was also a very clear reason for this: there was a very high level of stock purchase in January. So you have to look at a slightly wider picture, you have to look a little bit clearer and see behind the numbers. And then it can be concluded that both fuel consumption and excise duty are actually on the rise. Whether fuel consumption growth is positive news is a two-way street. On the one hand, it suggests that people have the opportunity to consume more, as the fuel as a whole has become about 40% cheaper than the peak and it is much more affordable for people to buy it. But at the same time, I am absolutely sure that if you ask the Minister for the Environment sitting on my right hand, or the Minister sitting on my right hand, who is also very strong with the nerve of the environment, I think they both say that, in fact, if we consume more fuel, it is not positive at all. If we look at the trends in the world, we want to reduce fuel consumption. But yes, as has been said, your assertions are largely incorrect. Forecasts show . and these forecasts are made precisely on the first month's receipts, so that consumption as a whole and the collection of excise duties will increase significantly.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-13_U35	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-13_U36	Thank you. Perhaps you would still point out how much we have been deprived of both excise duty and VAT on the fuel that is now being bought in Latvia? So far, there have been hundreds of thousands of gallons, millions in a year.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-13_U37	I hope you heard my answer to your first question. Indeed, consumption as a whole, as well as the collection of excise duties, are increasing significantly. Excise duty is forecast to be 11.3% higher than in the previous year. As the rate of excise duty increased by less than 11,3%, this overall represents a certain increase in consumption. If we look at the price difference with gas stations in Latvia, it is often the case that the difference between a cross-border gas station and a gas station is less than the difference between different gas stations in Tallinn. On the same day, I have watched fuel prices at the same gas stations in Tallinn and Riga and found that one type of fuel is more expensive in Estonia and another type of fuel is more expensive in Latvia. And these price differences with Latvia are rather modest in both directions, and it is certainly not worth taking the long journey to buy fuel in the neighbouring country. If we look at which neighbouring country we really have a price difference, then if you take Finland for example, the price of petrol is on average 26 cents more expensive than in Estonia. In the case of diesel, this difference is slightly smaller, but very noticeable. So we do not have large price differences with Latvia, which, among other things, plans to continue to increase excise duty, but rather with Finland, where the fuel is much more expensive than we do.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-13_U38	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-13_U39	Thank you, manager. Prime Minister! I think I'm gonna ask you for the tenth time about the excise duty, but you still don't get it. First of all, you could explain to the public why this excise duty was pushed from 1 January to 1 February. After all, it was desirable for this year's budget to receive this excise duty, because, as we know, when excise duty is low, more fuel will be bought together. That's what's been going on. It's like nothing's happened in three months. At the same time, according to Statoil, sales of diesel in the Statoil sales chain alone have decreased by 40%. 40%, remember that number. And this diesel fuel was purchased either from Latvia, Lithuania or Poland, which is essentially the money that went out of Estonia and thus our government supports the Latvian, Lithuanian and Polish economies. I think you'll have the moment of truth after Midsummer Day if you don't understand it today. Would it not be necessary, however, to change excise policy? As we know, in the next two years, excise duties on fuel will increase by another 10%, so 10 + 10.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-13_U40	First of all, why February 1st? Indeed, you are right, it is linked to the fact that, just before the increase in excise duty, large stocks are acquired, and we wanted the stockpiling and also the reduction that you referred to, which will occur after the increase in excise duty, to remain within the same budget period. It will then be possible to see the positive and negative effects of the changes on the year as a whole. Experts from the Ministry of Finance have estimated that the total receipts will increase by 11.3%. You're asking, and really, you're right, you're asking me this in this form for at least the tenth time, why do you really need this increase in excise duty? In fact, you know that even after this increase in excise duty, Estonian petrol is cheaply the eighth most in the European Union countries, and diesel is also among the 10 cheapest. But there are two reasons why an increase in excise duty is really needed. One reason is, of course, fiscal. We need to find where to finance the very necessary steps to reduce labour taxes, raise child benefits, establish a system of support for single-lived pensioners, set up a single parent support fund, so as to reduce poverty and improve livelihoods in Estonia. These are all important things that need to be done in Estonia. And if the question is whether we are taking these steps and fuel is therefore a few cents more expensive in a situation where the world fuel market has dropped tens of cents, or whether we are deciding to keep fuel even cheaper at any price than it is now, I would stress that it is now 40 cents cheaper than it is a while ago, then I say that it is more important that these important things must be done. It's a few cents more expensive fuel we can't afford.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-13_U41	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-13_U42	Valer Korb asks the Minister for the Environment Marko Pomerants. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-13_U43	Thank you. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. In recent years, much has been done in Ida-Virumaa to solve the historical heritage, or pollution. More than 220 million euros have been spent on projects to close ash mountains. But, Mr Minister, the great ash mountains belong to the state and it can be assured that the work that was ever started, that is, the closure of the ash mountains, is unfinished. The finger is often pointed at companies that are not responsible for this. My question is what the government or the Ministry of the Environment intends to do in this area in order to take the next step towards protecting nature.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-13_U44	Thanks! There are several steps. Indeed, as you rightly point out, a large amount of residual pollution objects in the form of ash mountains have been made environmentally sound. One of the next steps we are preparing is the cleaning of the so-called Kohtla-Järve phenol swamp. This is a large polluted area outside Kohtla-Järve, just next to a closed semi-coke dump. The preparatory work goes in the direction of once again helping taxpayers in the European Union to stop the environmentally hazardous water entering the Kohtla River. We are ready to spend tens of millions of euros on this with European taxpayers. The next example, which has already been addressed, concerns Kukruse Mountain. There's a lively debate about why Kukruse Mountain couldn't be where he is. But this mountain is contaminating the environment. On the one hand, it is burning or exiting, as you wish, which creates two things: air pollution on the one hand and groundwater pollution on the other. We intend to place this object around in such a way that the inert environmentally sound material remains between Kukruse village, but what is environmentally hazardous can be moved to where it can be handled, for example in the Vaivara hazardous waste management area, which has been closed for three and a half years and opened again on 1 April. This work costs at least EUR 8 to 9 million. And that's how we can keep going.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-13_U45	Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-13_U46	Thank you. The second question is about Kukruse Mountain. I looked at the materials related to this problem and found one of the June 8, 2003, newspapers. 13 years ago Postimees wrote that geologists who studied Kukruse ash mountains near the Narva highway in Ida-Virumaa found that it had not calmed down since the fire that broke out 30 years ago. It is now 2016. By the time Kukruse mountain was shut down in 1967, there were two million tons of material that had been extracted from the mine. Nearly 300 tons of it started to burn. Today, studies show that 7,8% of oil shale is still in it, so it is practically 60,000 tons, and scientists say that it will burn in 10 to 15 years if we do nothing. Don't you think that's a long time?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-13_U47	Thanks! I lost a little bit of your story, but it's not your fault. The Ministry of the Environment is now convinced that we need to solve the problem of continuing pollution on Kukruse Mountain. As is often the case in life, it is very late, but our position is clear: better late than never. We are at a very specific stage, I am thinking of proposing to the Kohtla Municipality Government that a strategic assessment of the municipality's special planning and environmental impact be initiated. If everything goes well, we'll be able to eliminate this object by 2020, so we'll finally have a beautiful environmentally sound mountain on Kukruse. The Kukruse people won't lose the mountain, only then it won't smoke again and it's a little bit on the other side of the road, you'll have to turn your neck a little bit to see it.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-13_U48	Arthur Talvik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-13_U49	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good minister! Like Kukruse Mountain, the elimination of phenolic or phenolic pollution has been dealt with essentially from the end of the Soviet era. There have been different options, there has also been some kind of toxic waste pool or collection site built. Today, however, it is evident that this phenol flows past these waste facilities or collection pools. So far, what's the problem with the facilities that it's running past? And how quickly are these errors planned to be eliminated, among other things, in relation to the phenolic gender?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-13_U50	Thanks! In the case of already closed mountains, it is certainly not possible to confirm that there is some kind of continued efflux of phenol. As far as phenol is concerned, this is an object of residual pollution and indeed many years have gone, but the problem is unresolved. But the moment of truth is near. We plan to start work in spring 2017, if everything goes well. In spring 2017, procurements and other things that are still ahead of such a large amount of work will be made, and we will still be very young men when all this has been eliminated.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-13_U51	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-13_U52	And now Krista Aru's question to the Minister of Education and Science Jürgen Ligi. Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-13_U53	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Good Minister of Education and Science! In December last year, both you and the Prime Minister said that research and development is an area that certainly needs more funding than has been the case. As we know, negotiations on the country's budgetary strategy have now begun; you have obviously made your proposals. With what requests for R &amp; D you went to the negotiations on the country's budgetary strategy, and how have these negotiations progressed? The result?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-13_U54	Thank you, good question! My principle has always been that the state should not collect cash just to give it back, but that it should do something good with cash or prevent it from doing something bad. In this sense, I have not been very happy with the fact that cash turnover is quite high in any government. As Minister of Science and Education, I have had reason to refer to the abstract lines of the Coalition Agreement, which are not covered by money. One says: 1% of GDP goes to R &amp; D, and we have then furnished it. There are four things above all on the sieve. One is basic funding for research institutions, it is 7 commas something million, the other is competitive research grants 3.8 million, the third is science databases 3.2 million, if I am not mistaken, because the euro financing is over and it needs to be replaced by the tax money from the budget, and the fourth is the ICT Centre of Excellence, which we will be discussing separately in the government tomorrow. All these are important tools for raising society's wisdom and well-being in the long term, not so short as cash. But I also argued as Minister of Finance on this issue, and the total amount is 16 million. Hope was given to a much smaller amount, of course, but there was no quite unreasonable reaction.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-13_U55	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-13_U56	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Minister! In an interview with the Novator at the end of last year, I think it was on 17 December that you have mentioned that even under low money conditions it is possible to improve scientific achievements and make more effective use of the money than it is properly directed. Who should say which areas and fields of research are correctly targeted? As we know, we have a variety of communities that already appreciate the quality and quantity of science. What were you thinking? Is another collection of wise people needed, or should you say it?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-13_U57	This is a very sensitive issue for science. They certainly do not need to be smart political associations, although they can also be very smart. But we also clearly make political preferences in the government. I have already mentioned that one of the goals is to increase ICT to a higher pedestal. Within the framework of the research project, we have two ICT programmes. One is social, but tomorrow we will discuss the ICT Centre of Excellence. In basic research funding, we are changing the model in order for research institutions to focus a little more on cooperation with the private sector and private finance. For example, there could be more competitive research grants, because large investments need to be done hard. We do not intervene in these research grants; these evaluators are very independent. And another budgetary observation: in the case of scientific databases, it is necessary to replace euro money with tax money in order to receive information. So this is a combination of political and academic wisdom.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-13_U58	Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-13_U59	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. During the same discussion on a key national issue that had already been referred to, there was also a separate debate on the financing of national sciences and stressed the need to give special support to them. Is there any progress to be made in this direction?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-13_U60	Thank you. When we talk about priorities, it means increasing the proportion of something. The national sciences have indeed not been emphasised in the priorities, but they are our preferred area by default anyway. They usually fail to commit sin, not very successful in linking them to the economy. They're preferred with the heart rather than the head, let's say that. However, I cannot say that there is a huge funding gap in this area at the moment. But in the soul they exist in the Estonian people anyway, and they are preferred for their very nature.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-13_U61	The next questioner is Jaak Madison and the question is Prime Minister Taavi to Clothes.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-13_U62	Prime Minister! I am dealing with the same subject as the first questioner in Question Time, namely the possible amendment of the Dublin regulation. In terms of adjustment, however, the Committee on European Union Affairs agreed unanimously to mutual assistance in the European Union in the event of an immigration crisis, but did not agree with the quotas which led Hungary to go to court against the European Commission. We have not agreed to quotas, but every day the media say that some quota refugees have reached Estonia. Now, if you speculate a little, what happens if the Dublin regulation goes through? This is certainly most supported by Germany, Sweden and some other so-called main countries that are under pressure, such as Italy and Greece. If the change is pushed through by a qualified majority, as was the case in Hungary last summer, then what is Estonia's position? Would the Estonian Government also consider bringing it to court with Hungary, Poland and possibly Slovakia, the Czech Republic, Latvia and Lithuania, who would certainly not agree with this?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-13_U63	Time's long gone! Please ask me a question in a minute!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-13_U64	What would be the position of the Estonian Government in this case?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-13_U65	It is very good that you yourself made it clear that the positions on this matter were shaped by consensus in the Committee on European Union Affairs, the vice-chair of which you are the vice-chairman and where you have been present in all the relevant votes. It is not a quota agreement, as you rightly pointed out, but an agreement that all countries will contribute according to their capabilities and their size, so that it can be achieved by everyone. Once again, as you said, this is a consensual decision and the mandate of the Riigikogu as a whole to the government on this matter. Now, with regard to possible further steps, I will never go along with speculating on what happens when the A, B or C scenarios start. I don't think that makes any sense. We should rather focus our efforts on launching a scenario that is favourable to us from the start, so that this agreement is reached in a consensual manner, so that no votes can be reached at all. That's what we're working for. As I said in reply to your benchmate, we have a clear view that we do not support fundamental changes to the Dublin system. We do not believe that there should be a permanent mechanism for the redistribution of refugees. However, we understand perfectly that when it comes to a serious crisis, all countries must be helped within their capabilities. It must not be automatic; it must be the sovereign decision of each country, and it must be the result of which we act.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-13_U66	The question to be specified by Jaak Madison.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-13_U67	Thank you. Good Prime Minister, you're still a little confused. I can quote from my head what we gave consensus in the Committee on European Union Affairs. It was that Estonia prefers volunteering to help each other. Prefers voluntary assistance! Unfortunately, this became mandatory and, as we know, the same obligation fell for the countries of the European Union that did not agree with it. Therefore, we have not supported compulsory assistance. And we interpret matters in such a way that, in the duties of Minister of the Interior Hanno Pevkur and your Prime Minister, you have violated this mandate and gone against it, because you have not preferred voluntary assistance, but have agreed to a mandatory one. Let that be a clarification. The second thing: The biggest problem for the Estonian government seems to be that there is no plan B, C or D And if these plans do not exist, then the crisis will be the fastest. So, are you reaffirming now that we do not have a plan B in case the Dublin regulation is pushed through by a qualified majority?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-13_U68	Let's go over it again. Indeed, the position of the Estonian Government has been that agreements in the European Union at both Council and Council level must be voluntary. At the same time, countries must all realise that we have a shared responsibility to help, but their contribution must be proportionate to their size. All these sources have also been supported by consensus by the Committee on European Union Affairs, the vice-president of which you are jointly supported by the ECRE, the Free Party and the Centre Party. That's one. Now two: at the moment when the decision-maker starts to speak publicly about plan B, plan B becomes reality. Only very bad negotiators go to negotiations with a worse solution. We're not very bad negotiators. On the contrary, so far we have been very good negotiators in the European Union. And our goodness isn't that we're going to confront it, that we're going there to fight, that we're going to get cocky, but our goodness is that we can convince with arguments. We were able to do it last summer and we will be able to do it in the future. We search for allies for our positions, we negotiate with them and we explain why we feel that way. I recall that very many of you did not believe last summer that Estonia could persuade the European Council to take a different decision from the Commission's point of view, but we did. In cooperation with our partners and allies, we managed to do this. I am absolutely sure that if we stay on this course, that we do things wisely, not in contrast, we will be able to do so in the future.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-13_U69	Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-13_U70	Thank you. Well, there's been a lot of pretty daring announcements. At first the number of refugees was 180, now it's 553. Is this, then, a success in putting our positions into effect? I actually asked the same thing twice on my first question, and Jaak Madison asked again what would happen if our position was not taken into account. Are we vetoing or voting against? There's no way to put a veto. But you didn't answer it, instead you told us a long story about how difficult life is in Syria and how we must help the Syrians. We know that according to Eurostat, 20 percent of refugees came from Syria last year. Estonia received one Syrian among the first immigrants, the rest were from other countries. I don't understand why you're always telling us about Syria if the Syrians aren't accepted. Our problem is we're trying to figure out some sort of plan B here, but we can't. You said yourself that there's no point in making plans, because they can change.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-13_U71	Question please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-13_U72	What you're saying doesn't convince us. I am still asking again: are we voting against amending the Dublin regulation or are we not voting?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-13_U73	It's a simple question. There is probably no vote on this issue, but the Commission, listening to the views of the countries, puts forward a different plan. But there were a lot of contentious aspects in the fluent story that preceded your question. In fact, the initial number you mentioned is absolutely not true. The original number, calculated by the European Commission on the basis of a significantly lower total number of refugees, was clearly more than 1000 people for Estonia as a compulsory quota. It didn't work. Then we said that, of course, we will help, of course, all countries must contribute, but it must be understood that each country's contribution must be proportionate to the size of that country. We were understood. And even though the number of refugees has increased considerably in the meantime, the number that we have been assigned as an agreement is considerably lower than the number you have brought. This is only about a tenth of the number of people moving to Estonia from abroad. So think about how wrong the tracks have essentially gone with your talk about mass immigration and scaring it. I understand that for a short time you will be able to make such a conversation successfully, you will be able to enjoy the applause and attention, but believe me, sooner or later the people of Estonia will understand that you are talking nonsense. Such a politically not correct talk collapses when it turns out that there is not much fact in it.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-13_U74	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-13_U75	The next question will be put by Siret Kotka to Prime Minister Taavi Rõivas. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-13_U76	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! I believe that your government has already realised that there is a huge crisis in Estonian agriculture. Our dairy cows are sold, the main buyers are Poles. If this trend continues, farmers claim that there will be no cows in Estonia in ten years' time. This would mean the destruction of Estonian agriculture and, in particular, of the dairy sector. Today, however, we are at the forefront of our dairy farming in Europe. Are we really willing to let this all go? What crisis aid measures does the government plan to come to the aid of farmers this year?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-13_U77	I would point out that, to a very large extent, we have already offered crisis aid precisely to those sectors that are in great trouble in agriculture. I'm sure we're going to do it again. We have just begun negotiations on the country's budgetary strategy. We are also doing the state budget in the autumn, but already we can see that there are a number of ideas on how to further mitigate the situation of farmers. The most important of the measures already decided last year and this year, I consider it to be that we have allocated some EUR 32 million in emergency aid. I do not recall that, in the past, so much crisis aid had been given to any sector. This is a huge contribution and it has focused not on agriculture as a whole, but precisely on those sectors that are really in crisis. We know that there have been difficult times in pig farming, especially because of swine plague. In the dairy industry, difficult times have been mainly due to the collapse of the Russian market, because Russia's activities have led to a sharp decline in the purchasing power of the Russian population. But we also know that cereal cultivation, for example, has had record years. We must bear in mind that the sectors where the problem is greatest must be supported in particular. These measures, which have already been decided, have not only been classified as direct grants but also as various investment grants. We have helped, for example, to improve the health requirements for stables, which is particularly relevant to pig farming. We have also helped to resolve many other failures. And, of course, I also consider it important to open up markets abroad.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-13_U78	Siret Eagle, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-13_U79	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! Most of the money has come from Europe, but my question was about the Government of the Republic's own contribution. Other European countries further support their farmers; the Estonian country has so far done this very minimally, or it could be said that there is no level whatsoever. If we continue to do so, there will be a very clear trend that domestic food products will increasingly be replaced by imported products. For example, we can already see how more and more Polish production is being brought into our hands. When does the Government of the Republic of Estonia plan to start supporting its farmers so that we are competitive in Europe?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-13_U80	Your information that the Estonian taxpayer is not contributing enough is certainly not true. At the end of last year, Estonia also received additional crisis assistance from the European Union very actively, 7.5 million euros, but the same amount was allocated by the Estonian state from its taxpayer's pocket. We also allocated nearly EUR 2 million to produce canned pork from the third zone, which is more difficult to market. EUR 900000 went from the state budget to marketing projects in the food sector. Very much not only money, but also energy has gone in order to... I understand the questioner is in the middle of a conversation right now. All right, I hope you can ask me again and we can finish this conversation. But yes, very much has gone not only to money, but also to energy to open doors for Estonian farmers to access new markets. What is the reason for the collapse of the market? The reason for the collapse of the market is not that there are too few subsidies. The reason for the collapse is that Russia has imposed sanctions and said that the production of Estonian farmers is no longer suitable for them. And if you ask what is the most sustainable solution to this problem, the most sustainable solution is not that we multiply subsidies. Yes, we have done that, but it can still only be a temporary measure, because it is a very burdensome measure for the taxpayer. The lasting solution can be to help open up new markets for farmers. Last week I spoke about these issues in Japan, before it in China, and so do several ministers.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-13_U81	Thank you, Prime Minister Taavi Kõivas. Thank you, Minister of Education and Science Jürgen Ligi! Thank you, Minister of the Environment Marko Pomerants. Question time's over.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-13_U82	Honourable Riigikogu! Let's start the Wednesday hearing. Transfer of pre-claims and enquiries. On behalf of the Government of the Republic, Heili Tõnisson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-13_U83	Mr. Chairman! Good Riigikogu! The Government of the Republic is launching a draft law on family benefits today. In the Riigikogu, the Government of the Republic is represented by the Minister of Social Protection Margus Tsahkna when the bill is being processed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-13_U84	Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-13_U85	Honourable President! Respectable members of the Riigikogu! Just as yesterday and the day before, I have the honour of handing over one draft on behalf of the Free Party Group today, that is the draft law amending the Income Tax Act. We have discussed the same subject once in this Chamber and in the committees. But the Free Party is a young and learning party, and on the basis of the ideas raised in the previous discussion, we have completed and improved our draft and have also made new calculations on the basis of recent data. We want to propose once again that the tax-free minimum be increased quickly to 400 euros per month and the income tax rate up to 24%. So, in the big picture, our idea is still the same. In our opinion, there is an urgent need to change the tax system in Estonia. Our tax burden is just below the average wage- earning workforce and towards consumption taxes. The government usually likes to talk about average wages, but we bring up median wages. How often do you think that half of Estonian workers receive less than 767 euros per month? This is a much more unpleasant figure than the average salary. I think this whole thing is really hot right now. Today I read about Mr Ahto Lobjaka's appeal to a party represented in the Riigikogu. He says that the popular meetings in Estonia highlight problems caused by general stratification and asks what this party has done to alleviate the problem. The Free Party has ideas for this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-13_U86	I have adopted two draft laws, we are taking them into procedure under the Home and Working Procedures Act. Incoming check, please! 86 members of the Riigikogu will be present at the plenary session and 15.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-13_U87	Let us begin the debate on the items on today's agenda. The first item on the agenda is the third reading of Bill 146 on the amendment of the Penal Code initiated by the Government of the Republic and the related amendment of other laws increasing the fine unit. I'm opening negotiations. On behalf of the Group of the Central Party of Toomas Vitsut, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-13_U88	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, I am glad to take advantage of the opportunity to highlight the bottlenecks that we in the Central Party Group have found that we do not support the amendment of the Penal Code. The doubling of the fine rates is neither meaningful nor acceptable. Coalition parties have justified their willingness to increase fines by arguing that the fine rates have not increased in the last 15 years, but that is no justification. Punishment policy must aim at preventing unacceptable behaviour and not at collecting hidden tax money. It is also clear that fines cannot be exponentially raised overnight, should have been raised gradually, year by year, in line with price increases and wage growth. The saddest thing is that once again we are in a situation where there is no meaningful analysis which would index the right level of fines. It seems that the bar has been set at a certain height according to someone's gut or the Excel table, which shows how much it is necessary to increase the level of fines to implement the state budget. Ministers and other officials who have proposed changes have certainly not taken into account one thing. They have not taken into account people's incomes and the fact that, after paying the fines, people have to have money that they can live with. We must not impose a fine in such a way that some people who are not really guilty of anything are left with a hungry house, while others find it only for change. The actions of traffic hooligans are certainly not acceptable, but many practitioners confirm that fines usually do not deter anyone from committing violations. The life of a person with a lower salary, however, can be completely drowned because of a high fine. Of course, it is very good that the time for voluntary payment of fines as provided for in the bill will be extended, but this small right step will in no way compensate for the doubling of fines. The Commission's debate also stated that fines in certain cases would help, but very often this is completely pointless. Minister of Justice Urmas Reinsalu himself said that fined the parents of smoking students, for example, will have no effect on the students, because they are actually punishing the parents. In the current situation, we would very much like to see the Minister of Justice more interested in the effects of high fines rather than looking for quick and simple solutions to implement the state budget. The Centre Party has advocated linking fines to people's incomes, but this is not the only option that could have been considered. There should also be more analysis of what kind of sanction measures are, but why not preventative measures make people behave legally and which are not. High fines, in our view, create a situation where, in their fear, they try to hide what they have done, because they simply cannot be paid. Can I have some more time?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-13_U89	Yeah, sure. Three minutes extra time. Ladies and gentlemen, please let us be quiet. The people's ambassadors will tell you from the heart.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-13_U90	In addition to imposing large amounts of fines, people should be given the opportunity to repent in some other way. One of these little used forms is community service. We know the 'Let's do it! " Every year it organises a winter day, when our forests and other surroundings become much cleaner. However, given the amount of garbage around us, responsible citizens get only a fraction of the litter harvested during these winter days. It is, in fact, an inexhaustible opportunity to do much in this area to set lessons for community service. I think any speeder would wonder if it's worth pushing the accelerator too hard if it's gonna be enough to create a whole day's work or a shovel. In itself, cleaning up garbage is a welcome physical activity, so that the more people are directed to deal with it, the more beneficial it is for both themselves and society. In summary, we certainly cannot agree with the sharp rise in the fines resulting from the coalition's desire to implement the budget and irresponsibly promotes the repressive policy carried out by the state. Instead of calling people to order and making their behaviour acceptable to society, we are taking measures that are unlikely to lead us to the goal. Punishment for mistakes with a belt is no longer appropriate. Then why are we still practicing it at national level? Thank you for listening.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-13_U91	Martin Helme on behalf of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia. Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-13_U92	Dear Speaker! Ladies and gentlemen, This is the anti-popular draft of anti-popular government, which has been sold to us by lies. Of course, it's a method of raising money. Of course! Following the adoption of this draft, the police will be transformed into a fund-raising facility and we will get to a situation where the police, who are already too few and who will have to deal with a hundred things from border guarding to ghost knows what, will deal with everyone but criminals and everything but crime. This has many negative consequences because we are moving into a society that we consider to be rather autocratic. The police are seen there, not as an ordinary citizen's helper, but as an enemy or as someone to be avoided. We all know the complaining that the bad populists who are burping the government are moving around in Estonia, but, dear coalition ambassadors, think a little about the situation where, for almost a year now, the popularity of coalition parties has been significantly lower than the popularity of opposition parties and the government is barely getting a 'two' grade. Who's to blame? It is, of course, your own decisions that are to blame. There is no point in blaming the opposition if you make decisions every day that you give us a malaka to bury yourself with. If you still don't have the appetite for this huffing, give me a piece of crap today, and we won't miss that piece of crap. But I would remind you that in at least three years' time, you will have to step in front of the voters, look them in the eye and explain why you are pursuing anti-people politics. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-13_U93	Andres Anvelt on behalf of the Group of the Social Democratic Party. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-13_U94	Mr President! Colleagues! We have already been very active for several weeks, and for several months less active in society at large, we have been discussing the subject that we are voting on today, i.e. the rise in the fine units, whether it is fair and timely, whether this increase is very sudden and very many other issues. When do the police turn into a money machine? When is he a money machine? But we often forget that penal policy is much wider than just imposing fines. Let us take the topics that we had on the agenda for 10 to 15 years. For example, more than half of Estonians did not wear seat belts and the number of accident deaths was well above 100 as a result. One part of the penal policy at that time was the explanation work on every corner. The police stopped the cars and explained, said, advertised, to remove mentality from people's minds, as expressed by a very many dresses in the car at the end of the 1990s, that in this car there are no seat belts attached, but death like a man. So this mentality was in our society. As a result of the penal policy, most people, if I am not mistaken, are 96 to 97% of today's wearing seat belts. This move is automatic, you put your seat belt on. But there's still a part of people who don't care about what's agreed between us, who don't care about their lives or the lives of others. The consequence is that we have reached a certain zero point where many of the current punitive policies do not work. We also discussed in our group whether the draft on the table today is a tool for fiscal policy or a tool for penal policy. I'm sure it serves the interests of penal policy. Only a year and a half ago, financial penalties for certain crimes were tightened 3.5 times. However, its impact on the state budget was not 3.5 times greater, but 10 to 11%. It's been said how the police charge fines and work as a finer machine. Perhaps it would be good to know, however, that if last year more than 150000 fines were imposed in Estonia, the maximum rate was 173 cases. This shows that there is no money machine policy. The second point, which is certainly worth mentioning, but what has been said very little about this draft, is that the minimum fine is EUR 12 in the current law, three units. According to the draft, it falls to one unit, or EUR 8. So the police have even more chance of just warning people and signaling that don't do that, care about yourself, care about the lives of others. They used to talk 'Let's do it! ' a campaign I've participated in many times myself. It's still been kind of a bad feeling that you're cleaning up after everyone else that's been taken down in the woods. Why is this being done? Because often there's no fear of punishment. The fine that may follow is, in fact, less than the amount that should be paid to take the burden to the dump. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-13_U95	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-13_U96	It should be borne in mind that this draft law gives greater scope for a minimum fine. It should also not be forgotten that the period of voluntary payment of the fine is increased from 15 to 45 days. If a person is lost, he doesn't have to be drained, he's given a chance to wait for the next payday. But he's lost and he has to take responsibility for it. I would add that if a person has material difficulties, when this bill enters into force, he will be able to defer payment of the fine for a whole year. All he has to do is show his way. One important factor why our group decided to support this draft is that we have received confirmation from the Minister of Justice that it will continue to keep the direction of the coalition agreement to link more serious misdemeanours, repeated misdemeanours to human income. In fact, a fine must be capable of influencing a person's behaviour, especially if it is not a fine for an act committed out of negligence, negligence, but if a person has deliberately ignored the norms agreed upon in society. The Minister of Justice has promised to come before us with this bill in the fall. There is another factor that confirms that Estonia's fine policy is on the right track. This is the principle that the system of warning fines must be extended. I would call it a late course of conduct: if a person has not behaved respectfully with others, he will have to pay interest. But it does not have to be a punitive measure, but a memorable reminder, which will certainly also make the police's work easier. It is not so difficult to impose a warning fine, it does not take so much time, and the result is that the police can devote much more time to ensuring the safety of all of us. The previous speakers also noted the importance of community service. This should increase significantly, especially in the case of minors. A person must have alternative means of remedying his actions. Returning to today's draft, I would like to emphasise once again that the search for fiscal policy measures behind it can be very effective, but it is relatively meaningless. Look at the state budget figures! Look at the role of fines there! And a lot of people have failed to pay a fine. This amount is also in tens of millions, which, by the way, means a greater obligation for the country to adopt today's draft. In addition, I would like to emphasise once again: under this draft, fines will become fairer, as the minimum fine will be reduced by 50% and that is not a word. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-13_U97	On behalf of the Estonian Free Party Group, please! Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-13_U98	Good Chairman! Good Riigikogu! We are faced with the choice of whether or not the fine unit rates will double on 1 May. The Free Party Group is of the opinion that this is a raw draft, the support of which gives false signals to society. The composition of the XIII Riigikogu has faced the french advice on several occasions, starting with that of the Cohabitation Act and ending with the same draft amendment to the Penal Code, according to which courts should start issuing search permits from 1 September and the time limits for detainees will be shortened. We have learned from the examples above that there is a lack of a clear and uniform understanding of who is wanted to be protected or whose circumstances are intended to be improved and how. Reviewing the amount of fine units and a consistent analysis should have been the work of six governments already. This job has not been done. Since 2002, the rates have stood still. No one has bothered to deal with the problem in substance. The faction of the Free Party does not argue that from time to time the fine policy needs to be reviewed and amended, but it cannot be done with jumps that overpower the people. We are still waiting for an answer to the question of what happens next. Are there clear principles for reviewing the fine policy and who is responsible for this work? So far, in these months, this question has not been answered. During the debate on increasing the level of the fine units, we once again experienced that specialists in the field were not taken into account. Without media mediation, we would never have learned the views of the courts, the prosecutor's office and the Chancellor of Justice, not to mention the opinions of other professionals in the field. The power coalition silenced those views. Thank you, media! So what's coming out? It has been pointed out most strongly that the double increase in the fine unit rate is not proportional to the income of the population. It is difficult for the state to obtain the fines imposed and the resources needed to deal with them are burdensome on the state's purse. There are no alternatives to penalties. The Coalition's promises to come up soon with new alternative solutions will not help here. Without a comprehensive solution, the Riigikogu is once again in a state of compulsion, being the rubber stamp of the government. An extension of the payment period by two weeks is not an aid measure if, at the same time, the unit rates increase twice. It's a real diversion. In addition, there are no answers to how the increase in fines causes hardened offenders to behave differently. First, it seems that those who are generally law - abiding in their daily lives are wanted to be punished. It is already very often considered whether it is possible to live and cope in Estonia. A more rigorous policy of punishment does not create more trust, but reduces it even more. I am very concerned that the Riigikogu is approving the attitude that incitement of children to wrongdoing is acceptable. The purpose of this draft is to halve the fine rate for financial penalties under 18 years of age. The reasoning was quite simple: they don't have the money to pay the fines, but the parents do it for them. Yeah! These are, above all, young people from vulnerable families. Parents do not have the time or skills to deal with children, to pay attention to them. Parents also have no money to provide children with opportunities to develop interest. Young people get involved in crime that grows into wrongdoing at one point. Repeated misdemeanors are serious steps towards crime. The representatives of the Ministry of Justice have admitted that they have not been able to propose enough solutions to bring young people from the bad way to better choice. Search is underway, but there are no solutions yet. That is why we can say that the draft is crude, because there is no serious analysis of the consequences of lowering the fine unit rate for young people. If we reduce the rates of juvenile fines, we will also encourage underworld actors to take advantage of young people in crime. This cannot be accepted by the Riigikogu! Lowering the fine rates for young people is a burden of responsibility for them, but we must take into account that they are the most vulnerable members of society. Thirdly, the aim of the draft is blurred, which is a strong glow in the desire to cover the budget gaps. According to the explanatory memorandum, EUR 10 million has been planned for this year. This EUR 10 million goes into a large budget boiler and only a few know its real purpose. This money does not improve the roads, it does not develop the activities of young people. This amount could be used to cover the big election promises. The coalition voted down the proposals of the Members of the Free Party to enforce the draft fines from 1 January 2017 on the basis of which the proceeds of the fines would be entered in the next budget. We also rejected our draft, which proposed to direct fines to the stabilisation reserve. Punishment policy must be based solely on the interests of protecting the safety and well-being of society. It is not right to assume that fines are a means of implementing the state budget. This is a political choice that increases or undermines confidence. Good Riigikogu! Due to the real opportunities and sense of justice of our people and the future of young people, the Free Party Group announces that we do not consider it right to adopt a bill with 146 today as a law. The Riigikogu must stop approving half of the government's solutions. Please, let's take this responsibility! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-13_U99	Minister of Justice Urmas Reinsalu has expressed his wish to participate in the negotiations. Please, Urmas Reinsalu!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-13_U100	Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-13_U101	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-13_U102	Honourable assembly! Before you start making this decision, I would like to comment on some of the statements made by the public as well as by this House. Firstly, no EUR 10 million is planned for the state budget this year, which is due to an increase in the fine unit rate. The estimated amount resulting from the increase in the fine unit is EUR 1 million, which is not twice the amount but 10% higher. This is exactly what happened when Parliament very wisely decided to increase the minimum daily penalty rate for criminal offences by 3.5 times as from 1 January 2015. Then there was no controversy as to whether, in all cases, 3.5 times the financial penalties would be imposed and how people on lower income would be able to commit crimes in the future. As far as the fine is concerned, I would like to refer to one thing Parliament decided very wisely. This decision entered into force last spring and shows that the main objective of the state's policy on sanctions is not income. From the spring of last year, the principle applies that the practitioners, those who impose fines, can limit minor infringements to a warning. This means that they do not have to file documents and the violation does not go into the person's criminal record, but the person receives a signal that his or her actions are not acceptable. The procedure, however, will be abandoned. When we look at the statistics, we see that in reality the practitioners have started to practice it. The public has given an example of how it is possible at all that when a person has moved without a reflector in the dark, he will end up in debt prison because he did not have a penny in his pocket. What sadism! In reality, the instructions of the Police and Border Guard Board concerning this offence when a person goes without a retro-reflector are generally very clear to limit itself to a warning. However, in certain cases a penalty has been imposed. Last year, the average financial penalty was EUR 23. The previous speaker asked whether the Ministry of Justice had a plan on how to move forward with the policy of misdemeanours. I can say to Parliament boldly and clearly: yes, we have this plan. With the step we're taking today, we're changing the scope of the criminal record. We are not talking about a double increase in the nominal amount of average fines imposed in Estonia. No! The Estonian system of misdemeanours is structured in such a way that only the maximum numbers applicable under exceptional circumstances have been established. As indicated by one of the previous speakers, the maximum rate applied in 173 cases last year, while the minimum rate applied in 8000 cases. Speaking about the future of the policy on misdemeanours, Estonia had 140000 cases last year, where people who had committed some kind of misdemeanour were entered in the criminal record. I'm saying this number is too big. We've been punishing, there shouldn't be so many cases in criminal records, there's too many minor violations going on. My argument is that it is entirely realistic to reduce this figure to less than 100,000. How do we intend to achieve this? In matters of minor importance, the alert procedure needs to be used more. In the case of lower-risk misdemeanours, the criminal fine is no longer applied together with the criminal record, but is limited to the alert procedure. A person will pay off a specified amount, as is currently the case for fixed breaches of speed cameras, and this is the case. Society has given a signal to man that his actions are not acceptable. The amendment of juvenile penalties was also mentioned here. This is not because the parents of minors have no money to pay a fine, and that is why we want to reduce the financial penalties for minors by 50%. No, our direction is, in the case of juvenile offences, above all related to the violation of the drug law and alcohol law, rather than to financial influence, than alternative forms of punishment. After all, financial influence is usually called "intermediate," and this burden falls on parents. In autumn, we will come up with a package of proposals to this effect. It was also discussed whether it would be fairer to link financial penalties to a person's income. Finland, for example, is mentioned. I say this: in the entire catalogue of misdemeanours, we have 1000 different misdemeanours in Estonia, and that is obviously too much. On 1 January of last year, 300 misdemeanours were deleted from this catalogue with the revision of the Penal Code. 1,000 is too much. At the same time, our objective is clear: we want to put in place a system whereby the most dangerous offences, especially driving drunk, are linked to the income of individuals. At the moment, I think that this limit is a bit arbitrary: for example, 1.51 promill is related to income, 1.49 promill is not related to income. And that is the case, that the average fine of the urgent procedure for driving drunk is over 300 euros in the event of misdemeanour. When we talk about who is actually being punished for wrongdoing, the busbunny accounts for the highest proportion. In the case of bus and coach rabbits, the draft, which comes to the final vote, suggests that the nominal amount of the fine received in the local budgets remains the same. In my view, this error should not be recorded in the criminal record, it should be limited to a warning fine. In the future, we will make this proposal. Secondly, misdemeanours related to speeding and drunken driving and, thirdly, thefts and scams where the cost of the property concerned is less than EUR 200 per case. As I have pointed out, the average penalty for an item costing less than EUR 200 is less than EUR 100. The aim is certainly to provide a larger catalogue for the processing of thefts when the stolen property cost less than EUR 200. I think that's a reasonable direction. Ladies and gentlemen, What I want to say is that the government has a policy of misdemeanours that we are going to change step by step. Secondly, what I want to say is that today's decision does not, under any circumstances, mean that average fines will increase twice. If Parliament makes a favourable decision today, then the Ministry of Justice will certainly pass on the recommendations that the legislator had in mind when it adopted this law to all the practitioners across the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-13_U103	There is no further wish for negotiation. Let's go to the final vote. Draft 146 requires a majority of the composition of the Riigikogu for adoption. Please, let's do the presence check! 93 members of the Riigikogu are present, 8 members are absent from the plenary session. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the amendment of the Penal Code initiated by the Government of the Republic and the related amendment of other laws increasing the fine unit, Bill 146. Please take a stand and vote. There are 50 members of the Riigikogu in favour of adopting the bill. [[A round of applause and noise in the hall.]] There were 42 votes against. The law was not passed.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-13_U104	Our next item is the third reading of the draft law amending the Riigikogu Election Act and other laws initiated by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. I'm opening negotiations. On behalf of the faction of the Mikhail Stalnukhin Central Party, please! [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] Honourable House! I understand there's a wish to discuss it, but please do it outside the hall. Please, Mikhail Stalnukhin!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-13_U105	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I am talking now in the hope that the next vote will not meet more than 50 votes in favour. The faction of the Estonian Centre Party is clearly opposed to this legislative amendment. Mr President, I do not really understand who I am talking to right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-13_U106	Yeah, I don't understand either. Please, go sit down! I'll call you back when they calm down. Director's intermission three minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-13_U107	Honourable Riigikogu! The chairman's break is over, so let's continue the third reading of bill 160. On behalf of the Centre Party Group, Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-13_U108	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, The Estonian Centre Party Group does not support this bill and votes against. Now I'm gonna tell you two reasons why we're doing this. The dream of each country moving towards totalitarian or totalitarianism in the area of elections is firstly to find out for each individual how and for whom it votes and, secondly, to have the opportunity to take active measures to improve the outcome of the elections in time. Strangely enough, it seems to me that this parallel is justified. I would remind you, above all, to those who have learned it in their time, others will simply learn that in January-February 1934, the ÜC (b) P XVII Congress was held, which later became known in literature as the congress of winners. Several historians have excavated the fact that each member of Congress received an ink pen that he had to pass after the voting procedure as a gift. Many historians claim that both this ink and the handwriting were analysed because, when the next XVIII Congress came together in 1938, about 95% of those who attended the XVII Congress were no longer alive. That's one. At this point, I would like to say that fixing the opinion on the basis of handwriting is purely like electronic voting. You know that none of the things that have come into the field of electronic communications remain a secret. You know that all the phones in the world are being intercepted and all this data is being stored. You know, for example, the facts that come out in connection with the last Panamanian scandal, where 11 million documents were launched on the market. It is therefore clear that there is, in any case, an archive of selection preferences somewhere. And it will happen sooner or later, in a year or five, but maybe the Estonian electorate will discover that all his moves, which he has made in electronic voting, are known and available. So let's just wait for this shiny moment. This draft law has again highlighted electronic voting, and once again attempts have been made to bring something new into its regulation. That is the first reason why we categorically refuse to support this law. Second reason. In 1934 the electoral committee was composed of purely Stalin's men and gave him the opportunity to carry out the so-called results. Many historians speak of this. We are now creating an institute that is equivalent to what took place in Moscow in 1934 and is called the election leader. The election manager is the one for whom the first page of the draft states that 'the county electoral commission' should be replaced by 'the county electoral leader'. You can see for yourself once again, just in case, who will put it in place and what its competence is. I would only pay attention to one competence. I'd like three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-13_U109	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-13_U110	Paragraph 17 (1) (5): The election manager may remove a member of the district commission who has violated the law or the order of the county electoral leader from the function of the district committee. This isn't about whether he's gonna have to replace a member of the precinct committee. No, you don't. There's no mention of how many members of the precinct committee he can remove. He can remove anything. And this means that in some municipalities where voters have certain preferences according to their place of residence, for example, in Tallinn Lasnamäe the majority vote for the Centre Party can be done in such a way that if next time there are elections, it is necessary to remove some of the district committees in order to get the result as appropriate for the government coalition. And not even for the whole election day, but for a few hours. It is precisely for those hours when the crowd arrives the most, usually at 10 to 12, 10 to 13. And it's going to make a decisive move, so there's going to be an advantage. It's not a fair game. This law also creates a new bureaucratic structure. With all this in mind, electronic voting, the election manager does what he wants, and even verbally, we do not support this bill. We hope that you will support democracy, not totalitarianism, and will not vote in favour of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-13_U111	Jüri Adams on behalf of the Estonian Free Party Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-13_U112	Thank you, Mr President. I cannot agree with the previous speaker's certain drama. After all, the drafts that we are being presented to the final vote here are very different, either for adoption or for rejection. In my opinion, there are no hot spots in the current draft. There is no political change in this draft, something that does not exist in the laws currently in force. The entire content of this large-scale draft is different from that of the current elections, and both the original drafters and the members of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs are based on the assumption that this new arrangement will be better than the present one. But at the same time, there is certainly no reason to say that the current arrangement is one that cannot yet live on, and it certainly cannot be said in advance that the new proposed arrangement, which is supposedly soon to be confirmed here in the vote, will be completely impeccable and that it will not cause any trouble. One of the reasons why I came to this speaker's desk is precisely to call for the tuning that we are, in a certain way, facing a new organizational country, a new situation. And that means that on the first evidence that something has gone wrong, we need to be ready to change the law accordingly. The second issue I wanted to touch on is that there are four electoral laws in Estonia. We have the Riigikogu Election Act, we have the Local Government Council Election Act, we have the Euro Parliament Election Act and we have the Referendum Act. They arose in different situations, but they now have very many overlapping parts and there is no very reasonable explanation as to why there should be four large laws with the same content. Perhaps it is time to consolidate them into a single law and set out the differences between the various elections. There are relatively few of them and they could also be very well thought out. All the more so, all the signs show that we can certainly change these laws again this year, but also in the coming years and probably repeatedly. As you can see, in the context of the law on administrative reform, if this bill were to become a law, there will be quite a substantial package of changes to the law on the election of the local government council. It is a little strange to see that these things have not been presented to us together and as a whole. There is no substantive reason why they should be presented in separate drafts. These are our general positions. Since the representative of the Centre Party here announced that the delegates of the Centre Party would vote against, I should say something about the ambassadors of the Free Party in imitation of his formulation. Members of the Free Party shall decide freely when voting on this draft. Everyone votes as he sees fit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-13_U113	On behalf of the Group of the Mart Nutt Fatherland and Res Publica Union, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-13_U114	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! A few days ago, I had the honour of answering the question about superficiality on the Cuckoo radio. The question was raised as a result of the fact that there has been a great deal of superficiality in society, not only among ordinary people, but also in the Riigikogu. The decision will no longer be taken in substance, but will only be based on headlines and perhaps on rumours. This draft law does not impose an e-vote; e-vote is not the subject of this draft law. The e-vote has been valid for several years in Estonia, and whether or not this vote is liked by one or another political group or a Member of Parliament is a question of everyone's choice, but it is not the subject of this bill. That's why I'm calling for you to be good and read the bill. Then you will see what this bill regulates. This is, above all, a set of technical changes that have not been prepared by politicians, the government coalition or the government, and which have not been presented by the government or the government coalition, but, above all, by experts who conduct elections. The way someone votes is undoubtedly a matter for every national envoy, but I call for an understanding of what is being voted for or against. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-13_U115	Thank you. No more calls, I'll finish the negotiations. The commission's proposal is for a final vote of 160 on the draft, and we will go to it. Ladies and gentlemen, since the draft requires a majority in the composition of the Riigikogu to be adopted, we will carry out a verification of the presence. 88 members of the Riigikogu registered as present, missing 13. I am voting on the draft law amending the Constitutional Committee's election law and other laws 160. Please take a stand and vote. 59 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the draft, with 29 abstentions. The bill has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-13_U116	Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on! Today's third item is the third reading of the draft law amending the Law on the Rules of Procedure and Homes of the Riigikogu, initiated by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. I'm opening negotiations. On behalf of the Peeter Ernits Centre Party Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-13_U117	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen, What we're talking about in this big hall is public. It is broadcast by television channels, and comprehensive verbatim records can be read years later. Unfortunately, what is happening behind the closed doors of Riigikogu committees remains a secret. True... Gentlemen, may I have your silence? [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] It is true that, during the debate on the draft, some of the coalition ambassadors are speaking in general terms about what took place in the Commission, but only the Member of the Commission who participated in the debate behind the closed doors of this committee can understand this. However, it is in committee that the substantive and decisive debates take place. What is the reality? Only three out of 11 Commission meetings will be fully recorded, two in part recorded and only two in three special committees recorded. So there are a number of principalities in our house: one is called the Committee on the Environment, the other is called the Committee on Legal Affairs, the third is the Committee on Culture, etc. And each of them has its own laws. It shouldn't be like that. To be honest, we have slightly harmonised the practice of the various committees in drawing up the protocols. The protocols of the committees are getting a little more comprehensive, but we are halfway there. The faction of the Centre Party submitted a proposal for improvement and its content was that the recording should be preserved until the end of the same Riigikogu and then handed to the Riigikogu. In order to ensure historical memory of the activities of all committees, the meetings of all committees should be recorded, except in the case of state secrets and information referred to in subsection 35 (1) of the Public Information Act. In the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, the proposal was supported by 5 members of the population; 6 opposed, of course, by the coalition. After the protocol has been drawn up, the current bill requires the recordings to be destroyed. Second, the recording devices are said to be awfully expensive. As a former journalist, I have written texts on the basis of thousands of recordings and know how important authentic recordings are. The same thing can be said, by the way, with different intonations. And I also know perfectly well that today's recording equipment is very cheap. To say here that we do not have enough money, it does not suffer any criticism. One of the authors of our constitution, Liia Hänni, agrees with us and other opposition ambassadors. In a letter sent by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs on behalf of the Round Table of NGOs, he says exactly what the Centre Party proposed: the plan of the coalition is unreasonably backward. And he proposes that the aim be to create future possibilities for the publication of recordings on the web. The Chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs replied: the minutes also store historically valuable information and it is not appropriate or necessary to oblige the Commission to record its meetings. Making the recordings and making them public in full would change the principle of the closed nature of the committees currently in force. What does it say? This shows that coalition ambassadors are afraid of the people. They want to leave as little trace as possible of the birth of decisions. The coalition wants us to stay dim. The Centre Party and the other opposition parties want the light in the house, so we are voting against the draft 'Prime of Darkness' 175. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-13_U118	Thank you. On behalf of Krista Aru Estonian Free Party, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-13_U119	Mr President! Honourable representatives of the people! Better half an egg than an empty shell! With this wisdom of the old people, I welcome the basic adoption of the 175 draft law on behalf of the ambassadors of the Estonian Free Party. In the meantime, there was a situation in the Riigikogu where the minutes were very brief, the views and assessments of the speakers were not fixed, as were comments. This situation is now over, as the draft provides for § 39 of the Act to be amended so that it states very clearly which requirements it must meet in a longer and more comprehensive protocol, which would fix the work carried out by the Commission for future researchers. However, what I want to say is that this is still only the first step. Immediately after this first step, we in the Riigikogu should think very seriously about further amending our Home and Working Procedures Act. After all, the recordings of the Commission's work are not only fixations of what has been done at the moment, but are, above all, source materials for researchers. And as a detective, I really miss them almost every day when I study distant times. There have been no recordings since then. The same emphasis, the same intonation, the same attitude that may not always be expressed in words, is important for researchers of our day to ever get an adequate picture of us in the future. Secondly, I would like the Riigikogu, and here I look first and foremost towards our board, to initiate a more thorough revision of the Home and Working Procedures Act. Where there should be a sense of democratic spirit other than in our law of home and working arrangements. What do I mean by that? I mean that the rights, freedoms and, therefore, the responsibility of the MP are currently far too far removed from the rights, freedoms, duties and tasks of the political group. We must ask ourselves whether this is precisely the kind of democracy that we expect and want in the 21st century. Does the faction's preference for the ambassador's own beliefs ensure openness in society, contribute to improving the reputation and authority of the Riigikogu? We have all heard and saddened that the Riigikogu has been called a rubber stamp. Has the fact that the vigilante's own responsibility has not reduced our own will to seriously delve into the draft laws in this Chamber, to do the work that the people have actually chosen us to do here? Therefore, while welcoming this step, which provides for more comprehensive and meaningful protocols for the future, I would like to express the hope that we will be ready to take the next steps in the leadership of the Riigikogu, thanks to which researchers can say in the future that yes, the composition of the XIII Riigikogu raised the reputation, authority and ability of the Riigikogu. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-13_U120	Thank you. Eiki Nestor on behalf of the Social Democratic Party Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-13_U121	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good Riigikogu! On behalf of our group, I have the following to say about this draft. This is an amendment to the Home and Working Procedures Act, which is known to require 51 votes. And as you have noticed recently, it is not an easy task to gather so many votes. That's first. The value of this draft coming to the final vote today is, in my opinion, two things. One is that the non-existent requirements for protocols since 2004 are replaced by certain requirements. And I really sincerely hope that the comprehensive protocols will become a reality, that these protocols will essentially reflect the whole debate that was in the debate on the draft or some other issue. Only certain sentences are excluded from the hearing. We can also listen to such sentences from the recordings: "Let's start discussing Bill 145 SE! ', 'Oh, ma'am, you have a nice haircut today! ', 'Give me a pen too! 'Or 'Would somebody get a glass of water? " Such things are out, but the rest are all in writing. The second good thing we will achieve by adopting this bill is that the disgraceful situation in which the Riigikogu still existed will end. When the government brought civil society organisations into drafting a bill, we read all the amendments they had made to the bill, but anything could have happened to them on the Riigikogu commission, including the fact that the amendments of civil society organisations flew out and no one ever explained to them why this happened. These are two pluses. However, what the draft does not deal with at all is the recordings. At this point I very much apologise, my real life in the committee has passed in a committee of the Riigikogu, where nothing was ever recorded, and I can tell you that nothing much was recorded either. It's good to have a letter about who decided what. This is a very pragmatic Commission. Now I know that under the new leader of the Commission, the working style has changed. We have discussed the subject of recordings with the chairmen of the committees. It is known that we have the chairmen of the committees who consider it necessary to record what is being said at the hearing, and they also consider it necessary to archive the recordings. So I'm sure we'll come back to the recordings. What I have to say here, my friends, is this. I hear a story in this hall or somewhere else, and I don't know if the vigilante who's saying it thinks it or plays it. When members of the Riigikogu who are members of the committees come to the stand and say that recordings cannot be written into the law, because there are some secret items that should be hidden. Where are the matchings? I'm asking for more time!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-13_U122	Three minutes extra time. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-13_U123	I've just been listening to a radio broadcast that's moved from Radio 2 to Cuckoo. There are two journalists with very similar thinking on this show. I listened to this show for half an hour and, you know, smiling a little bit. Because, you see, the difference between these two journalists is that one of them was elected to the Riigikogu and the other one was excluded. And you could see what their attitude was like. The one in here understands and says that it is not possible to make adjustments in the committee sitting here. But he who remained outside says, "But don't know! " So, MPs, all of you who have justified recordings of the need to avoid any match, if anyone does anything fitting, do not report this to anyone other than the press immediately, one minute after the completion of the Commission's work. If we destroy the Riigikogu's reputation with such speeches, it is not fair. Someone might get their noses up because of it, but it's not fair. And there's another way: he's acting because he just doesn't get where he is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-13_U124	Thank you. There is no further wish for negotiations, I will conclude the negotiations. The commission's proposal is for a final vote of 175 on the draft, and we will go to it. Ladies and gentlemen, this bill also requires a majority in the composition of the Riigikogu for adoption, and that is why we are doing a verification of the presence. Incoming check, please! 90 members of the Riigikogu registered as present, missing 11. I vote on the draft law amending the Law on the Rules of Procedure and Homes of the Riigikogu, initiated by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs 175. Please take a stand and vote. 60 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the draft, 27 against and no abstentions. The bill has been passed as a law. [[Whistle in the hall.]] What's the problem? I understand we have some technical problems. The manager's break is five minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-13_U125	Ladies and gentlemen, The chairman's recess is over. We shall proceed to the sitting of the Riigikogu. As our technical system did not record the last vote and did not fix the results, I will cancel this vote and we will vote again on draft 175. Yes, Mr Valdo Randpere, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-13_U126	Let me get this straight. The whole session starts all over again because the voting boards have been messing around from the start.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-13_U127	No, the whole trial isn't going to be repeated. The first two votes are well fixed. We will vote on the third item, the draft law amending the Law on the Rules of Procedure and Homes of the Riigikogu, initiated by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. There are no further procedural questions. Ladies and gentlemen, since the draft requires a majority in its composition, we will be conducting a presence check. Incoming check, please! Checking presence 88 members of the Riigikogu registered as present, missing 13. Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on the draft law amending the Law on the Rules of Procedure and Homes of the Riigikogu, initiated by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs 175. Please take a stand and vote. 61 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the draft, 27 against and no abstentions. The bill has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-13_U128	Let us move on to the fourth item: Third reading of the draft law amending the Law on Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances and their Precursors, initiated by the Government of the Republic. Do the political groups want to open negotiations? There's no call. The commission's proposal is to put the draft to the final vote of 170, and we are going to the final vote. I am voting on the draft law amending the Law on Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances and their Precursors, initiated by the Government of the Republic, 170. Please take a stand and vote. 78 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the draft, there was no one against, with one abstention. The bill has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-13_U129	Today's fifth item is the second reading of the draft Act 180 on the ratification of the Social Security Agreement between the Republic of Estonia and Australia initiated by the Government of the Republic. I would like a speech from a member of the Social Affairs Committee, Helmen Küti! Colleagues, attention!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-13_U130	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, The Committee on Social Affairs prepared for a second reading at its meeting on 4 April. Lidia Soontak, Head Specialist of the Social Security Department of the Ministry of Social Affairs, also participated. No amendments were tabled by the deadline of 23 March. Nor did the Commission propose amendments to the draft. The commission made procedural decisions and proposals, which were adopted by consensus. The Social Affairs Committee decided to send the draft for second reading on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu by 13 April, i.e. today, and the Commission's proposal is also a final vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-13_U131	Thank you, dear waitress. No questions for you. Do members of the Riigikogu wish to open negotiations? There is no wish for negotiation. No amendments were tabled to the draft and the proposal of the commission is a final vote of 180. We are going to the final vote. I am voting on the draft Act 180 on the ratification of the Social Security Agreement between the Republic of Estonia and Australia, initiated by the Government of the Republic of the Republic. Please take a stand and vote. 70 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, with no votes against or abstentions. The bill has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-13_U132	Today's sixth item is the second reading of the draft Act amending the VAT Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic, 192. I would like to present Kersti Sarapuu, member of the Committee on Monetary Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-13_U133	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, I bring to you for a second reading the draft law amending the VAT Act. The debate on the second reading of the draft was also held in the Committee on Monetary Affairs on 4 April. No amendments were tabled on the draft by the deadline for amendments, 31 March by the members of the Riigikogu, the committees and the political groups. However, this was done by the commission. Two amendments have been tabled in cooperation with the initiator. Both proposals were supported by consensus by the Committee on Monetary Affairs. The first amendment clarifies paragraph 1 (17) of the draft. The original purpose of the amendment was to lay down the procedure laid down by the Finance Minister's Regulation at the level of the law, as it is necessary that the regulation has an impact on the amount of the tax. It is important, however, that the underlying principles of accounting do not change as a result of its re-alignment. The second amendment complements the provision for the entry into force of the draft act so that points 1, 2, 13 to 15 and 17 to 19 of the Act enter into force on 1 July 2016, rather than 1 May, as the draft currently provides for. And since both Commission amendments were adopted by consensus, it was unanimously decided that the draft would be submitted to second reading and that the second reading should be closed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-13_U134	Thank you. Dear waitress, there are no questions for you. Do members of the Riigikogu wish to open negotiations? There is no wish for negotiation. Two amendments were tabled. We'll go through them. The first amendment is the position put forward by the Committee on Monetary Affairs, the lead committee: take full account. The second amendment is also the position put forward by the Committee on Monetary Affairs, the lead committee: take full account. We have examined the amendments. The proposal of the commission is to conclude the second reading of draft 192. Second reading is over.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-13_U135	Let's keep going. The seventh item is the second reading of the draft Act amending the Income Tax Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic, 184. The rapporteur is Mr Aivar Sõerd, member of the Committee on Monetary Affairs. The manager's break is five minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-13_U136	(IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the break taken by the President has ended, we will continue with the seventh item on the agenda of today's sitting, which is the second reading of the draft Act amending the Income Tax Act, which was initiated by the Government of the Republic. I would like Aivar Sõerdi, Member of the Monetary Commission, to present the report.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-13_U137	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Government of the Republic s. a The purpose of the amendment to the Income Tax Act, which was initiated on 22 February, is to transpose into European Union law a general rule against abuse of profit distributions between parent companies and subsidiaries and a regulation excluding double taxation of hybrid loans. In addition, the draft terminates the different treatment of resident and non-resident natural persons for the purposes of taxing the proceeds of the sale of securities, allowing the taxation of non-residents to take into account the losses incurred in the transfer of certain securities. The first reading of the draft act took place in s. 16 March, the deadline for submitting amendments, which was 31 March at 5.15 p.m., no amendments were received from the Riigikogu. The Committee on Finance discussed the draft on 4 April and made an amendment to the draft by consensus concerning one of the enforcement provisions. The amendment brings the date of entry into force of the provisions affecting the optimisation of cross-border corporate taxes into line with the general rule laid down in the Tax Administration Act for a period of at least six months between the adoption and enforcement of the amendment to the Tax Act. The inclusion of the relevant provisions in the scope of § 41 of the Tax Administration Act has also been confirmed in the explanatory memorandum to the draft of the initiator. The amendment postpones the enforcement of these provisions by two months. The consensual proposal of the Committee on Monetary Affairs is to conclude the second reading of the draft. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-13_U138	Thank you. Good performer, no questions for you. Do the members of the Riigikogu wish to open negotiations? There is no wish for negotiation. One proposal has been submitted to amend the draft. It has been presented by the Committee on Monetary Affairs; the position of the commission is to take full account of it. We have examined the amendment. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the second reading of draft 184. Second reading is over.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-13_U139	The eighth item is the second reading of the draft law amending the Electronic Communications Act and the Product Compliance Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. I ask Erki Savisaare, member of the Chair Committee on Economic Affairs, for a presentation.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-13_U140	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear Riigikogu! The Economic Commission discussed the draft law amending the Electronic Communications Act and the Product Compliance Act at its meeting on 5 April. No proposals were received from Riigikogu members, political groups or other committees by the deadline for submitting amendments, 3 February. Three amendments were tabled by the initiator of the draft act, listed under numbers 1, 4 and 5. Amendment 1 complements point 10 of the draft in order to include a provision in § 13 of the Electronic Communications Act according to which the decision to grant a water or aircraft frequency authorisation for an amateur radio station and a natural person is not made public in the register of economic activities. Radio amateurs are not entrepreneurs; amateur radio communications are radio communications held by radio amateurs for personal development and communication purposes, not for commercial radio engineering purposes. Private owners of water and aircraft with radio licences are also not undertakings. The Chancellor of Justice proposed to the Ministry responsible for the field that the Electronic Communications Act be amended to the effect that the data on radio amateurs and private water and aircraft owners' radio licenses are not disclosed, since disclosure of the personal data contained in the data (name, personal identification number, place of residence, e-mail address, telephone number) in the register of economic activities is not constitutional. This position was also accepted by both the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications and the Committee on Economic Affairs. Amendment 4 complements the new point of the draft, which is point 17 in the amended text of the draft text. The objective is to provide for the establishment of a new repository in the Electronic Communications Act. Due to the "Estonia's Information Society Development Plan 2020', the Technical Surveillance Authority initiated the identification of the "last mile' market failure of Internet connections and mapped the situation. In order to fulfil the task, the Technical Surveillance Authority created a common electronic information environment that allows you to get an overview of the location of Estonian electronic communications networks on an address-based basis, their use and the available resource. The information environment created brings together the data of households with a fixed and mobile service in Estonia and the technical data of the internet connection offered. The user will be able to check through the database whether it is possible to access the Internet at an interesting address, if any, with which parameters, which data speeds are and which communication operators provide the data link service at this address. It also allows an assessment of the extent of the market failure in access to the internet. A contract has been concluded between the Technical Surveillance Authority and the communication undertakings for the entry of data in the database. The Communication Undertaking can gain new end-users thanks to the database, as end-users can get a better overview of data service providers at their interesting address. Communication operators will also have the opportunity to monitor themselves the areas of market failure on their network and to use the information received to further develop and plan their communications network. The Data Protection Inspectorate, the National Information System Board and the Statistical Office have passed through the Communication Services Database as provided for in § 433 of the Public Information Act. According to the Data Protection Inspectorate, § 432 (1) of the Public Information Act corresponds to the status of a national repository and its establishment must be legally registered. Therefore, in order to make this database publicly available, it is necessary to supplement the Electronic Communications Act by § 1002 which lays down a mandate rule for the establishment of a database with the abovementioned functionality. The Commission unanimously supported this proposal. Amendment 5 supplements the amendments to the Product Compliance Act in § 2 of the draft. The improvements to be included in the draft act are mainly technical, driven by the aim of reducing red tape or concern the restructuring of government agencies which have no impact on third parties and businesses. This was also supported by the Commission in a consensual manner. In order to better protect consumers' interests, two proposals were submitted by the Consumer Protection Board. According to the proposal of the Agency, the liaison undertaking should provide the consumer with the possibility of concluding a contract for a maximum duration of one year at the time of the conclusion of the contract. The Board of Consumer Protection explained its proposal as follows: Under the current law, when concluding a contract for communications services, a communications undertaking is obliged to offer the consumer the possibility of concluding a contract with a term of one year only when the consumer so requests. This is not in line with the provisions of Directive 2009/1361 of the European Union, which requires economic operators to offer users the possibility of concluding a contract with a maximum duration of 12 months. This is on the list of amendments proposed by proposal No 2 and was supported by consensus by the Commission. The second proposal of the Consumer Protection Board, Amendment 3, was to amend the regulation on notification of changes to the terms of a communication service contract. According to the Agency's proposal, the liaison undertaking should inform the final consumer of its intention to change the terms of the contract at least one month in advance and by means of a separate notification in writing or on the contact details agreed in the contract in a form which can be reproduced in writing. The call card user shall be informed of changes to the terms of the contract by means of a short message on the call card number. With these changes, the Consumer Protection Board considers that the interests of end-users would be protected and that end-users would be adequately informed of the unilateral modification of the terms and conditions of the communication service by the communications undertakings. The current regulation allows communication operators to inform end-users of changes to the terms and conditions of a communication service, often accompanied by price increases, either via a website or in a daily newspaper with national coverage. The current practice of the Consumer Protection Board has shown that such regulation does not serve its purpose. In most cases, end-users do not follow other portals when using communications undertakings or multiple services, so they do not receive information. Furthermore, the notification is often titled and furnished in such a way that consumers do not understand that it is a notification of the intention to change the terms of the contract unilaterally. The consumer often only notices the price increase when he receives the first invoice with a higher fee. This means, however, that the end-user has lost the right to terminate the contract without penalty in the event of disagreement with the amendment, because the deadline for cancellation has expired. End-users will also have the possibility to cancel the contract later, but, for example, in the event of a price change, they will be obliged to pay a higher fee for the service used in the meantime and early termination of the fixed-term contract will normally be subject to a contractual penalty. Paragraph 16 repeals Paragraph 99 (4) of the Electronic Communications Act. As a result of the Commission's consultation, the wording proposed by the Consumer Protection Board has been changed so that the communication service provider is obliged to inform the consumer of the intention to change the terms of the contract at least one month in advance in the manner agreed in the contract. Therefore, where, at the time of conclusion of the contract, the consumer has chosen a paper carrier to notify the intention to change the terms of the contract, the communication undertaking must inform him in paper form, even if, for example, electronic means or electronic mail have been chosen as the means of forwarding invoices. At the same time, the consumer has the right to choose to notify the intention to change the terms of the contract by e-environment or by e-mail, if that request is clearly expressed to the trader. Such notification may also be included in the bill, but must contain the content set out in the law. This amendment was also supported by the Commission, and no one opposed it. The commission made such procedural decisions: to send a draft to 130 Riigikogu plenary sessions for a second reading today, 13 April, to propose to the assembly to stop the second reading and, when the second reading is completed, to send the draft to the Riigikogu plenary assembly for a third reading by 4 May with the proposal to put the draft to the final vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-13_U141	Thank you. Dear waitress, there are no questions for you. Do members of the Riigikogu wish to open negotiations? There is no wish for negotiation. Five amendments to the draft have been tabled. We're going to review them. The first amendment has been tabled by the Committee on Economic Affairs, the lead committee: take full account. The second amendment is also from the Committee on Economic Affairs, the position of the lead committee: take full account. The third amendment is also tabled by the Committee on Economic Affairs, the lead committee: take full account. The fourth amendment is also the position of the Committee on Economic Affairs, the lead committee: take full account. And the fifth amendment is also the position of the Committee on Economic Affairs, the lead committee: take full account. The amendments have been examined. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the second reading of the draft 130. Second reading is over.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-13_U142	Today's ninth item: Second reading of the draft law amending the Aviation Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. I would like to speak with Jaanus Marrand, member of the Economic Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-13_U143	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, You have before you a draft law amending the Aviation Act. It was initiated by the Government of the Republic on 11 January 2016. The first reading of the bill was held in the Riigikogu plenary session on 9 March 2016 and the first reading was closed. Let me remind you in a few words of the main purpose of the draft, since it has been a long time since the first reading. The main objective of the draft is to increase the level of aviation safety and to bring national law into line with relevant European Union legislation. The necessary safety reporting requirements shall be established, the competent authorities to be informed of occurrences affecting safety shall specify the procedures for the notification and transmission of data by the national competent authorities. The national regulation will be clarified with regard to the entry into force of Regulation 376/2014 of the European Union on occurrence reporting procedures on aviation safety on 15 November 2015. The Economic Commission discussed amendments to the draft law amending the Aviation Act at its meeting on 5 April, where all procedural decisions were taken. Priit Rifk, Head of the Aviation Service of the Aviation and Maritime Department of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, had also been invited to the meeting, who explained the amendments. Only two amendments to the draft 161 were received and drafted by the Committee on Economic Affairs itself. The first amendment concerns the fact that the members who belong to the airspace management committee have been listed and that the presence of a representative of the Ministry of Internal Affairs in the work of the committee has been explicitly included in the list. The second amendment actually concerns only numbering issues and is therefore purely editorial. Both amendments were supported by consensus. At this meeting of the Commission, the decision was taken to propose that the draft be placed on the agenda of today's plenary session and that the second reading be closed, and that when the second reading is closed, the draft be sent to third reading by 19 April and then the final vote on the draft. All decisions were taken by consensus. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-13_U144	Thank you, dear waitress. You have at least one question. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-13_U145	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! You, as our aviation expert, explain this to me, please. According to the current version, there is a potential accident, serious incident, incident and incident. But now this incident is replaced by an immediate impact safety incident. What is this incident? Please explain to us in rural language!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-13_U146	Thank you! You are doing me a great honour, of course I am not an aviation specialist, but I am the Commission's co-rapporteur at second reading of this draft law. What exactly are the differences between these cases, there are very precise definitions of it. Where one or the other difficulty starts in an incident or incident, I'm not ready to answer that right now. I don't know exactly what the difference is. The important thing is that the information will become clearer and more secure, the procedures will be clearer. Obviously, this will also have an impact on aviation safety.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-13_U147	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-13_U148	Thank you, good manager. Honourable waitress! I come back to § 47 (5), which in the draft is in a relatively normal Estonian language, but the current version, which is currently § 47 (5), is one that deserves a reward for an excellent pulpit. It's really hard to understand. In order not to read it out any further, I ask you, have you analyzed this entire air law how normal Estonian it is? I read the law, and there are a lot of provisions such as § 47 (5). Have you done this kind of analysis?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-13_U149	Thank you for your question. I have not done this analysis, and certainly the Commission is not ready to do so when dealing with the draft. We didn't think it was necessary to do this. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-13_U150	Thank you. No further questions for you. Do members of the Riigikogu wish to open negotiations? There is no wish for negotiation. Let's examine the draft amendments, there are two. The first amendment is tabled by the Committee on Economic Affairs and the position of the commission is to take full account of it. The second amendment is also proposed by the Committee on Economic Affairs and the position of the commission is to take full account of it. We have examined the amendments. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the second reading of the draft 161. Second reading is over.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-13_U151	The tenth item is the first reading of the draft Act 203 on the amendment of the Law on the Courts instituted by the Government of the Republic and the related amendment of other laws. Waitress Urmas Reinsalu, Minister of Justice, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-13_U152	High Chamber, Members left in the Chamber! This bill is a good draft, as the Ministry of Justice has always proposed. The draft serves one important and practical purpose: to have professional judges and judges in place. There is a real problem here, because if we look at the court competitions that have been held over the last five years, more than 50% of them have either partially or completely failed ♪ not been found in this post. In several cases, one person has applied for one job. I don't think that's normal. The profession of judge is the profession of lawyer, the top of the profession of higher justice, it must be prestigious and its appointment must take place through a real selection process. What do we want to do to ensure that there is more competition in filling judges' seats, given the serious problem that we are at risk of being trapped in demographics? What is this trap? In fact, about one third of the Estonian judiciary will change over the next four to five years. One generation of judges took office and have done this job well, but now they reach retirement age in four to five years. As a result, the pressure to appoint new judges through competitions is increasing as a result of the demographic situation. So what are we going to apply for with this bill? Firstly, we are seeking greater flexibility between the higher judicial authorities. This means that persons who have passed the barrister's, prosecutor's or judge's exams would be able to apply for a judge's post if they have already entered the system and have five years of professional experience. They are expected to have a life experience that they have passed the examination of this higher legal profession and, of course, the requirements of professional ethics are also met. There are 600 lawyers, sworn lawyers, who are entitled to operate in this system, more than 200 judges and more than 100 prosecutors. Altogether, there are nearly a thousand people who can move more freely between these professions. The prosecutor could start working as a lawyer, a lawyer as a prosecutor, and both of them as a judge. If a judge so requests, he or she may, either after pensioning or in the meantime, also serve as a lawyer. The second question concerns the fact that the channel that is now becoming a judge is rather narrow. What's that about? The general logic is that a person entering the judicial service must complete a two-year preparatory service. This is not very motivating; income is not very high at this time. A person shall be in this position as an apprentice or candidate for appointment for two years, and only thereafter shall he be entitled to stand as a judge. It may also happen that he will fail in the competition and not become a judge. He's been trained for two years, paid a salary in this service, but there may not be a real outcome. We see that such a preparation scheme is unreasonable; it is not flexible in today's industrial relations environment. In fact, it doesn't function the way it was expected in the '90s when this system was created. Instead, people who have at least five years' professional experience in the higher judicial office will be able to compete for the post of judge in the future. It is very important that the judicial system comes with a practical life experience that cannot be obtained from the school textbook, as we know. Secondly, these people have taken the exam of the High Court of Justice in one of the three blocks. We hope that improving the mutual mobility of judicial authorities, on the one hand, and, on the other hand, broadening this narrow tube, which is currently a preparatory service, by requiring further examination and work experience, should motivate lawyers who have had a higher judicial office to apply for more judicial office. This change is also based on a study carried out by the Supreme Court. The draft has been developed in close cooperation with the Supreme Court, the initiative has come from there. To a large extent, this package of proposals is supported by the judiciary in a consensual manner. Factum & Ariko also carried out a study in 2014 on target groups from which potential judges could become candidates, including councillors, attorneys, prosecutors, their assistants and Master's students. There was a clear problem that we want to take action with this draft: the judiciary is only popular among those who are already working in the judicial system. The other target groups give preference to other agencies. Choosing a judge would require a major change in careers. The main bottleneck is that the current system is too rigid and contains a number of barriers. As I said, these barriers are intended to be mitigated by this bill, without reducing the price in quality and life experience. Apart from the aim of the big plan, there are less important things in the draft, which should also make the judicial system more flexible. At present, only a judge from the same court can stand as the President of a court who carries out administrative work in organising administrative matters in the court area. This draft allows all judges at the same level or at higher levels to stand as chairman and be elected in order to improve the competitive environment. High assembly, please discuss and process this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-13_U153	Thank you, dear waitress. You have questions too. Jaanus Karilaid, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-13_U154	Thank you, manager. Good waitress! It turned out from your report that the judge's profession is devalued, and in this big hall, we are already assigning people who have no experience in judge work. Now you're saying you're trying to give more weight to this bill. What can be the reasons why the popularity of the judge's profession makes the so-called cancer move?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-13_U155	Thank you. I would say that there is a role to play here, as in the public sector at all, in the choices that the state has made. What motivates people, especially in the expected lifelong career model, as it might be in the judicial profession? Of course, there were certain guarantees that were reduced here after the recession. Above all, the judge's so-called economic motivations are the income that I think is normal and, in addition, the supposed guaranteed lifetime of this profession. In addition, there are restrictions, stricter restrictions, which are generally not in the public service. In addition to the main work, the judge may, for example, carry out only pedagogical or scientific work. As regards judicial service, there is one very important point that we must take into account. This applies particularly to constitutional review, and the harmonisation of case law must certainly not become a closed system. I therefore consider it reasonable that the logic does not apply to the members of the Supreme Court that they should all come from within the judicial system. There's a point of balance here. The second question relates to the demographic structure. If we look at the Supreme Court, for example, we must also take into account that there is so-called age diversity. Otherwise, the situation may develop that, let's say, younger middle-aged people are allowed to work there until the age of 70. This means that they would serve one and a half generations in the same judicial service. These circumstances must certainly be taken into account.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-13_U156	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-13_U157	Good manager! Good minister! Explain to me such a strange contradiction that you are going to change the law of the courts, but the proposals of the courts you have sent mostly to the trash can. Of the fifteen proposals sent to you by the county courts and circuit courts, most have not been counted, 12 have been counted. At the same time, 15 of the 19 proposals of the Supreme Court have been taken into account. What's the matter? So does the Supreme Court tell you how to do it, but the county courts have to keep their mouths shut and continue to serve? Explain why such a distinction is made.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-13_U158	Thank you. That's a serious question. I mean, making every law is a collective creation. Last of all, 101 cooks cook this dish here in the legislator's hall. On behalf of the government, this bill has been prepared by the Ministry of Justice at its best discretion. As far as these proposals are concerned, it is also possible for Parliament's Committee on Constitutional Affairs to consider them and discuss them. They've been added here, there's nothing secret here, you can start looking at them in concrete terms. The aim has certainly not been to rely on any proportionate right to vote, so that, depending on how many proposals anyone makes, they are taken into account on the principle of'median balance'. I think it would also be unfair for the Minister of Justice to say that we take sides of the proposals of the Supreme Court into account, otherwise their limit or quota will be transferred. We did look at the proposals in essence, which is reasonable, i.e. not to look at who submitted the proposal, but to look at the content of the proposal.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-13_U159	George Adams, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-13_U160	Mr. Minister! What's the reason that college graduates don't have a judicial career, work as a judge isn't popular? Its reputation has deteriorated, and for completely incomprehensible reasons, the office of judge is far more unpopular than, for example, the office of prosecutor.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-13_U161	Thank you. It doesn't have to get too dramatic now, you know, the words "falling down" and so on. That way, it looks like it's something degenerate and maybe a permanent thing. No, the other way around. It was today that the European Union Justice Scoreboard was published, which shows how the quality and reliability of justice are guaranteed in the Member States. There is nothing to say, we are the most competitive in terms of how much money we spend on GDP and the quality of justice we receive in return. We're champions in Europe, we can say with pride, there's nothing to be ashamed of. For example, if we look at how much time it takes to resolve civil disputes across Europe, we will have a third result after Lithuania and Luxembourg. In administrative matters, we have the fourth result in the European Union. As far as independence is concerned, we have very reasonable grades. As a problem, the report highlights the relationship between male and female judges at all three levels. This is the biggest problem that the report highlights in our judicial system. Why are some other legal agencies more attractive than the judiciary among young people who have acquired a legal profession? If we also look at the pressure we see for young people in law enforcement, it would certainly be easier to look for an answer only in the so-called wage incentive. We see that when a young person goes to work at a lawyer's office, he's not gonna be goldd out there. He still has to do the work of an apprentice for a relatively low income at first. Only after is there hope that he will be a partner, then life will be brighter, and he can buy himself some nice things for the money he's earned honestly. This is the so-called potential prerequisite that young people have when they go to law school. In reality, young people who have graduated from the Faculty of Law, who initially go to work in the public sector, have a higher level of income in themselves, considerably higher. Why are other agencies more attractive? I don't think it's reasonable, and in fact, the same principle is also in the draft, so that young people jump right into the judge's seat. God forbid that a person whose only experience is university education will decide on people's lives and rights, decide which fine to impose, etc. A fair decision must be taken, consideration must be given, flexible action must be taken, fines must not be imposed too harshly or too little. The punishment must be effective. If you take this into account, it is actually logical and reasonable that young people go before they become lawyers or prosecutors, many work as lawyers at the company or, for example, the Chancellery of the Riigikogu, or as notaries, and only then will they become judges. We don't expect anyone to be "bigly awesome," and then we'll say, "go to justice right now." Of course, the prestige of the judiciary must be maintained, and consequently the level of motivation, social prestige and income must be slightly higher, compared to other public service agencies, as well as the position of prosecutor. It is not possible to compare with the private sector here, of course, so it is not in any country that the top private sector and public sector wages can compete.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-13_U162	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-13_U163	Good manager! Good minister! This law is, in fact, the law of 20 judges who can now retire every year. You have decided to resolve the situation through the so-called three aquariums, where in one, prosecutors swim, mostly young, in the other mostly aging judges, and in the third, wall-to-wall lawyers. The idea is to swim freely from one aquarium to another. Are there no other obstacles to the exams required in one job or another, as well as the pay gap to fill them in 20 places?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-13_U164	Thank you. It is not a question of filling 20 specific places. We have seen that the competitions have failed and that the results of the competitions are low. It is a signal that something must be done, and with this bill we want to take one step. But in the end, these places have been filled, and we do not have a void in the places of justice. Just recently, I have announced a competition to fill nine judges' seats, and I assume that this could be a partial success. After that, however, there will be another competition, etc. What is the broader question? I think that, in a broader sense, the logic of this draft is due to the fact that we are a small country. I think that the quality requirements of the higher judicial authorities, both ethical requirements and qualifications requirements, should be quite similar, apart from certain nuances. To build separate narrow blocks in a small country, I think that, given the volume of resources available in society, it is not just rational. The most dangerous thing would be to lower quality standards, say, for example, that unfinished higher education can also become a judge. I'm sure you can't do that. If quality standards are not lowered, there are two options. Firstly, to motivate people with exponential income growth or social benefits that inevitably create positive pressure. It makes perfect sense. Secondly, a solution can be sought by making the system more flexible. We have now chosen a solution to make it more flexible, but I do not rule out that there may also be a debate on social guarantees in the future. In any case, the President of the Supreme Court has expressed this problem in this way.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-13_U165	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-13_U166	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, To understand your concerns fully, I ask how you appreciate the working conditions and the wider environment of our courts. Could there be a problem as to why a judge's profession is not as popular as the prosecutor's?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-13_U167	Thank you. If I look at the average situation in Estonia, the courthouses have been fixed and are normal. Such an unquality or prestige-demeaning working environment, the prestige of this high legal profession, is not in large measure. The problem is actually only in Tallinn. When we look at this house on Liivalaia Street, according to my memory, there was some kind of Russian-era courthouse type project, such a slob of panels, there are very nice people working there, but the house itself isn't great. That's one last failure. The good news is that a new courthouse should be opened in Tallinn in the coming years.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-13_U168	Please, I beg you, Hatter!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-13_U169	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good minister! Will this draft resolve the problems of amendments to the Penal Code that will enter into force on 1 September? We need more judges to help prosecutors in pursuit. Recently, we had a debate on this in the Committee on Legal Affairs and it was pointed out that it would take a year to recruit a judge who would be able to fulfil this function. During this year, the judge should also be trained. The concern was that there were no corresponding posts created. Will this bill help solve this problem? I see that the date of entry into force of the bill is set at s. a by 1 July.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-13_U170	Thank you. That is not the immediate purpose of this bill, but it has its influence. With all the procedures proposed, this almost annual cycle is expected to decrease almost twice now. We assume that flexibility will also increase competition. If an additional resource is found to create the posts necessary to comply with the requirements of the law that will enter into force on 1 September in such a way that the finding of the truth is not affected, the law currently under discussion will also serve this purpose.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-13_U171	Arno Bridge, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-13_U172	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. We know that the judges had an opinion on the Penal Code discussed today. Would you say a few words in which you and the judges differ on this bill? You are very supportive of this, but the judges have expressed their opinion that it is not right to adopt this draft?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-13_U173	Thank you. The basic controversy in this second draft has still been about the question of how sufficiently the practitioners are able to take these matters into account in a sensitive manner. Let's talk about what Parliament did. Parliament said that, as of 1 January 2015, it will no longer be a crime if I invade a stranger's home. Everyone in your homes could be invaded, and it's not a crime, it's a misdemeanor. The average penalty for this is 100 euros. The legislator said that, yes, the average penalty of EUR 100, and there is no need to say that there could be a greater Chamber of Sensitivity for this type of misdemeanour. I am selling vodka or beer to a minor now, it is fashionable to talk about it, this is a serious issue regarding reducing alcohol damage, and the average penalty is 100 euros. I'm stealing a mobile phone under 200 euros or your car's winter tires, the average penalty is less than 100 euros. I think that the focus of this debate has tended to the fact that the person who has done the evil should not suffer too much so that the punishment for the damage that has been done should not overly traumatise him. It seems to me that in this debate I did not hear from any person, even in today's debate, a question that would have touched on the victim. The victim, the person who's being taken from the cell phone, the person who's at risk of being hit by a drunk, the person whose home may be invaded, doesn't exist. Victims, honest people, are the ones that the law must protect. Fear must be felt by those who do evil, not by honest people.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-13_U174	George Adams, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-13_U175	Mr. Minister! The official name of the members of our bar Association is sworn advocates. This compound word implies that there was once a time when there was more than one type of lawyer and there was also a need to distinguish between them in terms of terminology. Somehow in Estonia, after the restoration of independence, we turned out to have only one type of lawyer. I do not have a very precise global picture in front of me, but in many old democracies there are probably two or three types. Can you give an explanation of why it happened in Estonia that we only have one type of lawyer? Is this the optimal thing in Estonian society and it should remain so?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-13_U176	Thank you. After all, this has actually been discussed and the Lawyers' Association has proposed that there should also be state-licensed lawyers who, above all, provide legal advice alongside lawyers or members of the Bar Association. In such a case, they could also have certain professional advantages and have access to judicial proceedings. Now, if we ask if we have enough members to serve society in the bar Association, I can say that per capita has considerably more lawyers than in Finland, for example, but much less than in Moldova, whose parliamentary delegation visited us today. I think that the correlation between the level of society's prosperity and the lack of trust or trust in society and the number of lawyers, the number of representatives of rights, may in some way also be inversely proportional. But when it comes to the current system of bar Associations, which in its time was founded on the principle of a public corporation, I think that a tax-powered person in Estonia will receive high-quality legal aid. Monitoring of this quality generally works. There are exceptions, but exceptions, where there is some kind of trouble, also occur in better families. The main issue, however, is whether legal aid is available to insolvent people, especially people living in certain regions, particularly in Ida-Viru county, in rural areas. Formally, the system on paper works, but in reality, I'm saying, this system is incomplete. Especially when it comes to initial legal advice for these people. The amount of aid provided by the State is only a few thousand cases per year. I think it's too little. This legal aid system requires fundamental reform, but not so much according to its logic that we should have several types of professional legal counsellors. The starting point is, in my opinion, that the Bar Association is responsible for fulfilling this obligation, but in essence the system must be built in such a way as to make it more flexible and also more accessible to vulnerable people. I think the problem is how a bona fide low-insured person can stand up for his rights, not that a drunk driver still has money if he gets caught, and he can pay the fine. Of course, in life, balance must be sought in all cases, but right now I think the problem is that decent people, who are unknowingly in a very complex, modern legal relationship that is inevitable in today's society, would be the place where they would be given primary advice so that they would not, figuratively speaking, screw up if they were to organise their successions, employment-related matters or matters relating to residential property.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-13_U177	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-13_U178	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good minister! In an analysis of the effects of the product in the explanatory memorandum, there is an increase in the number of candidates for a judge and that the judges will be filled. The product also states that the implementation of the law does not entail any costs for the State. A year ago, the Committee on Legal Affairs and I went to several sub-offices, including the Harju County Court, where there is a problem that not all judges can be filled because there is no financial cover. The prosecutor's office also said that it would be possible to recruit almost 200 prosecutors, but 30 seats remain vacant because there is no payroll fund. Would you review and justify the claim that there are no costs involved in implementing the law? Actually, there's a need. The explanatory memorandum states that the workload should be reduced, but it will not be reduced if all places cannot be filled.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-13_U179	Thank you. I think that the impact analysis meant the logic of filling the constituent places for which the money is available. As far as there's money, so many structural seats can be filled. Whether competition is greater or less does not in itself bring money. If you already have the money in your pocket and you say, "Hey, come to judge," it doesn't matter if you have zero, one or two candidates. If there are zero candidates, then the money will, of course, be left over. The aim is still to fill the seats of the judge. Like I said, nine seats were put out for competition. Inevitably, however, the turnover of workers must be taken into account here: part goes away, part comes more. People go on parental leave, retire or leave under other circumstances. This turnover, both in the private sector and in public authorities, is 41⁄2% of the average turnover of large organisations, including the wage fund. Some places are always empty, just objectively, without anyone trying to play with them.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-13_U180	Andres Anvelt, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-13_U181	Thank you, manager. Good minister! Comment a little on the amendments to the Bar Act. Paragraph 37 (2) concerns the expulsion from the bar Association. Open up a little bit of the background why the bar is in his letter to the Justice Department against it.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-13_U182	Thank you. Where did this come from? We remember there was a case that caused public controversy. There was a member of the Bar Association who was convicted of a criminal offence in all levels of justice. The state of play, they're judged by the court. But the fact is that a person has been convicted of a crime in the area of justice, a professional crime, figuratively speaking. There was a discussion, as if the bartender had a discretion as to whether or not the person could remain at the bartender's bartender. It finally worked out, I think, with an advocacy board interpretation, but there was room for consideration. My logic is that if we take away the aquarium partitions, then this elementary, general professional ethics logic should be equal for all. There cannot be a hypothetical situation, I hope that in practice this will not happen in the future, that the person who committed the crime of justice will meet the set requirements and will be able to stand as a judge. Then it all depends on whether or not he is elected a judge. That was the logic for me that should be clearly defined in the law. Attorneys-at-Law found that the legal solution should be different. For objective reasons, I didn't want to delay this bill. And since this question, in psychological terms, may have a fundamental meaning, but is not a central issue of the concept of this draft, it should not slow down the procedure. I told the attorney-at-law representatives that I would forward the letter of the bar to Parliament. In the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, I am sure that everything is done well, what old man does is well done.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-13_U183	Thank you, Minister. No more questions for you. I would like to ask Andres Anvelt, member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, to serve as a waitress.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-13_U184	Manager! Ladies and gentlemen, The Riigikogu's Constitutional Committee held a discussion on the first reading of the draft law amending the Law on Courts and related amendments to other laws on 5 April. Urmas Reinsalu, Minister of Justice, Marko Aavik, Deputy Chancellor of Justice Policy, Rasmus Karja, Head of the Judicial Service of the Ministry of Justice, and Maret Saanküll, Adviser to the same service. I am not going to dwell on the Minister's introductory presentation, but I will give you an overview of the ensuing debate, where the members of the Commission asked questions and the representatives of the Ministry answered them. First, there was an interest, which is what is currently preventing lawyers and prosecutors from becoming judges. The Deputy Secretary-General of the Ministry of Justice replied that lawyers do not want to stand as judges because they are required to take double examinations. It's a psychological barrier for a lot of good lawyers who might want to try to be a judge. Favourable lawyers do not want to take the risk of falling out of candidates for any reason, such as failing a judge's exam. In order for better lawyers and prosecutors to apply for a judge position, it is necessary to abolish the requirement for a double examination. Young people were asked whether they could apply for the post of judge immediately after graduation. The Minister of Justice replied that a newly graduated student could take a course for the post of judge, initially becoming an Advocate General. The office of Advocate General gives good preparation to future judges. The advisor of the Ministry of Justice added that according to the draft, a person wishing to become a judge should have worked for at least five years in a post requiring a master's degree. According to the current regulation, the circle of persons who can stand as judges is very limited. Only candidates who have completed the preparatory service can apply for a judge, but this two-year-old so-called apprenticeship time in the judicial system is not very motivating because the salary is not high there. At the same time, working as a candidate does not provide any assurance that a person will become a judge, it merely provides an opportunity to apply. The Commission was also interested in why regulation was ever introduced which makes it so difficult to become a judge and is no longer working. The Minister of Justice replied that, if the Courts Act was ever passed in the early 90s, the model of a Central European country was probably an example. According to that logic, the person took the course only to the judicial service. Today, life and views have changed and people are considered to have to move more between higher legal professions. One Member of the Commission asked how different judges, prosecutors and lawyers differ in terms of average age and income and how different the professional standards of these judicial authorities are. The Minister of Justice replied that the main point of the bill was that lawyers and prosecutors would be more motivated to become judges. The demographic problem is that early middle-aged people who became judges in the early 90s have reached retirement age. In general, there is no demographic problem with lawyers. Rather, there is a problem here with state-law lawyers who are also going to retire in the near future. But this problem needs to be seen more broadly than just in the light of legal aid reform. There should be no demographic problem with prosecutors in the coming years. As regards the requirements of the professional ethics of these judicial authorities, they should be broadly the same, with differences only in nuances. With regard to salaries, it can be said that the salaries of prosecutors are not currently linked to the salaries of judges, but in principle they could be linked. The wages of lawyers, however, determine the market. Here is another problem: in rural areas, the wages of lawyers are very uneven. It is difficult to say, according to the salaries, what is the target group from which the candidate is to be a judge. In the case of prosecutors, however, this is a very logical career step. There was also an interest that if a lawyer with a master's degree, who has worked in a good and professional position, wanted to apply for a judge, but in this position there was no requirement for a Master's degree, for example, that such a person could not apply for a judge. Advisor of the Ministry of Justice explained that candidates are assessed by an examination committee with a certain discretion at the Supreme Court. Persons who are not lawyers or prosecutors must, in any case, pass the relevant examination in order to become a judge. There was also a question of how to ensure that professional ethic examinations in different legal areas are more or less consistent with the same standards. Does the Ministry of Justice intend to take a coordinating role in harmonising exam requirements? The Minister of Justice replied that after the adoption of the draft, the next step could be to introduce a single examination for prosecutors, lawyers and judges. In addition, the quality of academic legal education needs to be addressed in the future, because, for example, professors at the University of Tartu have also developed a demographic divide. Older professors must retire and basically no longer have a full-time professor to find. Today, the younger generation is simply lecturing students alongside its main work, but this cannot guarantee a high-quality level of research for the university. Several members of the Commission felt that the changes planned by the draft were correct and it is high time to address the lack of judges. There was an interest as to whether the Ministry of Justice had examined whether the amendments to the bill motivated lawyers to consider the possibility of becoming a judge in theory. Counsellor of the Ministry of Justice replied that in 2014 the Supreme Court commissioned a study where lawyers, prosecutors and students were asked what were the obstacles why they did not want to become judges. The main argument that emerged from the study was that uncertainty is feared because it is not certain whether or not the exam will be passed. If there were no exams, many lawyers would consider becoming judges, because the position of judge is still the highest legal profession and this position has a very good reputation. There was also an interest in the number of judges currently not filled. The Minister of Justice, just before me, did shed some light on this subject, but I repeat, a competition is about to begin for 11 judges. The Minister expressed his hope that the competition would succeed. The members of the Commission asked whether this was a cluster law, since it amended not only the Law on the Courts and the Law on the Bar Association but also the Land Register Act, the Bankruptcy Act, the Code of Civil Procedure and the Commercial Code. The Minister of Justice replied that this is not a direct cluster law, but there are still further changes, which are less important. The advisor of the Ministry of Justice added that the Land Register Act was a purely formal amendment, as only recently the Bankruptcy Act changed, which in turn changed the owner of the shiplocked book. The amendment to the Commercial Code is also linked to the amendment to the Bankruptcy Act and to the change of the ship-closure bookkeeper. The amendment to the Code of Civil Procedure concerns the urgent procedure for the order for payment and the fact that a certain limit has been laid down by law to which maintenance may be brought in the urgent procedure for the order for payment. This limit became smaller than the minimum income from this year and therefore could not formally submit maintenance claims under the urgent procedure of the order for payment. Therefore, the draft amends accordingly and stipulates that it is possible to claim maintenance allowance up to 1.5 times the amount resulting from subsection 1 (1) of the Family Act in the urgent procedure of the order for payment. The same provision states that the monthly maintenance of one child may not be less than half the minimum monthly wage fixed by the Government of the Republic. The amendment to the Act of the Government of the Republic relates to the fact that the Ministry of Justice has produced an extensive annual overview of the state's representation before the court, beside § 441 (9) and (10) of the Government of the Republic Act, which in fact has no substantive purpose. There has been no benefit, and this burdenes both the officials of the Ministry of Justice and the Government of the Republic in vain. The draft removes the obligation to draw up this review. The Commission decided to propose that the draft be put on the agenda for the plenary session on 13 April, that the first reading be closed and that the deadline for amendments be 10 working days, 27 April 2016 at 5.15 p.m. It was decided to appoint a speaker here. All the decisions were consensual. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-13_U185	Thank you. Dear waitress, there are also questions for you. Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-13_U186	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good Commission waitress! The goal is noble. Did the Commission also ask you in part how many people actually retire? Is it hoped that when this law is applied, the situation will change? If you look at the laws and drafts that are coming up with a maintenance fund and all the other things, the workload of the judges is increasing, and there are still quite a large number of those who go to court. How big is this retirement problem really?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-13_U187	Thank you. The problem of retirement is very serious. Here is an example that four judges of state have left the Supreme Court in the last three years, if I am not mistaken. There are still others leaving in the near future, and the same thing is actually happening throughout the judiciary system. There are several reasons. One thing is that people get older and go on what they deserve. But next to this, there is one problem that this bill should alleviate, namely how to get more judges to the courts. This bill, as shown by the study carried out among junior generation lawyers, removes a great many obstacles. Some steps have already been taken, as the Minister of Justice said, the previous speaker here. We started here, for example, by facilitating the movement of prosecutors to the positions of judges. A reform of the so-called 'judicial reform', plus a reform of the Advocates-General, has already started, leading to the appointment of Advocates-General as Assistants to the Judges at the Court Houses. The study on them showed that more than half of them, if I am not mistaken, said as a motive for coming to the Advocate General that it would allow him to live and, in the future, to start working as a judge on a simplified basis. So many things have already been done. There is, however, one problem that cannot be overlooked or overlooked. This is that years ago, during the previous Riigikogu, a quite serious change was made to the pension system of judges. And this is perhaps one of the so-called negative motivations why people don't want to enter this system. One of the things that has something to do with us is that there is a law such as the law on the salaries of senior civil servants. The calculation of the salaries of both judges and members of the Riigikogu is related to this law. There's been a deadlock. The Riigikogu has not wanted to change this law and therefore any increase in the salaries of judges has been ruled out. I think we need to come back to this question sooner or later. The information that there is such a stagnation in the judiciary's pay system is spreading and does not motivate people to enter the system. The draft law currently under discussion certainly provides a serious impetus for people to have more opportunities to move in the justice system, whether on the side of the defender or on the side of the prosecutor or on the side of the judge or in another direction. This will improve the quality of our justice and give people the opportunity to plan a much more diverse career than has been the case so far.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-13_U188	Rock Hard, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-13_U189	Thank you. Good Andres! I have not been very concerned at the group meetings yet, but now I have listened in the room to the debate and hastened down to the Chamber to ask. We all know that the judiciary is aging, that is the main concern. But if you look at this bill, don't you think we're dealing with some kind of pseudo problem? What, then, will be made more flexible now?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-13_U190	Good colleague, I don't think you listened to my report or the minister's report. After all, flexibility is that a person, when he has begun to serve in a branch of justice, does not have to continue there until he is old, but has the opportunity to move. Here is a good example, which the minister brought to the Commission and which I touched very briefly here too. Why do many lawyers, whether they're less or more well-known, not want to be a judge? This is exactly the same thing that he has already gained a certain authority in his current judicial profession. He also has the opportunity to take a judge's exam, and he certainly has very good preconditions for being a judge, has received very good legal practice, is strong in legal theory and has constantly improved himself. But he still has to start completely from scratch, going to take that judge's exam. And if he fails the exam, he won't be a judge and he'll have to continue as a lawyer. But in our small Estonian society, where the good specialists in one field are all known, the news is that you failed, and you have a sign attached. So you have to take that badge down. We all know what can happen at the simplest driving test: you've made everything clear to yourself, but then you have a little provocation on the driving test, and you accidentally turn the sign down there. That's right.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-13_U191	Heljo Pikhof, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-13_U192	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! Perhaps you could list the earlier steps taken to fill the judges' seats. You've been the Minister of Justice yourself.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-13_U193	That is a very difficult question. In fact, the Estonian legal system and the Ministry of Justice have been working on this for years. It cannot be said that someone here has done something very special, everyone has moved in one direction to alleviate this situation. In my opinion, the most important step that has been taken to achieve this objective years ago is the introduction of an Advocate General's office. This has actually been the most important step that has required even the most money. If I remember correctly, this amount has still reached several million each year, and this innovation has not yet been completed, it must go on. There are still problems with the Advocates General of the Ida-Viru, where their status must be strengthened. One step, which has already been taken on this draft law and which I have talked about, is the simplification of the "interview" between the prosecutor's office and the court. But I think there are ideas about how to make people not feel forced into the system and be able to compete more for places that are in different areas of law. These ideas must also be sought from the outside. I have spoken to the current President of the Supreme Court. For example, one thing that is not presently in the draft, but what could be considered in the preparation for the second reading of the draft, is that councillors of state judges may not have to work under an open-ended contract. They should not be subject to the same arrangements as in the general public service, but should be recruited on a fixed-term basis. Advisor to the Supreme Court could be more competitive, more competitive, both inside and outside the legal system. There are many steps to be taken to make our judiciary younger, so that young people are not afraid of this job and want to have this position, so that they see it as a serious challenge and strive for it as the highest level of legal professions. I think that when this draft is adopted, we need to look at how it is going to work out, it needs to be analysed. It is certainly possible to move forward, and the next steps must be taken to ensure that in 2020, if one third of the judges theoretically become entitled to retire, we will no longer be able to take justice anywhere.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-13_U194	Thank you. Dear waitress, there are no more questions for you. Do the political groups want to open negotiations? Jüri Adams on behalf of the Estonian Free Party Group, please! Five plus three minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-13_U195	Ladies and gentlemen of the House! There has been a lot of talk about the substance of this bill today. That is why I am speaking a little bit more generally, because the problems against which this draft has proved necessary are a little more general. We must start after Estonia's independence has been restored, with the emergence of tsunamis or boxes of practitioners of different professions requiring legal education, which only got in with the relevant professional examination. Ideology was that once a person has become a judge, a prosecutor, or a notary at one point, he will remain in this profession for life. Those boxes. There are also a few smaller boxes, there are insolvency administrators and executives, but there are four bigger ones. One of the largest and undoubtedly the most numerous members is the Bar Association. The total number of judges is set by law and will never change much. It's probably around 200, maybe in time it'll decrease. The growth of the frame has rather taken place through auxiliary personnel. When the independence of the Republic of Estonia was restored, there was initially no one to use except the Soviet judges, not everyone wanted to continue as an independent judge in Estonia and not everyone was fit. However, more or less these seats were completed and there was hope that the new judges would be replaced. The law provided for a three-year period, after which the judge's lifetime was secured by a legal guarantee. But life went differently. In 1992 and later, young lawyers who graduated from the university were deeply convinced, for some reason, that they would do anything, but they would never become a judge or prosecutor in life. And it created this almost ten-year frame crisis, which led to a strange turn somewhere in the late 90s and early 2000s. In fact, both the judiciary and the prosecutor's office suddenly became very prestigious among young lawyers, and they wanted to go to these places. When I left here in my previous political life at the beginning of 2003, it was never anticipated that we would ever again have a lack of judges, because there were more wanters than there were seats available. It was the same in the DA's office. In the meantime, 12 years have passed and the situation is suddenly again that, for some reason, young people do not want to become judges. What is the real reason is difficult to say, but one political conclusion is certainly that this is, to say the least, the failure of the interim ministers of justice or the chairmen of the Commission. As regards the chairmen of the Commission, I can say that, in 2003, the problem of this draft was certainly still in the traditional area of the Committee on Legal Affairs. I can't tell you when it moved to the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, but that's the way it's been. Today, however, the screaming is in trouble, and the mistakes that have caused this screaming distress must be corrected as soon as possible. But mistakes have probably also been broader; they are not only elements of fine-tuning that either lure someone into some kind of career or deter them from doing so. More importantly, this development of a closed-walled box system in Estonia was probably quite wrong from the beginning. I am very pleased that, with this bill, the Ministry of Justice wants to partially dismantle the walls at least in matters of careers between the box of the prosecutor's office, the box of judges and the box of lawyers. But I'm afraid that's not quite enough. The idea of "pulling" the missing judges out of lawyers is not unreasonable of itself. This may be the case, but this is certainly not a sustainable idea in the long term. The question of raising the desire to become a judge must probably be looked at separately. We are now in the 21st century, where the typical course of life of an educated person is such that he quite often, every 5 to 10 years, changes his job, maybe changes his profile a little, learns something more. In this light, the problem of closing the boxes of justice officers is quite serious. If you look at who we are here in Riigikogu XIII, if I'm not mistaken to give me a signal if I'm wrong, there are no former judges among us now, no former prosecutors or any former lawyers, even though there have been lawyers in previous formations. At the same time, for example, we have an outstanding selection of former police officers, for some reason this profession does not prevent them from being here. Perhaps the prerequisites for improving the quality of Estonian policy are that we achieve the same situation as in most other national parliaments in Europe, i.e. that a very important part of the MPs and politicians should come from among those who have successfully practiced these legal professions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-13_U196	Thank you. There is no further wish for negotiations, let us conclude the negotiations. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 203. First reading is complete. I shall set the deadline for the submission of amendments to draft 203. April 27, 5.15 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-13_U197	Today's 11th item is the first reading of the draft law amending the Food Act and the Food Law Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. Minister for Rural Affairs Urmas Kruuse, please waitress!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-13_U198	Honourable President! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! The main purpose of this draft is to bring the notification requirement into line with European Union law when placing special foods on the market for the first time in Estonia. The amendment ensures the continued application of legislation in the area of foodstuffs for particular nutritional purposes in national law by granting the power to introduce legislation from the Government of the Republic to the Minister for Rural Affairs. With effect from 20 July 2016, a Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council brings together a single piece of legislation in the area of foodstuffs for particular nutritional purposes. In addition, the European Commission shall, by means of delegated acts, lay down specific requirements for groups of foods for particular nutritional uses under that Regulation. On the basis of the wording of that Regulation and of the previous period of application of the delegated acts, i.e. July 2015, the Food Act, adopted on 23 September 2014, was amended accordingly and the requirement for all categories of foods for particular nutritional uses was introduced. The new provisions on special foods will enter into force on 20 July 2016. In the course of the development of delegated acts, the Commission decided to apply the notification requirement only to some categories of foods for particular nutritional uses, namely formulae and food for special medical purposes. We therefore have too strict provisions on the obligation to notify specific foods under the Unenforced Food Act and amendments are necessary for the proper implementation of European Union law. Due to the later deadline for the application of delegated acts between 2019 and 2022, the Minister for Rural Affairs is given the opportunity to set requirements for the composition of foods for particular nutritional uses and for the provision of food information. Those requirements shall be provisional and shall remain in force until the date of application of the delegated acts. The requirements are currently transposed into national law from the European Union Directives by two Regulations of the Government of the Republic and expire on 19 July 2016. Therefore, it is not new requirements and operators are not subject to new obligations. The implementation of the amendments to the Act does not entail any additional activities or additional costs for the State or local authorities, nor does it entail any revenue. The amendment will prevent an increase in the administrative burden on the food business operator of public authorities, such as the Food and Veterinary Office, as well as the target group, since, if the changes enter into force, it is not necessary to notify all groups of foods for particular nutritional uses but only part of them. The law and the regulations of the Minister for Rural Affairs established on the basis thereof shall enter into force on 20 July 2016. I ask the honourable Riigikogu to finish its first reading!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-13_U199	Thank you. Minister, there are also questions for you. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-13_U200	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good minister! This is an interesting draft which sets out the requirements of the Directives on baby food and dietetic food. I ask you why, after 20 July, no child's picture and the words 'breathlike' or'mammallike' should be on the baby's food.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-13_U201	Thank you. I personally find it very difficult to answer this question because specialists have been working on these baby foods for a very long time, both at European level and within the Estonian state. But it is clear that if we look at the general ideology, breast-feeding itself is the best option and all kinds of mixes could be used only when absolutely necessary.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-13_U202	Raivo Põldaru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-13_U203	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. I have a much simpler question. In today's agricultural policy, are you sure that food production will continue in Estonia at all?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-13_U204	Thank you. I am even more than 200% sure that food production will continue in the Republic of Estonia. There are enough good and busy farmers in Estonia who can do this, also on the basis of global demand. The demand for food is growing. It is only a question of managing the temporary volatility of the market and the resulting tensions.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-13_U205	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-13_U206	Good manager! Good minister! The second question concerns those who want to cut their own pounds. After 20 July, these mixtures must bear the words 'Daily food replacement for weight control' or 'Food replacement for weight control'. How much do you have on the market that you can put a label like that on?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-13_U207	Thank you. There are plenty of different food mixtures and supplements on the market and this trend has grown. As a result, more questions arise every day as to what information must be on the packaging of these mixtures in order not to deceive the consumer. If you have noticed, it is often the case for such mixtures and foodstuffs that advertising is already going to medical and scientific level and is said to be good for the heart or for health at all. As a result, everything that is said on the packaging must be evidence-based and not misleading to the consumer.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-13_U208	Arno Bridge, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-13_U209	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. Does this draft law concern only food mixtures made from locally grown foodstuffs, or does it include food imports? In this case, how will their control and their use take place?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-13_U210	Thank you. In this particular draft we are not just talking about Estonian food, but we are talking about food as one that consists of many components or parts. This means, first of all, that if this food comes on one market or another, including the Estonian market, it must comply with all the laws that apply in the European Union, so that the safety of the food for man is guaranteed. For this law, secondary, secondary is part of one or the other component. But as a minister, I would, of course, be very happy if there were more and more Estonian food in these products.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-13_U211	Monika Haukanõmm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-13_U212	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. I read in the explanatory memorandum that you have correctly presented the draft for the coordination of stakeholders, and you have also highlighted who you have involved. Surprisingly, no proposal has been made by any professional organisation. However, this draft will also have an economic impact on them, at least 30 specialty food distributors. Were your officials interested in why this target group, or those affected by the bill, felt so lukewarm about it? It just seems a little weird.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-13_U213	Thank you. There's nothing very strange about it. After all, certain regulations have been in place for years. Just this law, which the honourable Riigikogu has adopted, went a little beyond the limits that the European Union later introduced with its legislation. As a result of not imposing excessive obligations on our businesses and food producers, it is reasonable to make these changes now in order to avoid both bureaucracy and additional costs. It is natural that we have the Food and Veterinary Office dealing with food safety, and many regulations are quite clear and understandable.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-13_U214	Thank you. Minister, there are no further questions for you. I would like to ask Terje Trei, member of the Committee on Rural Affairs, to serve as a waitress.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-13_U215	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, We are once again faced with the need to amend the food law a little bit. The Minister for Rural Affairs introduced the bill so thoroughly that I am not going to repeat it all over again. I will give an overview of the Commission's sitting and the decisions taken. The Rural Affairs Committee discussed the draft law amending the Food Act and the Food Law Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic, at its meeting on 22 March 198. In the Commission, Martin Minjaev, Head of the Food Safety Department of the Ministry of Rural Affairs, gave an overview of the draft law. He pointed out that this was a precedent in which they were forced to submit a draft amendment to the law because the European Commission did not comply with the obligations they originally promised, but only partially fulfilled them. But we were a little ahead of ourselves. Therefore, delegated acts are not introduced for all food categories. It is known that in autumn 2014, an amendment was introduced to the Food Act, which introduced a notification requirement for all groups of foods for particular nutritional uses covered by EU Regulations. Since the European Commission is not in a position to introduce such legislation, it is necessary to amend the regulation on the placing on the market and notification of foods for particular nutritional uses, which will enter into force on 20 July 2016, and to bring it into line with European Union law. This is actually a technical change. The debate in the committee was brief and there were no substantive questions about the draft. There was a question of whether it would be reasonable to regulate the compositional and quality requirements of foods for particular nutritional uses by law, but, as the Minister said before, this issue does not directly concern the law, but falls within the competence of the Minister for Rural Affairs' regulation. It is therefore not directly related to the draft law. On the question of whether the technical rules laid down in the regulation could lead to an unequal situation, the representative of the ministry replied that the same rules apply throughout the European Union. The Ministerial Regulation is based on European Union directives and does not impose any new requirements. So with this law coming into force, nothing really new will happen to anyone. The following decisions were taken at the end of the debate: A draft of 198 was proposed on the agenda for the plenary session on 13 April 2016, ending the first reading and setting the deadline for amendments at 5.15 p.m. on 26 April 2016. Terje Trei, a member of the Committee on Rural Affairs, was appointed rapporteur for the draft act 198. All decisions were taken by consensus. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-13_U216	Thank you. Dear waitress, there are also questions for you. Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-13_U217	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! As I understand it, the previous regulation was more forward-looking than is now being taken back. Did the Commission also review whether the parties concerned had already had to restructure their work and invest in meeting the requirements of previous regulation? Is there, therefore, any claims for damages that, according to the toughest decisions made by the Riigikogu, they have reorganized their work and are now setting slightly weaker conditions?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-13_U218	No one directly asked such a question because we understood quite unanimously in the Commission that no requirements would be reduced or increased. It's a matter of information. If, in the past, everything had been transposed into the directives of the European Union and had not been the competence of our Minister, these issues were now left to the level of our Minister's regulations. In fact, no requirement on how to label or label what must be there will in any way become harsher or lighter. It's a purely technical bill.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-13_U219	Thank you. No more questions for you. Do the representatives of the political groups want to open negotiations? There is no wish for negotiation. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of the draft 198. The first reading is closed and I will set the deadline for the submission of 198 amendments. a 26 April at 5.15 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-13_U220	The 12th item is the first reading of draft 197 of the Riigikogu's decision to grant loans to the European Single Resolution Board submitted by the Government of the Republic. Waitress Secretary of Finance Sven Sester, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-13_U221	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! I hereby give an overview of the draft decision at first reading, which is numbered 197. The government has submitted this draft to the Riigikogu, which allows the government to lend to the European Single Resolution Board. I will explain to you, here, what it is necessary for and what it involves. Following the financial crisis that began in 2008, ways have been sought to increase the capacity of the European Union, including the euro area, to withstand crises. Similarly, ways have been sought to minimise the direct burden of resolution on the taxpayer. The crisis prevention and resolution of the financial sector has been part of the Banking Union project. pan-European banking supervision has now been established and a single resolution mechanism has been in place since 1 January. With regard to the implementation of resolution, I have already stood before you by amending our Guarantee Fund law and ratifying the transnational agreement governing payments to the Single Resolution Fund (SRF) as part of the mechanism. As has been said, the mechanism, i.e. the rules and the structure for their implementation, will work from 1 January. Countries have transferred the first payments collected from financial institutions to the Single Fund. The Fund's target is set at EUR 55 billion, to be collected over a period of eight years. The estimated share of payments by Estonian financial institutions in the fund is 22 million. Part of the resolution mechanism agreement was also a national commitment to ensure the availability of resolution tools for the fund's fund collection period at a maximum target level of EUR 55 billion. In essence, this means intervention to the extent of contributions from financial institutions not yet received. In order to fulfil this commitment in practice, it was agreed that all participating countries would provide a credit line to the Single Resolution Board managing the Fund to the extent of their notional amount. Estonia's maximum loan is therefore 22 million euros and will decrease according to the payments already received by the fund's financial institutions. The corresponding loan agreements were to be concluded as soon as possible. Germany, France, Lithuania, Latvia and Slovenia have already signed a loan agreement with the Board and countries are joining in a row. I would like to stress that the use of national credit lines is the last option in the resolution arsenal. Before that, all the possibilities provided for in the resolution directive, including the capitalisation of the market, the conversion of creditors' liabilities, must have been used to restructure financial institutions. Payments by financial institutions collected by the Fund and the possibility of borrowing from the fund market may then become operational and only after all these possibilities have been exhausted can national loans be mobilised. It is also important to bear in mind that the loan granted by the State as a last resort can only be used to cover the resolution costs of financial institutions in that country. We collect payments from banks that are specifically either main banks or subsidiary banks, not branches. Therefore, the loan can only be used for the resolution of these banks. The loan granted to the Board is formally an external loan, which is why the decision of the Riigikogu is necessary for granting it, despite the fact that the use is for domestic use. I will repeat the main parameters of the loan. The maximum amount of the loan is EUR 22 million, the actual loan limit will be lower every year, as the loan can only be taken to compensate for payments that have not yet been received by financial institutions. The residual amount of the credit line to be used, i.e. the loan limit, equals 22 million minus the payments received. The loan shall be granted for a period of 24 months. This period can be extended by 12 months at notice and by a further 12 months with the agreement of the lending country. The Board shall repay the loan from contributions received from financial institutions and any additional payments assigned to them. The Board shall pay an annual fee of 0,1% of the actual annual loan limit to the State granting the loan. The loan granted shall be remunerated at the interest rate determined by the lender on the basis of the cost of providing the lender's loan or the market quotation of a similar instrument. The technical arrangements for the granting of the loan are the responsibility of the Treasury and, as is the case with other loans granted by the State, from the liquidity reserve. Under normal circumstances, the loan does not affect the balance of the budget or the calculation of the public debt. In terms of budgetary balance, it must be accounted for only if the loan does not come back or if we consider it unlikely that it will be recovered within a reasonable period of time. Debt accounting is affected if we should take out the loan ourselves to grant the loan. Finally, I would like to reiterate that the loan will only be used in a crisis situation and for the resolution of banks operating in Estonia, so directly to safeguard our financial stability. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-13_U222	Thank you. Minister, there are also questions for you. Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-13_U223	Thank you, dear Deputy Speaker. Minister, thank you very much. I'll check it out. After all, we have given money to other financial institutions, such as the ESM or the EFSF. What makes this facility different from them now? Who's in charge of the money now being collected? How do those who appoint them receive their appointment? To whom do they have democratic responsibility? If it is so-called public money, there should also be clear public control over it.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-13_U224	Thank you. This is a single package, which includes the entire Single Resolution Mechanism, and this example is the European Single Resolution Board.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-13_U225	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-13_U226	Good manager! Good minister! I'd like to continue the same line. In Brussels, there is the SRB, with its chairman, four board members and 300 officials. They're gonna do something about our $22 million. Tell us where these 300 Brussels officials are going to do something about our 22 million. What's supposed to happen?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-13_U227	Thank you. As I said, the primary objective is to pay attention to preventing crises. We should act to ensure that there are no crises. This example is a situation where, for some reason, the crisis has arisen, the prevention mechanisms have not worked and a situation where the crisis needs to be addressed. A new system has been agreed in Europe to respond to the crisis. In order for the taxpayer to bear no costs, the banks will be forced to raise EUR 55 billion in their own contributions over a period of eight years in order to eliminate a possible disaster. Estonia's share is 22 million, as I stated. All countries collect this amount through bank contributions. The primary objective, once again, is to concentrate money in a specific fund, to keep that money. In the case of potential crises, only after all the mechanisms have been used up before, starting with the possible contributions of shareholders, the concentration of debt, etc., can a specific fund be used. If this fund is mobilised and payments are made in connection with a bank in liquidity problems, we are based on the situation that the problem will occur before eight years, because in eight years' time the fund will already have a full capacity, then all the other banks will also be obliged, through their payments, to restore the liquidity of the fund, i.e. to meet the obligations arising from a specific sovereign loan.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-13_U228	Arno Bridge, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-13_U229	Thank you, Honourable Vice President. Minister, thank you very much. Today, our agriculture is in a complete crisis of milk production and pig rearing, but in order to alleviate this crisis, no cents will be found. If the Estonian state now lends its loan to the resolution fund, how much will it increase our country's debt or where will the money come from?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-13_U230	Thank you. I want to draw your attention to the fact that hopefully your everyday policy is the same Estonian policy that aims to make it safe to live in Estonia, so that Estonian companies would like to be here and that our own desire to live here can be realised as much as possible. I assume that's what you guys do every day. When you specifically ask whether and how this loan has been reflected in our potential balance positions, I said in my introductory speech that it does not affect the budget balance or the calculation of the public debt, because we are just creating a limit and we do not have to produce any specific money right now. Debt accounting would only be affected if we were to take out the loan ourselves in order to grant the loan.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-13_U231	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-13_U232	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. Indeed, our policy is based on the fact that we can live in Estonia, and that is why we are also concerned about the funds that our government consistently allows EFSF, the ESM and now another fund. At the same time, we always hear children's lunches and other things being scratched. So it is our duty to be critical and to find out what is being used for. The question is this: when, where and with what decisions or coordination did Estonia agree to create a resolution fund and when did Estonia agree to grant a loan to this fund? Has Parliament expressed its position on this matter in the past, or does the government suggest the fact that we have promised and must be fulfilled?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-13_U233	Thank you. I'm gonna start from a distance, just like you did in your introduction. You pointed out keywords such as criticism and debate. I am always in favour of the debate, and I think the debate is constructive, just like the criticism. The question is whether everything you say is correct and correctly reflected. I also read a report about you going around Estonia and saying that the Minister of Finance was hiding something, etc. I'm sure I respect your opinion, but if you're lying, it's gonna have to be dropped from this speaker, too, so people can understand. The lie has short legs, and it has to be turned down. This is certainly an important nuance, which is worth mentioning here, what are you doing then? But speaking on the substance side, the truth is, we are actually in the second stage today. I mentioned earlier in the introductory speech that pan-European banking supervision was in place, which will apply from 1 January in the form of a Single Resolution Mechanism. We have taken these decisions here in the Riigikogu with you and with your help.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-13_U234	Uno Kaskpeit, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-13_U235	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Mr. Minister! Looking at the situation south of Greece, it seems to be getting worse all the time. It hasn't gotten any better in spite of the great help that has been given. What is the risk of Greece starting a new financial crisis that concerns the whole of Europe's banking system and creates obligations for us in the near future, for example, over this year? What happens then?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-13_U236	Thank you for your question. It is very important what decisions one country or another will make, whether left-wing or right-wing political parties are clearly in power. If they are in power, this will increase the economic impact of populist decisions later, and this will certainly play a very important role. As you specifically mentioned Greece, it can now be said that it is very closely monitored how they keep the promises they have made to creditors. As we remember from the time of the ESM procedure, before fulfilling the promises and then the money. As you know, this is a three-year project.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-13_U237	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-13_U238	Good manager! Good minister! You said that the government would not put a hand in its people's pockets and the financial institutions, and the banks would hand it over to the 300-person official body of 22 million institutions called the Brussels SRB. Will the banks be happy to give away these 22 million? As a result, will they not slowly reach out to our pockets by raising various fees?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-13_U239	Thank you. Of course, for every extortion, not only in the banking sector, but I think that in every sector, there is always a question of whether one or the other party is willing to bear the burden. However, one might also ask the opposite: if we do not have a mechanism that provides for contributions to a specific fund, then it is very likely that taxpayers' money should be taken into account in the event of a possible crisis, as we saw in practice in 2008 to 2009, when the crisis was coming. With the mechanism currently in place, banks are obliged to contribute. And let us not forget that the financial crisis can still be caused by those in this particular market, the financial market, i.e. generally it is banks. So, in this sense, the measure is very clearly aimed at those who are market participants. It would be strange, in the context of the financial crisis, to ask for fund money, for example, from grocery shops, which are certainly not the cause of the financial crisis. They may have a role to play in creating another crisis; the food industry may cause, for example, that at some point we do not have one or the other raw material, but they are certainly not the cause of the financial crisis. However, this measure is targeted specifically at those who, for one reason or another, may trigger this crisis. And, as I said in the introductory part of my speech, even more attention should be paid to preventing the crisis. In this respect, countries are working very hard, starting with the fiscal policy of each country itself, the 'cost-benefit review'. We have also spoken here in the Riigikogu more than once that costs may exceed revenue if, in any year or period, this is an economic recovery. If this is a permanence situation, it will certainly create a very high debt burden for the country at some point and this, in turn, could lead to financial crises through the banks. So prevention is certainly a very important measure that is currently being addressed in European countries.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-13_U240	Raivo Põldaru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-13_U241	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. The resolution fund was probably created with the idea that taxpayers should not take bank risks, but now I think everything is going to be that the taxpayer still has to take those risks. Why is it that the risk is on the taxpayer's shoulders?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-13_U242	Thank you. As I mentioned in my introductory speech, the total amount will be collected from banks over a period of 8 years. Right now we're talking about possible bridge financing. Let us assume that despite the measures taken to prevent one or another crisis from occurring, a problem has nevertheless arisen with some banks in a particular country. And if it has been a year, two or three years, but not eight years, and the fund has not yet reached its full capacity, so it is not possible to take enough money from the fund to fully alleviate the crisis, then bridge financing can be used and the same money can be taken back from the banks that they would actually have to pay in eight years. In the end, I think it is a good back-up for national taxpayers too, i.e. that the situation does not turn out to be such that the taxpayer will eventually be forced to pay for this amount. It is now the bank that will pay for it, if it has also triggered the financial crisis.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-13_U243	Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-13_U244	Thank you, Mr. Vice Speaker. Good minister! I have a feeling you were referring to me here, telling me how someone said the minister was hiding something. I think you should correct if I am wrong about the financing of the Turkish agreement. I asked twice in the Committee on Monetary Affairs whether, specifically, this 2.8 million means that Estonia has to pay more money, and I was told twice that it does not have to. The European Union Affairs Committee said that yes, Estonia has to pay this money as a one-off payment. I don't know which committee was telling the truth, but there were two different stories. I will always return to the same question that I asked at the beginning: what kind of fund is this, how it works, who appoints the board of directors of this fund? You answered very briefly, I would ask for a more detailed explanation.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-13_U245	Thank you. Good member of the Riigikogu! I suggest you look at the explanatory statement not only formally but also into the content in the future. You will see very clearly in the explanatory memorandum what this fund's strategy is and what the future model of behaviour is supposed to be.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-13_U246	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-13_U247	President-in-Office of the Council. Minister, thank you very much. We don't get much answers here, we just hear round talk. If you're accusing us of lying, I'd throw the ball back. The chairman of your party today at Postman says we're going to scrape Putin's thighs. We don't have a personal relationship with Putin, we can't wear his leg, and we certainly aren't Russian vassals at all, as your party is trying to stamp us in its rescue package. You didn't answer the question I asked. I asked very clearly: when, where and what decisions or coordination did Estonia agree with the creation of the resolution fund? When did Estonia agree to grant a loan to this fund? Will Parliament now be presented with a fact? Please answer these questions specifically.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-13_U248	Thank you. I don't know whose thigh you scratch and how many times you scratched. I certainly have not been there for this scratching, but I am not always sure whether all your proposals and the model of behaviour you are proposing are useful for Estonia. But I guess that's up to the voters in the future, that's not up to me. As regards the introduction of the resolution mechanism, you have set up the resolution mechanism yourself. The creation of a mechanism to collect 55 billion across Europe and 22 million of it in Estonia has been decided at the level of the parliament of the Republic.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-13_U249	I have a request that we stay within the scope of Bill 197. Jaak Madison, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-13_U250	Thank you, Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu. Good minister! I've read the explanatory statement and now I'm asking for clarification. You will certainly answer the questions very specifically and clearly, not like the Prime Minister, who does not answer the questions. In this respect, we value you from a much higher point of view. As I can see, Estonia's loan guarantees offer a maximum of 22 million euros, as required, which will be paid within four working days if SRB needs to do so. I am simply asking in a remarg order: do I understand correctly that there is always 22 million euros in the reserve fund of the Estonian Government, which can be paid out in four working days according to the need? Are there always amounts lying around in the reserve fund of the Estonian Government that can be given up if a claim arises?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-13_U251	Thank you! Indeed, this time there was a very reasonable question, and it is a pleasure to answer. The practical questions and the good debate, that's what I always enjoy. The answer to the question is yes, but I will not only answer yes briefly, but I will talk a little longer. There are basically two reserves in Estonia that could be kept separate. One is the stability reserve and the other is the liquidity reserve. The size of the stability reserve is 400 million euros, and this money has indeed been placed in longer-term positions, leaving it much longer. Indeed, the stability reserve can only be used in exceptional circumstances. The other thing is the liquidity reserve. The liquidity reserve is partly a cash flow with the Treasury and partly short-term bonds from which payments can be made more quickly. In addition to the nature of the liquidity reserve itself, it is also characterised by the fact that the volume varies over time according to the contributions to the European Union and the specific distributions from that reserve. For example, if there are repayments in the form of income tax refunds, the liquidity reserve balance goes down. Overall, the size of this reserve is now half a billion. It is said that this is the lowest level of the liquidity reserve, clearly trying to keep more than half a billion. I may be wrong, but right now, the size of the liquidity reserve could be over 700 million. In answer to your question, however, I will say once again that yes, this particular amount can indeed be paid out in a short period of time, i.e. within four days.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-13_U252	Arno Bridge, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-13_U253	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. I am asking about a parallel issue to what we are discussing today. As a minister, can you tell me how Greece is actually meeting the conditions that were imposed on it when it was granted a loan? Do you see any improvement, or is it going worse? What is your opinion as Minister?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-13_U254	Thank you. The President made a remark before, I don't know whether to you or to me that we will remain within the scope of this bill. But since you have already asked, I will try to give you an answer, although the question does not relate to a specific draft. Greece is currently undergoing a review of the so-called "old-named troika," the process of completing the first survey. The main focus will be on possible future measures. Looking at the measures that Greece wanted to implement, on which it had made a promise in November-December, this promise has been fulfilled. As this is a three-year cycle, the next period will now look at what activities are needed in the future to really improve the state's financial positions, to balance revenue and expenditure, because so far the costs are very clearly above income, so that pension reforms and other reforms can be carried out. This certainly also means that if things are specific, the following loan payments can be made. In the meantime, if you have noticed, Greece has not received any additional loan payments.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-13_U255	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-13_U256	Thank you, President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. Like you said, the lie has short legs. Indeed. Your predecessor, Jürgen Ligi, said that the ESM would bring us great financial benefits. Now he says he hasn't said that. You claim that the financial crisis, which could cause us to lose our money, could be the fault of the extreme right. Who are these right-wing extremists who are responsible for the Greek situation, for insolvency and are already talking about the cancellation of Greek loans? Or are they the Liberals and the Left who are willing to just throw away our taxpayers' money?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-13_U257	Thank you. I thought you read your question off somewhere so fluently, but you had it prepared for a long time. I feel that I am most likely to open more and more of this window, which goes outside the scope of Bill 197. I guess I'm gonna have to tighten that window again and come back to the specific bill.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-13_U258	Jaak Madison, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-13_U259	Thank you, honourable Deputy Speaker of the Riigikogu. Good minister! I would like to come back to this draft and say that the ESM, its 'bottoming up' and the Greek situation are also very direct in relation to the draft under discussion and the granting or non-approval of it. After all, this is another guarantee for some fund with taxpayers' money, as was the case with the ESM. Of course, the scale is considerably smaller, but it's basically the same. That is why the MPs want this assurance that we are investing our taxpayers' money in the right place. There is therefore a very direct link here, and I think it would be appropriate to answer the previous question, that is, Mr Põllea, to give his assessment. But I'm gonna use my 20 seconds and ask for more. As I understand it, the stability reserve has EUR 400 million plus a few hundred million in the liquidity reserve, you did not say the exact amount. I understand that Estonian finances will then be in excellent order and so-called extraordinary provisions for improving Estonian national defence would be completely real if there were political will.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-13_U260	Thank you. I will try to remain within the context of this draft and not to bring the subject under discussion into the context of the national budget strategy or the state budget itself. The debate about them will start here soon, and then we will certainly be able to discuss which sectors, which measures, the amount of additional money we should be spending. As regards the specific draft, I also call on the Riigikogu to think constructively about how to act to prevent possible financial crises. I think it's crucial. This is crucial! It's like a disease that we can cure a disease, but it's especially important that it doesn't come. This is very important! We should think about how to avoid financial crises in Europe, but also in Estonia. When we talk about Estonia, it will certainly help if we monitor the various individuals, the obligations imposed on banks, and the behaviour of the state itself, the model of financial behaviour, is also important. It's very important. It is quite easy to assume very great responsibilities on our shoulders and to later say that these obligations cannot be met. I certainly call for this side to be monitored as well!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-13_U261	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-13_U262	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. I did read my question on paper, but I wrote it right here without any very long preparation, as you said. I think that if you make such specific accusations, it would also be right to answer questions about them, not to sneak in the window and tell them that now is the time to close the window. So please tell me who are these right-wing extremists who are responsible for the Greek crisis and that Estonian taxpayers' money can disappear from the wolf crane! Or is it someone else?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-13_U263	Thank you. I'm not going to go out the window. Why would I do that? There's no reason! I would rather say that, if you look at the level of today's decisions and the desire of some parties to create a 'new financial policy', the question is whether or not one or the other policy that is being pursued will actually contribute to stability. I think this is certainly very important in the eyes of the voters.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-13_U264	Minister, thank you. No further questions. I ask for a presentation of the Chair of the Riigikogu, Chairman of the Finance Committee, Remo Holsmer!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-13_U265	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-13_U266	I'm sure we'll welcome him.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-13_U267	How?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-13_U268	We welcome the Chairman.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-13_U269	Pleasure! Ladies and gentlemen, The debate on the draft loan to the Single Resolution Board took place in the Committee on Monetary Affairs on 21 March. The dialogue partner was also Minister of Finance Sven Sester. As the Minister mentioned, the purpose of this draft is to allow loans to be granted to the European Single Resolution Board. The broader objective is to avoid the crises that may arise in the banking sector. The questions raised by both the EKRE ambassadors and other delegates in the Chamber were, to a lesser or greater extent, also discussed by us in the Commission. It is true that the debate was not so broad, although there are no restrictions in the committee, unlike in the Riigikogu hall, where we should remain within the framework of a single draft. I will, however, mark the issues that we touched on in the Commission. At the same time as the interview just ended, we spoke in the Commission about how the possible loan to the Board would be reflected in the public debt burden. A statement that Eurostat did not take this into account in the debt assessment was also provided by the originator to the members of the Commission. The question arose as to where this loan could be used. This credit line is only allocated to a specific bank in the territory of a particular country. The question also arose: if the situation were to materialise that a loan had to be granted, whether the funds were to be provided from reserves or from the budget. As the Minister explained at length here, yes, this provision should come from the liquidity reserve, but the possibility of realising this need is extremely minimal. In response to the above questions, there is a third reserve, which is part of the state budget and which is a reserve of the Government of the Republic. So in addition to the stabilisation reserve and the liquidity reserve, the Government of the Republic also has a reserve to cover unforeseen expenses. If I am not mistaken, this year it will be less than EUR 50 million. Who will participate in this mechanism and in the Council? A total of 19 euro area countries participate. Which banks does this involve? Although it also received an answer here, I will repeat. In Estonia, branches such as Nordea and Danske are excluded, but this concerns subsidiaries of other banks such as SEB, Swedbank, LHV. LHV is not a subsidiary, but it is still affected, in the same way as Bigbank, in the same way as LHV. Who in other countries has already taken the decision? As an example, it was brought to the Commission that such a decision was taken by Latvia, Germany, France, Lithuania and Slovenia. The Commission took the following decisions: to put the draft on the agenda on Wednesday 13 April 2016 (consensus) and to propose the completion of the first reading (by 6 votes to 3, with 2 abstentions). The deadline for amendments was set by the Commission at 5.15 p.m. on 27 April, i.e. 10 working days. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-13_U270	Good waitress, thank you! There are no questions. I'm opening negotiations. Please ask Martin Helme, representative of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia, for the speech chair of the Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-13_U271	Dear Deputy Speaker! Ladies and gentlemen, I have to say, sadly, that the Minister was not at his usual level today, there was no good debate. Unfortunately, we did not receive any substantive answers to any of our questions. We did not receive an answer to the question of who, where, why and when agreed on these matters on behalf of Estonia. We can only assume it or do our own historical research, but the Minister could have known that too. We did not get an answer to the question of how the money that the Estonian taxpayer has to give up will be managed. How do these people get in office? Who are they responsible for, and how does this relate to a democratic accountability mechanism when public money is administered? Moreover, we did not actually get the answer to the basic question: why is this necessary? If it is agreed to set up a bank-to-bank fund, which must save taxpayers from trouble when banks start going bankrupt, why are they coming in for taxpayers' money after a while? And more than that. We already have a whole range of funds to deal with the crisis. How many more of these funds will come and why there must be so many of them, all of this will not be understood. On repeated questions, however, the risk that something would happen in the near or distant future could not be answered, not even an approximate assessment. And there was no answer to the question of why there is a preference for any undemocratic fund behind any corner, while at the same time there is a categoric refusal to support the strategic industry, or Estonian agriculture, which is essentially the biggest crisis in the last 20 years. Since we have not received any reasonable answers, we do not believe that the decision is justified and we propose that this draft be voted out of the procedure.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-13_U272	Thank you. I would like to ask Kalvi Tõud, representative of the Social Democratic Party Group, for the speech chair of the Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-13_U273	Good Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Good fellows! It still turns out from this remote they say I wasn't going to come here today. At a political group meeting, when we discussed what drafts were coming to the Chamber, I did not intend to come here today either. But listening to questions about this draft decision, I couldn't suppress that will, and here I am. In this corner of the Riigikogu hall, after the last elections, there has been a group of people who probably do not know that the bill can be taken from the shelf at the back of the hall, that the drafts have explanatory notes and these explanatory notes are quite precise about what is one thing or another. I understand that there are few of you, but still so much that you have directed your representative to the Committee on Monetary Affairs. Martin is a very good member of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, understands matters, but he has not been able to explain to you at group meetings what the law is about in one case or another. You're asking for things that really aren't related to any bill. I'm sorry to say this, but it really is, and it's sad to say it here. Good friends! This bill comes out nicely that it is to protect our own taxpayers, our own bank customers. If Estonian banks have not yet been able to raise so much money into this single European resolution board, yes, you really do not like collecting the word 'Europe', then the state must help save our own taxpayers who are clients of these banks. Friends, get over the phobia of Europe! The Social Democratic Party Group will protect our taxpayers and very much agree to continue the procedure of this bill. Get over your phobia, friends in the back! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-13_U274	Thank you. No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. The commission has proposed that the first reading of draft 197 be completed. From the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia, the Board of the Riigikogu has received a proposal to reject the draft decision of the Riigikogu at first reading 197. Let us begin with the preparation of the vote on this proposal. Dear colleagues, I am voting on the proposal by the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia to reject the draft 197 at first reading. Please take a stand and vote. The proposal was not supported by a result of 9 votes to 33 and 4. The commission has proposed to close the first reading of draft 197. I will set the deadline for submitting amendments to the draft. April 27, 5.15 p.m. The first reading is closed and the 12th item is on the agenda.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-13_U275	Let's move on to agenda item 13. This is the first reading of the draft law 199 on the amendment of the State Pension Insurance Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and the related amendment of other laws. I ask the Minister of Social Protection of the birthday child Margus Tsahkna to speak to the Riigikogu! [[Let's hear it.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-13_U276	Mr President, thank you for your congratulations. Happy Members of the Riigikogu who have stayed in this hall to celebrate my birthday! I hope that in a thousand years' time, the verbatim will be read and it will be wondered how pleasantly and well we lived here in the Republic of Estonia at the time, unitedly and friendlyly. But let's get to the point. The draft law 199 amending the State Pension Insurance Act and related amendments to other laws is a flagship draft. Characteristic because the Republic of Estonia is planning to pay pensions for the first time to people who have earned their pension in the Republic of Estonia, also outside Estonia. If, until now, one of the conditions for receiving a pension has been that a person lives in Estonia as a permanent resident or on the basis of a fixed-term residence permit or right of residence, a pension is paid to people who have earned their pension in Estonia and who have to live here, then we are now significantly expanding the scope of pension payment. We can call this an Estonian diaspora decision. Those people who have earned their pension in the Republic of Estonia, no matter which country they live in, will receive an Estonian pension. The need for this bill is due to the fact that cross-border movement of people has increased. Our people, who have reached retirement age, do not all stay in Estonia, but move out of Estonia, for example, to their families, their children, their grandchildren. So far, we have been paying pensions to people who live in the Republic of Estonia. There have been exceptions. They have been linked to the people living in the countries of the European Union to whom we pay pensions because they are Estonian citizens living in the countries of the European Union. We have also paid pensions to people living in countries with European ties under the European Free Trade Association Agreement and in those countries that have signed separate pension agreements with Estonia, these are Russia, Moldova, Ukraine and Canada. We are in negotiations with several countries, such as the United States. I admit honestly from this Riigikogu board that one of the reasons for this proposal is that we have negotiated with the United States on how to conclude a pension agreement with the United States. The negotiations have taken us so far that we have discussed why we are restricting the payment of pensions to people who have gone out of Estonia so specifically for years earned in Estonia. That is why the Riigikogu has proposed to "export Estonian pensions to people who have earned their career in Estonia," but has decided to move to another place. And when we implement this change, the people in 35 countries to whom we are currently paying a pension will be added to the people in about 160 countries who have earned a pension in Estonia. With this law, we are also introducing a corresponding regulation. The only requirement is that these people report that they are alive once a year. It seems strange, but indeed, if something has happened to the person with whom we have formed such a relationship, or if he has died somewhere abroad, then we, that is, the Estonian state, would not pay empty. This is an obligation that is agreed by this law once a year, a person must declare that he or she is alive. If he doesn't report his life, we'll assume that this person doesn't want his pension or that he's dead. That's the logic. I understand it's a joke, but it is. This certificate does not have to be transmitted personally, does not have to travel to Estonia or go to the Social Insurance Board, but the notification can be sent either digitally signed or, for example, to our country's diplomatic mission in the countries where we have the representation in accordance with our law. So the bureaucracy burden is minimal for a human being. If you ask how many of these people really are, we have taken into account that, for example, there are 360 applicants in 2018 and around 500 in 2022. So we are not talking about very large numbers when we look at the total number of our pensioners, but we are actually talking about the principle. If a person has earned his or her pension period in Estonia and paid taxes on our system, whether or not he or she lives in Estonia, he or she has the right to receive a pension from us. I think it is also part of the dignity of the country that we are great. Wherever the people of Estonia live, we recognise that they are Estonian people, that they are related to us, and that is why they receive a pension from us. That's all for me.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-13_U277	Thank you, good vice chairman. Congratulations, good minister! Here's the question. In the projections, you are proposing that this system could cost approximately 1.2 million in 2018 and just over 2 million in 2022. If you look at the total budget, the amounts are not very high. Why, then, should the draft come into force only on 1 January 2018 and not, for example, in 2017?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-13_U278	Thank you. It is not about money, it is about people who have paid social tax, who have earned their career. This is not about the financial burden on the Estonian pension system. The question is rather that we also need to prepare the corresponding communication, the exchange of information. We are still talking about 160 countries and all this principle that needs to be followed around the world. This requires a transitional period so that we can prepare the technical side. It is not a question of whether we have financial capacity or not. These people have earned their pension and, in view of the overall level of pension burden, this money is not very high.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-13_U279	Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-13_U280	Thank you, good questioner! Indeed, in the sense of the law, it is not regulated whether we are asking for the money back or not. But we also know of cases in Estonia where a person has left his life and the money paid back from his own people has been asked wrong. This is the place that we should pay attention to during this draft procedure and discuss how to deal with it. Are we going to make a claim to someone who maybe didn't even know his loved one had received a pension? The logic of the current draft, however, is that by 1 March a person must state his or her existence and then be paid a pension. If other information comes later, the pension will be suspended. But it really is not just a matter of exporting pensions, because we have also had cases in Estonia where the pension has been paid to a deceased person, and then the money will be recovered. This is an issue for the Social Affairs Committee of the Riigikogu that should be specifically discussed with the Ministry so that there is no misconception.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-13_U281	Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-13_U282	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. I won't congratulate you again. Mr Savisaar-Toomas asked the same question as I referred to. What I want to say is that the return of this money is not a problem in Estonia, because death is recorded at the Social Insurance Board and it is immediately noticeable. We've seen "The Spectator" stories where the daughter didn't know that the bank's mother had received a pension, and later she had to pay it back. The question is that the elderly who live in Estonia and those who live elsewhere are not treated unequally.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-13_U283	As I said in my previous reply, we are going through these details. We're going to make a very big change in the whole system. I say frankly: I am glad that we have reached a level where we value all people, no matter where they live outside Estonia. They have contributed to the construction of the Estonian state and must receive their pension. These details we're finishing on the last one.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-13_U284	Jaak Madison, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-13_U285	Thank you, honourable Deputy Speaker of the Riigikogu. Good minister! On my behalf, too, much happiness, wisdom, strength, alert mind and weight, especially in my speeches about the Postman! You'll understand what I mean. But my question is about this bill. It is indeed a great pleasure that we too can support it. It is extremely positive that we have more ground to shape joint opinions concerning the IRL and the EKRE Group; it is a very constructive and constructive force in Estonian politics. Perhaps you will explain why you have not taken such a good and useful initiative in the past, which, fortunately, you are now completing with your productive work. What is behind it in the past, and what are the reasons that we have only now reached this point?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-13_U286	Thank you. I don't think this hall is such a spot for foul play. If you think about it, the people in this room have a very big responsibility. But if you ask me about a particular thing, it's not stuck anywhere. This idea has grown, and today, as Minister for Social Protection, I have brought this proposal here before you. On the basis of the feedback I have received today, especially by looking this way to the Chamber, it seems to me that, at least on this point, we are reaching a consensus. Actually, this hall is a sacred hall, no kidding. We leave all other topics in the political group's premises and at least pay the pension to the people of Estonia wherever they live outside Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-13_U287	Minister, thank you. No further questions. I now ask that the speech chair of the Riigikogu be presented by Monika Haukanõmme, Vice-Chairman of the Social Affairs Committee!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-13_U288	Mr. Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen of the House and good minister! The Social Affairs Committee of the Riigikogu discussed the draft law amending the State Pension Insurance Act and related other laws 199 at its meeting on 4 April 2016. The draft was presented to the members of the committee by Margus Tsahkna, Minister for Social Protection, and Lidia Soontak, Head Specialist of the Social Security Department of the Ministry of Social Affairs. As the Minister for Social Protection has already given a comprehensive overview of the draft, I would rather focus on what was discussed and asked for in the Committee on Social Affairs. It was the so-called differences that gave rise to the most discussion on the draft. As was the case here in the Riigikogu, it was asked whether the calculation of working experience acquired in the former Soviet Union is territorial or employer-based. We got the answer that the count is territorial. It was also added that this was primarily a matter of formalisation. For example, if a person was posted to Georgia and he was formed as an Estonian worker who worked in Georgia, the time of work will be counted into the Estonian SSR. There was also a request for the export of the disability allowance to persons with a lack of working capacity. The representative of the Ministry replied that, in the course of the reform of the capacity to work, disability pensions would be replaced by so-called disability allowance, and this was, above all, the issue of the Employment Capacity Allowance Act, from which we read that it would be possible to come back to this issue later. There was an interest in not exporting a national pension. That answer, too, sounded in this Chamber today. It was explained to us both in the Commission and here today that the national pension is paid to the person living in Estonia, i.e. it is paid on a living basis, not on a working basis. Consequently, it is not exported either. Finally, there was a question of restrictions on preferential conditions and early retirement pensions. We have received the answer that this is a first step and the implementation of a new principle, and pensions will be paid to all people living abroad under national law. Consequently, the draft was decided on the basis of an old-age pension. I must admit that the Committee on Social Affairs was very unanimous on this draft. This is a sensible and necessary initiative and everyone was in favour of a positive examination of this draft. The Committee on Social Affairs also made procedural decisions, all of which were consensual. Firstly, it was proposed that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda of 13 April. The second decision was to finish the first reading. The third decision was to propose that the deadline for amendments be set at 5.15 p.m. on 10 working days, 27 April 2016. The last decision was to appoint Monika Haukanõm, the person who spoke here as a waitress. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-13_U289	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! I can't start any other way than congratulations. My question, however, is that in the Commission, it did not sound like a matter of leaving life. We weren't discussing it at all. When you said it out of this remote control, it kind of creeped out, even though it makes sense. What, though, if a person has sent a message in March but has already left life in June or July? The pension has still been paid to him because the death report can only come in July or August. So you're asking for the money back? What's going to happen to this money that's been paid wrong?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-13_U290	Good waitress, thank you! There are no questions. Dear colleagues, all representatives of the political groups, there is an opportunity to open negotiations. There's no call. After the debate, the commission has proposed that the first reading of draft 199 be completed. I shall set the deadline for the submission of amendments to the draft 199. April 27, 5.15 p.m. The first reading is closed and the 13th item is on the agenda. Good fellows! Our trial today is over. I thank you and wish you the strength of our work! Closure of the sitting at 6.36 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-13_U291	Minister, thank you. Let's get to the questions. Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-13_U292	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, warm and warm congratulations on your birthday. You pointed out that there could be 360 people like that in 2018. I wonder how many of these people are really there right now. Are they in the 360? Six points ago, we ratified the social security agreement with Australia. That's part of the question. Second, it sounded a little morbid that once a year you had to tell me you were alive. In Estonia, it is the case that if you die on the 1st day, you will not generally receive this month's pension. When I report from Australia, for example, that I am alive in January, do my loved ones have the hope of getting a pension until the next January if I die after the end of January?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-13_U293	Thank you. First of all, as far as these figures are concerned, I will give you an overview of the number of people receiving pensions outside Estonia at the end of the first quarter of this year. There are 18617 of these people. If we look at each country, there are 33 pension beneficiaries in Canada under existing agreements, 815 in Russia, 729, Moldova 1 in Ukraine and 17039 elsewhere in Europe. One more thing. Indeed, if we adopt this law, we will pay the so-called Estonian state pension on the terms of the Estonian state, but we will not stop negotiating with the United States, for example. If an agreement can be reached between the two countries, i.e. an agreement, the conditions will always be more favourable than the principle we are discussing today. With regard to the fact that a person really leaves his life within a year after he or she has informed him or her that he or she is alive, the deadline for notification is 1 March. There will inevitably be a certain limp. If there is no benevolent attitude that the family immediately announces death, it will simply be a rattle. But somehow we can't organize it any other way.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-13_U294	Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-13_U295	Thank you, Mr. Vice Speaker. Good Minister, I want to wish you congratulations again and say that our group supports this draft. I would also like to say that you will come by our group after your performance here on your birthday. We offer a cake and we can talk about how to be an idiot so useful, and how to get the right one. I just want to ask if you know that our group's doors are always open to IRL members.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-13_U296	Thank you. I will answer this question in such a way that, first of all, I would like to thank all the members of the Riigikogu for wishing me luck today. I spent my first hours at the dentist today, which is why my dictation is not the best. But I'll come by the EKRE Group and then we'll discuss whose thighs you're scraping and whose thighs you're not scraping.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-13_U297	I am sure that public pension insurance is accompanied by better dental health as well as door opening, and it is always necessary, but good colleagues, we are still trying to stay within the framework of the 199 draft. Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-13_U298	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good minister! Often people who, for one reason or another, leave Estonia would like to have a certain connection. And one of the most important ways of keeping a connection is health insurance. As we know, services in Estonia are also of higher quality and often cheaper. You foresee that those who receive a pension in Estonia will receive health insurance, but those who do not live in Estonia will receive an Estonian pension, but will no longer receive Estonian health insurance. What is the basis for this? After all, all Estonian people could be treated in a uniform manner.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-13_U299	Thank you, good questioner! When we talk about health insurance, it is still linked to the place where the person lives, i.e. it is linked to the country of residence and its insurance system. Today we are talking about people who have left Estonia, who are not residents of Estonia. They may have been away for years, but they have earned their retirement in Estonia and now they have the opportunity to receive a pension for their earned retirement. After all, these people have paid social tax on pension insurance and are entitled to pension benefits wherever they live. For example, when we are talking about a national pension, it is about ensuring that a person is able to cope. And it has to do with where he lives. For example, if a person lives in the United States or Thailand and gets sick there, he or she needs to have health insurance there. The state of Estonia does not change the health insurance status of this particular law. We are talking specifically about the payment of pensions to people who have left Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-13_U300	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-13_U301	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I wish you happiness, strength and health, too, of course. My question, however, is entirely within the scope of this bill. In the explanatory memorandum, I found a nicely written explanation for another restriction, but I would very much like you to go over it again. Under the second restriction, state pensions are not exported on the basis of the draft for seniority acquired on the territory of the former USSR. Where does this distinction come from when the activity in the former USSR is included in the pension-right period of the person living in Estonia? Please explain this part!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-13_U302	Thank you. This was also one of the key issues asked in the Committee on Social Affairs. Logic is that the Republic of Estonia takes into account what has been paid to the Republic of Estonia in the form of social tax, and we have also transposed the principles of pension payment on the basis of social tax during the Estonian SSR. How does this actually work in the Republic of Estonia now? For example, if an Estonian person has been working in Estonia for 15 years and five years in Belarus, then the Estonian state will pay the pension on the basis of 15 + 5 years, but in the case of pension exports we will only take this 15 years into account. So the logic is that we are going to export these pensions, which are calculated on the basis of the social tax paid on the territory of the Republic of Estonia. The difference is whether we have pension agreements with other countries. So it's gonna be the one who's gonna pay some part. This logic also applies to the current pension system. So we are not going to change the pension system that is already in place by this law, which may seem unfair to some people, but some limits you can even understand that we have had 50 years of occupation. We have actually been thinking of a much bigger perspective, one might say that we have even acted generously. If 15 years of retirement have been earned in Estonia, we will also cover the years of retirement earned in the territory of the former Soviet Union, i.e. the state of Estonia will pay for them.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-13_U303	A grain of Thomas, please!
