ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-14_U1	Good fellows, honourable Riigikogu, good morning! We will begin the session of the 3rd plenary session of the Riigikogu on the 1st working week on Thursday. First of all, I would like to ask those of the Riigikogu who wish to hand over drafts or enquiries. There's a request. Please, Martin Helme!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-14_U2	Dear Deputy Speaker! Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the members of the Conservative People's Party Group, I will present an inquiry to the Minister of the Interior, Hanno Pevkur, to explain the amendments to the Arms Act. On 15 December 2015, the Ministry of the Interior sent a draft law amending the Arms Act and other laws related thereto to the Government of the Republic's coordination circle. The explanatory memorandum to the draft law is full of misleading information, and the law itself is very likely to conflict with the Constitution. The explanatory memorandum justifies a very drastic restriction of the right to hold a weapon for law-abiding persons to the terrorist threat, although there is no way to understand how illegal acts involving illegal weapons, or terrorism, can be reduced by the withdrawal of legitimate weapons from law-abiding citizens. However, according to the draft law, there are no substantive restrictions for gun clubs with hundreds of weapons and members of which are predominantly non-citizens or Russian-speaking citizens. We therefore ask the following questions: How many non-citizens have legal weapons in Estonia? How many legal weapons owners in Estonia have committed crimes with legal weapons in the last five years? How many crimes have non-citizens committed with weapons in Estonia in the last five years? How many gun clubs are there in Estonia and how many weapons are there? Which weapons are mostly? How much of these gun clubs operate every day in Russian or other foreign languages? We expect the Estonian state to have an overview of the potential threat that Russian-speaking gun clubs pose to our security, for example, the possibility of organising internal riots or foreign invasions. What are the State's measures to mitigate these risks?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-14_U3	Riigikogu speech chair Jaak Madison, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-14_U4	Good Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the Conservative People's Party Group, I present an inquiry...
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-14_U5	Good inquisitor! I ask that you and I be even because we are currently interfering with the members of the Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-14_U6	Let's wait! Thank you. We are presenting an inquiry to Urmas Reinsalu, Minister of Justice. The subject of the inquiry has already been said here in the past by the Russian Federation to compensate for the damage to the occupation of the Republic of Estonia. Let me be clear on what's in it. On 7 December 2015, we submitted an inquiry into the same subject to the Minister of Foreign Affairs of Marina Kaljuranna regarding her 6 December m. a claims made to the Russian news portal Interfax, according to which Estonia does not have any requirements. The Minister of Foreign Affairs responded to the inquiry on 11 January and it became clear that the Minister of Foreign Affairs, together with the Prime Minister, has presented personal views and convictions as official positions of the Government of the Republic of Estonia. The last decision of the Riigikogu on this subject is the decision of 9 June 2004 on the activities of the National Commission for the Examination of the Repressive Policy of Occupations, which gave the Government of the Republic a guideline to submit to the Riigikogu its position on any claims for damages arising from the losses and losses caused during the occupations by 1 January 2005 at the latest. On 14 January 2005, the Riigikogu received the position of the Government of the Republic, which was entrusted to the Ministry of Justice with the task of preparing a possible claim for damages with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. On this basis, we are asking four questions. Firstly, what is the view of the Government of the Republic regarding the claim for occupation damage to the Russian Federation? Secondly, does the Minister of Justice intend to carry out the tasks assigned to the government in the Riigikogu in 2004? Thirdly, how does the parliamentary principle of the Constitution and the continuity of the Estonian state conform to a situation where the Minister of Foreign Affairs and Prime Minister are not guided by the decisions of the Riigikogu and previous official positions of the Government of the Republic of Estonia? The last question: does the Minister of Justice intend to demand that the Government of the Republic proceed with the identification of occupation losses and the filing of a claim? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-14_U7	There's no more calls. On behalf of the Executive Board of the Riigikogu, I have adopted two inquiries. According to our Home and Rules of Procedure Act, the Management Board of the Riigikogu decides on their further processing. We're gonna do a presence check. 87 members of the Riigikogu registered as present, missing 14.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-14_U8	Let's start working on the items on today's agenda. The first item is the third reading of the draft law 139 on the election of a local government council initiated by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and the amendment of related laws. Do the representatives of the political groups wish to negotiate? There are no requests, so we can go to the preparation of the final vote. Lauri Luik, please! What did you have? Give me a microphone for Lauri Swan, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-14_U9	Good manager, thank you. Actually, I had the "Speech" button pressed in, but somehow the system malfunctioned and threw my name out. So I'd like to come and talk to the remote.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-14_U10	What a system we have! [[In the Laughing Hall.]] I'm in a pretty difficult situation because when I asked if there were any requests, there were no requests. It was only after we started preparing for the vote that the name of Lauri Swan appeared on the screen. Yeah, well, the system says there was no call request before, the person says there was. You have to trust a man. Juhan Parts, I'm sure you have a procedural question. No, it's not. Okay, then I'll...
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-14_U11	No, no, it is, it is, it is! [[In the Laughing Hall.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-14_U12	Juhan Parts, are you sure you have a procedural question?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-14_U13	I can't hear you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-14_U14	Are you sure you have a procedural question?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-14_U15	I am very sure that I have a procedural question that I will put in the form of an encouraging proposal. Mr. Ratas, you're a brave man, make that decision and give Mr. Swan a chance to talk everything out of his heart.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-14_U16	Thank you. Just one thing, however, he must represent the political group at third reading. Helir-Valdor Seeder, please, procedural question!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-14_U17	Thank you. I have a proposition. The rule of law doesn't exactly regulate such a case. Perhaps Lauri Luik will be able to present his report, which she wanted to give orally, later in writing.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-14_U18	I don't think that's out of the question. Dear colleagues, we are in a mess, but if no one protests, I have a suggestion that I open negotiations and ask for a speech chair of the Riigikogu, representative of the Reform Party Group Lauri Luige. Is someone protesting about this? No. Thank you! I ask for the speech chair of the Riigikogu, representative of the Estonian Reform Party Group Lauri Luige!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-14_U19	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I thank you for your confidence. 'Trust' is also the keyword that I want to highlight in the draft under discussion. The reduction of the election age to 16 years of age is, in my opinion, precisely a sign of trusting young people in order to show that we are in action with them. In my opinion and in the opinion of our group, the better the majority of society is involved in promoting our lives. This amendment allows 24000 young people aged 16 to 17 to participate in local elections since 2017. This is, in our opinion, positive. Young people have very clearly expressed their desire to contribute more to the processes of society. This bill, too, is actually their own initiative. For example, youth councils working relatively well across Estonia are also a sign that young people want to express their views on local life issues and communicate their views to local leaders. Unfortunately, our society is ageing and, therefore, the focus is mainly on topics concerning the older group of society. However, reducing the selection age also helps to focus more on young people's issues and to take care of young people's concerns. I believe that reducing the electoral age will also help to increase young people's turnout, which is unfortunately now twice that of the Circa population over the age of 55. So this amendment will hopefully also have a serious impact on the turnout. In addition, I see a number of positive effects that this legislative amendment or trusting young people will bring. In particular, this impact is of an educational and horizon-enhancing nature. This will allow young people to become more interested in democratic processes, allow more education for young people in general policy, and help them shape their opinions. It teaches you how to defend your views, teaches you how to decide, and it teaches you how to take responsibility. These are not all minor skills in a young person's life and in any way in a person's life. Of course, it is important to create an electoral habit. We know that the sooner a young person gets that habit, the easier it will be to carry out his civic duty in the future. Another thing that is very positive is, in my opinion, the impact on integration. As we know, in local elections, non-citizens also have the right to vote, and now a large number of non-citizens aged 16 to 17 have the opportunity to make communication with their municipality or city stronger. Let's trust the young! We have already entrusted young people with a number of very responsible things. For example, at the end of comprehensive school, our young people are faced with a choice of going to upper secondary school along the academic line or going to vocational school. We have trusted young people so that they can drive a B-category vehicle when they are 16 years old, they have a limited right to drive. Our 16-year-olds travel around the world as exchange students. So there are a number of places where we have trusted young people and given them responsibility. In my opinion, we could trust them in the local elections. Let us give young people this opportunity and vote in favour of this bill! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-14_U20	Thank you. Please ask Kadri Simson, representative of the Estonian Central Party Group, to the Riigikogu Chair of Speech!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-14_U21	Ladies and gentlemen, I am here in this chair to explain to you why the Central Party Group is voting against this bill. Various studies and meetings in schools have shown that up to two thirds of young people who are now 16 to 17 years old are not interested in the good work or gift that constitutional changers give them as if they were forceful. They will be given the opportunity to take part in the elections, and I believe that many of them will use it, but they will not be trusted enough to be able to run. The Centre Party Group has proposed that, if you trust a young generation, they should be given the same rights as all those people who have the right to vote in local elections so far. But the government coalition doesn't trust young people that much. It is also somewhat strange and humorous that the Government of the Republic of Estonia informed the European Parliament that it did not trust its 16- or 17-year-olds with the European elections, even though this initiative came from Europe. So let us think about this decision today. There are a couple of political parties who think that by imposing such a right, they will have an advantage in local elections. This is not about trusting young people, because if this trust existed, the proposal of the Central Party Group to grant the right to apply to the local council of 16 and 17 years of age would also have been supported. True, these are people who study in their municipality or city in upper secondary school and are still living there, but at the age of 18 to 19, many of them can be expected to go to higher education or vocational training. But you still haven't given them that kind of trust so they can run. I think that, in some ways, it also shows double-facedness that, last time, this draft law did not win the necessary votes in the third reading room. This was a simple explanation of why the Centre Party Group would vote against the draft law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-14_U22	Thank you. I ask Mart Helme, representative of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia, to the speech chair of the Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-14_U23	Mr. President! Ladies and gentlemen, We are once again in this Chamber in a situation where, according to the Postimees survey, 80% of respondents are opposed to reducing the selection time. In other words, those who want to lower the elections once again position themselves as associations that conflict with the majority of the people. I think one day I could begin to realize that ignoring the infinite opinion of the people at one point will be a serious setback. We are already seeing this serious setback in the division that has arisen in our society in recent years. This division is getting worse, and such decisions are unfortunately driving this thing on as a catalyst in a way. And also, in the last few years, we have seen very clearly how the Estonian press, considered free, independent and balanced, has become a biased and essentially a very unpleasant propaganda machine that resembles the Soviet press. That's what we experience every day. What will happen if we lower the elections by giving the right to choose undeveloped young people from 16 years of age who are completely immature in political terms? What is happening is that this propaganda, this brainwashing, this abuse of political power, will reach schools as well. Schools begin with an insane brainwashing in favour of certain forces who are fighting for the bright future of progressive mankind. For the first 40 years of my life, I managed to live in a situation where we fought for a progressive and bright future for society as a whole. Now, in the age of 66, I can see that I have come back to a situation where we have a conflict between a progressive bright future and the reactionary, bourgeois, bourgeois-nationalist and other forces that oppose it. Let's not bring this contradiction to our children! Let's not take this contradiction and propaganda to our schools! Ladies and gentlemen of the coalition! Forget for a moment that you belong to these parties and follow orders from the party leader. Vote in accordance with common sense and conscience. If you do, you will understand that you have to vote against this bill. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-14_U24	Thank you. I ask Kalvi Tõud, representative of the Social Democratic Party Group, to the Riigikogu Chair!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-14_U25	Good friends! We've changed the Constitution. Let's go all the way down this road and give the young people this chance! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-14_U26	Thank you. I ask Jüri Adams, representative of the Group of the Estonian Free Party, to the speech chair of the Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-14_U27	Mr President! I didn't have a plan at first, but now the group chairman asked me to do it. Basically, I also have one reason to speak more widely here, if I have already spoken six or seven times in relation to this draft. A more general point that you need to know, and what journalists need to know, is that all claims such as this bill would give anyone the right to take part in elections are absolutely wrong. This right to take part in elections has already been granted by amending the Constitution. So please, all those people who have said this don't lie to your people like they're giving anything! That's another thing. This bill certainly cannot prohibit the candidate of someone who is currently entitled to it. The question of whether the right to stand as a candidate should be extended should have been discussed in the same way in the form of an amendment to the Constitution. It cannot be argued that this draft is like an instrument which could have extended the right to stand as a candidate. The content of this draft, I would remind you, is not about this, but about how the voting rights of a few hundred young people who, because of their mental insufficiency, are not fit to be voting and to vote. There was a dispute between me and the forces currently dominating in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs which way to go. It was decided to take as expensive and difficult a route as possible, i.e. to take away the voting rights of all these people by means of separate judicial hearings. I think it's pointless. Since this question will in any case remain in the air, after the elections we could come back to the question of why it was necessary to introduce such an artificial and wasteful method. In my opinion, the style of good governance is that the proposed objective is being pursued in the simplest and cheapest possible way. All other methods of government are bad.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-14_U28	Thank you. Any more calls? No, I'm closing the negotiations. We will begin the preparation of the final vote on draft 139. Dear colleagues, since bill 139 requires a majority in the composition of the Riigikogu, we will do a verification of presence before the final vote. 89 members of the Riigikogu registered as present, missing 12. I will put draft 139 to the final vote. Please take a stand and vote. 55 votes to 30 with 4 abstentions. Draft 139 Act amending the Local Government Council Election Act and related laws initiated by the Constitutional Commission has been adopted as a law. [[Let's hear it.]] The first item is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-14_U29	Let's move on to the second item. The first reading of the draft law amending the Law on the Home and Working Procedures of the Riigikogu initiated by the Estonian Centre Party Group begins. I ask for a presentation of the speech chair of the Riigikogu, member of the Riigikogu, Peeter Ernitsa! Good fellows, I'm asking for silence in the hall! Please respect the waitress and those who want to listen! There's too much noise in the hall.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-14_U30	Good President and colleagues who have not yet gone out the door! Remember, there was once 'Harta 12', where it was declared that Estonia's democracy was falling apart before our eyes. People's ambassadors say they have a mandate and there is no alternative. If the only way for citizens to influence politics is to have elections every four years, then there is only an empty shell left of democracy, it was said 'Harta 12'. Indeed, § 46 of the Constitution states that everyone has the right to address letters of formal notice and statements from public authorities, local authorities...
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-14_U31	Good waitress, I'm sorry! Dear colleagues, I ask once again that we respect the waitress and those who wish to listen! There's too much noise in the hall.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-14_U32	Thank you. In short, § 46 of the Constitution allows you to turn to memos and applications, but it does not specify how to do so. On 9 April 2013, the President handed over 15 golden blades to Laine Randjärv, the then vice-chairman of the Riigikogu, the best ideas initiated by the people. They received the highest level of support for the idea of a public initiative on the day of the debate, i.e. 95%. On March 12 of the following year, the matter had been recorded in the law. Three initiatives have now become law. The most important of these is what we are discussing here. As has been said, the people had so far been given three options: elections, referendums or referrals to the MPs or a letter of formal notice to the Riigikogu for the adoption of the local government act. But, yes, at national level, there was still no connection in the right of people's involvement. The petition law was an important step in taking account of the people. However, chapter 18 of the Riigikogu Law on Home and Working Procedures discusses how collective appeals must be dealt with. When a referral arrives to the Commission, the Commission may initiate a debate on a draft or a matter of major importance; second, it may hold a public hearing; third, it may forward a proposal to the competent institution for taking and resolving a position; fourth, it may forward a proposal to the Government of the Republic to formulate and reply to a position; fifth, the draft may be rejected; and sixth, the problem raised in the referral may be resolved by other means. The idea of the draft tabled by the Centre Party Group is to give the voice of the people a greater voice, in other words, to reduce potential reefs in this way. There are four points in our draft 116. First of all, we propose from the current wording 'transmit a proposal to the competent institution to take a stand and resolve' to remove the word'solution', as these matters should be dealt with by the Riigikogu, us here. Secondly, § 15213 (4) of the Riigikogu Law on Rules of Procedure and Rules of Procedure states that the Commission may turn to the Government of the Republic to formulate and respond to a statement. We are suggesting that this point should be completely abolished. Legislative power must decide for itself, not delegate decisions to executive power. Thirdly, § 15213 (6) of the Riigikogu's Home and Working Procedures Act provides for the possibility of'solving the problem of conversion in other ways'. Our proposal is to lose this opportunity as well. We want the Commission not to have six but four options: to initiate a debate on a draft or a key national issue, to hold a public hearing, to forward the proposal to the competent institution to take a position, but not to resolve it, and to reject it. The fourth point of our proposal concerns § 15214 (1) (1) of the Rules of Procedure of the Riigikogu Act, which says that the Commission fails to discuss the substance of the appeal and rejects it if the appeal coincides with a change of substance which has been processed for less than two years. Our proposal is to take down this 'two years' because two years is too long in today's fast world. The same problem may actually arise again. We only want the appeal to be rejected if it does not comply with the constitutional principles and international obligations arising from external agreements. However, if the Commission decides to reject the proposal, it shall state the reasons for the rejection to the contact persons indicated on the request. In short, three of the 15 gold steels have been cut into the law to give the people a greater opportunity to speak. We would like to reduce these reefs so that the voice of the people sounds much stronger. I think that we agree with very many people, the whole civil society, who would also really like to get involved in social life. There can't be a mandate just for us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-14_U33	Thank you. Dear colleagues, do you have any questions for the waitress? Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-14_U34	Thank you. The first question is that I would like to read this bill and look at it on paper, but there are no drafts printed on paper at the back of the hall. Therefore, it is not possible to get too much worse. Peter can tell us what he wants up ahead, but...
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-14_U35	Aivar, I'll give it to you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-14_U36	Good waitress! First the questioner asks his question, then you have the opportunity to answer. Please wait for the question and then you can answer it! I understand it was a procedural question for the manager. Of course, it is very bad if the texts of Bill 116 are not in the shelves back there. Do you want a break to be delivered to you, or do you agree if I help arrange for this bill to be delivered to you? Good waitress, you do not have the opportunity to leave the Riigikogu Chair during the presentation, indeed you do not. [[In the Laughing Hall.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-14_U37	I'm sorry!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-14_U38	Apology accepted. Imre Sooäär, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-14_U39	Thank you, good manager. Honourable waitress! In your report, you indicated that the Commission should justify the rejection of the proposal in your proposal. Do you have any concrete examples? Have any Riigikogu committees not given reasons for their decisions when such appeals have occurred? I know that the Committee on Legal Affairs has discussed one appeal very thoroughly, and the Commission's views were also substantiated in writing. Doesn't some committee do that?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-14_U40	I can't tell you specifically right now, but there are a lot of things here. Specifically, I do not have a single example of this statement at the moment, but I think that perhaps someone more experienced can bring it. There are examples of other things.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-14_U41	Good waitress, thank you! No further questions. I would like the Chair of the Riigikogu to be presented by Kalle Laaneti, Chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-14_U42	Ladies and gentlemen, This draft was discussed by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs on 14 December 2015. Before I go to the debate on the draft, which took place in the Commission, I just want to supplement or, rather, to improve a bit for the sake of the verbatim report. The procedure for dealing with collective referrals entered into force in the Riigikogu Home and Working Procedures Act on 11 April 2014. But it was just a little finger. I will now go to what was discussed and said in the Commission. The representative of the initiator gave an overview of the draft law amending the Law on the Home and Working Procedures of the Riigikogu initiated by the Central Party of the Riigikogu 116. The draft concerns the resolution of collective appeals submitted to the Riigikogu. The aim is for the Riigikogu to resolve the problem of collective appeal to the Commission or committees independently, without involving the inviolable institutions and separate from the guidelines of executive power. The representative of the initiator of the draft act stated that, first, the draft is intended to amend Article 15213 (3) of the Riigikogu Law on Rules of Procedure and Rules of Procedure in such a way that the Commission can only forward the proposal to the competent institution when dealing with a collective appeal. Under the current regulation, the Commission may forward a proposal to the competent institution for taking and resolving a position. However, in the opinion of the initiators of the draft, finding a solution to the proposal submitted in the appeal is among the tasks of the Riigikogu committee and should not be delegated to other institutions. The draft also seeks to repeal paragraphs 4 and 6 of §15213 of the Riigikogu Law on the Rules of Procedure and the Rules of Procedure of the Riigikogu, as these points do not fulfil their functions because they give the Commission the power to delegate the right to take a decision to another competent institution or executive power. In addition, the draft is intended to repeal § 15214 (1) (1) of the Riigikogu Rules of Procedure Act, which states that if a referral coincides with an earlier address in substance, it will not be discussed if it has been less than two years since its processing. In the opinion of the initiator of the draft act, this is not right, because the rule of law should reject a return only in a situation where the return is not in accordance with the fundamental principles of the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia and the international obligations of the Republic of Estonia arising from foreign treaties. The members of the Commission heard the explanations of the initiator's representative. The question was raised as to whether, according to the draft, the Riigikogu commission should no longer seek the opinion of the other institutions in resolving a collective appeal. The representative of the initiator of the draft act replied that the opinion could, of course, be asked for, but that the referral had to be dealt with independently by the Commission. The Commission also found that better regulation of collective redress should certainly be addressed, because, for example, the collective address proposed by the Free Party Action Group in September 2014 'Stop over-eating political parties! ' So-called death on the Commission. The President of the Commission added that the Government of the Republic stated in its letter of 19 November 2015 that they would refrain from giving an opinion on this draft. So what was decided? It was proposed that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda by 14 January 2016 (this was a consensual decision), that the draft law be rejected (by 5 members of the Commission, 4 against, no abstentions) and that it was decided to appoint Mr Kalle Laanet (consensually) as rapporteur. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-14_U43	Thank you, good waitress. You have questions. Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-14_U44	Thank you. Honourable Chairman of the Commission! My question is this: if the bill is rejected, how will this shit be resolved? Did the Commission even examine in greater detail the fate of the current appeals? You did indeed refer to the petition of the Free Party. George Adams and Küllik's Hatter still don't know what that other way of solving was. At the time, one reference was made to a provision of the Coalition Agreement, which has been followed by nothing. How to assess the legal situation in which appeals come to the Riigikogu, but in fact nothing follows? Then there could be no list of options at all.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-14_U45	Thank you for your question. First of all, I dare say that this procedure is not bullshit. It was dealt with in detail in the previous composition, the amendments were also tabled, they were discussed in depth and it was considered that this could be the case at the moment. This time has only been in place for a little over a year. As regards the petition of the Free Party or the petition of these persons, the reference to the coalition agreement was entirely correct. This petition went to the Justice Minister, who has to deal with this matter. The task was passed on to the executive.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-14_U46	Mailis Reps, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-14_U47	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Commission waitress, You have certainly analysed in the Commission a situation where, in practice, such a community movement or social movement initiative can, in principle, be ridiculed. Suppose this is a big and active movement, no matter what we imagine today, people start collecting signatures, collecting 50,000 or even 100,000 signatures. In order to level it, we quickly collect 1000 signatures, perhaps we call our friends together to do so, as if we are processing this appeal in the Riigikogu, and all this great movement to collect 100000 signatures is ridiculed. As we know, once one appeal has been dealt with, the other will no longer be dealt with. Did you really analyze the situation that actually gives the signal to society?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-14_U48	Thank you for your question. I stress once again that this procedure has been in place for a relatively short period of time. After all, we can come up with completely super-scenarios that will never actually materialise. As long as we do not have practical examples, I think we could continue in the same way that the Commission has decided with its majority decision.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-14_U49	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-14_U50	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! First of all, I am pleased to hear that a reduction in the funding of political parties has been assigned to the Minister of Justice. But what's the deadline in that case? Perhaps you can elaborate on that. I would remind you that this petition was handed over to the previous Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-14_U51	Thank you. I owe you a deadline. I think I can make it clear that no specific deadline was set, but of course the Minister was asked to solve the task as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-14_U52	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-14_U53	Good manager! Good waitress! Yes, these things have not really been discussed in the Commission. But I would like to ask why we are still putting more rocks on the road to this popular initiative: the same 'other way', two years, etc. The law has really only been in force for a year, but already at the end of this month the portal of the Estonian Cooperation Assembly will be able to present these visits very quickly and easily and they will come. Why do we need so many opportunities to steer this thing away from us and give decision - making power to someone else? Why don't we leave as few rocks as we can on the road to this idea?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-14_U54	Thank you for your question. I don't feel like they're very big rocks. But why exactly such decisions were made must be asked by the members of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs of the previous term.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-14_U55	Imre Sooäär, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-14_U56	Thank you. Good waitress! I don't think this bill has arrived in this Chamber, at least it has not reached the shelves behind it, but, as I understand the discussion, it seeks to place more responsibilities and responsibility on the Commission's shoulders. How many of these appeals under the new procedure adopted by the previous Riigikogu have so far come? Do the committees even have the readiness, the manhood and the finances to solve all the major problems on their own? Maybe some things still need delegation. Does this capacity even exist in full on the committees? The nature and size of conversions are different.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-14_U57	Thank you for your question. I may be wrong, but I think there have been six appeals in that time. I don't know what their fate has been. There has been one appeal in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and I understood that there was one in the Committee on Legal Affairs, so there have been four appeals in the other committees. I agree with the questioner's opinion in the sense that there may be a lack of the capacity of the committees if we start to go into the details to resolve these matters. That is why my personal opinion is something that is also stated in paragraph 6 of § 15213: to resolve the problem raised in the appeal in another way. This door could still be left open to make sure that the solution comes.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-14_U58	Good waitress, thank you! No further questions. Do the representatives of the political groups wish to negotiate? They do. I'm opening negotiations. Please ask the representative of the Estonian Free Party of the Riigikogu for a speech chair Külliiki Kübarsep!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-14_U59	Good manager! Good ambassadors! I have been in the role of helping to initiate and defend the appeal, and I have also been in the role of helping to deal with collective redress. Let me remind you that the aim of the collective appeal is to give citizens a greater opportunity to participate in the work of the Riigikogu, in the work of the parliament, in a more direct way. Yes, it is in some respects an indirect way, but it still provides a more immediate opportunity to participate in matters, especially in the form of a citizens' initiative. The Riigikogu must certainly create these opportunities. We believe it is right to start this debate, within the framework of the draft initiated by the Centre Party, on how to involve more people in our work in a way or another. Although we may not agree with all the solutions that have been proposed at the moment, there is certainly a need to discuss them. Current experience shows that thousands and thousands of people take part in the debate in the context of a collective appeal. For example, at least 10,000 people, i.e. at least 10,000 people, were able to speak and think about the same reduction in funding for political parties, and 4 000 signed up. I think this is an important process. People also came and thanked them for finally having a say. The weakness of the Commission representative's report was that this regulation, how and how things are resolved, is really very vague. There is also a lack of frequent practice in the committees, but so far, for a year and a half, this practice has worked, which already provides an opportunity to draw the first conclusions. There was also a reference to the capacity of the committees. It's a general problem, dear people, it's not just a problem with this bill. I think that both the previous and the present composition of the Riigikogu have taken collective appeals in such a way that they receive a ticking letter, they have not taken them as substantive proposals. I think we need to move towards having more contact with the people who have signed, not just with their representatives. We could do this by listening to the signatories in the form of an immediate seminar or conference. What is the general problem? We're talking about anger here, but we're not analyzing where these anger attacks come from. They come from disappointment. The problem is not perhaps refugees or some kind of legislative amendment, but the problem is that the country is disappointed. The state, however, is not what we should be angry about, but the government and Parliament must work together to reduce these angers and disappointments and give people more hope and reason to continue living here in Estonia. The Free Party supports the continuation of the draft procedure. We need to find more immediate solutions and deal seriously with this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-14_U60	Thank you. No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. The position of the Steering Committee is that draft 116 should be rejected at first reading. Dear colleagues, I am voting to reject the draft proposal by the commission at first reading. Please take a stand and vote. 50 votes to 36 members of the Riigikogu with no abstentions. The proposal was supported. Draft 116 has been rejected at first reading and falls out of the procedure. The second item is closed. Good fellows, today's session is closed. I thank you and wish you the strength of our work! Closure of the sitting at 10.51 a.m.
