ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-17_U1	Dear Riigikogu, good afternoon. Question Time. Incoming check, please! Currently 37 members of the Riigikogu registered to be present. Prime Minister Taavi Rõivas, Minister of Finance Sven Sester and Minister of Public Administration Arto Aas participate in Question Time. Last day, nine members of the Riigikogu expressed their wish to ask the question, so I will give the debate on each topic an opportunity to ask a specific question.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-17_U2	The first question is to the Prime Minister and asks Krista Aru. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-17_U3	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! In Ida-Virumaa and now in many other places in Estonia, people have been hit by a wave of redundancies, which causes accidents and sadness and puts many families in an accident situation. The National Audit Office already pointed out at the end of last year and has pointed out in the past that the state should have a decent and working employment plan for precisely such crises. Does the government have such an action plan? Is it or has it already been implemented in Ida-Virumaa and other critical places?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-17_U4	Thank you. Of course, the government has a plan to do if unemployment in one sector or another is to increase. This plan is long-term and these activities are mainly carried by the unemployment fund. The fact that this plan has been successful has also confirmed that you will probably not find a reduction in unemployment in any of the countries of the European Union as rapid as there has been in Estonia. Unemployment in Estonia as a whole has fallen to 5.1%, which is only slightly higher than the absolute lowest in the current period, in a positive sense, when unemployment was as low as possible, it was, of course, during the booming period of 2008. In order to ensure that people who become unemployed either because of the fall in oil prices or because Estonia's wage level is no longer competitive compared to the wage levels of the cheapest countries, receive new jobs as soon as possible, we have invested a great deal of both money and knowledge. In Harju County alone, we will be able to invest 10 million euros of unemployment funds to help people, 7 million euros in Ida-Viru County and 32 million euros in Estonia. This is a very large amount of money for which very many people can be helped to work. Activities to help people work have already begun. Most importantly, people are being prepared to work in sectors that produce higher added value, with potentially higher wages.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-17_U5	Krista Aru, please, a more specific question!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-17_U6	Thank you. Prime Minister! You have rightly argued that Estonia cannot be a country with cheap labour and high wages at the same time and that the Estonian economy needs structural restructuring. By claiming this, you certainly had an initial plan, or at least an action plan, which these structural restructurings mean in the economy and which should begin immediately.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-17_U7	Thank you. The most important change that will take place in the economy is that it is moving towards greater added value, that its own production is increasingly being offered instead of outsourcing, and that Estonian companies order from abroad. In the case of PKC, too, it is very likely that the Estonian company will remain at the heart of a number of high-wage workers who will, for example, be involved in development and possibly in research in the future. This is a logical shift towards more value-added jobs. The second shift, which is also logical and necessary in the Estonian economy, is that the service sector is growing. If you look at the last ten years, you can see that the proportion of services has increased considerably and is likely to increase further. For example, companies in the IT sector are ready to immediately hire thousands of people. Our bottleneck is that we do not have people with IT education coming up so quickly. We understand that it will not create IT education in weeks, it will take years. But the state has taken concrete steps to increase the number of people who have received IT education. In addition, the unemployment fund provides a number of activities every month to help people gain more value-added jobs by providing them with vocational training or career guidance. In January alone, several thousand people took part in these activities.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-17_U8	Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-17_U9	Honourable Chairman! Prime Minister! One area where smart jobs could be created is IT support services. There are a lot of examples that state-of-the-art foreign companies have brought their support services to Estonia, and there are more. But these smart jobs will not be added at such a fast pace that there will be some major breakthrough in overall employment in the coming years. Even now, the main place where people are occupied is industry. In particular, it is the exporting industry that creates the highest added value. How far is the industrial policy development plan to be drawn up by the Ministry of Economic Affairs, where, as far as I know, measures are envisaged to preserve and increase the competitiveness of industry in particular, so that jobs in this sector can be preserved and added?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-17_U10	Thank you. The preparation of the country's industrial policy document is in the final stages, and the Minister of Enterprise will certainly bring it to the government in the coming weeks. There are many ideas on how to help exporting companies invest in Estonia. It is quite clear that it is up to the state to create the best possible investment environment. In many things, we have been very successful so far, whether it be developing the tax environment or cutting red tape. These are not self-evident things. I presented myself to 3000 German entrepreneurs the day before yesterday, many of whom came to ask several times after my performance whether the things I was talking about were really possible, and I spoke only about things that already exist in Estonia. This gave them a great interest in investing in Estonia. It is up to the state to create the best possible environment, but it is also clear that jobs can only be created and only when companies make these investments. Of course, it is up to us not only to create an environment but also to talk about this very good environment, both in Estonia and outside Estonia, for entrepreneurs to want to invest in Estonia. I have said out in public, and I repeat that I believe that those entrepreneurs who consider that the labour force in Harju County is too expensive and wish to go to a less expensive area before they move production out of Estonia could also consider Ida-Virumaa. There are qualified people in Ida-Viru County who have still received much lower salaries than they have received in Harju County. This may be the solution for businesses.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-17_U11	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-17_U12	The next question is for the Minister of State Administration, Arto Asa. Arno Bridge, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-17_U13	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Minister, thank you very much. During the preparation of the administrative reform, the number of people who should have people in new holdings etc. has been discussed more specifically. In addition to this, are there calculations and calculations of the economic rationale of the administrative reform: how much, and if anything, does it provide a financial effect?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-17_U14	Thank you, good questioner! The short answer is, of course, it has been studied and, of course, it gives an effect. The analyses carried out by ourselves and other independent organisations show very clearly that in very small municipalities there are disproportionate costs of providing management and support services, which are unlikely to be the smartest and most justified in economic terms compared to the few larger municipalities. I can say that there are, on average, twice as many employees per capita in the area of 1 000 inhabitants as there are 5 000 people. The scale effect of local governments is drawn very clearly from these studies. But, of course, at one point it is a matter of agreement and balance where we draw this line between communityism and economic economy. Another important aspect is that it is possible to pay officials a more competitive salary in a larger municipality. In Estonia, the pay gap between those who do the same work and those who have the same education is almost one-and-a-half. Officials can specialize in larger municipalities. In smaller municipalities, officials have to carry out five or six tasks and, of course, in this case, it is not possible to specialise very precisely in a specific section of work. The scale effect is also very direct in the capacity of local authorities to invest. The larger municipality simply has more free money, which can be used instead of covering management costs for investments.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-17_U15	Arno Bridge, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-17_U16	Thank you. I have a very specific question. What economic effect does the merger of rural municipalities have for the rural municipality? There has always been talk about how it is useful for the administration of rural municipalities and for the side of rural municipalities at all, but how is it useful for a particular rural municipality to unite rural municipalities?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-17_U17	Municipalities are for the rural population, and we are also doing administrative reform for the people, with the aim of providing better quality services and improving the competitiveness of rural areas. Let us take a simple example: if, at present, half of the budget is spent on administration costs in one very small area, maintenance of the council and rural municipality government, management costs in the larger municipalities will be 5% of the budget. This money, which is simply spent on administration in a very small area, should be given to kindergartens, road maintenance, housing, education. That's where the effect comes from. We do not reduce the money that goes to municipalities, we do not reduce the municipal budget, but the structure of expenditure changes significantly. This changes in the direction of local governments being able to invest and develop, not all money being paid by municipal officials or municipal elders. I am not saying that small government leaders are doing a bad job, but with such a financing model and structure it is not possible to invest anything or anticipate more development. These trends are drawing out very clearly. A rural municipality with 5 000 inhabitants can invest a million euros. That's quite a lot of money you can use to improve your local life. But if the municipality has 100.200 inhabitants, the budget is a few hundred thousand euros, and half of it goes to the municipal government to support it, how do you fix the schoolhouse, how do you build roads? I'm afraid that's impossible. So the economies of scale must certainly be sought in the context of the administrative reform. It's there.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-17_U18	Rein Ratas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-17_U19	Thanks! Honourable Minister! We consider small businesses to be an important part of our economy, both industry and services. The government is of the opinion that only large farms are effective. Right! But shouldn't agriculture also have its place in small businesses with minimal efficiency? I've been talking.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-17_U20	Thank you. Interesting idea! I am a little confused about this connection to administrative reform at the moment, so I will take some time to think and give other questioners a chance to move on.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-17_U21	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-17_U22	The next question is asked by Kadri Simson to Prime Minister Taavi Rõivas. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-17_U23	Thank you. Prime Minister! I am always pleased if the opposition's actions are of any use. With my question, I reminded you that the government has failed to establish a livelihood fund. Now news has come that you're on the move. In Estonia, a very large number of single parents live either in deep poverty or in relative poverty. One reason for this is that the other parent does not support the family. There are over 10,000 children in Estonia whose other parent is not able to obtain a monthly subsistence allowance. You said last week that you wanted to improve the maintenance fund. However, if the decision of the Riigikogu provided that the state would cover until the parent paid out a living, 215 euros, then you have made a savings programme that provides for the payment of 100 euros until the child starts receiving support from his or her parent. What's behind these calculations? Why is EUR 100 better than EUR 215?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-17_U24	Thank you. Indeed, you are right, in the meantime there has been progress in setting up a maintenance fund. However, this coincidence in time with your question was perhaps somewhat overstated. In fact, this is a draft in the government's work programme, which was endorsed by the government on 16 July last year. The draft was submitted to the round of coordination on 15 February and is scheduled to reach a government meeting in April with the draft. We hope that the Riigikogu will be able to process this before the summer. Of course, it is Parliament's decision on the speed at which the drafts will be processed, but the government's hope is that the draft will be processed by the summer. This would provide assurance that the fund will be operational from the beginning of next year. I agree with you that this fund must be available for this situation if one parent does not receive the intended maintenance assistance from another parent. We have made a number of changes in order to make it easier to get the money and to make the sanctions against a maintenance debtor more effective. Some of them are already in place, some will be in force in March 2016. I also consider this very important. Indeed, if, in spite of these increasingly effective sanctions, people continue to owe maintenance money, the period due will in the future be paid by the State Support Fund and the State, in cooperation with the parent, will ultimately collect the money from the debtor. We have also taken into account that it is not possible to obtain this money from all debtors, so the maintenance fund also incurs certain costs.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-17_U25	Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-17_U26	I'm not quite sure if you noticed that you didn't answer my question. The question was simple. The Riigikogu decided that 215 euros would be paid, you have decided that 100 euros would be better. Why is 100 euros better? But in order for you to be able to answer this question, I will ask you one simple question. It is often the impression that the government is engaged in substitution activities and is unable to carry out substantive tasks. It is true that you will be able to make rapid tax increases, but, for example, a maintenance fund should have been set up by 1 January 2016. It's been six weeks. The alternative activity is, for example, a fight on the issue of sending Juhan Parts to the inspection room. A month ago, three opposition parties in the Riigikogu sent you a proposal that, as you can see that you cannot agree with each other, you should announce a public competition for the role of a member of the Court of Auditors and give this staff selection task to those who have so far been able to choose competent top officials. The deadline is Monday, but maybe you'll say, have you done anything to announce this competition before it gets sour in this area too?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-17_U27	Thank you. Like all enquiries, I will respond to this in accordance with the procedure laid down in the Rules of Procedure. This response is already in the process of finalisation. But I'll come back to your first question so I don't leave it unanswered again. You're asking so quickly and so many times that I have to keep a close watch and take notes. Your question was about where exactly the amount of EUR 100 comes from. This amount is also based on expert calculations. We had assessments to help us with the coalition agreement, and we know that the total debt of maintenance aid debtors is currently EUR 14 million. Now we want to provide for more than half of this amount to cover debts on a temporary basis for one year alone. The experts who have drawn up the draft have estimated that the EUR 7.2 million we have foreseen in the 2017 budget will cover the necessary costs. We know that there are almost 8 000 maintenance creditors in total. So the projections are based on such experience and real amounts. As regards the proposal of the Riigikogu, it could be said purely legally that this proposal applied to the working time of the previous Riigikogu. This is also said by the executive edition of the Riigikogu Home and Working Procedures Act. Yet we have chosen a different path. We have said that this initiative, for which Margus Tsahkna, a member of the Riigikogu at the time, will be implemented by the government. We are making this system less bureaucratic than it seemed at first, and very symbolically it can be implemented by Minister of Social Affairs Margus Tsahkna.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-17_U28	Monika Haukanõmm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-17_U29	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. It is indeed difficult to obtain a living and is likely to impose a burden on the judicial authorities. It has been said that judicial authorities cannot do their job very well because regulations do not allow it. Is it planned by law to extend the rights of the judicial authorities and, at the same time, to increase the obligations, and has there been discussion on the subject to which the judicial authorities themselves have indicated that the funding is not sufficient for them? Do you know what's coming?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-17_U30	Thank you. The Minister of Justice will probably be able to tell more about the specific pricing of services. Certainly, bailiffs also have such cases in mind, in particular, the high level of property claims, if the remuneration received is disproportionate compared to the specific activity of the trustee in this case. So in a sense, as in the case of notaries, there is a partial cross-subsidisation of different services. Perhaps the bailiff's remuneration in the event of a claim for maintenance cannot be comparable to those paid in very large cases, such as property transactions amounting to hundreds of thousands of euros. But we've already made changes to the law to increase the rights of bailiffs. For example, as of October 2015, there is such a regulation that bailiffs need to remind the debtor of their debts every two months and preferably face-to-face. The trustee shall also have both the right and the obligation to search, at least once a year, the debtor's real estate and dwelling in order to find the property to be seized there. It may seem that these are such small things, but let's think about it, in addition, since March this year, it is impossible for a debtor to obtain any permit, such as a hunting licence, a driver's license, a weapons permit, a permit to operate a recreational craft or a fishing card. All of this still makes it impossible for a child to meet his or her obligations, not only because it is morally very wrong, but also because it is extremely uncomfortable for that person. That's what it's all about.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-17_U31	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-17_U32	The next question is for Finance Minister Sven Sester. Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-17_U33	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, If you remember, when we processed the state budget this year, we argued quite strongly about macro-economic forecasts. You were an optimist, but the Free Party had many doubts about the projections. In part, we also raised these questions by asking the Prime Minister. He admitted that there were problems. However, it has now become apparent that GDP increased by only 0.7% in the fourth quarter of last year, and that Swedbank has also reduced its economic forecast, reduced external demand and a number of alarming signs. How sharp do you think this alarm clock is gonna hit, and what do your experts say?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-17_U34	Thank you, good questioner! I call on the government, but also on the Riigikogu to base its everyday decisions on a conservative and sustainable principle. What do I mean by that? I think the current situation, not only in Estonia, but in the economy of Europe and the whole world, is one which, on the one hand, may not give rise to the greatest optimism, but we do not yet have cause for panic. If there was some kind of panic nuance in the undertone of your question, there's no need for it. Looking at the real economic growth of the euro area, we note that only a few countries are these now, I think, only Finland and Greece, where there is no growth. All other countries have higher or lower growth rates. When we speak in the context of Estonia, it is certainly worth looking at what economic growth is made of in the autopsy of economic growth. Why do we say that there is no optimism on the one hand, but there is no panic on the other? There are pros and cons. If we look at economic security, we say that economic confidence and consumer security have increased. When we look at the economic situation of consumers, we say that it is rather good. Wages have risen and it is also an important indication that prices have gone down over time, we are in a deflationary situation. Now the negative side. The level of investment is low, and it has been more of a declining trend. External demand, our very important indicator of growth, is still low. It's because of our export partners. The Russian market has fallen by a third and the Finnish economy has not yet recovered to the level we hope for. But looking at the budgetary balance between revenue and expenditure, I am telling you that the policy that the current government has pursued is correct. We can live within the limits of what we now have. We haven't raised the cost to the level...
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-17_U35	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-17_U36	... that would bring us into a deep recession and require us to take extra loans.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-17_U37	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-17_U38	Thank you. Dear Minister, This question also has a connection to the first question raised here by Krista Aru, which spoke about employment. Large redundancies in large companies will certainly leave their mark. Experts say that this is a change in structure, while we do not see any new jobs emerging. You answered the first question more or less like this: if I asked if the new economic recession was coming, as some experts have already set the alarm, I have a feeling that you would probably answer, no, no, where it comes from. But I have such factual questions. Can you give us an overview of what kind of jobs are emerging in Estonia? What have been the major foreign investments in recent years, which we can be proud of? Is all this still coming, or what measures do you intend to bring about it? This is not only a question of macroeconomic indicators, but also of large-scale consolidations.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-17_U39	Thank you, Andres Herkel!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-17_U40	Thank you, good questioner! I think this is a much wider issue, and as you want to ask for more than one minute, I want to answer for more than two minutes. Really, this subject is interesting and, I think, it concerns society. I'll start from a distance. First of all, you spoke of experts on both of your questions, and I think very rightly so. I am simply saying that the listeners would have an overview of how conservative in reality the Government of the Republic or the Minister of Finance and the Ministry of Finance are, who also provide details of the state budget. While the Ministry of Finance, for example, set the level of growth at 2.6% when preparing the 2016 state budget, SEB Pank predicted 2.7%, Swedbank 2.8%, European Commission 2.9%, OECD 3.3% and IMF 3.4% in 2016 with its summer-Autumn Forecast. These are the increases expected in 2016. So we're relatively conservative. As regards the substance of your question, which was linked to employment, I would argue with you. It's the other way around. If you look at the development of the labour market now, you will see that it is more positive than ever. It should actually cause us anxiety. Our unemployment rate is also the Prime Minister said it was just over 5%, 5% to 6%. The level was lower only when the boom started. Basically, there is no unemployment. I think what has been done in Estonia internally has helped people to have jobs. Rather, our problem is that wages are growing faster than productivity. What does that mean? This means that people's wages have been raised at the expense of productivity. This creates a situation where companies at one point do not want to invest as much as they could and should invest. They no longer have the required level of return at one point; it has been used up for wages.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-17_U41	Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-17_U42	Thank you, Mr. Speaker. Minister, thank you very much. In a sense, I will introduce the following question to my question, but this question is very well connected with Mr Herkel's question on foreign markets. European banking is in a complete crisis. In the last month and a half, Deutsche Bank, for example, has lost about half of its assets, the Italian banks even more, the value of the Greek banks is less than 0,2% or 0,3% of what it was before the crisis. Financial markets have experienced a decline since the beginning of the year, which has not been seen for more than 30 years, but in some sectors since World War II. At the same time, we see a slowdown in economic growth in the United States, China, Japan. One thing is a conservative economic or budgetary plan, but do we also have a crisis plan?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-17_U43	Thank you. The introduction to your question was correct. I was wondering if you would come to the fact that the government of the Republic of Estonia is responsible for the so-called weakness of world banking, but you did not come to that this time. In this sense, the context was right that, if we look at what is happening not only in Europe but globally, we will see that the US's larger indices fell by 7 to 11 percent at the beginning of the year, the oil sector's weakness is clearly felt there and the weakness of the technology sector has come on top. These are certainly alarming signals, which mean that investors are at risk of losing money. But let's look at little Estonia now. What is Estonia doing in this situation? For example, does a possible recession create a situation where we need to review the cost cuts? I can safely tell the Riigikogu today that we have taken the risk scenario into account: 2.6% is the baseline scenario, the risk scenario is 1.6%. It is certainly not possible to make decisions on the state budget in a conjunctural way, only on the basis of momentary emotions. We also need to look at whether there is a clearer trend towards a general economic slowdown in Europe or in the world. We can see it's not there. As I mentioned earlier, all countries, with the exception of Finland and Greece, have more or less growth and this is very positive. After all, work has been done to ensure that the economies of European countries are stronger and develop, starting with a number of growth pacts and ending with budgetary rules. Estonia is very clearly following all of this.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-17_U44	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-17_U45	The next question is to Prime Minister Taavi Kõivas and is presented by Jaak Madison.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-17_U46	Thank you. Prime Minister! Yesterday, a survey was published by Statistics Estonia of how many Estonians live in relative and absolute poverty. There was a very interesting tendency. While 36% of people aged 65 or over lived in relative poverty in 2014, in 2013 this percentage was 32. We can see very clearly that the proportion of older people living in relative poverty has increased by 4%. Can you tell me what the reason is? What is the government's intention to slow down and reverse this trend?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-17_U47	Thank you. I would first point out that this Statistical Office survey refers to 2014. The incomes of the population increased last year, and coping certainly improved. Also, in 2014, the figures improved mostly, but even before the parliamentary elections, I said that there was a concern that needs to be addressed more effectively. It's the livelihood of single-living pensioners. To date, we have agreed in the government an additional support scheme for pensioners living alone. This will come into force from the beginning of next year, provided that Parliament adopts it as the government proposes. I am absolutely sure that this will provide the necessary positive impetus to improve the livelihood of the elderly living alone. There was another group whose situation was very serious. I stress that overall, the situation of all groups improved in 2014 compared to 2013, but if we look at the past, there were problems in 2014. In fact, if there are three or more children in the family, economic coping is more difficult. It is no coincidence that the Government of the Republic has agreed to drastically increase child benefits as a whole and, in particular, the third child allowance. This, in my opinion, significantly reduces the number of needy families and significantly improves the livelihood of Estonian people. This is a very necessary and justified step.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-17_U48	Jaak Madison, the question to be specified.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-17_U49	Thank you. Good Prime Minister! Of course, I also stressed that the data is from 2014 because, as we know, Statistics Estonia carried out this survey in 2015, asking about last year's income. So it makes perfect sense. As regards the overall improvement of the situation, it is true that the number of persons living in relative poverty decreased by 0.5% compared to 2013. But why has the Government of the Reform Party not, as far as I know, led the Estonian government over the last 15 years ♪ have seriously brought this problem to the attention of the Estonian government? Older generations and pensioners are a separate target group compared to those who work. Do you have any idea how many hundred thousand people live in relative poverty in Estonia according to the latest survey? What's the number?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-17_U50	Thank you. First of all, I will answer the first question. If you look at the time since 2005, when the Government has been led by the Reform Party, you will see that people's incomes have increased faster than in any other European country, with both salaries and pensions growing. I therefore think that the reproach you are trying to make has not been the best. Statistics Estonia has not yet carried out a survey on the specific figures for 2015, but we know that wages and pensions both increased in 2015 and quickly enough. When we look at 2016, I recall that when we put together the current government, we said that improving people's livelihood is one of our priorities. This year alone, a number of concrete steps were taken that would exponentially improve people's livelihoods. We take into account that this year, child support increased to EUR 50 and families most in need of public support increased on an ad hoc basis to EUR 95, the income support rate increased almost one-and-a-half times, rising to EUR 130, the application system for low-wage earners and the tax-free minimum increased. If we add here that there has been an increase in incomes last year and this year, I expect that the poverty figures for 2016 will increase dramatically. I'm absolutely sure of that.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-17_U51	Rein Ratas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-17_U52	Thanks! Minister Arto Aas has just found that the economic rationale of the administrative reform does not include the development of small-scale agricultural enterprises. Then I ask you, honourable Prime Minister, whether small business should not have its place in reducing the poverty of the Estonian population in Estonian agriculture. I've been talking.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-17_U53	Thank you. I believe that the most sustainable source of growth is entrepreneurship, especially exporting entrepreneurship. Of course, most Estonian companies, like all over the world, are small. In Estonian terms, medium-sized enterprises are actually small companies on a global scale. Of course, enterprising people and companies of all sizes, including small businesses, have a key role to play in improving the livelihood of Estonian people and increasing the prosperity of society. The fact that there is an attractive environment for entrepreneurship in Estonia is, in my opinion, a matter for all of us.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-17_U54	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-17_U55	The next question is for Finance Minister Sven Sester. The question is asked by Dmitri Dmitriev.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-17_U56	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Minister, thank you very much. Today we are talking about the crisis in the energy and oil shale sectors. In good times, when the price of the oil barrel was at $100, the oil shale sector strongly supported the state budget with labour taxes and environmental charges and the budgets of local governments. The oil shale sector is of economic importance; the economic development and social well-being of Ida-Viru County, which is also the country's second largest region, depends on this sector. We know the overall position of this sector. Since the adoption of this year's state budget has taken into account the increase in both resource charges and oil shale oil excises, have analyses been carried out on how much the deterioration of the oil shale sector could have an impact on the state budget as a whole, both due to the reduction in taxes and different charges? Have other ministries discussed as soon as possible measures to help create some stability in the oil shale sector and also in the state budget and to maintain jobs in Ida-Viru County?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-17_U57	Thank you, dear questioner. Good Parliament! Again, this is a topical issue, I think, which has essentially passed over last year when oil shale oil and electricity prices in the world fell to a low level. The Government of the Republic of Estonia is actually taking steps on this subject and is following developments in the market in real life. You ask what concrete steps these are. We start with the state's own company, or Eesti Energia. You certainly noticed the news last year that, when the State initially planned to make additional dividends of EUR 95 million from the state company in 2015, in order to strengthen the company's capital structure, this amount was reduced by almost a third. Instead of EUR 95 million, dividends of EUR 61.9 million were one of the positive consequences of this policy. If we're talking about the whole sector, what have we done? We have paid attention to this issue. As Minister of Finance, I have sent a request to the largest companies (Estonian Energia, Viru Chemistry Group, Kiviõli Chemical Industry, etc.) to report on problems and their proposals. The answers have come today. The Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications and the Ministry of the Environment work in the context of potential resource and environmental charges. If you give me two more minutes to talk about this with the next question, I will tell you more about what thoughts are and where we want to go.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-17_U58	Dmitri Dmitriev, the point to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-17_U59	Thank you, Minister. I'm going to ask you more specifically about the local government budgets. Many of the so-called oil shale municipalities depend on the same resource fee paid to the state budget and then returned to the local government budgets. The situation is that some municipalities in Ida-Virumaa suffer from the fact that the resource fee is no longer collected. Companies have received so much help here that they can pay it later if the tax is deferred. However, how can it be resolved that the local authority must take into account a much smaller budget? Has it been designed and certain steps taken? Have local governments even addressed the government on this issue?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-17_U60	Thank you, good questioner. Everyone needs to adapt to falling prices and declining market conditions: companies working in this market, central government and local authorities. It's a reality. Let us take an example specifically of the oil shale market. The company pays the state a number of different levels of taxes, it pays resource and pollution charges, when people are at work, and consequently it has to pay income and social tax, and eventually it receives profits and possible dividend payments. If the State adopts a decision to reduce any payments related to pollution or resource charges, it will also reduce the income base of local authorities. It should be viewed quite differently: would a possible decision not to do anything create a situation where one or the other company would close the shop in this sector at all? In this case, not only resource fees will not be collected, but also income and social taxes will not be collected. Income tax, as you know, is also part of the local government tax base. Perhaps we are in a situation where we need to think that if the state reduces the resource charges for companies paid to the state budget, then the state budget will therefore lose revenue, but perhaps because of this we will be able to retain jobs in one company or another. Those are the decisions. There is certainly pressure at both central and local government levels. These are the decisions: do we want jobs to be preserved, and if we want to, we will most likely also have to reduce our revenue base. The reduction of the revenue base is illustrated by the analysis of the short term.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-17_U61	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-17_U62	The next question is for the Minister of State Administration, Arto Asa. Arthur Talvik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-17_U63	Thank you, Chairman. Good minister! I am asking about the part of the administrative reform of the self-government reform. When it comes to self-government reform, you often talk about efficiency, local government boundaries, benefits or, let's say, compensation for local government leaders, you talk about the objectives of the local government reform. However, you have certainly had a lot of time to think about what the idea of self-government reform is.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-17_U64	Thank you. The meaning of the municipal reform is stated in these same objectives. I repeat myself: the aim is to provide people with better services, to improve the competitiveness of rural areas in particular, and, by expanding this idea, to ensure that the living conditions on every end of Estonia are not forced to move to or out of metropolitan areas because of the poor living environment. The aim of this reform is to make municipalities stronger, to move towards a Scandinavian model where local governments are larger in terms of their territory and population, as well as their capacity and role in organising society. That's the vision in front of me. Indeed, we are reducing the number of municipalities, reducing fragmentation, the very large difference in the capacity and size of the local authorities that is now. After all, the population of municipalities ranges from 100 to 440000 inhabitants. In the case of such a fragmented and bright picture, it is extremely difficult to foresee effective funding models or division of tasks. Harmonisation is, in my view, inevitable if we want to have strong, independent, central authority balancing authorities. These are the objectives of the reform.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-17_U65	Arthur Talvik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-17_U66	Thank you for your answer. In his article on the previous Sirbis, Kaarel Tarand referred very well to the fact that when the Constitution talks about municipalities in their own form, the current draft is about them in what form. But how does the reform of self-government enhance democracy in Estonian society?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-17_U67	Thank you. It creates a variety of possibilities. There are studies that say that, although from a distance, it may seem that a small municipality is well democratic and close to the community, reality is often something else, because there is no functioning democracy or healthy competition in the management of a local government, which also requires a certain 'critical population'. Of course, it's not like that everywhere. Secondly, we can say that we are creating opportunities for developing the internal democracy of the municipality. I am thinking of the regulation of much-spoken areas, the general principles of which we definitely want to write into the law. Then you can set up a local representative body, which the municipality has different ways of involving: it can be used to go beyond what is called internal management, but who wants to, it can leave him with more representation function. That would be up to the municipality. The autonomy of the municipality must be respected in the organisation of the internal governance model. What are the positive experiences from the past? You can ask the leaders of the rural municipality of Märjamaa if you don't believe me, but the village movement has also gained a positive boost since the merger. There have been some tools and clearer regulation on how to support the village movement and non-profit organisations at all. So this has also been a positive push for the village movement, which I have deep respect for. So there are possibilities for improvement. I believe that the democratic situation will certainly not deteriorate.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-17_U68	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-17_U69	Thank you, manager. Minister, thank you very much. First of all, I ask what interesting and wonderful change the Reform Party has undergone. The Reform Party has basically been torpedoing the administrative reform for 15 years, all the plans that have been brought here have been rejected. What is the reason for this change now? Then I can keep asking. I understand you want to put local governments in boxes with at least 5,000 people first. But at the same time, you are not talking at all about the tasks and funding of local governments. In my opinion, funding and tasks should start, although after that the optimal limits will also be reached. I am concerned, however, that there is no consensus in the coalition on the implementation of administrative reform. As far as I know, even coalition partners have tabled over several hundred amendments. How do you comment on that? I know that some of the members of the coalition have already praised that one of the great acts of the government is an administrative reform, but it seems to me that this does not go any further than the partnership law. Or do you have another opinion?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-17_U70	Thank you. The government coalition is certainly in full agreement that the reform must be implemented successfully. There are, of course, different concepts in the nuances, both among coalition partners and within political parties, among others in the Centre Party. Speaking face-to-face with people, there is a different story in front of the cameras in the Chamber of the Riigikogu. Although I must say that the meeting with the local government leaders of the Central Party passed well in a constructive atmosphere. Thank you for this meeting. But, yes, there are different opinions in the Centre Party when you think Erki Savisaar made a proposal to cut up the municipalities, but Edgar Savisaar is very afraid of it in Tallinn. So make up your mind, guys! But I say we will definitely do this reform. This is one of the most important reforms of this government, one of the five priorities being administrative reform and curbing peripheralisation. We have prepared financing models and proposals for finding additional funding for municipalities after the reform and overcoming the objective difficulties of coping in those regions which are further away from the centres of attraction. A proposal is being prepared that specifically concerns peripheral areas and scattered areas. So we are dealing with both the merger of municipalities and other sectoral changes, including the resolution of financing problems.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-17_U71	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-17_U72	Prime Minister Taavi Rõivas will now answer Mart Helme's question. Please, Mart Helme!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-17_U73	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Prime Minister! We can see that the economic environment is rather turbulence. It is clear internationally that the economy is currently in crisis, while in other countries the demand for services and goods in Estonia has clearly decreased. Both the migration crisis and the Russian crisis and sanctions have an impact here. At the same time, we see that either as a result of these processes or for some other reason (e.g. swine plague) Estonian agriculture is in a very difficult situation. In this situation, does the government have a longer plan to act when the energy sector needs to be reformed and the euro subsidies are decreasing, or is the government purely on fire-fighting?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-17_U74	Thank you, good questioner! I suggest you get acquainted with the coalition agreement. There are many answers to your questions. Estonia has a few options in a situation where the global economy is going to be worse than average. One option is to declare a crisis, to complain and to say that we are not dependent on anything here, and to fall into black depression, which in turn would have a negative impact on economic growth. In my opinion, it is much wiser to choose to do our own things calmly and to know what is what will improve Estonia's situation compared to the rest. Moving towards greater added value and a smarter economy is one of these things, as is the administrative reform and the need to help people who have been excluded from work due to deteriorating health, to reduce labour taxes and to look consistently for places where red tape can be reduced. It is no coincidence that the Estonian business environment is considered one of the best in Europe. This is because there is determined work to be done, which must also be continued when the external environment gives negative signals. It would be extremely foolish to start changing course from the surface of every negative external news report and trample under all the right things that have been done over time. It must be done as we ourselves think it is right to focus on Estonia's strengths and build the future on it.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-17_U75	We have one minute and ten seconds. Mart Helme will be able to ask and the Prime Minister will answer.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-17_U76	Thank you. Mr. Prime Minister! What you've read is to put out the fire. My question was whether the government had a long plan. What is in the coalition agreement is all very nice, but the coalition agreement does not reflect all the changes that have taken place internationally and also within Estonia. So my question is still whether Estonia has a long plan that extends over a longer period than the reign of this government.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-17_U77	Thank you. I would suggest that you get acquainted with the speech I gave in Saku Suurhall just before the parliamentary elections. I said there that Estonia's goal is to become a new Nordic country, and I described the values that will help us achieve it. I really hope that this speech will be read not only by you but also by other members of the EKRE. Maybe there's some food for thought, maybe there's some food for thought about which Estonia we think our children should be able to live in. Is Estonia an open, tolerant and rapidly developing country for the new, or is it an encapsulated country and automatically rejecting everything from strangers? I think there's something to think about for a lot of members of your party.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-17_U78	Thank you, Prime Minister. Thank you, Minister Arto Aas! Thank you, Minister Sven Sester. Question Time is over.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-17_U79	Good fellows, honourable Riigikogu, good afternoon! We will begin the 5th working week session of the 3rd plenary session of the Riigikogu on Wednesday. First of all, I would like to ask those members of the Riigikogu who wish to hand over the drafts or inquiries to the Riigikogu. Please, Andres Herkel!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-17_U80	Mr President! Honourable representatives of the people! When an inquiry is made, the President of the Riigikogu often asks to clarify whether the inquiry has been handed over on behalf of the members of the Riigikogu. Indeed, it is clear from the Rules of Procedure that we are not being asked by the political groups. However, there are very rare cases where inquiries are made by several political groups. However, I now have the honour of handing over the representatives of the three opposition groups, with a total of 20 signatures, to the Prime Minister on jobs and large-scale redundancies. In particular, these problems, which were raised in Question Time on very many issues and which are linked to redundancies in Ida-Virumaa, PKC problems and problems of economic growth, more precisely by saying that we do not see optimism here very or not at all, are so acute that they must be understood in such a more general form by the Prime Minister, who primarily bears the responsibility of the government. Of course, it would be nice if the members of the waking coalition could continue to be involved in such enquiries. So let's wait for an answer. Probably about a month from now, when the Prime Minister comes to answer, this question will already be presented to you by Kadri Simson, head of the Centre Party Group.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-17_U81	I ask for the Riigikogu's speech chair, Remo Holsmer!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-17_U82	Ladies and gentlemen, The Finance Committee initiates the draft decision of the Riigikogu 'Enlargement of the reserve capital of the Bank of Estonia'. The purpose of this draft is to enable Eesti Pank to continue to increase its reserve capital by 200 million euros, to a total of 300 million euros. Paragraph 27 (2) of the Eesti Pank Act provides that the Riigikogu decides whether or not to continue increasing reserve capital to equity. In the decision of the Supervisory Board of Eesti Pank of 28 April 2015 on the distribution of Eesti Pank's profit in 2014, Eesti Pank's reserve capital was equal to Eesti Pank's core capital, which is currently 100 million euros. As a result, Eesti Pank cannot decide on the distribution of profit in 2015 before the Riigikogu decides on reserve capital. The bill was initiated by the Committee on Monetary Affairs in consensus at its meeting yesterday.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-17_U83	Good fellows, I don't see any more calls. On behalf of the Board of the Riigikogu, I have adopted one inquiry and one draft, and according to our Home and Rules of Procedure Act, the Management Board of the Riigikogu decides on their further processing. Now, please, let's do the presence check! 79 members of the Riigikogu registered as present; no 22. Dear colleagues, there are a number of clarifications on today's agenda. If you don't mind, I'll read them. Firstly, at the debate on today's first item, 169 draft radiation laws initiated by the Government of the Republic at first reading, the Minister of Justice, Urmas Reinsalu, will make a presentation on behalf of the Government of the Republic. Secondly, at the debate on today's second item, the draft law amending the law on public transport initiated by the members of the Riigikogu, Deniss Borodichi and Urve Palo, at first reading, will be presented by Jaanus Marrand, Member of the Economic Commission. Thirdly, the Group of the Estonian Centre Party has proposed not to discuss the third item on today's agenda, the first reading of the Riigikogu's decision to propose to the Government of the Republic submitted by the Group of the Estonian Centre Party. According to § 73 (2) of the Riigikogu Rules of Procedure and Homes Act, the discussion of this point is postponed to the next working week.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-17_U84	It is a great honour for me to begin the procedure for the Wednesday agenda items. The first item is the first reading of a draft radiation law 169 initiated by the Government of the Republic. Urmas Reinsalu, Minister of Justice of the Speaking Chair of the Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-17_U85	Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Good people's representation! The Government has submitted a new comprehensive text of the radiation law to Parliament for discussion. This is because, in the context of the codification of environmental law, the current text of the radiation law is intended to be replaced by a new text. Of course, the most important consideration in the field of radiation is to ensure safety requirements. This draft concerns all authorities and undertakings that use sources or handle radioactive waste. Following the entry into force of the law, a number of steps have also been taken to reduce the administrative burden, which I am now pointing out. Following the entry into force of the Act, low-risk practices such as the use of dental X-rays can be authorised without a time limit instead of the current five-year licence. So far, applications for authorisations for practices of different levels of risk have been dealt with on the same basis. Given that 70 per cent of the approximately 550 radiological permits issued in Estonia have been granted for low-risk activities, it does indeed take an unreasonable amount of working time. Following the entry into force of the law, applicants for authorisation will have a lower burden, and also radiation specialists will be able to focus more on precisely moderate and high-risk practices. The new law also regulates the area of radioactive waste. For example, in the case of natural radioactive material, a further distinction can be made between residues that can be processed and waste that is not intended for further use. The distinction between natural radioactive waste shall be eliminated. Until now, such waste was allowed to be stored at its source, but in the future it will be a reasonable option to transfer it to a waste facility for a period of five years. The government will present this draft law to Parliament for discussion, provided that these changes motivate companies to think more fully and systematically about the management of radioactive waste. It is also important that the draft seeks to create a more systematic framework for the activities of the various authorities in the context of radiation accidents, compared to the fragmented legislation in the field of radiation safety at different times. This draft will reduce the administrative burden, the generation of radioactive waste is expected to decrease, and their management should be considered in the future, and this is the most important and the central value of this draft should improve the response capacity to radiation accidents. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-17_U86	Minister, thank you. You have at least one question. Andres Anvelt, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-17_U87	Thank you. Minister of Justice! I am pleased that you are the one who is reporting this bill today, because now I have the opportunity to ask you about the procedure prior to this bill. Was the drafting of this important draft law on entrepreneurship and the population preceded by the drafting of an intention to develop? If not, for what reason?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-17_U88	Thank you. The rules for reducing the volume of legislation must be complied with without exception. It is clear that all these requirements are met by this codification project. Moreover, I would like to cite this draft as an example of impeccable preparation for legislative action. Unfortunately, in legislative practice, there are not rare situations where the government has come to Parliament with an explanatory statement stating that implementing acts need to be adopted, but there are no implementing acts themselves. I would like to acknowledge that the Government of the Republic has submitted separate texts of 15 comprehensive implementing acts, both three regulations of the Government of the Republic and a draft act to be adopted at the level of 12 ministers. So an impact analysis of the social impacts has been carried out within the framework of a codification which, in substance, includes a design plan and has developed implementing acts. This will also enable the legislator to make a prudent choice.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-17_U89	Andres Anvelt, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-17_U90	Thank you. That was a very convincing speech, but I will ask a simple question and hope to get a very simple answer. Was the draft drawn up in the preparatory procedure the intention to develop, for which the Ministry of Justice is quite right, or was it not? The answer is either yes or no.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-17_U91	There was an intention to develop, or plan for the implementation of the codification project, as part of this environmental law codification. There was no plan to develop, as is the case with individual laws, because it is a codification project. Why does the government have a separate regime for codification projects that regulate a single area of law in a comprehensive way? The starting point is that the impact analysis contained in the intention to develop and the reasons why a specific codification project needs to be launched are, of course, to be carried out. All these impeccable legislative requirements were fulfilled by this draft law as one but not a minor element of the codification of environmental law.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-17_U92	Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-17_U93	Thank you. Honourable Minister of Justice! The government has authorized you to introduce this bill to the Riigikogu. I'm sure you've made the radiation field very clear to yourself, and you're feeling and feeling it very well now. I therefore have a question for you. How do you feel about this hall radiating positive energy or not? Or do you also sense different radiation from different areas of the hall? How do you feel?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-17_U94	I think there's definitely radiation in this law. According to the bill, radiation is exposure to ionising radiation. I am sure that the various radiations described in this law will affect people both inside and outside this Chamber. Indeed, during the discussion of the draft law in the Commission, the question arose as to whether the word 'influence' should be replaced by 'impact', so that radiation would then have the effect of ionising radiation on humans. The government supported this change. I think that the use of terms must be precise. This hall will certainly radiate a society with various feelings and emotions and trigger reactions, both positive and different.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-17_U95	Jaanus Marrand, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-17_U96	Thank you! Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. Based on the previous question and this in-depth approach here now, I wonder if a foil cap would help against radiation here and elsewhere.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-17_U97	It is certainly important to comply with all legal and health requirements for the management of hazardous and radioactive waste. I would like to point out that this draft law, too, by regulating the field of radiation, does not claim to absolute regulation in the field of radiation. Indeed, there is no regulation of radon-induced radiation in living quarters, radiation from cosmic radiation on the ground or radiation from radiation from the earth's crust, which is left untouched by human activity, above the ground. These areas fall outside the scope of the regulation of this draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-17_U98	Minister, thank you. No further questions. Please present the speech chair of the Riigikogu to Meelis Mälberg, member of the environmental committee.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-17_U99	Mr President, thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Environment Committee discussed 169 draft radiation laws initiated by the Government of the Republic at its meeting on 8 February. The draft was presented to the Commission by Marko Pomerants, Minister for the Environment, and Evelyn Müürsepp, Head of Climate and Radiation Department of the Ministry of the Environment. The Minister gave him, in his own colourful way, an overview of the contents of the draft. The main points of the draft text were also presented very well here by the Minister of Justice, so I am not going to read it all again, but I am going to talk about the debate in the Commission. Members of the Commission were interested in the state of storage of radioactive waste in Estonia. The Minister and the Head of the Climate and Radiation Department explained that so far radioactive waste has been stored in an intermediate warehouse in Paldiski, but there is no place for final disposal in Estonia. However, common international practice requires each country to store nuclear waste on its territory as a rule. According to current plans, Estonia could have its nuclear waste disposal site by 2037. The calculation of the cost of setting up this storage facility is ongoing, estimated to amount to EUR 70 million. However, the committee confirmed that Estonia can only build a new nuclear installation once the Riigikogu has decided on it. Mr Rein Ratas, Member of the Commission, drew attention to the possibilities for interpreting the concept used in several drafts and recommended that language editors be consulted, which was allowed to be done between the two readings. Finally, the Minister stressed once again that the draft law under discussion was a complete text and drafted in the course of the codification of environmental law. There are no fundamental changes compared to the current law. The Committee on the Environment then took its decisions. All decisions were taken in a consensual manner and sound as follows: to propose putting a draft 169 on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu by 16 February 2016, to propose ending the first reading of the draft 169, to propose setting the deadline for the submission of 169 amendments at 16 a.m. on 1 March 2016 and to appoint Raivo Põldaru, member of the Environment Committee, as rapporteur for the draft 169. The last decision was discussed again by the Committee on the Environment at its meeting on 15 February and then the 169 Rapporteurs of the draft law were appointed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-17_U100	Good waitress, thank you! There are no questions. Sorry, I was too impatient! There are questions, though. Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-17_U101	Thank you. I'm sorry I pressed the button at the last minute! Dear waitress, Undoubtedly, none of us in this hall are, for example, a specialist in the general release of radionuclides as a result of radiation activity or in any other of these areas. You mentioned that this draft does not make any radical changes to existing laws. But can you tell me if this draft generally strengthens the existing rules or makes some kind of simplification and relief?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-17_U102	I've been working on this really big bill, and I have this feeling that he'd rather make it clear. It can be said that at least one place it simplifies the existing regulation. Apparently, we're all in contact with dental services at times. So far, dental X-rays had to apply for authorisation for a period of five years, but since the risk of radiation is low there, this authorisation is now granted for an indefinite period. There will be a reduction in bureaucracy in this respect and professionals will be able to devote themselves to analysing major sources of danger.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-17_U103	Any more questions? No, it's not. Thank you, waitress. Do the representatives of the political groups wish to negotiate? You don't want to negotiate. The lead committee has proposed to close the first reading of draft 169. I will set the deadline for the submission of 169 amendments at 16 a.m. on 1 March. The first reading is closed and the first item is also dealt with.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-17_U104	Let's move on to the second item. The first reading of the draft law amending the Public Transport Act initiated by the members of the Riigikogu, Deniss Borodichi and Urve Palo begins. Please present the speech chair of the Riigikogu Deniss Borodichi, member of the Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-17_U105	Good chairman of the sitting! Ladies and gentlemen, There has been a great deal of talk here about redundancies and what we should do to prevent them. I think that is the purpose of this bill. It does not help to create new jobs, but it does at least help to preserve existing ones. This draft will help resolve the specific problem that arose after the adoption of the new, codified Public Transport Act. This law entered into force on 1 October of last year. The law introduced a number of new concepts and provided for a number of licences necessary to provide taxi services. One new document is a service card issued by the municipality, which must be received before 1 April 2016 in order to provide this service in the future. The Act lists the documents that need to be submitted in order to obtain the licence required for the provision of the service. One of these documents is a certificate of proficiency in Estonian at least B1. What's the problem? Most of the problem concerns Ida-Virumaa. The total number of taxi drivers there varies between 500 and 600, but this document is currently in the hands of around 2%. This means that 98% do not have this document. By 1 April of this year, these people will not receive a new service card, or license, and will lose their job. Those who have been to Narva, in particular, have seen that taxiing is a very popular service among citizens, which is used by many. The inhabitants of Narva would also largely lose this service. What's the solution? Solution 1 is the easiest thing to do: close your eyes and do nothing. Yeah, people get unemployed, but what the hell? Option 2 is to extend the deadline, i.e. to grant an additional transitional period for the receipt of the service provider card, for example, so that this deadline is not on 1 April, as is currently the case, but is granted an additional year, two or more years. However, the Government of the Republic and the Association of Car Carriers did not agree to this. First of all, many taxi drivers have already received the service card because, although we are currently talking about the concerns of Ida-Virumaa, the rules and these provisions apply to all taxi drivers who work or intend to work in Estonia, there are no regional differences here. As there are many other requirements for receiving a card, it is not reasonable to extend the transitional period. The third option, which we discussed in the Commission and the text of which you have amended as a draft on the table, is to link the document proving the proficiency of the Estonian language from the process of obtaining a licence. This means, in principle, that the situation that existed in taxicabs before 1 October 2015 will be brought back. What's that gonna do? This will, firstly, give these taxi drivers the opportunity to continue their work and, secondly, as I said, give people the opportunity to continue to use this service. When I spoke with my colleague, Urve Palo, in the Committee on Economic Affairs, this proposal was supported. I ask you all to support this bill, because it is a very important draft. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-17_U106	Good waitress, thank you! You have questions. Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-17_U107	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, Please, could you elaborate on this requirement of Estonian language proficiency? I couldn't quite figure out if it was going to disappear at all, or if it was still going to be.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-17_U108	In fact, this requirement has been in force all the time, as long as the language law has been in force. There is also a regulation of the Government of the Republic "Requirements for the knowledge and use of the Estonian language of an official, employee and self-employed person', which states that a public transport worker must speak Estonian at level B1. However, the current Public Transport Act made obtaining a licence dependent on the existence of this paper. If we untie it now, it does not mean that a person automatically gets rid of the obligation to learn the Estonian language, but it gives these people who, by the way, very many learn the language the opportunity to get a license. Language levels vary, some people may take a few months to study, some two years and others may take more time. That way, we can approach people individually.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-17_U109	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-17_U110	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! In my opinion, language policy is one of the most important things about integration. For example, a small Danish country has taken such a rigid view of the refugee issue that it is better not to come to Denmark if it does not speak the language. Have you not discussed the possibility of a longer period of compliance with language requirements when issuing a service card and, at the same time, of developing national language learning programmes for these people so that they can learn the language they need for about a year? I believe that they themselves will have much more opportunities in the future than they have a tongue in their mouth.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-17_U111	No one will dispute that the more languages you know, the smarter and more intelligent you are and the more opportunities you have. But the focus of this draft is public transport and the documents needed to continue or start work in this area, i.e. to obtain a licence. We do not believe that integration policies need to be implemented by means of the Public Transport Act. There are other measures to that end. With this change, we do not improve integration, but we must pay special attention to it. I happen to be a member of the Integration Foundation Board, and I know that the Council applied to the Ministry of Culture for additional money to enable people to learn Estonian for free. Often, especially in Ida-Virumaa, this side of the fee remains a stumbling block. You know language courses cost hundreds of euros. Looking at the standard of living there, it is clear that very many families cannot afford it. But the second idea, which I very much like and which has been moving around here in recent weeks, is to establish an Estonian competence centre in Narva and thus create an Estonian language environment. It is precisely this lack that may be the biggest problem in Narva. Very many Estonians do not meet there, so the practice is actually missing. If a person has ever learned Estonian, but is unable to speak Estonian, the language skills will disappear. I can speak in my own example. I used to learn Norwegian, but it was 15 years ago. Since then, I have not practiced Norwegian, and I can no longer do this right now. The same way I have stories about the French I once learned. So the language environment is very important. Secondly, the same competence centre would provide an opportunity to organise free language courses for both volunteers and schoolchildren, for example. The level of language skills would certainly be better. I also think that the more languages you know, the more competitive you are and the greater the benefit the country has of you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-17_U112	Meelis Mälberg, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-17_U113	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, Ida-Virumaa is a country with a very beautiful nature and a city with a very rich history of Narva. There are more and more tourists in this area of Estonia, as well as foreign tourists. Can you tell me what the language skills of taxi drivers in this area are more widely? Can they treat their customers with dignity and place them where they want to be?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-17_U114	Thank you. That's a good question. I've been monitoring the media and communicating myself with my friends who have used this service in Narva, for example. Nobody said they couldn't handle the service. Everyone received the requested service. What is the purpose of the taxi service? Getting from point A to point B. The taxi driver must have the language skills to be able to provide this service. But, as you mentioned, domestic tourism is also evolving. I think it will benefit Ida-Virumaa in terms of the language environment, because the more Estonians go to Narva and Ida-Virumaa in general, the more opportunities local people get to practice the Estonian language, and the more easily they get into their mouths.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-17_U115	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-17_U116	Thank you. Honourable waitress! It seems to me that the content of this draft can be summarised in such a way as to exclude these requirements from the Public Transport Act, so the Language Inspectorate and the local government will probably deal with this issue and they will deal with it in the same way that they have dealt with it so far. There are many problems to be solved and there are many service providers that need to be checked. Everything goes on the same way it did before. There hasn't been much progress here in 20 years. The story was that perhaps only 2% of taxi drivers there speak Estonian. What is the basis on which this optimism is based, that any action will lead to a breakthrough?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-17_U117	Thank you. Firstly, optimism is caused by the fact that in recent times people working in this sector have been quite involved, and it has become clear that a lot of people want to learn the language. A lot of people even sign up for classes. I guess that's what shows people's will. Of course, the level of language skills, as I said, is really very different. But one of the reasons for this is the same language environment I was talking about. There is no material opportunity to acquire a language. It's not that simple. It is really much easier to learn Estonian in Saaremaa, because there is a different language environment. But if we look at Narva, for example, where there are no Estonians in general, it is harder there, even once you have acquired the language, it can still slip away from your mind. Indeed, the more we develop, for example, domestic tourism, as my colleague Meelis Mälberg said, and the more we take state structures into this region, the more the Estonian-language environment will occur there. I also recommend you, go to Ida-Virumaa, go to Narva, communicate in Estonian. This gives Narva an opportunity to hear and practice more Estonian.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-17_U118	Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-17_U119	A comment if you like. Think of it as a question.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-17_U120	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, Above all, I would like to thank you and Mr Palo for your work on this subject and for the direction you have taken. To what has sounded here, I would like to add, first of all, that Narva's taxicab rules actually prohibit a taxi driver from talking to a driver. He needs to be focused on work, he can't talk anecdotes, play tour guide or anything like that. Point 2, ordering a taxi is through the operator, and those who sit by the phone still speak more than one or two languages. All a cab driver needs to hear is the address he needs to go to.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-17_U121	Please ask me a question!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-17_U122	I thought it was a very good addition. Really, taxi service is what I mentioned to be able to drive from point A to point B. The taxi driver does not have to be an entertainer. Nor does the Public Transport Act provide for it to be offered by an entertaining party. He doesn't have to be a friend or anyone else. He really only has to provide the service, i.e. take the customer to the desired destination.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-17_U123	Good colleagues, there's a round of questions right now. Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-17_U124	Thank you. Honourable waitress! I've been driving a cab in Narva even though I haven't ordered a cab from a dispatcher. In general, I've managed completely, I don't have much of a memory of it. But on Mr Stalnukhin's question, I will now specify. Is it true that the local government in Narva has started solving the language problem by closing the mouth of taxi drivers, and the taxi driver is better off not talking to the customer at all? If that's the case, it's a pretty interesting precedent.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-17_U125	Thank you. You also understand that no government or any law can shut anyone's mouth. This certainly is not the case in Narva. But when you come back to the content of the service, it is not an entertainment service, but a service for which the customer pays. This service, as you yourself have experienced, works perfectly. You did it, didn't you?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-17_U126	Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-17_U127	Thank you. Good colleague! I want to be more specific. The taxi driver must have a service card provided by the local government. I want to expand my knowledge. Do service providers in another sphere, such as seamstressers, have to take this card from the local government or not?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-17_U128	Those seamstressers who want to provide taxi services must definitely take them. This card is issued by the local government to give the right to work to taxi drivers who meet certain criteria. If a seamstress, a miner or someone else wants to provide taxi services, all these requirements apply to them too.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-17_U129	Good waitress, thank you! No further questions. Please present the speech chair of the Riigikogu, member of the Economic Committee Jaanus Marrand!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-17_U130	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, On 26 January this year, Urve Palo and Deniss Borodichi, members of the Riigikogu, discussed the draft law amending the Law on Public Transport. The initiators presented the content and purpose of the draft. As the content of the draft had been discussed with the initiator's representative here for a long time, I will only briefly note that according to the Public Transport Act, the requirement will apply from 1 April 2016 that when applying for a taxi driver's service card, a document certifying Estonian proficiency at B1 level is required. As such a requirement raises problems for a large number of taxi drivers in Ida-Virumaa, a draft was initiated to mitigate the situation that, until 1 April 2017, a person who does not have a passenger card may also work as a driver in taxi transport. This would have given these people the opportunity to improve their Estonian language skills over the course of the year to the extent that it would later be possible to apply for a service card. That was the original content of the bill. The Economic Committee decided to submit the draft as amended to the Riigikogu. I will now present the course of the debate. At the meeting of the Economic Commission, Ain Tatter, Head of the Roads and Railways Department of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, and Sander Salmu, Head of Transport and Traffic Services of the same department, presented the Government's position. The Government of the Republic supported the draft in principle but did not support the postponement of the requirement to hold the service card as a whole. This was also not supported by the Association of Car Companies in its referral to the Economic Commission. The Association of Car Companies mentioned, among other things, that many law-abiding taxi drivers have already obtained and paid state fees for the service card. The Government's opinion pointed out that for many taxi drivers, delaying the requirement by one year may not produce the desired results, and in a year's time the situation could be exactly the same as it is today. According to the representatives of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, one way of achieving the objective of the draft would be to exclude the requirement of language levels and proof of language levels from the text of the Public Transport Act, as the requirement for language levels arises from the language law in force and is not directly required to be dealt with in the Public Transport Act. The Language Inspectorate and local authorities will continue to be responsible for monitoring compliance with the language requirement. In the debate, the members of the Commission stated that language mathematics really did not fall directly within the remit of either the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications or the Committee on Economic Affairs. The requirement to submit a document was included in the Public Transport Act, in particular because the requirements relating to the professional activities of taxi drivers were recorded as exhaustively, clearly and intelligibly as possible in a single law. It would also, of course, have reduced the administrative burden of supervision. During the preparation of the bill, the representatives of taxi drivers were closely involved in the proceedings and no one here saw the problem. As a result of the consultation, the Commission agreed to amend the wording of the draft in such a way that the requirement to have a service card is not postponed, but subsections 57 (1) (3) and 58 (3) (4) are deleted from the current Public Transport Act, which provide for the obligation for taxi drivers to provide proof of language level when applying for a service card. There were 6 Commission members in favour of this proposal, one against and no abstentions. The amended text submitted for the first reading of the draft was reviewed before being submitted to plenary and approved at the meeting of the Commission on 8 February. It was also decided to propose to the Riigikogu that the first reading be closed and that the deadline for submitting amendments be set at 12 noon on 23 February. These decisions were taken by consensus. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-17_U131	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, do you have any questions for the waitress? No, it's not. Do the representatives of the political groups wish to negotiate? They do. I'm opening negotiations. Mr Urve Palo, representative of the Group of the Social Democratic Party of the Riigikogu, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-17_U132	President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a good opportunity to get free water when you come to perform. In my view, it shows that it is a strong personality or a viable organization, the courage to admit faults and, if necessary, to make changes in their activities and to show flexibility. The same is true for the country. We want our country to care about its citizens. There is no country without citizens, and the country is just as strong and caring as its citizens. Such a country is also viable. On 1 October last year, a Public Transport Act was adopted, which stipulated that in six months' time, only six months later, the taxi driver must, among other things, be able to speak Estonian at B1 level in Narva. I dare say that the introduction of this requirement in the Public Transport Act was a mistake. The mistake was not to expect servicers in Estonia to speak Estonian. The mistake was that we tried to solve integration issues, which have not been resolved in many areas in 20 years, in six months. Unfortunately, many jobs have been lost in Ida-Virumaa in recent times. The state may also be responsible for the loss of these jobs, as some decisions have been delayed. But not directly. We in this country cannot have much influence on the market price of oil. However, we should not cause people to lose their jobs by doing or not doing what we do. Right now we're talking about almost 500 people in Narva. In my opinion, it is only right to recognise that it is unreasonable to resolve integration issues in the Public Transport Act. Surprisingly, in the course of the procedure for this bill in the Riigikogu, it was very much involved. As ladies and gentlemen of the Committee on Economic Affairs said, both the cab drivers' union and the urban union (which is also part of Narva) were at the table, but nobody pointed out that such a problem could and will occur. I just don't think it was noticed. It's coming. Now that this problem has been noticed, let's solve it! I am pleased that my colleague, Viktoria Ladynskaja, has done well to organise language learning in Narva and to offer people the opportunity to learn Estonian. That's the right direction. This is what the state can and must deal with. People need to be helped. If there will be an Estonian language house in the future, or whatever we call it, and much better opportunities to learn Estonian, then we may no longer have to write such things into the law, but the fact that people know the official language is something elementary. I would like to thank the Centre Party for the fact that, when we dealt with this bill in the Economic Committee, despite the fact that it is a draft coalition, the members of the Opposition Centre Party agreed with us and voted in favour of it. It shows that if it's a reasonable thing, we'll do it together and move on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-17_U133	Thank you very much. I ask for the speech chair of the Riigikogu, representative of the Group of the Isamaa and Res Publica Union, Viktoria Ladynskaja! Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-17_U134	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! This law and this amendment are very important because they give an excellent understanding not only that there are problems with this one law, but also that there are problems with the whole issue of integration. I believe that the drivers of the Narva taxi will now, to some extent, become a symbol of the solution to problematic issues. It has been said for years that the Estonian and Russian communities live in different information spaces; they exist in parallel worlds. This was partly the cause of the inter-community crises that arose in 2007 and 2009. The law on public transport is a real example that integration has bounced against the political wall. Let's start by saying that society is like a clock that works smoothly when all the gears fit well together. I am convinced that integration is a matter of security, because if one part of society feels isolated or isolated in terms of region, language, social or economic status, there is a risk that someone might use these waterfalls maliciously, or play in our failure. Now it's an example of life. From 1 April 2016, the new Public Transport Act will apply, which could result in about 500 taxi drivers in Narva becoming unemployed. The law provides for the existence of a service card and this can only be obtained if the taxi driver shows by 1 April a document certifying that he can speak Estonian at B1 level. The Estonian language skills of the Narva taxi drivers are pure zero according to the papers. This means that on 1 April there will be another 500 unemployed people in our border town. In the last year, this would not be the first time to announce that the number of unemployed in this region has increased. However, our language learning system works in such a way that if these people go to courses today, by April 1, they will not even be able to reach category B1 purely technically. So what do we do now? One part of the society says today there was also a talk here in the Riigikogu that these people have known for years that the language needs to be studied, but they just don't want it, you could think about postponing the deadline, but they still don't learn the language, and how is it possible that they have lived in Estonia for more than 20 years, but still do not speak the national language. How long can it be? I understand that view. The second part of the society, represented by the Centre Party, says: 'Listen, we have nothing against the state or language, but there is no one in Narva to speak to in Estonian. What's B1, that's a pretty tricky level for a cab driver? Why would I even start studying if I didn't make it anyway and get unemployed? ' That view also makes sense. We have a sharp problem and two camps. You can blame each other, but if we don't find a solution, who's the biggest loser in this situation? Looks like cab drivers and their families because they don't speak the language and lose their jobs. But it's actually a big loser country. The key is in the hands of politicians: a solution needs to be found that suits both sides and contributes to integration, so that both sides understand that the other side listens to them and takes them into account. I think that if local authorities in Narva were to do their job properly, we would not have to deal with this problem at all now, then there would be no problem. At the same time, it is not just local authority that must be blamed; the problem is also at national level. I asked the Integration and Migration Foundation, Our People, or MISA, to answer the question of which options are available so that taxi drivers can be taught the language. I found out three ways. First, independent learning via the Internet (language klikk.ee). Let us be realistic: this option is intended for young people rather. If a person who is 45+ and whose last learning experience is 20 years ago comes home after a long working day and knows that he only communicates in Russian in the city, then he will not go online to become a linguist. The second option is paid language courses. First you pay the money and after you pass the exam, you get your money back through Innove. What are the number of families that can pay out €300 to €400 out of their own pockets? Let us be realistic again: such people do exist, but not everyone can afford such an opportunity. The third option, which is the most real, is free language courses. Sadly, there are now 5,000 people in line who want to learn the language. As a country, we demand that people speak Estonian, but at the same time there are 5 000 people waiting in the order of language learning. These three options have been financed by the state, yes, about EUR 1 1/2 million per year, but the result is, unfortunately, questionable. Now, a concrete solution for cab drivers. Estonian state and taxi drivers need help reach an agreement, Minister of Economic Affairs and Infrastructure Kristen Michal, and we in this hall are reviewing the Public Transport Act so that people do not lose their jobs on 1 April. At the same time, Kristina Kallas, Head of Narva College, launched a new strategy for studying Estonian in the border town. We talked to him. For example, it is possible to develop a dictionary for taxi drivers. It is also possible to offer general language courses on the basis of Narva College as early as 2016, if the institution of the Ministry of Culture, Indrek Saare, provides money as a matter of urgency. Now I'm talking stereotyping. I have been told here and there that the Narva people themselves do not want to learn Estonian. When I announced that the taxi drivers in Narva might report their study request, more than 150 people signed up to my e - mail within two days. By now, there are about 200 requests. These are the people from whom the state demands the knowledge of the Estonian language, but at the same time they do not provide sufficient opportunities to meet this demand. I think the situation of taxi drivers in Narva has become a symbol of the integration problem. It cannot be demanded, but at the same time it cannot provide sufficient opportunities to meet the requirement. For language teaching and integration, we have an institution in place. This is MISA, who should now show that their activities are of real and practical benefit to society. WHAT should give those who want to learn the language the opportunity to do so as a matter of urgency. What else do we need an integration foundation for? This is a matter of honour, and it must also give the opportunity when the state makes a demand. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-17_U135	Thank you. Please ask Mikhail Stalnukhini, representative of the Estonian Central Party Group, to the Riigikogu Chair of Speech! Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-17_U136	Mr President! I don't want eight minutes. I think I'll have one minute. In reply to one of the previous speakers, I will simply say that language policy is, however, a national priority. Don't try to smear it on the local government without additional funding! But in this hall, where most of the linguists seem to have spent their life teaching the foreigners, I have nothing to say about the Estonian language, and that is not what I am going to talk about. I'm talking about something else. I have this strange feeling that the last century has come back. Here it is like the IX Riigikogu or perhaps the next, X Riigikogu from the beginning of this century. After all, it is very strange in this Chamber when someone starts dealing with the problem and, despite the slogans that should put pressure on everyone, does something for people. I've had meetings with cab company executives and employees of these companies. We then came to the conclusion that there is probably no way in Estonia that anyone is going to solve a particular problem, so there will be slogans anyway. That is why this draft has been submitted, which is currently pending. I have suspended this procedure in the committee, and if this draft we are debating today happily reaches the end of the procedure, I will withdraw this second draft. When we talked to the cab company executives, we also looked at, for example, the option that we are discussing here today as perfect in a way. But we all decided that this was absolutely impossible, both me and them. However, the fact that this proved possible, we are discussing it here, and it seems that there is no great resistance at all, but there is a certain resistance, but it seems that the hall is solidarity-based and thinks that it would be worth keeping their jobs for a minimum of 500 people, personally makes me so happy that the tear comes to my eye. So once again, thank you for initiating this draft, Mr Borodich and Mr Palo. Thank you for supporting this in the Committee on Economic Affairs. Let's hope this bill goes through. At least some very big problem with a lot of people can be solved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-17_U137	Thank you very much. No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. The lead committee has proposed to close the first reading of draft 159. I will set the deadline for tabling 159 amendments at 12 noon on 23 February. The first reading is closed and the second item is also closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-17_U138	Let's move on to the third item. The third reading of the draft law amending the Tobacco Act begins. Do the representatives of the political groups wish to negotiate? There's no call. Let us begin the preparation of the final vote. Good fellows, I'm going to vote the final vote on bill 118. Please take a stand and vote. 50 members of the Riigikogu, against 8, with 2 abstentions. Draft Act 118 amending the Tobacco Act initiated by the Government of the Republic has been adopted as a law. The third item is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-17_U139	Let's move on to item number four. The fundamentals of culture policy up to 2020 and the 2015 Implementation Report will be discussed. Allow me to briefly present the procedure before proceeding. First of all, the Minister of Culture, Indrek Saare, gives a presentation that lasts up to 30 minutes, and then you can ask him questions. A member of the Riigikogu may ask an oral question to the rapporteur. After that, there are negotiations during which representatives of the political groups can take the floor. The Riigikogu will not take a decision after the end of the discussion. It is a great honour for me to ask for the speech chair of the Riigikogu, Indrek Saare, Minister of Culture of the Republic of Estonia!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-17_U140	Good manager! Honourable members of the Riigikogu! Guests! The cultural policy document 'Cultural Policy Fundamentals until 2020' states that the aim of cultural policy is to shape a society of value for creativity by preserving and promoting Estonian national identity by exploring, storing and transferring cultural memory and creating favourable conditions for the development and participation in a vibrant, open and diverse cultural space. The emphasis on 'viable', 'open', 'diversified' and 'development' are not random. 24 years after the restoration of independence, we are back with the circle in discussions about what Estonian culture means. This question is always appropriate, but the question of who can be a part of it and who can be involved in its creation tends to drag us into the rubble. We hear calls to protect the breed cleaner from the foreign influences of Estonian culture, to close borders and to avoid contact with other cultures and new ideas. One proposes to ban items of clothing which are not characteristic of our cultural space, the other considers it wrong that a person of another nationality is recognised as an Estonian writer, the third needs the assistance of an expert to assess whether a young man born in Estonia and born in Estonian is still Estonian or not. This is the path on which the vitality of Estonian culture decreases with every step. The closure and attempt to build a wall around Estonian culture to protect him from contact and influence with the world is a dead end. A closed culture is a fading culture. The viability of culture is guaranteed by constant contact and intensive dialogue with other cultures. The goal of internationalisation is not only important for exports and image design; internationalisation also ensures the development and preservation of culture. To understand this, you don't have to look far away for examples. We consider singing parties to be an integral part of Estonian culture, but we took them from the German tradition. We proudly introduce the historic architectural ensemble of Tallinn's medieval Old Town and University of Tartu to foreign guests and soon also the new building of the Estonian National Museum. They all come from somewhere farther away, one way or another. We consider Yuri Lotman, the founder of cultural semiotics, to be ours, although he was born in Petrograd, of Jewish origin, and wrote all the basic works of his theory of changing the world in Russian. What would Estonian culture be without these and infinitely many smaller and larger external influences? It would probably have been a forgotten and dead culture by now. It is precisely because the Estonian culture would live, flourish and develop that two years ago the Riigikogu adopted the basic document 'The Fundamentals of Culture Policy until 2020' and obliged the government to submit an annual report on its implementation. The principles of this document have also been the basis for drawing up the development plans and work plans of the Ministry of Culture and, of course, for implementing the whole cultural policy in general. A significant part of the principles agreed in this strategy paper requires consistent and long-term planning and results cannot always be measured by calendar year. This time, in the report sent to you, we highlighted in particular those objectives that were able to be met in 2015 or where significant progress was made. We have also highlighted the choice of important activities that are currently under way. Before going to areas, I would like to talk about the pay and social guarantees of artists. Culture does not develop without people who have dedicated their lives to creating a new one, to meaning what is and to preserving their heritage. The contribution of these people gives the idea to the Estonian state, but the country has not been able or wanted to value them enough. In Culture 2020 we agreed that the minimum remuneration of highly educated cultural workers and appropriately qualified professionals will increase when they work full-time, to the average wage level in Estonia. We still have a lot of tea to go there. However, last year we took a major step forward. The Ministry of Culture, together with the Government, found the means to raise the minimum wage of these specialists by 13.5% and guaranteed a minimum income of EUR 830 for highly educated cultural workers. However, if we are to reach the 2020 target, the salary of a cultural worker must increase in the same order of magnitude in the coming years. This is certainly not going to be easy. The average gross wage for three years is already guaranteed for five artists and five writers selected by the creative associations. The aim of this artist and writer's salary flagship project, which we launched, is to enable top-class writers and artists to devote themselves to creative work over a longer period of time. Critics have called the artist's and writer's wages an outrageous and radical change. Artist and writer's salary is certainly a world-view change in cultural policy. But the only reason to call it outrageous is because, although creative people have been talking about it for years, they have not been heard before. But it's far from radical. For example, during the first period of independence, all the beloved A.H.Tammsaare and the guaranteed creative peace were the birth of our stem texts, including Andres and Pearu, Krõõt and Tiina, and all the other archetypic characters whose life between the book covers has directly influenced how and what we still think about, what we consider important and how we relate to the world. I know creation is work. Creative work must be rewarded as for any other work, thereby guaranteeing social security for the creative people. From that year, health insurance is guaranteed to all employees under a debt-law contract whose salary has been paid a total of at least a minimum amount of social tax per month. In the past, there was a requirement for a minimum rate to be received from one employer, which left those creative workers whose income came from several smaller projects without health insurance. The next step is to find a solution for those for whom the social tax received in the course of the year exceeds the minimum rate, but who are deprived of health insurance because of the unevenness of the receipts in the various months. We need to understand that the issue of social guarantees is not just about creative people, but about changing the nature of work in the 21st century. A call to do the old thing, but faster and better, we won't be moved forward. Linework is increasingly done by machines, people's success depends on their ability to create something new, good and necessary. However, such work may not be expected to have a fixed job or contract or a "mandatory" butt-hour from eight to five. The working life of an increasing number of people is beginning to be similar to that of freelance artists, so steps to ensure an elementary safety net in the event of uneven incomes are important regardless of the sector. Dear Riigikogu! We can usually choose which culture we want to share in, which film and show we watch, listen to music and watch the exhibition. However, this is often not the case for public spaces. Buildings, roads, parks and everything else that is an integral part of our living environment often shape our quality of life for decades or hundreds of years. This is why it is very important that all decisions that shape public spaces are considered and carefully considered. The residential areas built on the field, the public institutions that have been moved out of the heart of the city and the cheapest-offerer-win-wins-the-eye monsters are living proof of the mistakes that have been passed in previous years. Culture is not about quantity, it is about quality. Only a quality living environment can improve our quality of life. To achieve this, firstly, we must reach an agreement at national and local level that no buildings of public importance will be built until an open architectural competition has taken place. Secondly, in architectural and construction procurement, quality must be at least as important as price, and before deciding that a new building needs to be built, it must be ensured that this function cannot be performed by any unusable building. Thirdly, we must involve architects so that we do not think through just one particular house or building, but of urban space and national planning as a whole. It is therefore extremely important that we move forward both with the improvement of the planning law and with the establishment of an architectural council. Our desire is that the growing generation better understand the importance of the variety of public space and the quality of its "living life" both in substance and in form. The Architectural Centre, in cooperation with ministries and other interested parties, has therefore started to draw up a programme for the selection of architecture courses for upper secondary schools. Discussions on the preparation of the optional course syllabus are also carried out by the Estonian Design Centre in order to establish a closer link between the upper secondary school level and local entrepreneurship, creativity and production. Design training is designed to develop the child's practical creativity. In 2015, several important investment decisions were made or construction started in the theatre area. Let us mention the decisions relating to the complete renovation of Ugala, to the rehearsal and cinema hall of Rakvere Theatre and to the renovation of the stage equipment of Vanemuine Theatre and to the start of the works of NUKU. A month ago, the government decided to expand and further develop the concept of Free Lava in Narva. Although we do not yet have accurate data for last year, it can be expected that the total number of performances will again exceed 6000. More than 200 new productions were brought out, and over a million people watched the performances. But the diversity of the theatre and the freedom of creation are considerably more important than the audience record. Last year Estonian theatre art stood out in the international arena with the next powerful steps. NO99 major project 'Single Estonia' won the main prize for the best exhibition of the world's performing artists' festival in Prague, and as the first Estonian theatre, NO99 was invited to participate in the main programme of the Avignon Theatre Festival. In order to meet the objectives set out in Culture 2020, the draft law amending the act of the performing institution will soon be on your desks. With the amendments, we want to ensure that, at the level of the law, there is an unambiguous model of funding for a public-sector body that ensures the transparency of the use of public-sector funds. This must enable the national cultural and regional importance of the performing institution to be taken into account when making financing decisions. Internationalisation and cooperation have been important keywords in the Estonian film world in recent years. The novels of Golden Globe and Oscar do not need a longer introduction. But did you know that the Estonians participated in the production of the Hollywood cashiers' Independence Day and Star Wars sequels? The brothers Kaur and Kaspar Kallas, whose company's local office is not far from here, in Kalamaja, have developed such a good solution to illuminate film productions that they have been able to succeed in an internationally competitive market and thus encourage others to think big. In order for foreign film producers to make films in Estonia, the government, on a proposal from the Ministry of Culture, found EUR 500000 to launch the "Film Estonia" flagship project, i.e. the "Film Estonia" support scheme or the "repayment fund cash" rebate, as they themselves call it. Almost all the Member States of the European Union, including Latvia, Lithuania and Finland, with which we like to compare ourselves, implement national support schemes aimed at supporting foreign production. Public money provided for such support usually returns at least four or five times, both directly and indirectly, to the national economy. I have come back with immediate impressions of the biggest cinema market in Europe, from the Berlina festival, to confirm that there is a strong international interest in the 'Film Estonia' support scheme. Now let's talk music. 2015 was the theme year of music, the aim of which was to improve the visibility and hearing of Estonian music and musicians. One of its most peculiar and brightest examples was the transmission of security reports at Tallinn Airport, which received great international attention and provided positive emotions. Last December, a long-awaited Pillifond was established under the leadership of the Ministry of Culture, whose founders were Swedbank, the Estonian National Culture Foundation and Maestro Paavo Järvi. The Foundation supports sound art by acquiring musical instruments, increasing their value and offering access to them. The Pillifond will acquire high-quality and high-value musical instruments of historical importance and give them to our top interpreters through a competition. Sadly, joy often comes with concern. My concern, and not only my concern, is the hall of the Estonian Academy of Music and Theatre or its absence. A few decades ago, the Riigikogu decided that this hall was needed. The Cultural Endowment is ready to play its part and to contribute EUR 4 million. In the near future, the opinion of the expert panel on the ASTRA measure of the European Union on the EUR 5 million requested must be clear. I hope that our common concern will be a joy. My opinion is that the completion of the EAMT hall is a priority for investment in music. Honourable Riigikogu! Writer C.S.Lewis said: "By writing I will become a thousand people, and yet I will remain myself. " Literature and books develop our empathy by giving us the opportunity to put ourselves in someone else's position, to understand the thoughts and feelings of others. Literature helps a person to develop essential skills in reading, speaking, thinking, and writing self - expression. In order for us to be able to use these thoughts in life, we need to develop our reading habits from childhood. To this end, last year we revived the tradition with the Estonian Children's Literature Centre to give a book to all children born in Estonia. The book entitled 'Small Tree' also brings along a small leaflet for parents, where suggestions are given on how to raise a child's book child. Literary friends had an important event at the end of last year when they signed a contract that gives us the assurance that Estonia will be the main guest at the London Book Fair with Latvia and Lithuania in 2018. The major event in London is Europe's second largest book fair and is considered to be among the world's most important and influential fairs. This is certainly an extraordinary opportunity to give impetus to the internationalisation of Estonian literature. At the Venice Art Biennale in 2015, Estonia was once again outside with the national pavilion. Estonian art life is also increasingly international and professionally demanding. With the help of the Ministry of Culture, the Estonian Artists' Association and Tallinn, the Tallinn Art Hall will get a new face, and the capital hall opened in 1934 can play its role with courage. Good listeners! The viability of a language space culture with a million speakers depends not only on whether and to what extent there are creators with diverse interests and need for expression, but also on how well the mechanism for disseminating and feedback culture works in the press. The second part of the study of cultural journalism commissioned by the Ministry of Culture and carried out by the Institute of Social Sciences of the University of Tartu will be completed this autumn. On this basis, decisions can be made to ensure the sustainability and quality of cultural publications and to contribute to the growth of a more demanding cultural audience. In Culture 2020 we have agreed that the country will promote the development of creative industries as part of the knowledge economy. In 2015, the cultural and creative sectors were opened up to the European Union in 2014. Funding opportunities for the financial period 2009 from a creative development measure with a total amount of EUR 20 million. Dear Riigikogu! At the beginning of my speech, I referred to the need to preserve and preserve cultural diversity. Culture 2020 states that the aim of national cultural policy is to support the integration of national minorities into the Estonian society and cultural space. ETV+, which was opened last year, allows the Russian-speaking national minority to become part of the Estonian information space and thereby facilitates integration. The 2015 integration monitoring indicated a number of positive developments, including the fact that the desire of the foreign-language population to become involved with the Estonian state has grown in many ways. The task of the state is to ensure all the conditions necessary for the integration of those who wish, including those who have not yet defined their citizenship and whose level of proficiency in the Estonian language is not sufficient to enable them to pass the Estonian citizenship exam. Interest in studying Estonian has increased: nearly 6,000 people registered for language courses in 2015 instead of the planned 500. It was a very happy surprise. It is the task of the state to ensure high-quality and modern language learning and to make good use of this window of interest and opportunities. Important and fundamental changes in the area of citizenship policy also entered into force this year. Ending the reproduction of citizenshiplessness. From this year, children born in Estonia of parents of undefined citizenship will automatically receive Estonian citizenship. Children under the age of 15, both parents of whom have undetermined citizenship and who are entitled to Estonian citizenship, will also receive Estonian citizenship if the parents do not waive this right during the year. The Citizenship Act also alleviated the requirements for people over 65 years of age; they now only have an oral examination of Estonian language. A provision came into force last year that no longer allows the minor to withdraw Estonian citizenship. We still remember well the case of the Kohtla-Järve girl. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! You probably know that the place where we are now, the hall of the Riigikogu, is, in addition to its great historical importance, a very good example of good behaviour as a building under the protection of heritage. Ideal is the situation of a heritage protected object when the heritage is well maintained and is in active use. I refer to the website of the Riigikogu, which states that the castle of Toompea has become a modern centre of government from the medieval fortress, and the various parts of the castle complex come from all the most important periods of Estonian history. Unfortunately, the situation of much of Estonia's valuable cultural heritage is not as good. The situation of a part of the privately owned inheritance is of particular concern. This is why the Ministry of Culture has prepared a heritage conservation reform. The aim of the reform is to give impetus and motivation to the owners to preserve and organise our common heritage. Thus, the first draft law on heritage conservation, which has been passed through the first round of coordination by the Government, provides that the State provides financial support to owners when ordering works specific to heritage conservation. However, this decision needs additional resources from the state budget. We're celebrating Kumu's tenth birthday this week. Congratulations to all of us! There is no doubt that 2016 will go into the history of Estonian museums with the completion of the new building of the Estonian National Museum. The new ERM creates opportunities to preserve and exhibit our cultural heritage in modern times for both Estonian and international audiences. There are 256 museums in Estonia, more or less of which the state supports only 50. The good work of our museums must be commended, as almost four million visits a year are not simply coming, but with great work. The priceless cultural heritage held in museums deserves to be made available to the widest possible audience, which is why museums have been digitising their collections for years and a central digital repository for long-term preservation is about to be completed. However, given the large number of our museums and the state budget possibilities, the museum network is being organised to enable museums to contribute more to content activities. Public libraries play an increasingly important role in ensuring access to information, developing reading habits and supporting lifelong learning, integration and integration. This year, the draft law of the National Library will be prepared in advance. One of its objectives is to see the role of libraries in the wider sense and thus to allow even better use to be made of a dense network of libraries for information exchange, as well as for the service of people. In addition to maintaining and developing the library network, an e-book lending environment is being established in cooperation with the National Library of Estonia. As a result of this year's analysis, we will choose the most suitable solution to make the possibility of lending e-books available in Estonia and elsewhere by the end of 2018. In the Riigikogu, the first reading of the draft conservation copy was completed a week ago. This draft updates the assignment, collection and preservation of publications that are important for Estonian culture. The adoption of the bill as a law makes Estonia the first country where the law obliges us to collect and store all publications digitally. This will provide the basis for the best digital heritage archives in the world. Good listeners! Culture 2020 states that the country values the important impact of the movement of song and dance in cultural and educational life and society at large. According to a study conducted in 2013 by the Song and Dance Party, even once, half of Estonia's people have participated in the party as a performer. Indirectly more than 90% of the population have been involved in the party. The future of Kalev Stadium is the key to maintaining and developing the tradition of the dance party. The dance people think of Kalev Stadium as their second home. Surely there is no news to you that the stadium is out of order and needs a big investment in the coming years. In cooperation with the dance people, the sports company Kalev and Tallinn, we have been looking for ways to ensure that the dance field can be organized with state and city grants, but at the same time sports opportunities in Tallinn will also improve. The Ministry of Culture therefore proposes to find EUR 7.4 million in preparation for the country's budget strategy for the reconstruction of Kalev Stadium for the years 2017 to 2020. It would be dignified that if we celebrated 150 years together from our first singing party in 2019 and had a 20th dance, the dancers' second home would be ready. The prerequisite for state support is the equivalent contribution of Tallinn. Dear Riigikogu! We made it back to the money. In order for the Estonian cultural space to develop, we must be able to find the means to raise creators' salaries, preserve their heritage and support new innovative initiatives. But it is foolish and essentially wrong to divide ministries into ministries of expense and income. Investment in the field of culture does not only fulfil the objectives of the Estonian Constitution and does not improve the quality of our life, but also bring money to companies, municipalities and the state. Experience in other countries shows that, for example, the funding granted to foreign producers through the film support scheme brings back four or five euros of each euro to the national budget. Seven times the money also comes back from international festivals. The destination of nearly 30% of the trips made in the European Union has been chosen in such a way that cultural heritage has been the main factor. Designed planning of public space saves a huge amount of resources. In rural areas, organised heritage conservation values can be a locomotive for the local economy and a promoter of small business. In cities, organised historical buildings increase the value of the entire area's real estate. A good example is Kalamaja and Pelgulinn nearby, as well as Karlova and Supilinn in Tartu. The resources allocated to the development of the creative sector contribute to linking the cultural and creative potential with entrepreneurship. This will encourage the growth of new companies with ambitious business models, increase export capacity and help create added value for other sectors of the economy in developing business models, products and services, sales and marketing. However, it is clear that the state budget does not have sufficient resources to make all cultural investments. Three aspects are important in order to make the best use of state budget resources and bring additional funding to the cultural sector. Firstly, we have started working to analyse the financing of culture. The aim is to make the system more transparent and easier for applicants. We are still following the goal set in Culture 2020. In particular, the Cultural Endowment supports creative people and project-based initiatives and the Ministry of Culture budget finances the main activities of state budget institutions and long-term activities of national cultural importance. Secondly, we want more private capital to be involved in supporting culture. We have socially-minded entrepreneurs who have been involved in supporting culture for a long time. Yesterday, we recognised 33 companies and individuals, or cultural friends, who volunteered for culture last year. The Pilli Fund, which started last year, is a good example of private-public cooperation. The Ministry of Culture will continue to look for ways to launch such projects and will do its best to encourage entrepreneurs to contribute more to culture. Thirdly, in the process of preparing the administrative reform, we need to agree on how opportunities for participation in and participation in the creation of culture can be guaranteed in all Estonian regions. Apart from the opportunities created by the state, the local community plays a very important role in organising cultural life. The concept of interest activities developed under the leadership of the Ministry of Culture also provides additional opportunities for the local community to ensure that all young people can participate in guided, regular and developing activities. We have developed and wish to implement a model with the sector-specific umbrella organisations, ministries and local government leaders, with good partners, on 1 September 2017. Let us not forget, then, in the course of the administrative reform, what makes us the state of our culture? Although one of the other sentences of Papa Maurus, written by Tammsaare, has often been paraphrased, I would like to use Papa Maurus's sentence to finish with it. We are living at a time when faith that fast growth will recover in the near future and that the money will be unlimited is evidently over for a while. Society is ageing and labour force is falling. In this situation, we need to see how much we spend on something. Of course, this is also understood by the cultural sphere. I would like to remind you that it is the cultural people who are in society, in a way, mediums or canaries in the mine, who first perceive the danger. I assure you that the cultural sector and the creative people will understand that the current activities need to be reviewed. On the other hand, we live in times of fear. In a situation where the world is painfully reminding us that we are a small nation, one of whose inherent fears is the fear of extinction, of losing our culture and of losing our language, it is understandable that everything that relates to a rapidly changing world and to the topic of refugees makes us fear. The only thing that can give us back confidence and faith that we will last as a nation is our strong identity. It's based on culture. It is therefore my call that when we make the decisions that we of course have to make to review what has been done so far, that we do not cut off those essential things that are essential to the functioning of the country. These things are based on culture. It is my call to be very cautious at the expense of culture, because it can be one of the very expensive savings. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-17_U141	Thank you, Minister. You have a lot of questions. Mark Soosaar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-17_U142	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good minister! I am pleased that the Ministry is paying serious attention to the design of public spaces. Perhaps the Riigikogu can also contribute to amending the laws so that public competitions for architecture take place in a regulated form. But most of all, I'm worried about the village. It has been said that folk culture is born in the countryside and dies in the city, but it has also been said that the Estonian language lives as long as its village still lives. Maybe there's no such fear that, when we do the administrative reform, we're throwing the baby out with the washing water and those roads that used to go to the community house or library in the villages, taking medication? If we take away the decision-making power of the village and the municipality, it will inevitably happen. Involvement is not enough. I think it is absolutely necessary to give local people the right to decide whether or not the community house will remain.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-17_U143	Thank you. Of course, what kind of network we are building in the course of the administrative reform requires a wider debate. But, of course, we should take into account that when we talk about quality of life, it is often a little perceived, but in reality a very important part of our free time, our sense of being, is precisely cultural activity. When we think about how much free time we spend on waste management, for example, or how much time we spend on average when visiting a doctor, it is incomparable with the time we spend on creating or participating in culture. We do not always notice that these things should also be thought out when we are planning reforms. This resulted in my call for a review of what one or the other step means to our cultural space in the course of the administrative reform. Culture is absolutely not self-regulatory, especially when we look at the opportunities for participation in culture for people living in a distributed area compared to those living in a densely populated area. A well-established network can also be undesired by administrative-territorial reform. Let us see how a traditional network of cultural activities has developed. Mostly they are associations created in a village or in a smaller area (e.g. folk dance groups, which we have about 1500, choirs or playgroups) and their activities are associated with the fact that they can meet at county level, whether they are at a county song and dance, review of drama circles or what these events are called anywhere. This network, where they converge, works on the level of the county, which in turn creates a network at the level of Estonia. All stages of providing elementary support to enable this network to function must, of course, be considered very thoroughly during the administrative reform process. I very much hope that we will pay a little more attention to this than was the case with previous administrative reform structures, where, somehow, this cultural network was not often reflected.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-17_U144	Urve Palo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-17_U145	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. First of all, Minister, thank you very much for your substantive and interesting presentation. I am pleased to see that you have lived well in a very short period of time in your field, which is very broad. My question concerns sport. I happened to meet a very respected former top athlete in sports circles a few days ago, and I was glad to hear him say he started talking like that himself, that at last we have a Minister for Sport. I asked what he meant by that, because we still have a Minister of Culture. He said it was a minister who was interested in sports and had good plans and actions. Enlighten us also what good you have done for sports circles or sports and what you have planned.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-17_U146	Thank you for your question and thank you very much for your recognition. But since the Riigikogu also adopted the document 'The fundamentals of Estonian sports policy until 2030' at the end of the previous term, I am happy to leave a longer discussion while we have all prepared ourselves for it. I have the opportunity to come to you this autumn with the first annual report on the completion of this document, according to the procedure of this year's autumn session. But it is true that there are very interesting times in sport, and I hope that these interesting times will also organize this area in terms of the financing model. One thing that is certain, the current financing model is the letters, is not enough to see where it is possible to apply for money for anything, until the end of the day who should reward those athletes who have received a medal in some title contest. As a democratic state, we have decided that it is being dealt with by the moved and the Olympic Committee, but I often have to answer the question why the Ministry of Culture did not award a bonus to one person or another. I think the time could have passed in our society when the minister was a father who recognized those whom he wanted to acknowledge at his own discretion. I think the agreed criteria, yes, with the help of the state budget, but working through the sub-associations and the Estonian Olympic Committee, is a much better way to give recognition in a democratic society in the 21st century.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-17_U147	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-17_U148	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much for a beautiful, meaningful and versatile review. My question to you, however, is a little bit more relevant in the area of administration. Last year, a number of administrative agencies were in place, I mean centralising both museums and theaters' accounts. How successful has it been, and what benefits do you personally see?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-17_U149	Thank you. Since I have not heard recently that there would be very serious problems in this area, I dare say that this has gone relatively smoothly. At first, there were concerns that not all systems were naturally compatible. The share of own costs in culture is significantly higher than in the general public sector, but it was not taken into account at the outset and was not able to react in a flexible manner immediately. This was, for example, one of the reasons why there were failures in the centralisation process. But the accounting service is specific, this service does not necessarily have to be provided at the ministry. I agree that, as I referred to before, in a situation where we have to critically assess how much resources we have and what we do with them, one of the places that we could review is definitely support services before going to cut the content. But if we look at a potential cut, it cannot only come at the expense of support services, because there are very few support services in this area. In reality, most of the people who are paid by the state in the cultural sector are musicians, actors, museum workers, librarians, etc. In this context, I think that support services are a reasonable place to find resources.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-17_U150	Aadu Black, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-17_U151	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, I thank you, just like other colleagues, for a very cultural presentation that was good to hear. At the same time, we have also said in the group that the Minister is the kind of man who looks not only at his own narrow area but also looks at things much wider. This is the issue of my provocative or hidden proposal. Many proud buildings are being built in the cultural sphere, we are proud of ERM and so on. At the same time, it seems that there is a repeat of something that has sometimes been in Estonia: concrete will be finished, but content may not always come back. I know from the internal life of the University of Tartu. There are no impulses that would make the new powerful centers even qualitatively, in a new way and better train staff to make a real break. Is it possible for the Minister, for example, with his colleagues from the Ministry of Education and Research, to take the initiative here?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-17_U152	Yes, training and often lifelong learning are certainly very important. It's haunting us in many areas. Cultural umbrella organisations have been good at developing professional standards that actually ensure development and also re-training opportunities in a rapidly changing time. I do not know that we would have very serious problems with the education provided to people in the cultural field at higher education level, which is why I have not been able to pay special attention to it. However, there are some examples where we urgently need to take the next step. Estonian music is currently world-class; we are competitive on many international issues. However, if we want to take the next step, one of its preconditions is that of concrete, i.e. the existence of a proper hall and a study centre. I don't see the problem as if we can't fill it with content. We've been preparing for this for a few decades. But, of course, it must be well thought out and felt whether the volume that is being planned can be filled. In general, I think that, in the case of planned buildings, which are not too much, the proportion is relatively reasonable when compared to what we planned in the early 2000s. Then the social sense of eternal growth, which is at least 10% per year, gave the wrong signal if any cultural facility or infrastructure was planned. I believe that we are now making relatively rational and reasonable decisions.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-17_U153	Ivar Padar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-17_U154	Thank you. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. My question is also on culture and administrative reform. In the preparation of the administrative reform, quite a lot has been said about numerical parameters, i.e. the number of inhabitants. Much less has been said or hardly has been said about whether administrative reform could lead to administrative units that would also bear a common linguistic-cultural identity. At the same time, proposals have come from below, such as the Võro Society and the very esteemed Kaido Kama have suggested that the administrative reform in South-East Estonia could take over the whole of the old Võrumaa region, with an ambitious municipality of 60000 inhabitants, where all eight parishes would be represented. What is your position: could a strong recommendation for the creation of such a linguistic-cultural territory in the course of administrative reform be one of the elements on which we want the best results from administrative reform?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-17_U155	I really like this idea, but it depends very much on whether the local community is ready for it. When I think about the developments that have recently been there in Võrumaa or Setumaa or on several Estonian islands, there is a identity and a cultural space, and that is what I think you should think calmly. But it depends very much on whether the local community is ready. I think it should depend on it. In itself, such an identity-based municipality is certainly very sensible and will improve cooperation. It is also clear, for example, that since Saaremaa and Muhu County have a different identity, although from a distance it all seems to be one of Saare County, but if one municipality is born in Saaremaa, Muhumaa does not belong. Saaremaa and Muhu County are separate and it would probably be totally irrational to assemble them. But the vitality of these cultural spaces has also been proven by how active they are to apply for money from the cultural space programmes of the Ministry of Culture and how much additional resources will come into it. The trigger force is the money we are applying for, but there will be many other funding, own initiative and volunteering. I think it's one of the most effective money used at all.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-17_U156	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-17_U157	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, The presentation was generally content-centred, but I will be honest with you that some developments bothered me. In the introduction, you spoke of the openness and closure of culture in a way that reminded me of breaking through an open door. What was even more frightening was that when you went to the salary of a writer and an artist, you gave it a world view. This is not included in the fundamentals of cultural policy at all. For me, such an idealogging of cultural policy does not sit instinctively. Please reject it and tell me that the salary of a writer and an artist is not paid according to the world view! And one more warm question is, what kind of world view does that mean that we still have the EAMT Hall unbuilt?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-17_U158	Perhaps, in a rhetorical sense, we as politicians should not always be so sensitive that when someone says 'view of the world', I would like to see what the flag or sign is in the chest. The view of the world is certainly also a view of the commitment that the country is making to someone. My world view of culture and artist's salary is that creation is work. There are many world views that say that creation is pure pleasure and fun, and it is done in its spare time. My view of the world is that creation is a job and a decent reward must be paid for it. I do not deny that it may coincide with many socialist views, but maybe it does not relate to another political outlook. However, I would like to emphasise this side, which concerns the view of creativity as a work of dedication.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-17_U159	Liina Kersna, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-17_U160	Thank you, good manager. Dear Minister, My question concerns the preservation of Edgar Valter's cultural heritage, which is largely dealt with by Pokumaa. Pokumaa was created on the basis of Edgar Valter's drawings and is currently under the administration of the Minister of State Administration of Pokumaa SA. I am pleased to say that the Minister for Public Administration decided to allocate EUR 20000 per year of permanent support to Pokumaa and that his support has also promised to be given by local authorities. How do you feel about whether Pokumaa SA is logically suited to the administration of the Minister of Public Administration or whether it could be administered by the Minister of Culture?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-17_U161	Thank you! These borders must run somewhere, and such things often have overlaps with a number of areas. Where is this best suited to today's system, whether the Minister of Public Administration or the Minister of Enterprise, who curates tourism, we can discuss it in and out of the way. But Pokumaa is primarily an important centre of action for regional policy. We need to draw somewhere the line that the Ministry of Culture is able and unable to do and where the question of regional policy is rather a matter for the Minister of State Administration, and where the issue of tourism is concerned. That's the way it's been done in this place, too. For example, in A.H.Tammsaare Museum, which is also established in Vargamäe in connection with Järva County Government, the Ministry of Culture will act as one of the founding fathers of the law in the future. Pokumaa, which is rather a regional political centre, remains under the administration of the Minister of Public Administration. But I am very pleased that the Minister for Public Administration has found the means to support Pokumaa permanently, because Valter's legacy is certainly important. It is a pleasure to be introduced to children in such a centre.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-17_U162	Heidy Purga, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-17_U163	Thank you, good manager. Thank you to the Minister for his presentation. My question is about the design field and the economy. If solutions are now being sought that would give different sectors of the economy an advantage to succeed in the new market, they will, in many ways, work through the added value created in the field of design. How has support for the field of design progressed on this issue, which is also the main points of the Culture 2020 document?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-17_U164	As I pointed out, one of the important things is designing design thinking at all. In the field of design, the aim is to prepare an upper secondary school elective course to ensure that design thinking is also ensured through compulsory education. A change of way of thinking is probably the most important thing. I think it's often a question of what this design is. In this connection, some fancy gadgets usually come to mind, but the notion that design or product development is part of our daily life and covers all modern space is certainly harder for the older generation to come, making it easier for the younger ones. It is all the better to start with a younger generation in order to deliberately direct thinking. But, of course, this is an area where the Ministry of Culture sees cooperation with other ministries, especially the Ministry of Economic Affairs, as very important, but also with the Ministry of Education.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-17_U165	Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-17_U166	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear Minister of Culture, It is excellent and certainly very right, regionally, that Viljandi theatre Ugala now gets a new face, but more importantly, it is also designed for technical solutions for people with special needs, for people with reduced mobility to have access to the theatre and for people with hearing loss who did not have a thing before. The fact that universal design, for example in construction, gives everyone access to culture and facilitates participation is very nice. But my question comes from your thesis on museums. The museums' thesis stated that in 2016 some of them would start working in a new form. Here was a whole list of museums, including the Viljandi Museum. Maybe you can describe in a few words what this new form is like. I understand that the municipalities are certainly involved in this change. Maybe a word for clarification.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-17_U167	As I pointed out, and as has been written in the summary, the museums have been looking for the right form for some time and are going on. The goal is for us to have only one state museum by 2018, it is the Estonian National Museum, all other museums should have become foundations by then or be handed over to the local government. What's to deny there has been, and it's probably not gonna get away with it in the future, that a museum will either join someone or end up in its original form. But the idea of setting up foundations, in most cases, is that these regional museums have been that these foundations would not be either just a matter of the state or of the local community. If these are regionally important museums, as the Viljandi Museum is, then both the state and the local community should be responsible for the functioning of this institution. The agreement has been that, in the course of such processes, the State will normally ensure that the State's support is maintained. With the local community, these things are being done. I also think it is very important that, in this case, there is a certain degree of managerial competence through the Council, because if the museum is only local government, there may not be enough professional competence, or if it is only national, there may not be coherence with the local community. That's why I think the foundation is a good way. So far, examples of what has happened as a result of such reforms have largely been positive.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-17_U168	Eerik-Niles Kross, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-17_U169	I don't know who I'm gonna have to turn to now for board members. Good speaker! Minister, you spoke very nicely about the importance of cultural heritage and the openness of culture, and you also talked about ethnic minorities. I have a two-layer question. The fundamentals of cultural policy do not mention two historical minorities, Baltic Germans or coastal Swedes, although both groups exist abroad. That's where they call the outsiders. Both groups could and would like to play an important role in Estonian culture today. Nor does the fundamentals of cultural policy mention the cultural autonomy instrument that we have as a law, but is not in use. Can we not think of applying cultural autonomy, at least, to historical minorities? Has it not at all been under consideration to use the cultural autonomy instrument in Estonian cultural policy?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-17_U170	Yes, Estonia has two cultural autonomy. These ethnic groups are Ingerizomians and Estonian Swedes. Ingrians gained their cultural autonomy in 2004 and Estonian Swedes in 2007. So cultural autonomy is fully used in Estonia. In addition, in the previous item, the MISA often supports 16 umbrella organisations and 231 cultural societies of national minorities each year, which have been recalled. In reality, national minorities have daily state support and all the possibilities under law to create their own cultural autonomy.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-17_U171	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-17_U172	Thank you, good manager. Good minister! You mentioned the Chamber of Riigikogu, the legislative aspect of the Riigikogu and the modern environment. I would argue with you a little bit, because if you go to the Bundestag, that contrast is particularly high and especially visible. However, my question concerns the priorities of the areas and the area of heritage protection. There are two major priorities, the procedure of the Heritage Protection Act and the manor school program, but the development plan such as 'Estonia's natural shrines' has been left out. Investigating and holding'. How has its implementation taken place? You also missed the answer to Andres Herkel's question, which the world view bears with the construction of the EAMT Hall.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-17_U173	As far as natural sanctuarys are concerned, in order to map and study them, the Heritage Board, which is our administration, has the means. It can always be discussed whether these resources are sufficient to do so quickly enough. The trouble with the natural sacred places is that somebody hits the saw and that place is gone. These opportunities, which are now available, will at least allow regular research on the sacred places to be carried out and the current situation to be clarified. What world view is carried by the EAMT Hall? I think that the EAMT Hall carries a socio-democratic, liberal, conservative, certainly national-conservative, but above all, musical world view.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-17_U174	Ain Lutsepp, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-17_U175	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear Minister, It's about performances. I read here that permanent repertoire supports performing institutions directly from the state budget on the basis of the principles discussed in the field. As there is currently a round of coordination of the law of the new performing institution, will the AITA-based funding be legalised and accompanied by an implementing party?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-17_U176	I hope that we will get this far with the coordination process. Yes, it has been agreed in this area that they would like to go forward or to some extent back and then on with this EASA-based system. It seems to me, too, that this is an opportunity that would really allow for a clearer description of the basis on which performance agencies are financed. In addition, this principle of AITA-based financing has been strongly supported by the National Audit Office, for example. They also think that makes sense. I hope it is also possible to agree on different world views here.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-17_U177	Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-17_U178	Thank you, Mr. Speaker. Good minister! The role of musicians in introducing Estonia and making Estonia bigger is probably impossible to overestimate. We have discussed the music academy and related issues here on several occasions, but support and development of the talent of future professional musicians begins much earlier than when studying at the music academy. Such schools, where small musicians can develop their talents and receive in-depth musical training together with so-called mainstream education, are exactly one in Estonia. This school is a high school of music. We know that music high school has been waiting a long time for a new home. If I am not mistaken, State Kinnisvara AS has already done the preliminary work some time ago until the procurement of the construction project. Can you share with us what the state of finding a new home in music high school is?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-17_U179	I'm afraid I can't answer that question exactly. I don't want to excuse myself, but it's primarily the Ministry of Education. I do not want to speculate on the latest developments or talk about women-sauna-talk-talk-talk. But I very much hope that these things will evolve and that funding will be found.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-17_U180	Laine Randjärv, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-17_U181	Thank you very much, Mr. Speaker. Good minister! My question is on the subject of cultural spaces, it has not been said too much here. The cultural space of Setu, Kihnu and Võru has already firmly confirmed our consciousness and in 2009 the cultural space programme of the islands was created. The newest are the Peipsivere and Virumaa cultural space and Mulgi cultural space was separated from South Estonia some time ago. But the initiative of the Central Estonian cultural space in Järvamaa and Jõgeva County has now been activated. My question is how the Ministry of Culture will feel about the creation of this new programme, what perspective it sees, how much funding is possible to bring this programme back to life, whether it is to be dealt with and what time plans are.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-17_U182	Thank you. That's a good question. This issue has been up for some time, because, of course, when some regional funds are created, as these funds for cultural spaces are, those who do not have any such funding feel understandable to some extent about the orphan. It is probably impossible to find any corner in Estonia that does not have its own local identity, any of its local cultural heritage that needs to be preserved. The local identity and tradition, which can be defined as a single space, have been quite clear in the cultural spaces so far. When we talk about Central Estonia's cultural space, there are also issues that are really affected by the project. That's why I think it's very good that they've taken up a major conference now. We will be able to discuss this subject after the anniversary of the Republic. One possible approach to move forward with these cultural spaces is to still identify those areas that form a separate cultural space, as existing cultural spaces do. If it seems that the picture is getting too mixed up and cannot be seen at all, then there is another way to think about it so that perhaps there would be some kind of separate facility for those regions that are "out" but where local traditions exist. We call this area Central Estonia, but it covers a very wide area of Estonia. However, since we are going to discuss this matter in greater detail immediately, and I know that scientists have also been taken up there and the preliminary work has been done, it is early today to speculate on where it could all go.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-17_U183	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-17_U184	Thank you, manager. Minister, thank you very much. My question concerns youth sport and youth activities in general. We know that the longer we can keep young people at sport or any activity, the more useful it will be for our society. But the main problem with this issue is the pay of young trainers. I am pleased that the previous Riigikogu made a small step here and, to some extent, at least 50%, they were rewarded. Of course, this amount is small in itself. But it turns out that this amount has not increased in 2016 and many youth coaches are going to receive even less pay than in 2015. How do you comment on that? How can we motivate these coaches to keep them in this area? I think it is a very important and grateful job that young coaches do.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-17_U185	First of all, as I said to my colleague, Mr Palo, we do not have a debate on sport today. To this end, a separate heading is provided for the autumn season of Parliament, when the Minister has the opportunity to come and talk to you about the report on the fulfilment of the fundamentals of sport policy. Then we can certainly focus more on these issues, and we are all better prepared for this. But since it was such a specific question, I will answer it in a few words. Firstly, it is not true that this amount has not increased. The amount of support for trainers increased by 13.5%, amounting to half a million euros. This will ensure that we are able to pay the same amount of support per coach as last year. It has been written into this system that how many more coaches come in, we will only know when the state budget process is completed, but this coefficient, the amount of state support paid, depends on how many money and coaches there are. If more money comes at a slower rate than coaches, then the amount paid to the local government to support coaches is intended for support, it is not a coach's salary, such an obligation has not been assumed by the state, however, remains smaller. This is definitely one place where we need to think about what this rhythm should be in the perspective and at what point the coaches should submit their applications through clubs so that we can get these basic data in advance and be able to take them into account during the state budget procedure. This year, there was a lot of poking and predicting on coffee grounds, which is what's really gonna happen. We only gained 4% of the budget during the negotiations on the state budget, all the rest had to be found within the sector, because at the end of the year we saw that the number of coaches had increased significantly by more than 4%. On the other hand, I think we are very happy that, thanks to the addition of some 170 V-VII coaches, around 6,000 children can train more regularly this year than before under the hands of professional higher category coaches. Last year there were 31000 such children, now, thanks to the increase in the number of coaches, there are 37,000. After all, it is pure joy. But in the system, it's a problem, yes, that state support for one coach might decrease in the future. This time it remained exactly the same, I think one euro rose. But this may decrease in the future if the increase in the number of coaches is higher than the increase in the amount of money coming from the state budget. I think this measure has been very good, because in sport, just as in culture, there is one of the greatest concerns, if not the greatest concern, that the work of those who work every day to develop this area has not been sufficiently valued. Certainly, it is young coaches who give children their first experience in sports that are very important. They must have pedagogical skills and be committed. Often, the coaches did not yet have any social guarantees, since they were paid a scholarship. Now all those 1200 coaches are paid, and they have all the social guarantees.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-17_U186	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-17_U187	Thank you, Mr. Speaker. Minister, thank you very much. The Artists' Association has repeatedly expressed concern about the budgetary and financial situation of the exhibition rooms and galleries it manages, especially the Tallinn Art Hall, which would require quite large and large construction works and financial support. Last year, you said that you had met representatives of the art fund and found some initial solutions to overcome this concern. Can you tell us what the situation is today and what developments we can hope for and see now?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-17_U188	As I said in my speech, we can rejoice at the fact that this art hall, founded in 1934, which is certainly central in Estonia as an art hall, will be given at least an elementary order this year. The crack in the facade will be repaired, the facade will be repaired and some technical solutions and interior repairs will be completed this year. So the biggest trouble will be settled this year. But, of course, it is quite a large surface and a rapidly developing field. The need for investment in that house is certainly greater. But basic things can be done through good cooperation with the Artists' Association. Tallinn has also supported this building.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-17_U189	A grain of Thomas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-17_U190	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, I have a very specific question about this world-view EAMT hall. You spoke very supportively and positively of this, but you did not say any date for Europe to come up with an answer. Can I tell my constituents that it may happen that by the 100th birthday of the Republic of Estonia, future musicians, singers and actors may receive such a beautiful gift?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-17_U191	Thank you! I would very much like to answer that question, but I cannot. The Estonian Academy of Music and Theatre is under the administration of the Ministry of Education. I believe that the Ministry of Education is also taking this very seriously, and I know that the decision on the euro should be taken in the near future. But it's not my area of administration, and I can't tell you when it's gonna happen and how it's gonna run exactly.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-17_U192	Priit Onion, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-17_U193	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Good Minister of Culture! Perhaps I have not been attentive, but I want to know how these heritage regions and heritage culture interact with this context and how the action plans presented to UNESCO are covered by this document on cultural policy.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-17_U194	They are linked to this document through national cultural activities. After all, not all things in a development document or a vision document such as Culture 2020 have been written in detail. Life is making its corrections there, and it has certainly not been the ambition of this document to name absolutely all the activities that are carried out in Estonian cultural life. In that case, this document would be much more extensive and I do not know if anyone could write it all down at different levels of Estonian cultural life.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-17_U195	Thank you, Minister of Culture Indrek Saar! The members of the Riigikogu have no further questions. I'm opening negotiations. On behalf of the Reform Party Group, please, Laine Randjärv. There's an extra three minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-17_U196	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, In his presentation, the Minister for Culture stated that a large number of the achievements listed in the report were prepared for years at the Ministry of Culture on the initiative of several ministers and on the basis of their ideas. That is why I would like to begin by congratulating some of my former colleagues, such as Rein Lang, on whose initiative the debate on the fundamentals of cultural policy has taken off at all. To be honest, I am just very happy that there is now a tradition of listening to this report in this Chamber of the Riigikogu. For the second year in a row, it is obvious that interest in the field is extremely high. It is nice that a lot of questions are also asked by people who are not part of the Committee on Culture, which means that the subject is in people's hearts. I will also mention the Pill Fund, which was the subject of a decision signed in December and then formally created, but this idea started in 2014. I also believe that it is a very important achievement that, from 1 January 2016, health insurance is guaranteed for all employees who have received at least a minimum of six social contributions on their salary under a debt contract. It had also been prepared for a few years, and it is certainly very fair that it has now come into force. I do not think that every law should be attached to the name of the initiator, but I think that such a retrospect, and also thanks to its predecessors, is certainly important. Political processes and trends are so long to be drawn that those who have suffered pain and pain often fall into oblivion. But let's get to the substantive issues. Education of interest is clearly a key word for cultural policy. Its content and level determine whether our country has the offspring of people with cultural knowledge, both those who share their creations with others and those to whom this creation is intended. The fundamentals of cultural policy, unfortunately, have not addressed the issue of recreational education very thoroughly and it is therefore welcome that ministries, both the Ministry of Culture and the Ministry of Education and Research, are currently developing this concept. Hobby education is an area within the competence of the local government, the level and availability of which are not clearly comparable throughout Estonia. The most important bottleneck is the uneven availability of diverse recreational opportunities across regions. One of the most important factors here is the lack of instructors, teachers. They are present in larger centres, but beyond the centres, children's opportunities to engage in some form of recreational education are minimal or nonexistent. It is not enough to have a hall or playground, it is important to have knowledge and skills and who can inspire and inspire children after a tiring working day. I would very much like to thank the Association of Music Schools, which has given important input to the debate on the concept of funding for activities of interest. It was about an artist's and writer's salary flagship project. In 2015, the Ministry of Culture decided to launch this programme. It has fueled passion in the public as well as in the costaars. However, it must be admitted that this project has not been reflected or dealt with, discussed or planned in the 'Principles of Culture Policy' approved by the Riigikogu until 2020. It was largely a powerful lobby of one of the creative associations, and the Ministry decided to meet the lobby group by changing the current paradigm of creative freedom and creating the jobs of a state-paid artist and writer. Tõnu Luckpalu's decision to give up the writer's salary is an obvious example of the fact that this plan may not inspire all freelance creative people, because freedom as such in this case actually disappears. Now I am talking about higher education in the field of culture, speaking about the topic of creative higher education, which was repeatedly discussed in the fundamentals of cultural policy, in the context of performing arts and musical higher education. It is indeed crucial in this regard, but it is not a matter of the Ministry of Culture's administration. Based on my experience, I can also say that the question has often been raised as to whether the activities of creative higher education institutions should not be organised by the Ministry of Culture. For example, a comprehensive music education network with the components of an interdisciplinary education organised by local authorities and a state-subordinate music secondary school, secondary music schools and a public music and theatre academy. None of these institutions are currently managed or organised by the Ministry of Culture, while there is competence in this ministry. The Hall of the Academy of Music and Theatre is certainly a very important issue, but the Ministry of Culture is unfortunately not very able to speak or speak in this process. Euro money is decided by a group of experts whose members, although classified, are not known to be particularly involved in the field of culture. However, as early as 2010, the Cultural Endowment Council wrote a report that they supported the construction of the EAMT Hall. Of course, it is nice to know that the current minister is also giving it as much support as all former ministers of culture. I hope that this vote of support will also play an important role in making a final decision in the government. The development of the talent of professional musicians and the preparation of musicians will begin at a very early age, so it is important that the only high school of music finally gets up-to-date conditions and should not operate in a house where one side is closed due to the risk of collapse. We want to encourage and encourage both the Minister for Culture and Education and Science to stand up for this institution in the country's budget strategy. In the presentation we also heard that the aim of the Ministry of Culture in the discussion of the state budget strategy is to find the means to rebuild Kalevi Stadium, with the desire to turn it into a place that meets the needs of the dance people and the conditions of the dance ceremony. Unfortunately, I have to ask why the topic of Kalev Stadium was not dealt with in the Ministry in 2015. Development plans, sketch projects and work plan of Kalev Stadium are ready. A young dance will be held in a year's time. Can we make it? Speaking of song and dances, it has to be said that the years they take place are long in advance, even longer than the RES would require. Perhaps it would be wise to make a longer than four-year plan for the investment needs of infrastructure to organise a song and dance and to adopt it together here? I think that for the purpose of organizing the Tallinn Song Arch and Song Square, the state and the city should start working together, stop playing in the corner of their sandbox and throwing another sand. Now it's music year. We heard in the report that the most important announcements were made at Tallinn Airport. What about Tormis and Pärt's jubilees, a clergyman's singing party with the program "Maarjamaa 800," a traditional music educational program, the popularization of musical life "Sounds good" in the show series? Not that I, as a musician, would think that the activity report on culture should only talk about music, but this time it was a music year, and this could have been reflected in more detail in the report of the Ministry of Culture. I'll sum it up. I would like to point out that the fundamentals of cultural policy can be better achieved if the Ministry of Culture cooperates more meaningfully and horizontally with the Ministry of Education and Research...
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-17_U197	Now we're out of time.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-17_U198	... because the themes are indeed very intertwined. Now my report's over, too.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-17_U199	Thank you, very nice! On behalf of the Group of the Social Democratic Party of Mihkel Raud, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-17_U200	Dear Mr. Speaker! Dear colleagues! Minister, thank you very much. Good guests! In the last few weeks, the opinion has been loudly expressed in Estonia, and it was last done in this very hall yesterday, that the state is only dealing with pseudo-problems and that solving real problems, whatever these problems are, does not seem to be interesting to the government at all. I believe that the presentation by the Minister of Culture today also demonstrated to the most malicious sloganler that this is certainly not the case. Every day hundreds and hundreds of things are being dealt with in Estonia and, as we have seen today, the main function of our country is also being dealt with, as we know, the preservation of Estonian language and culture. I don't want to go back to marking all the details 'what' that the minister was talking about today. Much has been done and even more has been done. However, I will briefly stop on one aspect that was going through his speech forcefully. This is the openness of our culture. We have all come to love the word 'cultural space' especially recently, although we often have not agreed what we mean by that word. Is our cultural space a set of restrictions based on dogmas from the past century, or is it a place that inspires us to get rid of restrictions and jams? In other words, does our cultural space come to our aid if we want to restrict the rights of other people, for example, in the practice of religion, or are we thinking about the social situation in which the works of art that are currently taking place here? Is the Estonian cultural space built in the 19th century with a low ceiling and the air that has been pushed away over the years, or is it possible and necessary for us to shape the Estonian cultural space in our own image today? Estonia, which is projecting its future on an impressive e-sight, must realise that both its economy and the same culture, which we must meet the requirement of constitutional protection, can only develop in a room where there is fresh air. In a room where all thoughts are not only permitted but also welcome. In a room where it is understood that good ideas are born in a place where wise people want to live. Using the Todasama e-Dream for a moment: Silicon Valley came under the most liberal and diverse city in the United States, it came into San Francisco, not Colorado Springs. One of the greatest success stories in the late history of the world was born in an environment where the importance of conflicting and at first sight seem strange ideas is understood, because the new ideas are the ones that take us forward, the old ones keep us where we were the day before yesterday. Today, the decisive battle is about defining our cultural space. Today, the fate of Estonian culture will be decided not only until 2020, but for a remarkably long period of time. Today's choices are made whether we are in San Francisco or Colorado Springs, whether our cultural space is where talent is, whether artists, writers and actors or engineers and scientists want to be, and whether Estonia is the kind of place in 2020 where the Arvo Pärts of the future wish to create their large works, or whether in a few years' time we will have the Estonia from which Arvo Pärt fled in 1980. Give us the wisdom to make the right choices! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-17_U201	On behalf of the Black Centre Party Group.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-17_U202	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, After the fireworks of such speeches, as we heard here, the Minister of Culture first spoke, then the Chairman of the Committee on Culture, as well as some other good fellow Members, I thought that I was not going to give a speech, but that I would only make a few marginal remarks, based on what we spoke in the group about this report. I have already been able to mention during the question that I was very sympathetic with the Minister's presentation. It was a very cultural presentation, and, imagine, but this is not the kind of thing that comes across too often when you listen to ministerial speeches in this Chamber, I think. At the same time, I will mark some of the criticisms that we had during the debate. One of them was that it seems like a report from the Ministry of Culture. Technically, everything is well or, at least, properly filled. Then the question arose as to whether cultural policy was also discussed, because at least the Riigikogu should know and help shape cultural policy. One opinion was that it was very difficult to share poverty, and it was strongly felt as a justification for the Minister of Culture. However, there are things that require at least the Riigikogu to reconsider. I'll mention another one of the details. This detail, which our people talked about a lot, was the wages of cultural workers. In the course of this debate, I remembered how, in my time, I fought vigorously for an increase in a budget article and one of my teachers, my political teachers, who has also been Prime Minister and mayor, resented me and read me the words: 'How can you not understand? You didn't get everything you wanted, but you don't have to. You're gonna have to give your supporters a little bit during the election period. If you give everything at once, they'll fall off your tits and start making new demands. ' It was the mayor of Tartu, not Tallinn, as some seem to think. Sometimes I have the impression that the same very good political wisdom that a housebuilder has to build a house quickly and well, but a politician has to build slowly, seems to be valid in our wage policy. We're gonna promise a little bit, still so we're gonna lift a little bit, and then we're gonna lift a little bit more. It was one of the critical disputes, but, indeed, it was not only focused on culture, but the problem is considerably wider. Now another problem, which has been discussed a lot and which has also been pointed out here by a good colleague. We are saying that all processes have actually been going on longer. I remembered a good colleague and Minister Rein Lang. When discussing cultural policy with him, I asked several times how he felt about the possibility of combining the Ministry of Education and Research with the Ministry of Culture during major consolidations and during the commitment to major cultural and educational objectives. We all know that there has been no little duplication and contradiction. I would like to compliment the Minister for Culture, who was asked in one of the presentations, not in his field, but in the area of the Minister for Education and Science. You know, he answered them well, didn't say it was another area or something. But some ministers draw exactly the line. However, I think that one of the major issues of culture and education policy is what Rein Lang said in his time: 'This is a serious matter, it cannot be resolved during its composition, but after the next elections this government reform could be carried out, because it would provide a lot of savings and synergy. ' But it really is a cultural policy. Now the next thing I want to draw a little attention to and talk about is that it is cultural policy. It's a good thing if there's a development plan, we're gonna drive like a train from one station to another. That's the kind of thing you have to be. Parliament must have a slightly broader view... I'll ask for three more minutes if I'm allowed!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-17_U203	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-17_U204	The point that still needs to be mentioned when discussing cultural policy is its relevance to circumstances, political circumstances. I would like to stress to you that we are talking now about the great migration of peoples and the migration crisis, but believe me, one of the biggest causes of fear, both in terms of immigration and emigration, is cultural issues. We're afraid there's gonna be some kind of company that has a stronger saving power and suddenly a stronger culture than ours. Then it turns out that we have at times viewed our culture in such a way that it is likely to grow itself somewhere. The other half of the migration crisis is that people come back because they love their culture. Imagine, however, that we have left our language and culture so flat that they do not speak Estonian when they go here! Watch movies and listen to us have watermelons and friendly lights, and let God hold it, hold it, hold it, hold it, hold it instead of backside, and so on, forward, forward! We have neglected our cultural affairs, and so we can continue to fear refugees, no matter what migrants. The last point is still this cultural education. I stress that the University of Tartu has been analysed and well known that not only in performing arts but also in the museum field, the world has gone far ahead of us in the field of national memory. We know how to do this, but when I tell my colleagues to get ahead of themselves, the keywords are'memory sciences' or 'heritology', which would help bring back museums, archives and all such institutions, colleagues will say capitulantly: 'What are you doing?' Don't stick your routine to us. There's no money. " In this area, I call on the Minister of Culture to help. So let's talk to those who decide that the new proud houses can also be filled with qualitatively new generation education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-17_U205	Krista Aru on behalf of the Estonian Free Party Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-17_U206	Mr. Chairman of the Riigikogu! Good people's representatives! Dear Minister, I have already thanked the Minister for a meaningful and very versatile presentation, and it is in particular in the fields. But here I am very much united with Professor Aadu Black's opinion. We are talking about cultural policy, and it cannot be limited to good practice in areas, one or the other achievement within or across sectors. Cultural policy is what we need most in Estonia today. We need it because we hesitate in our own values. This whole value-based system, on which we have largely built our own culture, in all the changes that have hit the whole world, shakes and flickers and makes us shaky, suspicious and waiting and susceptible to fear here in Estonia. So I very much ask that, next year, if you evaluate the implementation of the cultural policy agenda in the Ministry of Culture, it would not only be an activity report, but it would still be an assessment of how our culture has been preserved and preserved, how it has been promoted and what it has given us. In Estonia today, there is not, nor was there any other such important area in Estonia yesterday that could most and best increase what is needed in Estonia: trust, trust in the creator and trust in the person. From trust all values begin, our own networking begins, and all our activities begin. I would like to mention a few more keywords that I would very much like to hear about, and I hope that the other members of the Free Party Group would have liked to have heard about in political terms. How strongly, how well can we stand to preserve the heritage of other peoples living in Estonia, but also to promote this heritage? How well can we maintain this centrality for our fellow nations? How well are we able to integrate our cultural policies around the world, whether alone or in numbers, into the lives and activities of our fellow nation? Are we prepared to be one of the support points for the Finno-Ugric peoples, have we grown so much internally, so much bigger? Another thing that the Minister unfortunately did not address at all is research and development. I know that our museums are very important and excellent research institutions. If the Ministry of Education and Research does not yet want to evaluate museums so much as research institutions, the Ministry of Culture should use this policy to do everything to ensure that research activities in our museums, for example, are properly recognised. This has been a very important contribution to the preservation of Estonian identity through the ages. And all of our self-employment societies, we are very grateful to these people that in smaller and larger places they have kept their own free time and their free will the most authentic culture with the best will and joy. Finally, it is important to trust the creator because there is no more important than man and there is no more important in culture than the person who creates. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-17_U207	§ 71 of the Law on the Rules of Procedure and Homes of the Riigikogu also gives a member of the Government of the Republic the opportunity to participate in the negotiations. The Minister of Culture has requested this, the President agrees. Please, Indrek Saar!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-17_U208	Good manager! I would like to take this opportunity and thank everyone very much for this debate and feedback. I will also answer some of the questions raised in the negotiations. The area of integration is very large and nuanced. If we discuss from here what the format of this debate is today, unfortunately, looking at how diverse cultural life is and how many different activities there are, there is only a very small fragment of it in a half-hour speech. It's very difficult to concentrate on this. That is why I apologise and hope that those who were not mentioned in the speech, including Pärt and others who fell under the shadow of songs sung at the airport, will forgive me because, unfortunately, given the richness of our cultural space, cannot speak in one presentation. But the issue in itself is indeed where it is a discussion place where you can go into depth and talk about the subject of integration, because in this format, integration will, unfortunately, remain in the part of the orphan child and this can only be mentioned briefly. This is a subject of deepening and time. Cooperation with the Ministry of Education and Research, I think, is very important. We have worked very closely with the Ministry of Education and Research last year, and also this year, but since the focus has been on one big thing, it has been a concept of interest, I admit that our resources have been spent primarily on this. Alongside this, we have quietly begun to prepare other forms of cooperation for other topics. I hope we'll be able to go deep into them soon. As regards the unification of the Ministry of Culture and Education and Research, I think this is certainly a subject worthy of discussion, looking at how often overlaps are. But we have to consider that there are always those who would feel left out of focus in this case, so culture can happen, so can sports. There has been a debate that maybe there should be a Ministry of Culture and Sport, it is thought that there should be a separate Minister of Sport. The area of integration, or cultural diversity, is also the responsibility of the Ministry of Culture, but it would also require more attention, and here too there is an understanding that this area really needs a separate ministry. That idea's up, too. Finally, it is, of course, a question of choice. But it is true that we have a lot of points of contact with the Ministry of Education and Research in our daily work. From time to time, it seems that it would be easier if all of this happened in one ministry. Speaking of science, not only is the study of heritage, but also the fine arts deserve to be dealt with more systematically. Let us hope that this small amount of money, which is available for its development, will allow us to quietly start working on this subject and to think a little more deeply. As for the Kalev Stadium or the dance stadium, or the complaint that we could have dealt with it earlier, you might say that it could have been dealt with years earlier. That the dance stadium was hopelessly demolished and something had to be done, we knew not a year ago, but five, seven, even ten years ago. In fact, this action plan could have been developed, but the practical problem here was, of course, that the government took office on 9 April and this was immediately followed by discussions on the country's budgetary strategy. By then, there wasn't even any sketches or records that all of this really required. Perhaps talking about the figures and going to government with this issue at all would have been to look at the ceiling completely without any arguments. But without arguments, there is no point in going to the state budget negotiations, which I can say from my limited experience. Once again, I would like to thank all those who gave their feedback, especially my predecessors' ministers, who have indeed laid the foundations for a number of things that I can brag about here today. I would also like to thank the former ministers for the many things they did not do. For today's debate, I would particularly like to thank Aadu Black for raising a very wide range of possible issues of debate, as well as the whole Committee on Culture, which has been a very good partner in these discussions where we have dealt with cultural issues. Once again, the strength for all of us to discuss these matters! The Estonian people are a culturally insane nation, and this is confirmed by the statistics of all kinds over the last year. It is probably one of the reasons why we urgently need culture today, as a guarantee of a sense of security and balance in society, which has been the subject of many speeches. I am pleased that there is a lot of common thinking in the Riigikogu. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-17_U209	Thank you, Minister. If I'd known the thanks were so long, I'd have offered extra time. The debate on this item is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-17_U210	Next on our agenda is draft 174, the Riigikogu decision 'Appointing the representative of Estonia to the Nordic Investment Bank Audit Committee' submitted by the Committee on Monetary Affairs. Honourable Riigikogu and Honourable Tarmo Tamm, who is a Commission waitress! I consider it my duty to introduce the procedure for the draft procedure to the MPs, as this is somewhat different from the usual one. It is, in fact, a draft that is being discussed at a single reading. First of all, there is a presentation by a representative of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, which lasts up to 20 minutes. Then there are questions for the rapporteur, each member of the Riigikogu may ask one oral question. There will then be negotiations between the representatives of the political groups and, if there are any, amendments will be examined. That's the final vote. Please, Tarmo Tamm!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-17_U211	Very honourable President of the Riigikogu! It turns out that I have as much as 20 minutes to present this draft decision. This is a decision of the Riigikogu concerning the appointment of a representative of Estonia to the Nordic Investment Bank Audit Committee: 'From the point of view of § 2 (3) of the Treaty between Estonia, Iceland, Lithuania, Latvia, Norway, Sweden, Finland and Denmark on the Nordic Investment Bank and the Act on the ratification of the Payment Agreement between the Republic of Estonia and the Nordic Investment Bank, the Riigikogu decides: 1. Appointing Remo Holsmer as the representative of Estonia to the Nordic Investment Bank Audit Committee from 1 June 2016 to 31 May 2018. 2. This Decision shall enter into force on the date of its signature. ' Let me talk to you about what this committee is up to. The Audit Committee shall be set up with a view to ensuring that the Bank's activities comply with the Statute. The Audit Committee shall be responsible for auditing the Bank's accounting records and shall submit to the Board of the Bank an annual ex post decision of the auditor. The Audit Committee shall be composed of ten members. The members of the Committee shall be appointed for a maximum period of two years. The Nordic Council and the parliament of Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania appoint one member from each country. On 15 January 2016, the President of the Nordic Investment Bank, Mr Normann, submitted an appeal to the Riigikogu to appoint an Estonian representative to the NIB Audit Committee for a new period from 1 June 2016 to 31 May 2018. A little bit of a draft procedure. According to its consensual decision of 25 January 2016, the Monetary Commission initiated on the same day a draft decision of the Riigikogu proposing the appointment of Remo Holsmer, Chairman of the Financial Committee of the Riigikogu, as the representative of Estonia on the Nordic Investment Bank Audit Committee from 1 June 2016 until 31 May 2018. If you look at some history, it has been Meelis Atonen, Andres Lipstok, Taavi Rõivas, Sven Sester and, last time, Rannar Vassilyev. The draft was discussed by the Commission on 9 February and no amendments were received by the deadline of 5.15 p.m. on 8 February. According to § 17 (1) of the Riigikogu Rules of Procedure and Homes Act, the draft decision of the Riigikogu on the appointment of members of the Supervisory Board is discussed at a single reading. The Commission decided to close the first reading of the draft on 17 February and to put it to a final vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-17_U212	Thank you, Tarmo Tamm! Any questions for the waitress? No, it's not. I'm opening negotiations. There's no call. Let's go to the final vote. Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on draft 174 of the Riigikogu's decision to appoint a representative of Estonia to the Nordic Investment Bank Audit Committee. Please take a stand and vote. 37 members were in favour of adopting the draft as a decision, no one opposed, with 6 abstentions. The decision of the Riigikogu to appoint a representative of Estonia to the Nordic Investment Bank Audit Committee has been adopted.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-17_U213	The second reading of the draft Act amending the Defence Union Act and the Defence Forces Service Act initiated by the Government of the Republic begins. Madis Milling will make a presentation on behalf of the National Defence Committee. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-17_U214	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, This draft was initiated by the Government of the Republic on 7 December 2015. The first reading of the draft was completed on 20 January. No amendments were received by the deadline for submitting amendments (3 February at 5.15 p.m.). I would add so much that some linguistic corrections have been made in cooperation with the language editor in the text of the second reading, supported by the representative of the initiator of the draft, or the head of the legal department of the Ministry of Defence. These improvements do not change the substance of the draft. If anyone has any interest in them, I will say that these improvements are underlined in the draft text. The National Defence Committee discussed the draft before submitting it to second reading at its meeting on 9 February and unanimously approved the explanatory memorandum to the text of second reading. Now I am talking about procedural decisions. At its meeting on 9 February, the National Defence Committee decided to send the draft for second reading to the Riigikogu plenary session on 17 February (consensually). The National Defence Committee also decided to propose that the Riigikogu conclude the second reading (consensually).
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-17_U215	Thank you, dear waitress. No questions for you. Ladies and gentlemen, is there a desire to negotiate? There's no call. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the second reading of draft 153. We're done with the second reading.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-17_U216	Let's go to the next item. The second reading of Bill 152 of the Law of Obligations Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and related amendments to other laws begins. The rapporteur shall be Heljo Pikhof, President of the Committee on Legal Affairs. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-17_U217	Mr President of the Riigikogu. Good fellows! The first reading of the draft law amending the Law of Obligations Act and related amendments to other laws took place on 20 January and the deadline for submitting amendments was 27 January. The Centre Party submitted proposals by the deadline and five proposals came from the Ministry of Justice. The Committee on Legal Affairs prepared a second reading of the draft at its meeting on 11 February 2016, attended by Indrek Niklus, Head of the Department of Private Law at the Ministry of Justice's Legal Policy, and Kristiina Koll, adviser to the same department, as well as Janika Aben, Head Specialist of Financial Markets Policy at the Ministry of Finance. The proposed amendments were examined by the Commission and the usual procedural decisions were taken. Amendments tabled by the Centre Party Group (lists 1 and 7) are essentially linked. They provide the consumer with the opportunity to withdraw from the consumer credit agreement relating to residential immovable property within 14 days without giving rise to a reason. According to the proposals of the Centre Party Group, the withdrawal period would be the same for all consumer credit agreements, whether or not the contract is mortgage-backed. These proposals were not supported by the Committee on Legal Affairs. Article 14 (6) of the Mortgage Credit Directive requires the consumer to have a withdrawal period of at least seven days and as such is provided for in the draft. In the Commission's view, setting a withdrawal period longer than the minimum requirement would not serve the interests of either the consumer or the creditor. A 14-day withdrawal period would only result in an unnecessary slowdown in civil turnover, and the proposals of the Central Party Group were therefore rejected. Five amendments had been tabled in cooperation between the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Finance, which the Commission decided to initiate. Two of them concern amendments to the Law on Creditors and Credit Intermediaries, and three are amendments of a technical nature, or more specifically specifications. More detailed explanations of the amendments are set out in the list of amendments, which is why I am not going to read them here or to speak to everyone separately. In my report, I will address only the proposals that have led to a more lively debate in the Commission and the amendments made to the draft, which concern the amendment of § 2 of the draft law, i.e. the Law on Creditors and Credit Intermediaries. Amendment No 2 repeals some of the clauses of Sections 29 and 31 of the Law on Credit Institutions and Credit Intermediaries which currently regulate the requirements for persons who hold a qualifying holding in the creditor (at least 20%) as well as those wishing to acquire or increase a qualifying holding and the information required to notify the Financial Supervision Authority of the acquisition of such a holding. The Commission raised the question whether the relaxation of the requirements would not lead to the risk of abuse. Officials of the Ministry of Justice replied that there was no such threat. It is necessary to clarify that, in the light of the capital regulation laid down in the Law on Creditors and Credit Intermediaries, the assumption was that the Financial Supervision Authority would not assess the financial capacity of the applicant or its owners when applying for authorisation, but that the applicant's ability to meet the operational requirements for consumer protection purposes was the focus of the applicant's assessment. Since the verification of the licence is not the subject of the creditor's financial capacity, the verification of the financial capacity of its owners is also unnecessary and disproportionate from the point of view of the Financial Supervision Authority procedure and burdensome for applicants for authorisation. In order to remove the resulting incompatibility, an amendment has been introduced to abolish in the Law on Creditors and Credit Intermediaries those clauses governing the procedure for qualifying holdings which oblige the creditor's owners to provide information on the financial position. The Committee on Legal Affairs decided to send the draft for second reading on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu by 17 February with a proposal to terminate the second reading of the draft. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-17_U218	Thank you, dear waitress. No questions for you. Do the members of the Riigikogu wish to negotiate? There's no call. There are seven amendments to the draft; we will review them. The first amendment has been tabled by the Central Party Group; the lead committee has rejected the proposal. The second amendment has been tabled by the Committee on Legal Affairs; the position of the commission is fully taken into account. The third amendment has been tabled by the Committee on Legal Affairs; the position of the commission is fully taken into account. The fourth amendment has also been tabled by the Committee on Legal Affairs; the position of the commission is fully taken into account. The fifth amendment is tabled by the Committee on Legal Affairs, and the position of the commission is fully taken into account. The sixth amendment is tabled by the Committee on Legal Affairs; the position of the commission is to take full account of it. The seventh amendment is tabled by the Group of the Estonian Centre Party; the position of the commission is to disregard it. We have examined all the amendments. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the second reading of draft 152. We're done with second reading.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-17_U219	Let's go to the eighth item today. The first reading of the draft law amending the Law on Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances and their Precursors initiated by the Government of the Republic begins. Minister of Health and Labour, Jevgeni Ossinovski, to give a presentation!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-17_U220	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Riigikogu! I'll introduce you to bill 170 initiated by the Government of the Republic. This is a draft law amending the Law on Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances and their Precursors. The aim of the draft is to provide a basis for effective and preventive restrictions on the treatment of new psychoactive substances by inclusion of these substances in the list of narcotic drugs and psychotropic substances by group of substances. Adding substances as groups to this list will allow for faster, more effective and more flexible restrictions on the spread and handling of psychoactive substances and prevent problems arising from the use of new psychoactive substances. The rapid emergence and spread of new psychoactive substances in both the European Union and Estonia is one of the biggest problems of recent years. 81 new psychoactive substances were reported in the European Union in 2013 and 101 in 2014. The actual number of new psychoactive substances may be even higher because they are very difficult to identify. The use of new psychoactive substances is most common among young people aged 18 to 25. The purpose of the use of new psychoactive substances is similar to that of the use of narcotic drugs and psychotropic substances: entertainment, socialisation, stimulation or relaxation. New psychoactive substances are often used in combination with already known drugs such as cocaine, amphetamines, LSD, etc. Because users of new psychoactive substances lack the right information and experience, use often leads to overdoses. According to the current Act, new psychoactive substances are added to the list of narcotic drugs and psychotropic substances in Estonia on a proposal from the Agency on a case-by-case basis. This is a beautiful time-consuming process: it will take at least two months for the Agency's proposal to arrive at the Ministry of Social Affairs until the substance is entered on the list, and that is why we will react largely to the emergence of new substances on the market. As this is an emerging industry, if you could call it that, these new psychoactive substances, a little modified chemical formulas, will quickly emerge, and our supervision will be suppressed for some time. Under the new regulation, we are creating an opportunity to add these psychoactive substances to the list of banned substances by group. This means that when a new chemical modification is introduced on the market in a particular group of substances, it is automatically included in the list of prohibited substances. This will make supervision easier. The draft establishes 14 groups. In 2014, 28 new substances were added to the list of narcotic drugs and psychotropic substances in Estonia. 19 of them fall within the groups set up by the draft, which means that they would be automatically prohibited if this regulation had already been in force in the past. So now it is high time to introduce this regulation so that the fight against drugs can be stepped up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-17_U221	Thank you, dear waitress. No questions for you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-17_U222	Come on! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-17_U223	For the presentation of the committee, I would like to ask Mr Vilja Toomas, member of the Social Affairs Committee.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-17_U224	Mr. Vice President! Ladies and gentlemen, The Committee on Social Affairs discussed this draft at its meeting on Monday 8 February. As is the case here today, Evgeni Ossinovski, Minister of Health and Labour, briefed the members of the Commission on the content of the draft. Anna-Liisa Pääsukene, adviser to the Public Health Department of the Ministry of Social Affairs, helped answer the questions. I am going ahead smoothly here and I am talking about the issues that the members of the Commission were interested in. For example, there was an interest in achieving this change to prevent health damage caused by the use of psychoactive substances. It was clarified that the entry into force of the new regulation would lead to information for citizens. Here the role of the Agency remains to inform people about which substances belong to the new groups. However, as far as education and outreach of young people in general is concerned, the Ministry of Social Affairs is responsible for doing so by the Institute for Health Development, which has the resources to provide information and develop training materials. In addition, it was asked whether the change concerned medicinal products. According to a representative of the Ministry of Social Affairs, the draft does not concern medicinal products, but substances specifically produced for the purpose of producing narcotic drugs, i.e. they do not have any other use either in the pharmaceutical industry or in any other industry. They also asked whether there should be a laboratory with a certain certificate for the identification of substances. The answer was yes, it must be an accredited laboratory, which is known to be the laboratory of the forensic institute in Estonia. Analyses can, of course, be ordered from abroad, but it is a rather costly and time-consuming process. The question was also asked where information is available that new substances have entered the market. A representative of the Ministry of Social Affairs replied that new substances come across different ways in their field of view, via the Tax and Customs Board, as well as through ambulances and trauma points. These were briefly the issues that were of interest to the members of the Committee on Social Affairs. Finally, as usual, the Commission made procedural decisions: it was decided to put the draft on the plenary agenda by 17 February, to propose that the first reading be closed and that the deadline for submitting amendments be ten working days; it was decided to appoint Mr Vilja Toomas, Member of the Commission as rapporteur. All these decisions were taken by consensus. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-17_U225	Thank you. No questions for you either. Do the political groups want to negotiate? There's no call. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 170. First reading is complete. I will set the deadline for tabling 170 amendments at 5.15 p.m. on 3 March.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-17_U226	We are going to the ninth item on today's agenda. The first reading of the draft law amending the Law on the Home and Working Procedures of the Riigikogu initiated by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs begins. For a presentation, I would like to ask Kalle Laaneti, Chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-17_U227	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Constitutional Commission has initiated bill No 175. What is the purpose of this bill? The main aim is to harmonise the practice of Riigikogu committees in the minutes of committee meetings. At present, these protocols have been drawn up on different principles. Some of the committees' protocols are very laconic, but there are also protocols that reflect the development of positions at length. The meetings of the committees are generally closed to ensure a free debate, while the public has reasonable expectations of having a more detailed overview of the background to the decisions taken at the Commission meeting. The draft therefore makes the minutes of the committees more comprehensive. They shall reflect the progress of the sitting and the evolution of the decisions and positions adopted. In addition, the draft introduces technical changes and improves some inaccuracies. But now a little bit closer to the bill. Points 1 and 2 of the draft law delete the reference to the alternate, as the Institute of Permanent Alternates no longer exists, from § 25 (2) and § 28 (1) of the Rules of Procedure of the Riigikogu Act. These provisions are brought into line with § 26 (4) of the Riigikogu Rules of Procedure Act, according to which the permanent replacement of a member of the committee takes place on a case-by-case basis on the basis of a written communication from a political group. I already told you about point 3 of the bill, it's about protocols. Paragraph 4 of the draft law supplements Article 1121 of the Riigikogu Law on the Rules of Procedure and provides that the decision of the Riigikogu is to enter into force by signing, unless a second deadline is set in the decision itself. This is a technical change. The Law of the National Official Journal entered into force on 1 June 2010. Compared to the previously applicable Law of the Riigikogu, the entry into force of the decision of the Riigikogu is no longer laid down in the Act as a general rule. Previously, the decision entered into force on the day of the signing of the Riigikogu decision pursuant to § 5 (4) of the Riigikogu Act. The entry into force of the Act follows from § 108 of the Constitution: the Act enters into force on the 10th day following its publication in the Official Journal of the State, unless there is a second deadline within the law itself. Point 5 of the draft law supplements the list of draft decisions of the Riigikogu to be discussed at one reading. § 117 of the Law on the Rules of Procedure and Homes of the Riigikogu regulates the processing of decisions and drafts of the Riigikogu which are discussed at a single reading. This regulation includes the appointment or dismissal of officials, the appointment of members of the Supervisory Board and the formation of the external delegations of the Riigikogu. The bill also adds to this list drafts for the exchange of members or alternate members of the special, investigative or problem committee of the Riigikogu, as several readings are neither useful nor necessary in their proceedings. So the change of membership would go faster. At the same time, the amendment does not concern the setting up of special, investigative and problem committees. Point 6 of the draft law replaces the words 'Chairman of the Riigikogu' in § 1181 (3), § 1182 (2), § 125 (2) and § 154 (2) of the Riigikogu with the words'Executive Board of the Riigikogu', as the deadline for the submission of draft amendments is fixed by the Management Board of the Riigikogu in one reading. Point 7 of the draft law specifies the provisions of § 1581 of the Law on the Rules of Procedure and Home of the Riigikogu. The principle that documents drawn up or submitted to the Riigikogu and the Chancellery of the Riigikogu are public remains valid. The disclosure must, however, be based on the distinctions laid down in both the Public Information Act and the Rules of Procedure Act of the Riigikogu, in particular in the light of the principle of the closed nature of the meetings of the Commission and in view of the information and documents intended for access restricted and internal use. The draft also states that, within the meaning of the Riigikogu's Home and Working Procedures Act, draft documents, the supporting materials used to prepare them and the materials prepared for discussion and consultation are not considered as documents. These are work materials that are not final and are rather notes and ideas. It is not appropriate to store so-called intermediate products and so waste resources. However, if a document, such as a draft, a table of amendments or a protocol, is formulated from work material or supporting material, it shall be public and shall be registered and kept in the register of documents in accordance with the requirements laid down. For example, when a draft draft draft is formulated, both the draft and the accompanying explanatory memorandum are documents which must be public. In doing so, the explanatory memorandum reflects everything important from the purpose of the draft to the effects of the law. There are also more comprehensive draft protocols that reflect the way in which the draft is dealt with in the Commission and also why it was decided to regulate something in this way or otherwise. That was a brief description of the content of this draft. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-17_U228	Thank you. Good waitress, you have questions. Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-17_U229	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable Chairman of the Commission! The third point, which concerns the comprehensive nature of the protocols, is, in my view, very sympathetic. This corrects the error that arose in the work of the Riigikogu more than a decade ago. However, I do have a question about sensitive information committees, such as the National Defence Committee, the Committee on Foreign Affairs, in some cases ELAK. You say in the draft that the protocol does not reflect state secrets, classified external information or information referred to in a particular paragraph of the Public Information Act. It's perfectly understandable. But the committees have had different practices here. I recognise that the Committee on National Defence and the Committee on Foreign Affairs are certainly of a completely different status from the Social Affairs Committee or also the Committee on Constitutional Affairs in terms of the treatment of information. Does it turn out that they, too, should make a record of all their sittings with personalised positions if the matter is not a matter of state secrecy?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-17_U230	We believe that if the information concerning national defence and our security is sensitive, it cannot, of course, be a public document. However, as far as the committees are concerned, the positions of the members of the Riigikogu and, of course, the results of the voting should be personalised when making decisions. This is our clear position.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-17_U231	Anneli Ott, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-17_U232	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs! My question is not regulating the issue of sound recordings. As we know, similar draft laws have been the subject of proceedings in the Riigikogu before, and they also deal with the sound recordings of committee meetings. Why was it decided to exclude this addition from this bill for sound recordings?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-17_U233	Thank you for your question. First of all, as far as I know, there is no law that regulates the sound recordings of the Riigikogu. Yes, there was a bill, but there is no law. What is currently stated in this draft law is a compromise between the groups, at least before the first reading.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-17_U234	Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-17_U235	Thank you, Mr. Vice Speaker. Ladies and gentlemen, We have tabled a draft which proposes that recordings be systematically made and maintained at least until the end of their membership. Obviously, this has not yet reached your committee. This bill, however, does not talk about the wolf at all, but only about the call of the forest. What were the arguments for not wanting to make recordings or not making recordings?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-17_U236	The argument is very simple. If we regulate the form and content of the protocol, it is up to each Commission to decide which tools are to be used in order to comply with the form and content of the minutes. It was that simple.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-17_U237	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-17_U238	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! In the committee where I work, there has been a very heated issue on the agenda of how one or the other could be formulated in a protocol. It has become clear to us that the protocol consists of two parts: one part describes what is happening in the committee, and the other part is procedural decisions that go to the Riigikogu Board. There's going to be a contradiction here. Since we expect, and also in this draft, that both positions and the results of the vote should be personalised, coordination should be given. Everyone named in the minutes should have the right to see, for a certain period, whether the protocol is correct or not. Then there will be a problem with procedural decisions, as they will not reach the Riigikogu's board in time. How can this conflict be resolved? How much has the Chancellery of the Riigikogu spoken about this practical question?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-17_U239	Thank you for your question. I don't see any contradiction here. Before the minutes are finally signed by the chairman of the committee, all the members of the committee have been given the opportunity to review them and to make sure that they are correct. Only after that will the final signature take place.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-17_U240	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-17_U241	Thank you. Honourable Chairman of the Commission! You said something that document plans, as well as aids such as recordings, are not being dealt with today. I would point out that, in the sense of the archival law, they may be documents. The treatments are different here. I don't think we're actually getting this sound recording thing off the table, although I personally think that a comprehensive and public protocol is much more targeted for our work. Are you willing, however, to consider maintaining these non-documents in your approach? Maybe they don't need to be opened now and to everyone, but they should still be kept.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-17_U242	It's a discussion place. We discussed these issues in essence at five meetings of the Commission. I say once again that this was the compromise that we reached in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. If the members of the Riigikogu have any other good ideas, today is the first reading, everyone has the opportunity to make amendments and we can discuss them.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-17_U243	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-17_U244	Thank you. After all, there has been a shortage of staff, the number of members of the Chancellery of the Riigikogu has been reduced. If it is now found that the recordings no longer need to be preserved and the minutes need to be comprehensive, are there plans to increase the number and budget of the Chancellery of the Riigikogu?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-17_U245	I very much doubt that the number of employees will be increased. I don't think the committee council's gonna grow. The reason why we have focused in this draft precisely on the criteria of the protocol and its content is precisely because we want to use instruments that do not generate additional costs. That's why we're in this form with a bill in this big hall.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-17_U246	Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-17_U247	Thank you, Mr. Vice Speaker. Ladies and gentlemen, I will return to the validation and coordination of these protocols. When, in the Committee on Legal Affairs, there were problems with the way the protocol reflected decisions taken or not, I was made clear on two opposing matters. On the one hand, the chairman of the committee would not be able to amend the minutes at all, on the other hand, every member of the committee would be able to correct and supplement it. I didn't understand how it really was. Can you tell us that if we are now going to verbatimise or refer to committee discussions and all the Members of the Commission will be able to make their improvements before the minutes are approved, what is the procedure? What's the order? Are two separate protocols made so that one has procedural decisions and the other is a verbatim? When will these things arrive on the Riigikogu's board of directors? How is this process supposed to look like a bill?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-17_U248	When you listened carefully, a good questioner, you noticed that I never mentioned mandatory stenographing, recording or any other option. I said there are several tools available for the protocol. Whether this tool is a mobile phone with which you record a sitting in the Commission in agreement, or some other tool, it is a matter of agreement between the Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-17_U249	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-17_U250	Thank you. In our committee, however, it is said that there is a lot of confusion about coordination, especially when the committee is sitting on Thursday, the formal working time of the committees is from 2:00 to 4:00, but the Bureau is already meeting at 3:00. If, before that, procedural decisions are taken and need to be recorded correctly in the minutes, it is not possible to draw up or coordinate the minutes. How can this disagreement be resolved? What do you expect from the amendments? Wouldn't it be wise to bring this issue of coordination into the draft?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-17_U251	All the amendments that should make our work easier, simpler and clearer are welcome. It is clear that the protocol, which is to be signed by the Bureau, must be as clear and understandable as possible. When we talk about the new conditions for the protocol, the protocol must also comply with them. As a result, you have to think about how you can do all of this.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-17_U252	Thank you. Aadu Black, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-17_U253	Thank you, good manager. Dear waitress, I have two pieces of information and one question. Indeed, in democratic countries, tables are drawn up how public their information is. It has been found that the countries where sound recordings are stored are the top of democracy. The second fact is how much of the problem is that it requires a workforce, it is meant to archive old records and recordings. As a leading e-state in Estonia, there is a universal archiving module. I can call here Tarvo Kärberg, for example, to show that the new archiving device no longer requires a workforce. It's a robot that records sound recordings. In this case, we could get a real upside-down in the ranking of democratic and non-democratic countries. If I prove these things and bring Tarvo Kärberg here, will you agree that the information already available should still be retained?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-17_U254	I must admit that nothing depends on my own decision here, my good colleague. This is the compromise that will be reached in this Chamber. But as far as I know about the background, until today, the National Archives has not been able to receive or archive existing recordings. There are so many nuances here. Why are we in this bill oriented towards protocol? In view of all the nuances, we hope that this could be the compromise that could lead to the result in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-17_U255	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-17_U256	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good waitress! Aadu Must has nicely explained here how this storage of the recordings would technically take place. They do not take money or time; they do not require any other significant expense or effort. For the sake of a later study of history, it would be extremely gratifying if, apart from the protocols, sound recordings were available, which would contain significantly more material than the protocols and certainly very interesting material. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs had previously taken the opposite view that recordings should be kept. To tell you the truth, I don't understand, and neither has your explanation come up with such a 180-degree turn and desire to destroy the recordings.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-17_U257	Thank you. First, the procedure of the previous draft was in the knowledge that the Supreme Court is supposed to say that the sessions of the Riigikogu committees are open rather than closed. The Supreme Court decided the other way around. That's point 1. Point 2 is that the composition of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has almost completely changed. All the compromises that are reached in this Chamber are political compromises that are possible in this time and space. If we're talking about whether to preserve something, if we're talking about recordings again, I think we could keep not only sound, but we could also have video or photo recordings, etc. We need to think about what the purpose of something is. If we now achieve that the protocols are comprehensive and provide much more information than the protocols that are currently being carried out in many committees, this should point out how the processes are taking place, what the positions of the Members of the Commission are and how the voting process is taking place, which is generally important to the public.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-17_U258	Eiki Nestor, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-17_U259	Thank you. Honourable Chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs! I'm sorry, maybe you already mentioned it, I couldn't hear everything. How did the Commission come up with such a grateful idea to amend the Home and Working Procedures Act in such a way?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-17_U260	As we begin from the very beginning, it began with the request of a journalist to release the recordings of a special committee sitting. That's where the process started. In the previous composition there was 820 discussions on the draft, then the Supreme Court decision came, and at the beginning of this composition the Honourable Board turned to the Constitutional Committee at the request of the President of the Riigikogu, Eiki Nestor, to discuss these issues. That's history.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-17_U261	Mart Nutt, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-17_U262	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! Is it not the case that data protection rules allow a person to record a call only with his or her consent? This means that if the law provides for recording in the Commission, but none of the members or guests of the committee agree that it is recorded, it must not, in fact, be recorded.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-17_U263	I think you put the question right.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-17_U264	Eiki Nestor, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-17_U265	Thank you. Mr President, I am very grateful for the previous explanation. My next question is a little more complicated. The Bureau really discussed this issue with the body of elders, the group chairmen, and asked the Commission to deal with it. Why have you excluded from the draft all the provisions of the Bureau's proposal on how to open the meetings of committees to those who have been involved in lawmaking in the past? Why are all these paragraphs left out and you're only talking about protocol?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-17_U266	I couldn't get the question right. Could the content of the question be why the parties who have previously participated in the legislative process have not been involved in the work of the Commission? The usual practice is, at least in my experience, that I am already a member of the third round, that committees are very open to involving parties. Practice supports this principle and, if practice already supports it, why start putting it into law?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-17_U267	Arno Bridge, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-17_U268	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, Can these protocols also reflect information declared by other authorities as internal information?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-17_U269	Well, that's the question I'm gonna answer floatingly. I don't think you can.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-17_U270	Thank you, dear waitress. No further questions. Do the political groups want to negotiate? There's no call. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 175. First reading is complete. I will set the deadline for the submission of 175 amendments at 5.15 p.m. on 3 March.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-17_U271	Let's go to the last item on the agenda today. The first reading of the draft law amending the Riigikogu Election Act and other laws initiated by the Constitutional Committee begins. The rapporteur is Martin Kukk, member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-17_U272	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Indeed, the Constitutional Committee has initiated a draft law amending the Riigikogu Election Act and other laws, which updates the arrangements for organising and monitoring elections. According to the draft, the organiser of elections at state level is the electoral service of the state, which is formed as a separate structural unit of the Chancellery of the Riigikogu. The state electoral service is independent in the performance of its functions under the electoral law. The electoral committee of the Republic, on the other hand, remains the guarantor of the integrity and legality of the elections, who establishes the result of the election, supervises the electoral organisers and reviews the complaints. At county level, the Regional Election Director will hold the elections instead of the Regional Election Commission. The current three-step complaint review system will also be replaced by a two-step one and the possibility for voters to draw attention to the shortcomings in the electoral arrangements will be simplified. The Constitutional Commission discussed this draft law at its regular session on 26 January beginning at 10.30 a.m. A representative of the Ministry of Justice was also invited, who presented the views of the Government of the Republic to the Commission on the draft law amending the Riigikogu Election Act and other laws. He explained that the Government of the Republic decided to support the draft but also submitted comments on the draft. First, the government considered that the draft explanatory memorandum would need to be more convincing in justifying why the changes planned by the draft were necessary and to clarify whether the electoral system could not be made more effective without amending the law. The second comment by the Government of the Republic concerned the electoral service of the State. In the view of the Government of the Republic, the draft explanatory memorandum would require a more detailed explanation of what the independence of the electoral service means, as well as an assessment of the scope of functional supervision, since the regulation of official supervision used in the Government of the Republic Act extends only to government agencies and institutions managed by them. It should therefore be considered whether the term "service supervision" can be used at all for the Chancellery of the Riigikogu or its structural unit. It should also be explained in the explanatory memorandum to which part of the draft is supervised by the Riigikogu Election Committee and which part is the Director of the Chancellery of the Riigikogu. Third, in its opinion, the Government of the Republic stated that it intended to waive the regulation of the Election Commission of the Republic and to introduce some of the provisions of the Regulation into the law. It was found that this was not in line with the principle of reducing the volume of government legislation, according to which laws should not regulate matters that can be regulated by regulations. The representative of the Ministry of Justice explained that the opinion of the Government of the Republic also contained comments on the possibilities of lodging complaints. A representative of the Ministry of Justice noted that the draft provides for injunctions to be given to the electoral commission, but at the same time it would be necessary to assess whether compliance with the injunctions could be ensured in any way. In addition, the government considered that a more detailed overview of the effects of the draft should be provided. Finally, a representative of the Ministry of Justice brought forward a proposal made through the Ministry of Finance, which has also been discussed by the Secretary of State. According to the proposal, the task of supervising and resolving issues concerning the organisation of the administration of municipal councils under the Local Government Organisation Act could be entrusted to the County Elders, not to the Election Committee of the Republic, as required by § 3 of the draft in the proposed amendments to the Local Government Election Act. At the same time, a more in-depth analysis would be needed as to whether it is reasonable to confer such supervision on the governor, as he oversees legality and the public interest. Consideration should also be given to the aspect of the independence of rural parents. The Head of the Elections Department of the Chancellery of the Riigikogu commented on the opinion of the Government of the Republic and noted that the concept of official supervision can indeed be made more appropriate. One proposal would be to abandon the term'service supervision' and to talk in the draft about the future exercise of supervision in the context of electoral laws. It is certainly possible to find the best wording in cooperation, which everyone understands. The draft can also be dealt with during the procedure with the harmonisation of the concepts resulting from the Civil Service Act, the extension of the concept of appeal and its clarification, both in the context of electoral laws and in the context of the Constitutional Review Courts Act. Of course, the drafters are prepared to further explain and justify all aspects referred to by the Government of the Republic in the explanatory memorandum to the draft second reading. The Head of the Elections Department of the Chancellery of the Riigikogu also noted that the proposal of the Government of the Republic that supervision be given to county elders needs to be dealt with separately. When speaking about the electoral commission of the Republic and the electoral complaints, two major categories should be distinguished: electoral complaints, procedures on the mandates of alternate council members in municipal and urban electoral councils, and complaints made there. Both types of complaints are currently handled by county electoral committees, the Riigikogu Election Committee and the Supreme Court at the final stage. It can be accepted that procedures in the inter-election period need to be reviewed and evaluated, as these decisions adopted under the Local Government Organisation Act go very wide and beyond the electoral context, for example, labour law or contract law issues are important here. The members of the committee heard the representative of the Ministry of Justice and the Head of the Elections Department of the Chancellery of the Riigikogu and asked questions to them. There was, among other things, an interest in why electoral districts and polling districts have been separated in the draft, which in the current Riigikogu Election Act is in one chapter. The Head of the Elections Department of the Chancellery of the Riigikogu replied that this was a purely technical change of norm. The identification of the districts is not unambiguously linked to the departments, as the districts are formed by the municipalities and the municipalities, but the districts are formed by the Republic Election Commission. One is an element in the organisation of elections and the other is an element in the electoral system. No substantive changes have been made at this stage. The committee was asked to explain why the draft has changed the composition of the Riigikogu Election Committee and the appointed member of the Office of the Riigikogu has been replaced by an auditor appointed by the Board of Auditors. The Head of the Elections Department of the Chancellery of the Riigikogu replied that the representative of the Chancellery of the Riigikogu was excluded from the membership of the Election Commission of the Republic because, according to the draft, the structural unit of the Chancellery of the Riigikogu will organise the elections in the future. If the representative of the Chancellery of the Riigikogu were in the supervisory body, this would no longer be in line with the supervisory principle, so it is proposed to replace this member with the auditor of the information systems appointed by the Auditorkogu. The amendment makes it possible to bring more knowledge to the Republic Election Commission about how electronic voting is monitored. They also asked why the draft states that the municipality and the municipality will determine the number, boundaries and numbering of the polling departments by decree no later than the 50th day before the election day. The current draft does not contain a 50-day requirement, nor does it provide that the regulation determines the number of polling departments. In addition, the same section of the draft stipulates that the voting space or voting spaces of the polling station may be located in different places on each day of pre-voting. It was found that it was not clear what these changes meant. The Head of the Elections Department of the Chancellery of the Riigikogu replied that all the changes referred to were due to practice. They give local authorities more flexibility in organising the vote, as in rural areas in particular, the problem is often that large municipalities want to hold elections in several places. The wording of the current law is very rigid and, in fact, does not make it possible to divide voting places over several days. There was also an interest as to why the draft reduced the number of members of the precinct committees from nine to five. The Head of the Elections Department of the Chancellery of the Riigikogu replied that if the law in force provides for a ceiling on the number of members of the district committee, the draft intends to set a lower limit on the number of members of the district committee. The main objective of the amendment is that all the electoral organisers who are doing their job in the voting room should have appointed the council. So far, the situation in large municipalities has often been such that the council has appointed the number of members of the district committee corresponding to the ceiling, but in addition, because of the size of the work, other persons have worked. Once the amendment enters into force, it can be assumed that all the people who work in the district committee have been appointed by the council, because the ceiling for the number of members of the district committee has not been set is only a lower limit. Some of the members of the Commission felt that they did not understand the purpose for which the changes planned by the draft had to be implemented at all, as the current law worked in practice. The Commission decided to propose that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda by 16 February 2016 (consensually), that the first reading be closed (by 4 members of the Commission with 3 votes against and no abstentions), that the deadline for tabling amendments be 10 working days, i.e. 3 March at 5.15 p.m. (consensually) and that Mr Martin Kukk (by 4 Commission members with 3 abstentions) be appointed rapporteur. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-17_U273	Thank you. You have questions. Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-17_U274	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! I must first say that our assessment of the current organisation of the elections in Estonia has been high. This is a job we've done pretty well. But this creation of a state electoral service, when I look at it, gives a bit of an impression of an increase in bureaucracy. You also referred to a more comprehensive overview of the effects of the draft. Is this review done somewhere, and how can we get to know it? What will be the cost of creating such an electoral service and other changes?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-17_U275	Thank you. First of all, you referred to an increase in bureaucracy. At the end of the explanatory memorandum to the draft law, the effects of the law are indicated. It states that a more effective organisation of elections will increase the credibility of the elections and that there will be no costs associated with the implementation of this particular draft. In fact, the very same people who are currently working at the Chancellery of the Riigikogu will work in the electoral service. They do not work in the electoral commission, which is the election committee supervising the electoral service, and there will no longer be a situation in which the supervision of itself is essentially in the same structural unit.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-17_U276	Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-17_U277	Thank you very much. Here's the question. I've been talking about it, but I don't have a computer on hand, I can't look at the articles on the bill, and I don't have them in my head. Is there any paragraph here that abolishes the ban on being a member of the local government council and a member of the Riigikogu at the same time?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-17_U278	Thank you for your question. This bill doesn't concern it. There is another draft law pending in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs within which we are dealing with this matter.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-17_U279	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-17_U280	Thank you, Mr. Speaker. Good waitress! The Constitution says that the Riigikogu elections will take place on the first Sunday of March in the fourth year following the previous year of the Riigikogu elections. It's perfectly clear. We now have a situation in which elections are usually held on this Sunday, but before that there will be very long electronic elections, where the electorate has the right to change his mind countless times. Don't you see a contradiction here? The second question is that if anyone wants to challenge the result of the election, whether we are looking at e-elections and ordinary elections as single elections and has the opportunity to challenge, for example, any outcome of the e-vote after the end of the ordinary elections, or should he challenge the result of the e-vote between these two elections.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-17_U281	Thank you. Coming forward from the rear: this bill provides for a simplified application procedure if, for one reason or another, a person sees an election infringement. In the event of an infringement, the electoral committee is either obliged to find a solution to the problem or to proceed with it at a later stage in accordance with the procedure laid down by law. As regards whether you referred to the complaints relating to the results of the pre-elections, it must be resolved on a rolling basis or after the elections are over, the results will still, as far as I am aware, be shown on the election day. The results, unfortunately or fortunately, will not be known before and therefore it is difficult to challenge them. However, the procedure can be challenged and the draft text clearly provides for a procedure to challenge it. From now on, there will be a two-step system instead of a three-step system for contesting the procedure, i.e. it will be possible to submit an application to the Election Commission to challenge the procedure, and the next step will be the Supreme Court, which will be able to settle the complaint. As regards consistency or inconsistency with the constitution with regard to the fact that it is election day, but there are also pre-elections and e-elections, I personally see no contradiction here. On the contrary, pre-elections and e-elections help to increase turnout, giving voters more flexible opportunities to participate in the most important decision-making process in our country.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-17_U282	Andres Metsoja, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-17_U283	Thank you, President of the sitting. Dear waitress, Different efficiency indicators can be found in this draft. My question is not about e-elections, but rather about polling stations. Here too was the matter of the country elders. I know from the past that there has been quite strong pressure to close the polling stations, as the number of people in certain rural areas has decreased and everything could be done more effectively. Will this bill also take a little bit of this way to make it possible to deliver more sustainably and efficiently and to eliminate a certain number of polling districts from rural areas?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-17_U284	This specific draft also concerns the formation of polling stations. Indeed, it also provides a more flexible possibility at regional level to organise elections, as I have already referred to the draft explanatory memorandum. Similarly, the limits on the number of staff in the polling district will also change and it will therefore be possible to shape the polling district as it is most appropriate on the ground in the future. After all, it is known that, especially in larger centres, polling stations have moved from one place to another, or they have gone where people go and have left where fewer people go. Similarly, due to the introduction of e-elections, there are somewhat fewer voters in the precinct, which is why this also gives rise to changes. This flexibility exists, and I believe that the more flexible we are in the organisation of the elections, the greater the turnout.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-17_U285	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-17_U286	Thank you. Honourable waitress! I understood that a working group has been set up within the Committee on Constitutional Affairs for the revision of electoral laws, and there are quite a number of aspects that need to be repaired. I also realized that this bill deals with the election service, but there are many other problems. There has been talk about drafting a single electoral code in Estonia. I don't know where it is. There has also been talk of harmonising the size of the constituencies. I understand that these issues are also somewhat adjoining on the table, but not in this draft. Therefore, please specify. One of the issues that has always gone through since the elections is the e-vote and its modernisation. I understand that there are some provisions on this. My point is whether you are going to talk more about them and whether there is any intention to address this issue separately.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-17_U287	Thank you. As far as the adjoining issues are concerned, yes, these issues have been addressed at the meetings of this working group. Since this draft was one of the first things we took on the table, it is also one of the first things that is currently under discussion as a draft as a result of the work of this working group. As far as e-elections are concerned, I will give one concrete example. According to the draft, the composition of the Riigikogu Election Committee will change in the future, so instead of the representative of the Chancellery of the Riigikogu, the person with the certificate of the e-election auditor will receive a seat in the electoral committee. One reason for this is that the share of e-elections has increased over time. Among other things, those who organise electronic elections will be concentrated in the electoral service. They are not monitoring, they are responsible for developing the mechanisms that e-elections require. Monitoring will continue to be carried out in the future by the Republic Election Commission, which also includes the aforementioned person.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-17_U288	Rein Ratas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-17_U289	Honourable manager! Honourable waitress! It is planned to abolish the electronic voting committee. How do you see that the secrecy of e-votes is guaranteed, as it is guaranteed in the vote on the urn at the polling station? Or does the e-vote not have to be secret? I've been talking.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-17_U290	Thank you for your question. As I pointed out at the end of the previous reply, the electronic voting committee will not be abolished, but it will form part of the electoral service, whose task is to ensure a correct and fair electronic vote. Apart from the fact that this part of the service will be dealt with, it will be supervised by the National Election Commission, which will include, inter alia, a representative of the Auditor Assembly, who has the relevant certificates, who knows and is able to supervise electronic systems.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-17_U291	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-17_U292	Thank you, manager. Dear waitress, Why is the Head of Election Service appointed by the Director of the Chancellery of the Riigikogu and not by the Chairman of the Election Committee of the Republic?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-17_U293	Thank you. Because the electoral service remains part of the Chancellery of the Riigikogu. However, according to the draft, the Riigikogu Election Committee has the right to speak with us here, i.e. the director of the Chancellery of the Riigikogu does not name this leader on his own, but coordinates this candidate with the Election Committee of the Republic.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-17_U294	Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-17_U295	Thank you, Mr. Vice Speaker. Good waitress! This is largely a technical draft, but, as Henn came out of the question of Põlluaasa before, we have had a very long time to hold the elections. In a very large number of countries, there is practice that it is not allowed to publish polling results during a certain period before the elections, as this allows manipulation of the election result. Since we have been dragging ahead and e-voting for a very long time, has there been any consideration of creating a period of time in a law that will not allow the results of the polls to be published just before the elections? How do you feel about that?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-17_U296	Thank you. Personally, I feel very skeptical about all kinds of prohibitions. Among other things, I think that the Estonian voters are intelligent enough to assess the results of the various surveys and the clients and methodology of the polls and their impact. I believe that the Estonian electorate will be able to make an independent decision in favour of the political power he will give his vote in the elections.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-17_U297	Anneli Ott, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-17_U298	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! In your draft, you mention that the share of electronic voting in elections is high, as much as 30% of voters voted electronically in the 2015 Riigikogu elections. At the same time, it is known that there are many electronic voters among people over the age of 50, but international studies say that older people in Estonia have difficulty using computers. How exactly do you guarantee with this draft in the context of the credibility of mitigating this contradiction?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-17_U299	Thank you. I'll be more specific first. This is not my draft, it is a draft initiated by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. Since you are a member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, it is also your draft. But as far as your question is concerned, I am sure that these people, by the way, also older people who are making their decision on the computer using an ID card or mobile ID, are doing it independently and that they are very good at using the computer behind which they are making this decision. I think computer usage is very common among older people. I also think that older people are very intelligent and can orient themselves very well in electronic channels.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-17_U300	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-17_U301	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! I have two questions. If it is established that there should be at least five members in the committee, have you discussed the optimal number of voters in the department? I've been to Turkey, where there are five members in the department in the order of 300 voters. There's a million precinct workers out there to make this thing work really fast. Here's the second question. If the members of the district committee are asked for consent to do this work, then for some reason only the candidates nominated by the President of the Supreme Court have been asked for consent from the candidates of the electoral committee of the Republic, and others have not. What's it coming from?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-17_U302	Thank you. First of all, we have not had a debate on the optimal number of members of the district committee in committee. But if the law in force has a ceiling and we put a minimum limit in the draft and the ceiling disappears, then in the future it will be a question of allocating resources, how each county shares the committees and also the members of the committee, depending on how many voters there are in one region or another. According to the draft, the situation will become more flexible and will depend on how the electoral commission distributes money in order to hire its members. As regards the question of consent, I am unfortunately indebted to you at the moment. I will be happy to answer you when I have become more familiar with this topic, because what you have referred to is the first time I have heard. I will specify this in writing, if possible.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-17_U303	Rein Ratas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-17_U304	Honourable manager! Good waitress! I know a nice person who's gonna take hold of at least five people's ID cards and vote for them. Can such an opportunity be held in order to ensure the secrecy of the vote as guaranteed in the polling station? I've been talking.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-17_U305	Thank you. In my understanding, what you described can be qualified as, if not a crime, at least a misdemeanor. I suggest you turn from the point of view of this knowledge to the law enforcement authorities, they can check whether or not such an act has taken place. But in answering your question, I say that such an act certainly cannot qualify as the form of vote you referred to at the end of your question. Nor is this a legally correct situation. You can't automatically expect an offence when you write the law.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-17_U306	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-17_U307	Thank you. Good waitress! I'm asking about the county election manager. The Regional Election Director shall be the Secretary of State or the person appointed by the Head of State Election Service on a proposal from the State Secretary. Is the last part of this sentence that it should still be coordinated with the Secretary of State not excessive in providing that for any reason the Secretary of State cannot participate in this process or that the Office of the Secretary of State has been lost in time? Couldn't it be that the head of the national electoral service directly appoints the election leader? Why would he coordinate it with the secretary of the country?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-17_U308	Thank you. I understand that you are referring to a possible administrative reform. The concrete draft is based on the fact that, in the current practice, the country secretaries are the people who have organised the elections in the county. If the post of secretary of state will continue to be the post of secretary of state, I think the secretary of state knows much better than the electoral commission here in Tallinn who, and in what way, would be able to do the job there if he could not do it himself, is there an excessive workload in the county government or is there any other reason for it. That provision could therefore remain in this form. But if, for some reason, the situation changes, for example, at some point there are no more rural governments, then of course it is necessary to review this matter. However, we have planned the draft on the basis of the law in force, and therefore it is in this form. We can freely discuss this between the first and second readings in the Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-02-17_U309	Thank you, dear waitress. No further questions for you. Do the political groups want to negotiate? There's no call. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of the draft 160. First reading is complete. I will set the deadline for the submission of 160 amendments at 5.15 p.m. on 3 March. Ladies and gentlemen, Today's agenda is exhausted and the session is closed. See you tomorrow morning! Closure of the sitting at 6:14 p.m.
