ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U1	Dear Riigikogu, good afternoon. Question Time. Incoming check, please! 48 members of the Riigikogu are present in Question Time. The members of the government are the Prime Minister Taavi Rõivas, Kristen Michal, Minister of Economic Affairs and Infrastructure, and Sven Sester, Minister of Finance. Kalle Palling, is it a procedural question? Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U2	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. I'm looking at the Question Time List and I'm discovering quite similar patterns here. There are two of them: only one member of the government has been asked questions, and the questions are the same, only in different wordings and by different people. Quite an interesting game tends to develop within the next hour. Can we make sure that we combine Question Time in such a way that only two questions are answered? In essence, seven out of eight questions make up the same question for Kristen Michal, and the eighth question is the governance of state companies. Sven Sester and Taavi Rõivas can go to their daily work, Kristen Michal can answer these two questions and members of the Riigikogu do not have to listen to the same questions again and again and again and wait for the answers.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U3	People's ambassadors are free to do what they do. The first question is for Kristen Michal, Minister for Economic Affairs and Infrastructure. Jaanus Karilaid, procedural question.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U4	I'm gonna help you overcome this problem. I'm willing to give Kalle Palling a lesson in this subject. We can do this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U5	It wasn't a procedural question, Kalle Palling had. Valdo Randpere, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U6	I didn't want to follow the procedure at all. I registered the question because when you said that Kristen Michal was going to answer, I immediately asked him a question.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U7	Got it. Jaak Madison, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U8	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Can you tell us whether the Riigikogu Law on Home and Rules of Procedure states in any way that different delegates may not ask a minister questions with similar content?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U9	The Law on the Rules of Procedure and Homes of the Riigikogu allows members of the Riigikogu to submit the same question to a minister within an hour. Igor Gräzin, procedural question.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U10	I agree with Jag. Indeed, the Rules of Procedure do not prohibit this. But then again, suddenly, the board could rely on a certain ethical standard. The same question can be asked infinitely, it is legally correct, but is it beautiful?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U11	The ethical standard is presented to you, honourable members of the Riigikogu, by your constituents. Thank them! I understand Valdo Randpere already wants to ask a question, he doesn't have a procedural question. Are we gonna start the briefing now? Since there are eight registered questioners in total, I will give one additional question to the author of the question to himself and to everyone else together.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U12	The first question is for Kristen Michal, Minister for Economic Affairs and Infrastructure. Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U13	Thank you, President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. You confirmed at a press conference in August 2015 that, despite a bribery scandal, the procurement of ferry vessels is not at risk, and you promised, as a minister, to take responsibility if the ferry ships were not to be completed in time. There are no new ferries on the lines, instead of riding In addition, one of these waste was bought at a significantly higher price than the market price, which could be said to be even at a corrupt price. When will you fulfil your promise to take responsibility for the situation that has arisen, and what is that particular responsibility about? Will you show your statesmanship and resign?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U14	Thank you. First of all, I quote what I said in response to this issue in February. In February I said: 'Ts Laevad OÜ Board members estimate that the construction of ferry ships is on schedule. However, in the case of such an important issue, if it is a ferry connection to the islands, it must always be prepared for unforeseen events and back-up plans must be made. For example, the current carrier Väinameriline OÜ must have a plan for how to provide a service when one of the ships is off the line due to a breakdown. Therefore, be it delays in the completion of ships, subsequent technical failures, regular maintenance or any other such, the contracting carrier must be prepared to provide the service and have a plan for the provision of the transport service in all circumstances. The Management Board of TS Laevad OÜ has also publicly confirmed that they have these contingency plans. ' Now, you're asking for information. As to the information, I say that the same information that TS Laevaid OÜ or the Port of Tallinn, whose subsidiary TS Laevaid OÜ is, will receive from the factories, will be provided to both the public and the ministry. As a minister, I am undoubtedly responsible for the activities of the TS Ship and Tallinn Port Board, as my predecessors are responsible for previous decisions. But they can only provide the truth about what they have. At that time, they had such knowledge, for this information came from factories about construction. This is what today's information is, and so does the public. As we have just seen on the news, the transfer of the first ship has begun.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U15	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U16	In August 2015, as Minister, you promised to be clearly responsible for the timely arrival of the barges. In February 2016, you confirmed here before the Riigikogu and also before the public that the ships are ready in time and that the provision of services is not at risk. Today we will see what the situation is. Once again, I repeat my question: when will you fulfil your promise to take responsibility for the situation that has arisen and how does this responsibility look? Are you going to show state-manship and resign?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U17	Good questioner! It seems to me that you have now read the same question again. So I'm going to read the same quote. In February I replied: 'The members of the management board of TS Laevad OÜ estimate that the construction of the ferry is on schedule. However, in the case of such an important issue, if it is a ferry connection to the islands, it must always be prepared for unforeseen events and back-up plans must be made. For example, the current carrier Väinameriline OÜ must have a plan for how to provide a service when one of the ships is off the line due to a breakdown. Therefore, be it delays in the completion of ships, subsequent technical failures, regular maintenance or any other such, the contracting carrier must be prepared to provide the service and have a plan for the provision of the transport service in all circumstances. The Management Board of TS Laevad OÜ has also publicly confirmed that they have these contingency plans. ' Returning to today, I note that the management of TS Laevad OÜ and the confirmation of the Port of Tallinn have proved to be valid, the transfer service is provided. A wide range of fears have been spread, such as that since 1 October there has been no provision for the transfer service, that transport will be interrupted and that will all be done. There have been rumors. Some of the gossip distributors are sitting in this hall, they say that new ships have old engines. There will be a procedure for these questions. But these rumors didn't have the basis, the connections are working. However, the water level is not determined either by those sitting in this hall, by the government, or probably by the carrier.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U18	Valdo Randpere, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U19	Thank you. I don't have a procedural question, but in my own right, I feel a protest against the circus that's being held here. A little bit of the questioners still want to devalue the Question Time. But that's it. In order to give some substance to the debate and to expand our views and horizons, I would like to know such a thing. For years, we've been talking about the Saaremaa fixed connection, and if this bridge were ready and there was a fixed connection, we wouldn't have the subject of today's briefing and any bullshit with any ferry. Some of the questioners would probably be very sad, but I would like to know your position and some assessment of the situation. Is this fixed connection ever coming? Are they even talking about this? Is it at the planning stage or what's become of it?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U20	Thank you. We've been talking about the Saaremaa Bridge for a long time. The fixed connection sometimes means ferry connections, but we will talk more specifically about a bridge or a tunnel. In 2008, a survey of the Saaremaa Bridge was carried out by a government order. In 2012, this work was transferred and the conclusion was that the northern bridge was the most sensible, practically parallel to the ferry route. The subsequent environmental assessment, as well as the Natura assessment, revealed that this bridge cannot be built. As far as estimates are concerned, the forecast was EUR 325 million at the time. Experts have found that, converted into current prices, this amount would be around 600 million. Returning to this environmental assessment, I explain that it was considered possible to build a tunnel in Saaremaa. This is an option that is acceptable from an environmental point of view and can be discussed. Whether it is also the wish of the islanders that this should be the decision of the state, it remains for politicians to discuss. The Commission, which is engaged in the permanent connection, has reserved the necessary areas for planning and it has been agreed that the next debate on this issue will be accompanied by a debate on the new transport plan. However, given the topical nature of the subject, it can be said that we will probably discuss it earlier and will bring the relevant calculations and all this material to the public at some point in time with fresh publicity. I'm not gonna rule it out in any way. But in fact, everything that concerns Saaremaa's fixed connection, either in the form of a bridge or in the form of a tunnel, has been entirely available on the website of the Road Administration as a separate link and is available to the public. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U21	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U22	The next question to the Minister for Economic Affairs and Infrastructure is asked by Andres Herkel. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U23	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, Honourable general meeting of the shareholders of the Port of Tallinn! There's a lot of expenditure involved in these replacement ships. And only partially can they be covered by the amount of the fines relating to the delay of ships. We don't know if we're gonna get that money yet, and if we can, how. Can you predict what the direct damage to this mess will turn out to be and who will be responsible?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U24	Thank you. There was some misinformation in the question, but I assume it's just a lack of knowledge of the facts, not some maliciousness. So I'll adjust you. Sometimes you can ask me more. The notion that fines do not cover the costs of replacement vessels is not accurate. In a more popular way, the situation is completely fifty-fifty, as our mutual friend Matti Nykanen would say. He said fifty-sixty. But on this issue, the situation is more or less fifty-fifty. This cost amounts to approximately EUR 50000 on one side and on the other. The way in which fines are received is that the fines are respected by contractual payments that go to the factories. Therefore, our detention is in every way feasible and likely. Can there be any argument? I believe that there may be disputes in the performance of any contract under which fines may be imposed. There's always that possibility. I'm a lawyer myself, I can tell you that I'm sure lawyers will find a way to argue. But currently, the cost of replacement ships is largely covered by the fines from the plants. Now, one more thing that needs to be clarified here. The project, which concerns ferries, is profitable when viewed by the Port of Tallinn. It's worth 7.4%. At this time, when companies often have to pay to keep money in banks, a project that promises a profit of 7.4% is undoubtedly a place where some of the people sitting in this hall would be willing to put their money. With a $200 million project, it's about $15 million in total, so we can get one of Haaberst's intersections.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U25	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U26	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, You also came here on September 12th to answer the question, and then you thought that the money would be covered by fines. But the next day, there was the opposite message in the press. I don't think we're both hiromands and can't tell if we're covered or not, but in any case there are deep doubts in the air. There has also been reference to the possibility of fined the national shipping company for what has taken place. Please explain to us and the Estonian public what essentially distinguishes the fine imposed by the state on a state-owned company from the dividends that the state regularly withdraws from state-owned companies! What's the difference? You know, fine yourself seems kind of funny.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U27	Thank you. It doesn't sound funny to me. It's a fine for specific activities. But let's start again from the beginning of the question. You say you have doubts or doubts, or exactly what they were. It's like this Eino Baskin joke that I don't know what's going on on the other side of the plank, but I still have some reservations. I get my information from the Port of Tallinn. This information has been given to our officials and we rely on their contractual relations with the factories. So our doubts or doubts about what's going on behind that plank are less than that we can rely on facts. But you can still hesitate. Now for the fines. In my opinion, fines must be made on the basis of a very simple matter. To understand that, we need to know that we have the principle of uniformity. It cannot be treated differently between State-owned private companies and non-State-owned private companies. Some companies belong to the State, some do not. I'll give you a few examples to understand. We'll make fines for Elron if the trains don't leave on time, if they don't come along or if the plans aren't met. In the same way, we make fines for bus and coach companies and airlines. To give concrete examples, the ATKO Group has received a fine of EUR 41000, Avies 26000. Similarly, we have imposed tens of thousands of fines on tea companies. In road construction, these amounts are much higher. For example, there has been 4.5 million for the Pärnu bypass, while 4.2 million for the Aruvalla-Kose section. On the basis of the principle of uniformity, State-owned private companies and non-State-owned private companies must be treated equally.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U28	Kristjan Kõljalg, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U29	Thank you, good Chairman. Dear Minister, I'd like to talk a little bit about the apolitical councils. In the Port of Tallinn we now have one of these. I remember earlier that when there were problems in the air, the members of the council spoke out in public. At the moment, however, I do not see any role of the Council in resolving problems related to the delay of ferry ships. What is the role of the company board? Should the apolitical councils also be responsible for something, guarantee something?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U30	Thank you. The Council is legally responsible and politicians are still responsible for the public, as you well know and as everyone in this Chamber knows. Now, if you look at the wider picture, when the investigation started in the Port of Tallinn, I as a minister, as a result of my duties, was informed earlier that such an investigation was ongoing. We actually expected the investigation to reach the stage where the Port of Tallinn would receive a new management board. After that, in fact, the Council will also exchange. In the case of the Council, I had one of the first questions as to whether any of the members of the Supervisory Board had anything to do with what happened at the Port of Tallinn. Right now, there are suspicions. As long as there is no judgment, everything must be regarded as suspicions and not as convictions. However, the law is understood by the court in the Republic of Estonia. The Council's responsibility is, of course, and the new Council's political or apolitical was undoubtedly very carefully discussing all the projects. The responsibilities of the company have certainly also been discussed. As a company, it might be easier for them to say that we are paying a little more fines, that we are not lucky for a certain number of people. But the Port of Tallinn is a large company operating in Estonia, where its social responsibility is also important. The Council has also assumed this responsibility. The Supervisory Board has contributed to finding contacts and has dealt with the ability of the board members of the port and TS Laevaid OÜ to fulfil their basic obligations, to take over the operation of the ferry and to ensure the service. So the responsibility is uniform. If someone does something that is not allowed, the responsibility comes from the Penal Code or comes to the Commercial Code, but in the case of those in this Chamber, the responsibility is certainly political.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U31	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U32	The next question will be put by Jaanus Karilaid, Minister for Economic Affairs and Infrastructure, to Kristen Michal. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U33	Thank you to the manager. Good minister! In February of this year, I asked you that if the service deteriorates from 1 October 2016, who should then take political responsibility. Today, it is clear that the service has gotten worse. From 1 October, a new carrier started to work and has not been able to guarantee even an equivalent service. I understand that you are in the political pain of your benchmate, Taavi Clothing. In 2014, it was he who led the cabinet session and gave a very clear guide to progress on ferry procurement. Although there were already analyses and forecasts that four new ferry ships would not be able to reach the route on 1 October 2016, they continued. How do you assess why this service has deteriorated and why the new carrier is unable to guarantee high quality transport between the islands and the mainland?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U34	Thank you. Let's start with history again. Knowing your commitment to ferry issues, I think you belong to the people ambassadors who are not limited to theoretical monitoring of ferry connections, but also keep in constant contact with the various parties, so that there is still current information. That is certainly commendable. I appreciate that. It's a good thing you check every now and then which engines are coming on the ships. They don't get old engines, they come new. You don't have to put specific information into your head. But let's go back in history. In 2006, a contract was concluded on the basis of which the ships in which the current carrier, in cooperation with the previous carrier, operates the service have been used. This agreement was signed by no one other than Edgar Savisaar. I think that this fact is known to you in exactly the same way. On 1 October, TS took over the transport of the OÜ, using the same ships. The public must well understand that these ships were chosen to cause as little inconvenience as possible to humans. It is no secret that TS Ships OÜ had the opportunity to choose other ships, other operators. As new ships are coming, TS Ships OÜ will continue to carry these ships, and I dare say that at least the first feedback on the new operator is positive on the basis of the islands' newspapers and other media. So I don't agree with you on that. However, if you ask whether missed journeys due to low water levels are caused by an operator's change, I say that, in my opinion, even in your wildest fantasies, the operator cannot control the water level. But maybe I'm wrong.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U35	Mikhail Stalnukhin, a procedural question for the manager?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U36	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have a question about the procedure that is going on here. Before the first question, a colleague registered to ask a question before you announced it. He remained registered there, could ask nicely, and one of his colleagues from the same party, so they asked two additional questions. I had a procedural question for a while. I would like to ask an additional question about what Mr Herkel was asking. I had a question about Estonian Air, but now I can't talk about it anymore. That's why I asked a procedural question. Then suddenly it turns out someone took their registration off and I'm the other one. Given the first question, I should have been hit. Now you will allow two additional questions for one question, but one for the next. Explain how you choose! If there are two reformes, they can ask a further question, just as Randpere and Gräzin both received the first key issue. On the second question, Mr Kõljalg was the first, I was the second, and I could not ask. Explain how you make these choices!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U37	Mikhail Stalnukhin! In your great experience, I've been completely surprised by the question. Everything's very simple. Those people who expressed their wish to ask a question yesterday will be entitled to one additional question, while the other members of the Riigikogu will all meet as one additional question. I will give this member of the Riigikogu whose name is highest. For example, Jaanus Karilaid will now submit his supplementary question and then I will give Tarmo Tammele the opportunity to submit his additional question. It's as simple as that. No one here has been given the right to two questions; the entire Chamber has been given one question. Whoever exercises this right depends on your speed. The name in front of it is Tarmo Tamm. Mikhail Stalnukhin continues the procedural argument. This, of course, will also take us further in order to resolve the issue in Question Time. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U38	Thank you. I'm apologizing in advance if I'm wrong! I'm sure I'll check the verbogram. But on the first question, the field was able to ask an additional question, and after him were Randpere and Gräzin. They both did! This means that there were three additional questions in total. Next...
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U39	I accept your apology! Look at the record! Valdo Randpere, procedural question.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U40	I actually want to help Mr. Stalnukhin and say he's wrong. In fact, at the time of my first question, I did indeed get the right to an additional question, although I had to re-register. I signed up at first and stayed there, but in the meantime, Mr. Kõljalg slipped in front of me, but he discovered after a while that he had nothing to ask. So I got to be the first one again. But Mr Gräzin asked a procedural question before me. So you've had imprints in your head, and that's how legends and lies are born.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U41	And now we will proceed in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Jaanus Karilaid, a more specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U42	Thank you to the manager. Good minister! However, it is a little surprising that you do not want to admit that the state as an institution has suffered reputational damage. If, under peacetime conditions, four new ferry lines are allowed to be brought on 1 October 2016 and cannot be managed, but at the same time we are talking about Syria and the problems in the Middle East, what are we talking about when there is a crisis? Let's say the government can't do its job. That's point one. But point two. I understand you're in pain for your benchmate, and you're also in pain for your former benchmate. Mr Parts has made it very clear that in this ten-year period, the taxpayer has won EUR 60 million. He's said that many times. Please, tell the islanders, the giants, and the people of the continent how this 60 million victory will come about!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U43	Thank you. Over that $60 million, we're about to nail it. In fact, I think it has even been clarified in court in the dispute between my predecessor, Urve Palo, and the former operator. I understand they wanted to discuss whether this was the amount. If we look at the numbers, I dare say that in all the ferry industry, there are more drivers coming every year. I'm sure it's important to know. In 2015, there were concerns about what would happen, but 6% of the passengers were added. Also this year, I'll tell you by memory, at least one half of the line has definitely added passengers and cars. Let's see what the end of the year shows. As regards costs, when the offers that were made in 2014 were discussed, it was found that accepting the offer of Väinamere Liinid OÜ would amount to 64 million euros more in transport costs than in the case of Tallinn Port subsidiaries. This EUR 64 million was without the ferry buy-out, with their future buy-out being about 30 million extra. These offers and these numbers have been known to the public and have been discussed at length how to interpret all this information. If I am not mistaken, my predecessor, Urve Palo, has already had to defend himself in a dispute with the previous carrier. I understand this trial is already over and with the victory of Urve Palo. I suppose that's what happened. But you can ask Urve Palo more precisely, he will certainly open this background to you with the greatest joy and depth.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U44	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U45	Thank you, manager. Minister, thank you very much. The news today announced that the first ferry would be handed over in Turkey, but when the next ferry will be handed over, it will not be announced. The news also said that ships from Poland are probably coming from the beginning of the new year. What is the additional cost to the state of staying on new ferry and renting replacement barges? We're not talking about fines. The second part of this question is: were you, as a minister, present at the conclusion of the agreement that was concluded at 1 a.m. for the rental of new ferries?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U46	Thank you. The contract for the rental of replacement ships is concluded by the Port of Tallinn. These issues are somewhat related, and I think it is good that these things can be mentioned. The state has signed a contract in accordance with the rules of public procurement; this does not mean that the state will be more expensive. The Port of Tallinn, as has been said, must provide replacement ships, and they have been guaranteed since 1 October because the new ships ordered are late. This is what I have always said as a minister that, in the case of large projects, there must also be a plan B.Plan B, and people have been transported, in case of unexpected events. Traffic's been taken over. As regards the conclusion of the contracts, the Port of Tallinn has based itself on the desire that the replacement ships should be as comfortable as possible for people and their price would be the most favourable for the company and fit in with the business plan. If you look at the business plan, for the Port of Tallinn, as I mentioned earlier, the profitability of the ferry project is 7.4%. I do not know with what interest you are investing your money and whether you are doing it at all, but I think that, in a situation where banks already have negative interest, this is certainly a good result.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U47	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U48	The next question will be asked by Jaak Madison, Minister for Economic Affairs and Infrastructure, Kristen Michal. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U49	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Good minister! To begin, however, I wanted to tell my dear colleague, Mr Randpere, who left the hall quickly that the opposition does not devalue the importance of Question Time, but rather those more than half of the members of the Riigikogu who do not hesitate to attend the Question Time and appear in the Chamber at two o'clock in order to register as present at the hearing. But to the question. At the beginning of September Vyacheslav Leedo company called Tuule Piletikakeskus OÜ went to court against the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications. It was about developing the new ticket selling system by the Port of Tallinn. According to Leedo's opinion, the contract with them was violated and thus brought to court for the protection of their rights. Can you give me an overview of how far this lawsuit is? What is the stage of this process and what are the levels of damages claims? What do they charge for compensation?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U50	Thank you. I think you were a little unfair about half the hall. As you have noticed, ministers are very busy guests in this house. Every time they call, they come, including the factions. And it's probably more close to the coalition ambassadors. If you've noticed, on Mondays, we meet you with a beautiful, terrifying regularity, because you have many questions and we have a lot of answers. And we can always use other formats, if you ask, we'll still answer. That's one. Secondly, ticket selling systems and disputes with Tuule Ticket Centre OÜ. This dispute really is up. On my way back from time to time, there has been a lot of debate between the former operator and the Ministry. They're all still in court with the Ministry's victory. There is also a dispute as to whether or not the Ministry and the previous carrier have complied with their cooperation agreement. Tuule Tiletikeskus OÜ essentially wants further implementation of the contract with the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications. Obviously, we all understand that this is neither practical nor possible because ticket sales and the entire service have been taken over. This civil case is in Harju County Court proceedings, no decision has been made. I have also been asked a question about this. I come to answer this in November, then perhaps more details have been revealed and perhaps some information about the court has already been made known. Then I can give you a more specific answer.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U51	Jaak Madison, the question to be specified.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U52	Thank you. Dear Minister, To begin with, this criticism at the beginning of my question was not directed against the ministers, rather I wanted to point out that Mr Randpere was unfair to the opposition. In addition to the fact that you are going to answer questions about the matter, it is very grateful and you only have to be praised for it, you will also notice how many members of the Riigikogu are in this Chamber on Monday evenings. These are mostly representatives of opposition parties. As far as the ticket selling system is concerned, it is good to hear that the matter is pending, even though decisions have not yet been taken. But what are the amounts that they require to compensate for the unilateral breach of the agreement? How much have they already been compensated for the liquidation of this ticket selling system and paid for the new development? Maybe you can give me an overview of the amounts.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U53	Thank you. As I said, I intend to respond in November to the inquiry into this case and this dispute. Then, hopefully, we'll be getting on with the case and maybe we'll find out something. Then I'll give you a more detailed picture of how far this trial is. But the content of this case is primarily a desire to continue to comply with the ticketing contract in a situation where TS Laevad OÜ has already developed its ticket selling system. Let's just say that such a dispute is understandable for a company. However, I dare say that the previous carrier, and I say that with all due respect, has been very good cooperation between today's carrier. In part, this has enabled the transition to be made in such a way as to minimise inconvenience for people. I think it's appreciated by the island racers, including the islanders.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U54	Kalle Palling, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U55	Thank you. Since Andres Herkel got a rather specific question, which I read on this paper, to ask a rather random question, I also take this opportunity to ask whether the Minister of Economic Affairs and Infrastructure has good news for the people of Tallinn, Harjumaa and, I don't know, Järvamaa or Tartu. Is anything built or built there?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U56	They will certainly build and build something there. Let's just say I can assure you that there is no plan to bring roasts to the mainland. But necessarily go to the sea museum, there's a submarine out there to watch, the kids will love it, and you'll love it too. With regard to the coming year, the positive news from the Ministry of Economic Affairs relates to the construction of a very large infrastructure, which is certainly also important for the legislator, who will approve the budget. Next year, the largest road infrastructure construction in the history of free Estonia will begin, which is what we received from the state budget and what was agreed between the government and the coalition. That is certainly positive news. Personally, if you say it's a joke to me, the intersections are especially close to the heart, and I can rejoice that Haabersti will have a so-called turbo-cross, as one page crossed it. I understand that the intersection between Gonsior Street and Russalka Road, or Reid Road, is also underway, as it is called. I hope that this will be done in such a way that the proposals of all organisations and stakeholders have been taken into account. We discussed this further this week in the Committee on the Environment. So there are good messages, and there are more.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U57	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U58	The next question will be asked by Andres Ammas, Minister for Economic Affairs and Infrastructure, Kristen Michal. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U59	Honorable manager! Honorable Minister! With your help, I would like to clarify once again what this story will cost us. The figures that I present are based on an article by Postimees, published a few days ago. I do not know that the Ministry or the Port of Tallinn has disproved this information. It explicitly states that replacement ships cost a total of EUR 9 million and that this amount may increase if there is a need to extend the lease contracts for replacement ships. That's probably what it's gonna take. There's a ceiling on the tracks. Contracts in Poland, for example, have been concluded in such a way that the maximum fine can be 8% of the price of the ship, not an endless increase. So even if the skilled work of lawyers results in the recovery of the money, that amount cannot grow indefinitely. Kaido Padar has said that...
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U60	Question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U61	Yeah. Kaido Padar has said that ships...
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U62	Question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U63	Yes! The opposition ambassador also has rights.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U64	One minute to ask a question!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U65	Kaido Padar has said that it has cost more than EUR 5 million to delay ships. Is $5 million the price we're all paying for this story now? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U66	Thank you. There's a few things that need to be clarified. When I answered your colleague Andres Herkel's question, I said that fines will be withheld from the final payment according to the information given to me. The payer on this side has every opportunity to detain these amounts. Can there be disputes about this? There can always be arguments. Lawyers have been invented, and that means that both sides may have ideas to argue about. But I think TS Ships OÜ and the Port of Tallinn will protect their rights as much as possible. You asked when and if any additional ships were needed. As someone has already mentioned in this Chamber, there is news today that Leiger will be handed over. I'm just saying that Hiiumaa, or one of the latest ferry ships, has been rented by Tallinn Harbour or TS Ships OÜ until autumn 2017. Regula is also available and another additional ship has actually been offered. So there's a fortress for ships after January if they're needed. But now, as has been said, the handover of one ship is already underway, and hopefully at some point we will hear news from the beginning of the transfer of the next ships. As regards the ratio between fines and the amount paid for replacement ships, here I can rely again on the information from Tallinn Port and TS Laevaid OÜ that the fines cover the costs of replacement ships. That's where they come from. This will not cost the country and the taxpayer any additional costs, as the contract limits are set for us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U67	Andres Ammas, the manager also has his duties, so I ask you to ask me a question within one minute. Thank you. Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U68	The second question concerns responsibility. In September 2014, Tõnis Rihvk, Managing Director of Saaremaa Shipping Company, warned the Ministry that the tender document would impose unrealistic conditions that are unlikely to be fulfilled in the prevailing market situation. In addition, the Ministry's Chancellor replied that the conditions for public procurement were not contested, that tenders were submitted and that the terms of the contract were actually enforceable. The question has now been asked about the political responsibility of both the previous minister and the current minister. Has there been any misfortune in the story, or will some ministry specialist in the future be responsible?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U69	Thank you. I have expressed my opinion on this subject. Just because I'm not pointing my finger at anyone is my personal choice. Whether you want to show someone is your personal choice. In the case of these large projects, my personal assessment is that in any case the State should have given more time to implement the contract. This is what has proved to be a critical factor in the whole process. In general, the risk was spread to some extent. Yeah, it's like a factory said four ships wouldn't be ready in time. It was assumed that if two ships were ordered from each of the two plants, they could be built. As you can see, more time should still have been available to further dispel the risk. It is a good thing that this has been done to some extent, so we can probably see some results earlier. Currently, the new management of the Port of Tallinn, the new council, the TS Ship Team and the Ministry focus on ensuring transportation and servicing of people, and on ensuring that new ferry ships come. When this whole process is over, all that must be done is a proper summary so that the lessons learned are not repeated. But, yes, in the case of large undertakings, provision must be made for spare time. When we look at private companies and look at the country, we see that there are often certain time shifts in construction and other objects. This is not excluded for large buildings or road construction. Sometimes a big house will be finished later, and no one will be safe from it. This means that there must always be a contingency plan in advance. Fortunately, we got a backup plan by acting quickly and people's service is guaranteed. It's the most important thing.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U70	Kristjan Kõljalg, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U71	Thank you, Chairman. Good minister! You mentioned a tunnel between the mainland and Muhu in response to one of the previous questions. As we know, there is a great interest in both Saaremaa and Estonia among the northern neighbours, and their faster movement here and back would also be ensured if we had a tunnel between Tallinn and Helsinki. Perhaps you'd like to talk about the state of the idea, and could this project ever be realized?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U72	Thank you. I am quite well known for the fact that the idea of the Tallinn-Helsing tunnel seems pretty complex to me. There is currently a debate on major connections in Estonia and elsewhere in the Baltic States and Europe in general, which is particularly relevant to Rail Baltic. Our new president has said that if there is no Rail Baltic there will not be a Tallinn tunnel. Sometimes it shows the perspective and meaning of this tunnel. If you look at how this project is handled in Estonia and Finland, I sometimes read about the Finnish media, how much this interest is there and how likely this tunnel is. What happened to the dream? A preliminary study has been carried out. The preliminary study offered a tunnel cost of 9 to 13 billion, with a payback period of 37 years. This is a very preliminary assessment, but it is certainly a step forward. The first drawing I've found is from 1871. There's a big bridge on the balloons in that picture, and the ships are going through the bottom. Now the technology has evolved, and I think it would be worth considering the construction of this tunnel. Its construction would take account of the economic interests of both countries: it would mean economic growth, it would mean better travel opportunities for people, even if you were sitting on a tram in the centre of Tallinn and in half an hour you will be at Helsinki Airport. It's all positive! What have we achieved in cooperation with the Finnish Government? Harju County Government, Ülle Rajasalu, Tallinn City, Helsinki and the entire county of Uusimaa have been a very strong engine here. Thanks to this, we have achieved that Europe has been given money to carry out this study. Its results will be on our table in 2018.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U73	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U74	The next question will be asked by Enn Eesmaa, Minister for Economic Affairs and Infrastructure, Kristen Michal. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U75	Thank you very much. I am interested in the problems of the construction supervision of new ferry ships. The leader of Baltic Workboats has publicly said that there are no fundamental construction problems, only minor comments. Mr. Minister! Which of these little notes are more important than the fact that ships still don't drive?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U76	Thank you. So today's news came that Leiger was to be handed over. Well, there are certain systems on all ships that are critical, and there are systems that are perhaps less critical. The review and test of more critical systems, when we talk about Leiger, has been ongoing. This week, too, if I remember correctly, two days of tests, and after that, it could be said that the ship's handover is now beginning. In the case of ships, several nuances relate to management systems. To give another good example, Hiiumaa went to the dock before the operator changed. There was also information that the management system had to be updated in Hiiumaa, which had long been operational. This shows the complexity and need for continuous development of modern ferries. So there are different systems, and there have been questions about management systems, as well as alarm systems. But the main thing is that TS Ships OÜ is monitoring all of this together with Baltic Workboats, additional quality audits have also been commissioned and the aid of the Baltic Sea shipping company with very extensive experience has been used to assess quality. It is essential to ensure that ships are properly operated and that passengers are safe. That's what's going on. The importance of different nuances for different systems may be explained by the transferees themselves, should there be an interest in it.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U77	Enn Frontland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U78	Thank you very much. In the "Mid-day ferry" of Estonian play films classic, some scenes are associated with fire on one of these barges. In fact, there was just a bus burning, as we recall. My question, Minister, concerns dangerous cargoes. They come along, and they also have to be transported on these new ships. Has the safety system basically renewed, made safer, or does everything continue more or less as it has so far?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U79	Thank you. In fact, there are still systems in place for the transport of dangerous goods. Surely all ships will be safer and of higher quality, there is no doubt about that. In the case of dangerous goods, it shall be indicated when such transport takes place. These are planned in advance, together with businesses and rural governments. I can give some examples of these, although they are not related to dangerous goods, the way in which cooperation is being carried out. If it is known that a larger road construction is taking place in Hiiumaa and it is necessary to transfer a large quantity of material needed for road construction, then the county government, the entrepreneurs and the ferry operator agree to this arrangement. Similarly, questions have arisen when it was necessary to deliver large quantities from Saaremaa. Recently, this problem had to do with a swine plague. I only watched it on the news, I don't deal with it as a minister, all of it always happens. So these things are always agreed and carried out, taking into account all safety requirements of the European Union and Estonia. There's no question about that. But yes, it is important that future ships have higher safety standards and are certainly more comfortable than replacement ships currently in use. One question that may not seem very important to the ordinary citizen, but the Ministry always thinks it has been important is how disabled people are treated on barges. They should be able to get anywhere on the ships. All in all, new ships should be a step forward.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U80	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U81	Thank you, manager. Minister, thank you very much. Unfortunately, you did not answer my question before how much it would cost to rent additional ferry. I can remind you a little bit: $6.4 million cost you a year to rent a ferry, $4 million cost you an old ferry. How much will it cost to rent additional barges for three months if they are needed? But I'm not gonna ask you about it, or you guys can talk long. I ask very specifically and briefly: were you, as a minister, present at the conclusion of this agreement, which was concluded at 1:00 a.m. at night?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U82	I have already answered that, but thank you for your question. The contract is concluded by the Port of Tallinn. I think there was cooperation with the lawyers of the partners of the Port of Tallinn and with TS Ships OÜ. They probably don't expect the Minister to start off at night to revise the contracts, review them from point to point, and then say yes, now you can proceed. I don't suppose you're expecting that either.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U83	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U84	The next question is put to Mr Mikhal, Minister for Economic Affairs and Infrastructure, by Raivo Põldaru. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U85	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The questions I have prepared have already been answered thanks to your comprehensive answers. However, one thing remained a little open and could be clarified. Henn Põljaas asked that twice you have promised to take political responsibility: in 2015 and now in February 2016. It was a little open in your answer.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U86	Thank you. If you had a previously formulated question about fines, I can give you the answer. I repeat, just in case, that fines cover the costs of replacement ships. As I said in reply to Andres Herkel and Mr Ammas, this order of magnitude is more or less the same. In my opinion, this is absolutely positive. It is important to know that the project is profitable for the port. In order not to give the wrong impression, I repeat: its return is 7.4%. Just in case, I told you to make sure no one of you gets an impression. The State has signed a contract with the winner of the procurement and thereby guaranteed the protection of its interests. That's what they're doing. Since you asked for the short answer, I will not repeat the quote that Henn Põljaas twice asked to read. Let me say briefly that in the case of TS Ships and in the case of the Port of Tallinn, the public and the Ministry have assumed that they will ensure the transfer. The most important milestones have been the 1st of October, since which the excess has been guaranteed, and the subsequent Saaremaa rally. The Christmas season is high and then the new high season starts from May to June. So this is the task of TS Ships OÜ. They are now engaged in bringing in new ships, operating replacement ships and better management of the ticket system. I think that they are performing the task of serving people, but it is certainly the expectation and expectation of all of us that new ships and quality will come further.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U87	Raivo Põldaru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U88	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Minister, thank you very much. I understand that you are failing to respond for the third time on your responsibility, whether you have promised to do so or not. I'm going to ask you a little bit more easily. The barges that have been driving before are still driving, but how are their prices now compared to previous prices? Are current prices at the old level, or have they been harmed? Can you tell me what you think?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U89	I don't know exactly what you mean by prices. If you mean ticket prices, nod if that's the case! [[Raivo Põldaru says from the hall that he does not mean the prices of tickets, and the explanation is not clear.]] These ships are actually rented by a subsidiary of the Port of Tallinn at the prices with which they rent replacement ships. And the balance is fines for the factory. I do not understand the context of your question, because we have already talked about this. But I'll come back to responsibility for a moment. I have stressed this several times that as a minister, it is certainly my job to ensure that the Port of Tallinn, as a state-owned private company, fulfils its obligations. Of course, it is my job to ensure, as far as the Minister and the Government can ensure that transport takes place, and smoothly. If anyone asks if the Minister could influence the water level, I would be happy to do so if I could succeed. But unfortunately, the government can't control the water level yet. As soon as we can, well, I guess we both know.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U90	Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U91	Thank you, Mr. Speaker. Thank you, ministers. I would also say to my fellow Members from the Reform Party, who have been very confused here, especially at the beginning, what is Question Time at all or how it goes: one could come more often. But I want to clarify my groupmate's question. Already once, we went through Regula's purchase. And there has been a lot of talk here about how the service is guaranteed and the work continues smoothly and that all costs will be covered by fines. As far as the public is concerned, Regula's price has been between four and six million. The ship is now 45 years old. At the time when Leedo's company acquired it, it was half cheaper and half younger: about 20 years old and cost half less. How did the price get so high? There is talk in the Riigikogu that it was a higher price paid to Leedo for so-called leniency. And another thing I would like to draw attention to. If we are talking about this being a cost-effective undertaking for the Port of Tallinn, this is what we pay for with this other hand through subsidies.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U92	Question!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U93	I'm asking you about Regula's price. Why was it so high?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U94	Thank you. I'll explain it very simply. The 2014 tender required that the Port of Tallinn had to have a spare ship, and accordingly they had to acquire a spare ship. Regula is the backup ship. Now, if you're gonna take it sanely, it's not wise to buy the newest and most expensive ship that should stand for much of the time. I think you'll agree with that. However, the price was determined by what TS Ships were offered to OÜ and Tallinn Harbour on the market. The press has made comparisons that similar ships had to be obtained from other countries, but this would have required major conversions and, overall, would have become more expensive or would not have been suitable. Therefore, the Port of Tallinn and TS Laevad preferred to choose a ship whose price was acceptable, which can be used immediately and the use of which is convenient for passengers.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U95	Thank you, Prime Minister. Thank you, Minister for Economic Affairs and Infrastructure. Thank you, Minister of Finance. Question Time is over.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U96	Honourable Riigikogu! We will start the 5th working week session of the 4th plenary session on Wednesday. Transfer of pre-claims and enquiries. Mailis Reps, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U97	Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the Riigikogu! In recent days, or more specifically, even longer, quite a lot of emotions and passions have been aroused by the closure of EAS economics in Shanghai. That is why my colleagues and I from the Centre Party Group considered it necessary to discuss this issue also in the Riigikogu. We will give the Minister of Enterprise Liisa Oviir an inquiry, where we would like his opinion, overview and explanations on the closure of economic industry in Shanghai. In principle, questions are quite similar to those that have already been discussed more widely in both social media and the media. If we recall last spring, perhaps you will remember that a diplomat who worked in Shanghai was sent to Beijing according to the plan of restructuring foreign embassies. Well, that was a little bit more than that. It was emphasised that the closure of the Shanghai Consulate General does not directly affect the EAS. However, it has now gone exactly the other way. That is why we have the question of what will be the assessment of the closure of the representative office of the Minister of Enterprise of Shanghai. How does he feel this will affect Estonian exports, and how will he analyse it from the point of view of transit companies? It is certainly also important how all of this should affect our rather poor economic growth. These are our questions and we look forward to answers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U98	Igor Gräzin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U99	Ladies and gentlemen, The explanatory note is the Prime Minister's speech. I'm just quoting important places. He said that Britain's departure will lead to 'a very influential and like-minded Member State' and that 'it is quite unlikely that the model of future relations will be based on the current four fundamental freedoms, or even on the model of the customs union, similar to Turkey. The future can therefore lead to less cooperation with the British than with Norway, Iceland, Switzerland and Turkey, but I believe that more than just a free trade agreement. 'In other words, Britain is becoming a different case for us. That is why, in the light of the Prime Minister's views, I propose to amend the Riigikogu Law on Home and Rules of Procedure. The idea is briefly that the Commission for European Union Affairs will be renamed the European Union and the United Kingdom Affairs Commission for Great Britain and Northern Ireland. Thank you. [[In the Laughing Hall.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U100	There's no more calls. I have adopted one draft and another document in which the Board of the Riigikogu specifies whether it is a draft. When it comes to a bill, we will take it into procedure as well as the inquiry that has been made by Mailis Reps. One bill, one question. Incoming check, please! There are 85 members of the Riigikogu at the plenary session. Mikhail Stalnukhin, procedural question, I understand.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U101	Yeah. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I admit I was wrong in Question Time. I regret, I apologise, especially regret this wasted two minutes later, and perhaps my colleague, Randpere, missed something important about ferry traffic. In my soul, I cry.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U102	Apology accepted. Valdo Randpere, procedural question.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U103	I just wanted to say that I accept an apology, and I didn't miss anything important. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U104	Thank you, ambassadors! It's good to see you guys are so cooperative.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U105	We will continue the debate on draft 270, which was interrupted yesterday due to the end of working time. It is presented by members of the Riigikogu Mikhail Stalnukhin, Andres Metsoja, Andres Ammas, Kristjan Kõljalg, Henn Põlluaas and Tanel Talve. Our procedure was interrupted at the moment when the initiator answered the questions of members of the Riigikogu. Andres Metsoja is here as the initiator of the bill. Any questions for Andres Metsoja? Please, Monika Hawkhammer!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U106	Thank you. The Structural Support Act for 2014-2020 states that a model of an Investment Plan can be used to develop broadband networks with public support. This means that the government can decide who it provides support to. Therefore, there is a presumption of the creation of monopolies. One example is EASA. When it comes to the development of distribution networks through the State, the same problem arises. Are you aware of this problem and, if so, do you consider it reasonable or necessary to amend the Structural Support Act to use the so-called open application model instead of the Investment Plan model? That would rule out the creation of monopolies. At present, we do not have distribution networks because of the existing monopoly to a large extent.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U107	Thank you for your question. It is true that the Structural Funds will be able to apply for funding for the development of new generation broadband networks, as set out in the priority axis 11. As regards the network of EASA as a monopoly company, as far as I know, access to this network is guaranteed for all to operate under the same conditions. Indeed, the issue is that, if there is no distribution network, how this operation is possible and who should build up this distribution network. We are also trying to deal with these issues in the context of this draft. I think that the establishment of a basic network with European Union structural funds should continue to be supported, but only if it involves the immediate establishment of an access network. In fact, this network is still being moved to the end user, and it is currently the case that the existing basic network can be used to set up an access network. There's such a special channel. This cable has four channels and one channel allows you to move the access cable to the right place to go from there. This, however, is, of course, already very clearly for the ministry to decide whether or not the regulation amends these conditions. Around EUR 40.5 million has been earmarked for support during this period. To date, approximately EUR 25 million has been paid out or decisions have been made, so we can say that some EUR 15 million of Structural Funds money can still be used. In addition to this, the money for rural support, the Leader measure, is distributed a little by another logic, but the synergies allow very positive solutions to be implemented.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U108	Priit Onion, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U109	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! If I remember correctly, at the beginning of the presentation, you said that this is a question of faith: who believes in communications by air and who is more wired. I'm not convinced to the end that it's only a question of faith, but that's how I understand you and the inquisitors. The Minister has mainly talked about how Estonia will soon be covered by 5G, which is the perspective of the next five years. Why do we still need this wire to every home?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U110	Thank you. You have probably also noticed information from Europe that by 2025 we should have moved from a megabyte society to a gigabyte society. That's where the possibilities lie. If we want to start moving such large volumes of data through the air that we are dealing with in the gigabyte society, unfortunately or fortunately, the laws of nature have set their limits and this obviously cannot be done with the current technology. True, specialists from different fields say that 5G and all the next G's that come in are positive, but they are amplified to a very short distance. This means that there must be much more equipment. The question is, how many frequencies can we use? The frequencies are getting very high, and this is how problems arise, which will also interfere with the entire world of radio waves, where different interests and parties are also involved. But yes, we could look back and wonder if we believed everything that has now come true ten years ago. The exact same question is, in fact, on this subject. We are still building an e-social society for future generations to really use it all, to live in an e-state, for example, to pull together a network of post offices. Looking at where we've come from, it's clear that something needs to be replaced. We cannot accept that what we are offering is like an alternating current: there is and there isn't.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U111	Tanel Winter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U112	Thank you. Good waitress! I have a question about the EUR 15 million remaining funds from the Structural Funds for the establishment of a core network or a basic network. So far, this money has been distributed in such a way that the recipient has not had the obligation to bring broadband to the end user either. What do you think of the proposal that, in future, this EUR 15 million could be shared only in the context of a 'full project', which would mean that both the basic network and access to end-users would be built?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U113	I think the point is right. We simply need to look specifically at the European Union's legislation in the sense that we will not be dealing with the restriction of the free market. The issue of State aid is certainly also important here. In general, I believe that solutions can be found, including for the location of the basic network. At the moment we have set out, the base network must be about 1.5 kilometres away from the nearest experience, but there are certainly differences in different cases. If you look at the map of the base network now, we can see that in South Estonia its density is quite different from elsewhere in Estonia. I'm sure that's a point. I think it is not at all wrong to think that we are already talking about the construction of a distribution network. At first, it was necessary to get this project started, to find companies ready to cover their own financing. It has to be said that the whole network is working in the interests of the public and of private business, and now we must probably think about additional provisions to take the next steps. I'm sure it'll make the water move.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U114	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U115	Thank you, manager. Good waitress! There's a broad-band core network going through our village too, I think, about 50 meters away, but there's no connection. I don't know if it's ever gonna be. My question is more general. It is clear that it is a terrible cost for a private individual to establish a connection, and it is unlikely that many will do so. People run through Soviet times with a phone cable and get their Internet. Without the help of the State and the local authorities, this broadband connection would probably not be possible. Does the state budget for next year have the resources for this, or will all local governments be left with it?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U116	Thank you. There will be some resources in the state budget next year. The question is whether there is enough money. I was talking about the money from the Social Fund. On the other hand, there is a programme such as the EIT, i.e. electricity, the internet and roads, for which resources are available. But if we look at the number of money needed in the context of the Pärnumaa digiTee project, then in Pärnu County, the state's contribution could be at least about five million to cover the entire county with a cable network. And there should be a contribution from entrepreneurs and joiners, as well as to a certain extent from the local government. But the truth is that we need to move forward step by step, and if the concepts concerned are clear and we have also made the Code more up-to-date, so that it is cheaper for businesses to set up this network, then we will probably move in the right direction.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U117	Kristjan Kõljalg, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U118	Thank you, esteemed performer. Good waitress! Returning to yesterday's day, I recall the issue of the distribution network and the core network. Yesterday, at least some of the questions had the impression that this EASA project was not needed at all, that we did not need a core network. But the fact is, without the core network, there is no point in building a distribution network.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U119	Yeah, that's right. Yesterday, it also sounded very clear that this very basic network has made us talk here about changing laws. To move forward from here, it makes no sense to claim that the basic network has been a wrong investment. This has been the right investment, just now we have to look at what further steps are going to be taken to reach the end user, that is, the last mile of it. Synergies must be achieved, it must be seen by the last mile of the consumer, it must be seen by the consumer of the densely populated area. It is in synergy that we can achieve the most.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U120	Thank you to the initiator's representative. No further questions. The rapporteur for the Economic Commission is Erki Savisaar. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U121	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, and everyone who follows us online! The rapid spread of the Internet has been long-standing. The "Estonian Information Society Development Plan 2020" has been adopted, which states in black that by 2020 all households will have to be equipped with a high-speed internet optical cable connection and only 80% mobile coverage. True, later officials have assured me that these goals were written in confusion and that it would be logical to do the opposite. But that doesn't matter now. It is important that, although the development plan was adopted more than three years ago, no action plan has been drawn up to implement this plan and no steps have been taken to make it easier for end-users to join this service. It can be said that thanks to the active MPs who formed a broadband network support group and have discussed this issue in several working groups, and also as an important national issue in this large hall, the ice has finally begun to move, and the Riigikogu has come into operation with two drafts trying to solve several issues relating to the distribution of the network. In my opinion, this is a good example of how all political parties can cooperate when it comes to an important issue. The 270 draft has been signed by representatives of all six groups, which shows that this is an issue that needs to be resolved. Such cooperation could be more effective in creating laws in Parliament. The best thing is that the government has also contributed to solving the problem and has worked constructively with us in drafting the draft. However, I now come to the debate on draft 270 in the Commission. The Economic Commission discussed the draft law amending the Electricity Market Act, the Law of Property Law Act and the Construction Code at its meeting on 11 October. Participants included Toomas Kivimägi, Mikhail Korb, Deniss Borodich, Erki Savisaar, Tanel Talve Jaanus Marrand as alternate members, Siim Kiisler and Urve Palo. Andres Metsoja and Olav Harjo were invited as initiators, with Minister Kristen Michal and Raigo Iling, adviser to the Communications Department of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications. Andres Metsoja, the representative of the initiators of the draft, gave an overview of the objectives and content of the draft and did it as thoroughly as he did yesterday and today on this very platform. I will repeat just a few important points. The aim of the draft is to improve broadband access by reducing the cost of broadband deployment. In particular, we are talking about how better to bring the internet from the basic network to the final consumer, i.e. how to reduce the construction costs of the so-called last mile. As many issues have been resolved by the Euro Directive, the purpose of this draft is to clarify the shortcomings of the directive. The debate on this directive will be followed a little later in this very Chamber when the draft 250 comes up. The objective of the 270th draft is to make the sharing of electricity infrastructure more concrete. In particular, electricity poles are addressed. Since electric poles are almost the only infrastructure in rural areas, it is appropriate to allow the inclusion of a light cable alongside electric air cables. The amendment to the Electricity Market Act provides for an obligation to take account of the actual costs incurred in granting access to the distribution network and prohibits the so-called fixed source of revenue, which is simply linked to the fact that the direct fixed cost of the cable is simply not identifiable. The second option is to provide for a simplified sub-use of line constructions located on land belonging to other persons. The amendment of the Law of Property Act will shape a situation where the owner of an existing physical infrastructure may grant sub-use of infrastructure if the restriction does not extend spatially or temporally. This is a situation where sub-use is not included in the land register and creates prerequisites for reducing the fee and bureaucracy for the construction of the fibre network. Thirdly, the owner of the physical infrastructure will issue technical and installation conditions, and the amendment of the construction code will allow for a simplified procedure in the future. This step will also reduce bureaucracy and speed up the process. Olav Harjo, who has also made a very important contribution to the development of the law, told us that these changes will make it much easier for households to carry a light cable. The Minister confirmed that the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications supports this draft. The Commission held a lively debate on the draft, which raised some questions. For example, why the draft has not dealt with the possibility of using gas and heat lines in addition to the electricity infrastructure. We have learned that these issues are covered by a directive whose content is pending as a draft 250, so they have not been included in this draft. Interested in the opinion of Elektrilev. We know that electricity distribution wants to be remunerated for someone setting up an additional technical solution for their network. This draft empowers the network owner to issue technical conditions, including setting out how the installation will take place, and during the installation it is possible to agree on who will pay the costs. However, no fixed tariff is foreseen. I have to admit, writing such a thing into the law doesn't make sense either. I wouldn't want to create a situation where, by law, every electric mail has a price. In real life, the consumer still pays off the consumption of the infrastructure via network charges. If there were now another possibility to charge any kind of remuneration for the same infrastructure, then there could be a reduction in the network charge. But there's no way that anyone's gonna cut the electricity grid fees because somewhere they're gonna put aside some little optical cable. Therefore, no such possibility of asking for a premium is foreseen. We also had the question that if electricity distribution decides to use a land cable instead of an air cable, what will the costs be and how will it all be solved? There must be a case-by-case approach here: if the light cable has already been transported to these electricity poles that are to be replaced by a land cable, then there should be an agreement between operators on the basis of which they plan a new route together, so that the masses can be both light and electric cable. Such agreements between operators are relatively difficult to lay down by law. However, it is clear that when the end-user has signed a contract for the consumption of electricity and has paid the connection fee for the consumption of the internet and the operators have committed themselves to providing this service, the user will also retain the right to use this service after the renovation of the route and the service provider must ensure it. In the case of lines not yet equipped with a fibre cable, the pending Euro Directive will solve this issue, which will also enable operators to jointly plan a new route. For my part, I would also recommend working with local authorities, who could also inform the communication operators about this type of development, so that they know that they have the opportunity to develop their network further, or even to demand the readiness of the light cable in the case of new routes to be created. But if you come back to the air cables, the light-air cables aren't some kind of news invention. 70% of the world has light cables suspended in the air. In Estonia, for various reasons, it has gone the other way so far, but even in Estonia, these air cables are holding very well, and this is not a technical problem. There was also the question of whether electricity distribution, as a business company, could be prescribed by law to create this service for the consumer free of charge. The answer is essentially the same. If we're thinking about electric poles as a service, it's not free. The costs associated with electricity poles are all calculated in electricity prices by network charges. When we talk about extra costs, of course, all the extra costs involved in installing a light cable must be covered by the electricity supply, but the presence of a light cable at the end of the electricity poles cannot be the source of additional revenue for the electricity distribution company. There was quite a lively debate on how prices would develop, but in the end a consensus was reached that there was a serious market failure in this area. If there was no market failure, it would be likely that all the places would have been equipped with a light cable or that electricity would have done so itself. The main problem, however, is that very large sums of money are currently being charged in some parts for the final merger, amounting to EUR 20,000 to EUR 30000. The idea of this draft is to reduce it considerably so that it can be limited to a maximum of two or three thousand, which must be covered by the communications operator, the final consumer and, if possible, the municipality. One way or another, this investment will only pay for itself over the years. We can't talk about somebody getting really blissful or rich because they can put that cable somewhere. Finally, it was decided by consensus to propose that the draft be placed on the agenda of the plenary session yesterday, 18 October, that the first reading be closed and that the deadline for amendments be set at ten working days. Thus, starting today, the deadline is 2 November 2016 at 12 noon. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U122	Are there any questions for the Commission's rapporteur? No, it's not. Thank you, Erki Savisaar! I'm opening negotiations. On behalf of the Group of the Social Democratic Party of Tanel Winter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U123	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Of course, I am also asking for support for this draft at first reading today. I am very pleased, too, that, as Mr Savisaar has already said, this draft has been initiated by Members of Parliament from all political parties in the Riigikogu, which really shows that Parliament considers it important to increase the availability of the so-called fast Internet among Estonian residents and businesses. Unfortunately, at least for me, it has been a great disappointment the fact that the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications does not have the appropriate ambition. Minister for Economic Affairs Kristen Michal has repeatedly promised the last mile of broadband internet analysis and action plan, but his team has not made it to action. And you know what, I think it's just a matter of priorities. I understand that the Minister currently has a lot of concerns about the management of state-owned companies from air and ferry traffic to traffic management, but the lack of high-quality and affordable internet access will further increase regional inequalities and simply not be looked at by the side. It has to be dealt with. I would like to remind you that, in the run-up to the Social Democrats, the government's agreement was already completed in late summer of last year, with a point that promises to ensure that every family living in the country and a company operating there has a reasonable price for communications, such as electricity, high-speed internet and decent driving routes, with the additional support mechanisms necessary for this, i.e. the "last kilometre" support. As responsible, the letter was received by the Minister for Economic Affairs and Infrastructure and the Minister for Public Administration. We are still in a situation where, despite repeated promises, the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications has not even prepared this analysis or proposals for the so-called last mile solutions for high-speed internet access, not to mention the funding of what the question was about today in this Chamber. And so, here with the ambassadors, we have tried to come up with different ways of dealing with the situation out of our own wisdom. In addition to the legislative amendment under discussion today, the Broadband Internet Support Group has proposed to the Ministry that the planned EUR 15 million from the forthcoming sale of communications frequencies be channelled precisely for the completion of the last mile connections, provided that municipalities, end-users and also communication companies become co-financing agents. This would certainly have given a strong impetus to resolving the situation, but unfortunately, this 15 million in next year's state budget has not been earmarked for target purposes, and so the money for last mile's connections is still missing. Of the European Union's funds for the establishment of the core network, some 15 million have not yet been used, as has been said. We have proposed an opportunity to consider whether to make it a condition for financing this last mile that if a telecommunications company can use public money in its commercial interests, it will also establish a connection for the last mile. The Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications would, of course, draw up a comprehensive and national plan to increase the availability of the fast internet instead of the development of such individual ideas. If it were finally born, it would be very nice. I want to point out, however, that this is not just about physically bringing cable to people's rooms. This action plan should also include information campaigns, as well as, of course, the continued development of public e-services provided by the state and much more. With regard to the ongoing reform of the state, we have wanted the public to use services over the Internet instead of a physical service point. Well, then, we will also give the people of our rural areas a quick, high quality and, most importantly, affordable internet connection in place of this physical caterer! But right now, good people, we're in a situation where we keep taking things away from the people of the country, but we don't give anything to replace them. The legislative amendment discussed in this Chamber today should make the connection of the last mile more efficient and also increase the interest of private companies in doing so. At the same time, it is only part of the solution driven by the personal initiative of the members of the Riigikogu. Some municipalities, such as Pärnu County and Anija Municipality in Harjumaa, have also not been able to wait for this cross-estonian analysis and have started mapping the situation by setting itself an ambitious goal of bringing the light cable to all households and businesses in their territory. One minute more time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U124	One more minute, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U125	Ladies and gentlemen, I call on you to make the availability and usability of fast, high-quality and affordable internet access a clear priority for our country. The experience of other progressive countries shows that it will produce results in a few years, not to mention the longer term. We are talking here about the much faster development of our country and our people, education, regional policy, social welfare, medicine and much more. And if you good people are interested in what wonderful world will be opened by a light cable installed in your home or company, then come to me, I will gladly speak and explain these things. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U126	On behalf of the Group of the Kristjan Kõljalg Reform Party, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U127	Dear Chairman, Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, on some of the issues that have been resonating here in two days during the debate on this draft, through my eyes. Firstly, the basic network and its development. As Andres Metsoja said, without the basic network, we wouldn't have any sense in handling this distribution network. Today we can already say that thanks to the development of the basic network, internet connections have improved throughout Estonia. Is there room for development? Of course it is. Now, can European Union funds be used for the distribution network, the 'last mile' solution? It has been said repeatedly that the officials of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications tried to convince the European Union to the very end, so that this would be a sensible solution. Unfortunately, we were informed that these amounts could only be used for the establishment of the basic network. Coming up to the 5G network, we have to ask which society we're heading towards. We're moving from a megabit society to a gigabit society. Does the 5G network mean we're dealing with megabit connections? At the beginning of last year, Estonian telecommunications engineers tested in Stockholm and received tests on the test network, I stress that it was almost two years ago at a speed of 4.4 gigabits per second. I don't think it's worth cutting down that 5G cell phone, either. And here we come to the most important question: do all people have to drag a cable into their room? I don't think they're finally gonna do it. If the service they can use via the mobile network is good enough, they do not consider this investment necessary. However, I do agree with this, which is why we have also initiated the draft, that there are currently an unreasonable number of bureaucratic obstacles that prevent the cable from being transported to our home, to the company or to the institution at a reasonable price. For God's sake, let's make these bureaucratic rules easier! We make it more affordable for people, both in terms of administration and money, so that the cable of light really reaches those who are eager to do so. The main question is what people use the Internet for. Most use it to make their lives easier, more comfortable, or more interesting. If getting this draft into law helps to make it possible to offer Internet services even better in most of Estonia or in the whole territory of Estonia, it is a worthwhile draft, which you will all support today and also in the next two readings. In conclusion, I will say that I do not want to cut down on the mobile network, but there must be a reduction in bureaucratic obstacles to the construction of a fibre cable. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U128	There's no more calls. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 270. I will set the deadline for the amendments at 12 noon on 2 November.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U129	Next, the first reading of the Bill 299 of the Law on Legal Assistance and the Amendment of Other Laws, initiated by the Government of the Republic. Urmas Reinsalu, Minister of Justice, on behalf of the initiator of the bill, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U130	Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable representative of the people! This law amends the State Legal Aid Act and other laws. The essence of this law is to create more extensive opportunities to improve access to one type of legal aid in Estonia, and this type is so-called primary legal advice when a person thinks he or she has a right to something or some real problem in real life. Then he may want legal advice on how to act. He wants to know if he really has that probable right, whether he is procedurally able to defend that right, or whether he has hoped for the protection of the law, but in reality there is no legal cover for his imagination. The primary legal advice is therefore so important that it is in some respects the starting point for the realisation of all other fundamental rights enshrined in the Constitution. If a person is not aware of how he or she can protect his or her property, how he or she can protect his or her working rights, how he or she can defend his or her right to a dwelling or any other fundamental right, then it is understandable that the realisation of his or her fundamental rights is blocked. Consequently, the state has a duty of due diligence to support people in the exercise of this right. We have a fairly professional, high-level legal advisory system, which focuses on providing legal representation in court proceedings. With regard to a certain level of property, namely minimum income, people have the opportunity to seek legal assistance from the courts, particularly in criminal matters, as well as in civil and administrative matters. If certain conditions are met, the court shall appoint such a lawyer. In addition, individuals also have a subjective right arising from the rule of law that if a state accuses a person of a crime, they also have a right of defence. The lawyer must be guaranteed by the State. According to the current budget, we have a specific amount of EUR 100000 allocated to such legal advice. People come, ask, get legal advice. This money has been distributed by the Ministry of Justice on the basis of calls for proposals. The lion's share of this sum has become the Legal Services Bureau of the Foundation, which carries out this work very well in Tallinn, handling about 3000 cases per year. In addition, separate calls for proposals have the right to share legal advice tools of a specific nature which are intended for organisations with special needs. The purpose of this draft is to improve first-level legal aid so as to give the state the opportunity to conduct these competitions more widely. Both professional legal service providers and non-profit organisations can participate in the competitions. The aim is to improve access to first-level legal advice across the country. The additional resource in the draft state budget is EUR 7000 per year, then more than EUR 800000 on a consolidated basis. The scheme would look like that if this law was adopted and if the legislator also approved the state budget, then after that the Ministry of Justice will announce these competitions by designating those areas where participants must ensure access to certain conditions. After these competitions, we have the assumption that instead of 3,000 cases, we will be able to ensure the service of 20,000 people in the order of magnitude across the country. Moreover, there are a number of legal changes to this draft, either in the area of justice or in the area of legal aid. The second amendment is somewhat in the opposite direction. It foresees that public power must be sustainably circling the resource. The purpose of the second amendment is that it will not be mandatory for a suspect to be assigned a lawyer in the future if a secondary offence is being dealt with and the prosecutor considers it possible to resolve the case in the form of a short procedure, i.e. an urgent procedure. Suspects shall have the right to such protection if they wish to apply for it. But if he does not want to exercise this right, then the mandatory protection is simply not imposed because of the form. The person is, of course, informed of this right. We expect the resulting savings to be at least EUR 70000. This money is not used for any other purpose. We do not intend to reduce the means of legal aid provided by the professional bar Association next year; this money will remain available to provide legal assistance provided by the general bar Association. In addition, it is proposed that the national register of state and local authorities be placed on the platform of the Business Register Information System. We have a separate register held by the Ministry of Finance, but in order to use all data more efficiently and efficiently, we request the legislator's approval that the national register of state and local government institutions with an informative meaning may simply be on the Business Register Information System platform at the Registry Department of Tartu County Court. It simply does not make economic sense to keep a separate register there. If there's one register, you can put an interface in it. And there are three other changes. In particular, we are asking the legislator to increase the premium for the Chairman of the Viru County Court. It aims to create an opportunity to pay the Chairman of the Viru County Court a premium higher than usual to motivate judges in the permanent service of other courts to stand as head of the Viru County Court. This would be in conjunction with the amendment to the Courts Act adopted in spring, according to which a judge in a different court district can also apply for a court leader, either at the same level or at a higher level. In reality, the Viru region is one of the most critical in the sense that it is very difficult to guarantee the quality of justice there. Understandably, the role of the organisational head of this institution is very important. In order to motivate this competition, we have proposed this. Indeed, it makes sense to further stimulate the employment of Virumaa in order to ensure at least the same level of justice as elsewhere in the country. Now two more changes. The first is that the Estonian Bar Association should be granted the right to appeal against the State Legal Aid Regulation and the decision to determine the amount of the state legal aid fee, the extent of the reimbursement of the costs of state legal aid. In the case of the latter, only in cases where a lawyer has been granted a higher fee than that which can be determined according to the procedures of the State legal aid fee. What's the point? The point is that the bar Association has a public burden of legal aid in court proceedings. The lawyer stands for it, this resource is spent sensibly. It is a public right of appeal. If the Bar Association sees a lawyer being paid over in a case, it must have the right to challenge this overpayment in the interests of the uniformity of justice, but also in the interests of the sustainable use of resources. As I pointed out, it is the initiative of the Bar Association itself to obtain such a public right of appeal. In addition, this draft provides for the exemption of persons from the obligations to pay compensation for legal aid, as well as from the fees payable in the event of an appeal against a regulation. What's the point? We would like the persons who have been assigned representatives in proceedings without a civil action to be released from the obligation to reimburse the costs of state legal aid and state legal aid. The current situation is rather absurd, in combination with the various laws. If a person is assigned representatives in proceedings without an action in civil proceedings without an application from a person, he should not reimburse the costs incurred in doing so to the State, nor should that be our purpose. This is not always the case at the moment, since such persons cannot, because of their status, assess the need for aid in substance or consider the possibility of bearing the costs involved. This is the situation, however, and it is unfair. If, as a result of a subsequent assessment of the person's financial position, he or she is considered insolvent, he or she is still required to reimburse the costs of legal aid in the combined form of several laws, although the difference in interpretation of different laws is in fact based on the fact that if you are insolvent, you should not reimburse those costs in such a situation. In order to avoid such an interpretation beyond the purpose of the law, we want to clearly define this regulation. These are the substantive proposals of this draft, I hope that this draft law will be dealt with seriously by the legislator.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U131	Questions for the initiator of the draft. Dmitri Dmitriev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U132	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. The Centre Party Group has on several occasions initiated a draft amendment to the State Legal Aid Act, which sought to eliminate a discriminatory situation in which applications for state legal aid are rejected on the ground that they have not been submitted in Estonian. However, the wider aim of the draft was to make legal aid more accessible to all people across Estonia. We also referred, among other things, to the problems in Ida-Virumaa, which you spoke about today in the remote. In the spring, you allowed the Ministry of Justice to come out with a large-scale state legal aid reform plan. The explanatory memorandum to this draft provides that there is no intention to change the preconditions for obtaining state aid. Is the draft that we are debating today the same reform that you talked about in the spring, or do we have any other changes to expect?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U133	Thank you. What I meant in spring is the draft that has reached the legislator's desks. The language of the case, the language in which the proceedings are conducted, is Estonian. Of course, one assumption is that people can realise their fundamental rights, that they are aware of their rights. This duty of care must be exercised by the State, regardless of the background and language skills of the people, even if they are in the country for a short period of time. The scheme that we have proposed is that first-level justice is guaranteed to people. There was a debate in the Commission on whether this would be ensured in certain regions even if people were to apply for first-level legal aid in other languages, not in Estonian. I think that makes sense. English, Russian in Ida-Virumaa and Tallinn. You are right, I am not at all satisfied with the quality of legal aid given in Ida-Virumaa. Legal aid must also be available to people in market conditions. One thing is that people are insolvent. What, then, will they do, how will their rights be realised in the event of problems in housing or other matters? The second issue is that people who are solvent also face serious difficulties in accessing legal aid. I'm sure there are some serious shortcomings here. By means of public competitions, we want to create a legal counselling point in Ida-Virumaa, which would provide people with first-level legal assistance. This legal advice also helps people not only to provide oral advice but also to assist them in drafting legal documents. For example, if they wish to apply for state legal aid as determined by the court in the specific legal proceedings, they will be assisted in filling in the necessary application. The main problem, which we have also discussed in the Commission, is whether the application for legal aid in Estonian is too complicated. We agreed on a fair game, that we would take this draft application on the table between two readings in the Commission and see if it is possible to correct these issues in such a way that they are simple and understandable, including in a language that is not familiar with the legal format. If we can do this together, I am very happy about it. The second question is whether people can clearly describe to the court what this legal advantage is, what they want to protect. This must be defined. In this case, it is reasonable that they have a legal adviser who in their own language can explain to them everything they need and help them fill out their papers in Estonian. I think it makes sense and solves the practical problem you referred to. I have moved around Estonian court areas, also in Ida-Virumaa and Tallinn. I have spoken to the legendary Harju County Court premier Helve Särgava and asked him that if a person who does not speak Estonian would come to Harju County Court and ask for first legal advice, what would be done to him. Nobody gets sent to the door, they'll find a solution. Counselling, helping to complete the application form. It seems to me that it is not enough to simply formulate the principle that applications need not be in Estonian, but may also be presented in Russian or in another language. It would rather be an ideological, language-political choice, but the practical question of whether or not people receive legal assistance would remain unresolved. In practical terms, a certain level of legal aid must be guaranteed in the form of legal advice for people, regardless of what their native language is and how well they manage documents linguistically. I completely admit that, there is no question of that. Does this mean, however, that we are making legal proceedings multilingual? No, that's not what I meant. I don't think that's appropriate.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U134	Thank you. Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U135	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good minister! I understand that the greatest impact of this draft will be on the Bar Association, which will gain more rights. I have two questions about this. In addition to contesting legal aid regulations, the right to challenge judgments is also granted here. What kind of judgments? Are they going to assess the results of the work of national legal aid providers, or what is its purpose? The second question is how it is guaranteed that the granting of state legal aid would not monopolise the Bar Association, but that, under conditions of fair competition, NGOs and other lawyers would also be able to compete openly for this work. How is equal access ensured?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U136	I say that the right of the Bar Association to lodge a public-law complaint in case of judicial decisions is very narrowly defined. Of course, it does not concern the content of the decision or whether the lawyer did a good job or not. This is a question of disciplinary proceedings before a lawyer, which are subject to separate procedural rules. These are only court decisions relating to the amount of the lawyer's remuneration and only if the lawyer has been granted a higher fee than he would have been able to obtain under the procedure of the State legal aid fee. If he has a lower fee, the bartender doesn't have to intervene. If a lawyer is any person worthy of his profession and he's a knucklehead, he's gonna go to court and file an appeal, he's gonna ask where his money is. That's the right he's got. How can we ensure that first-level legal aid does not lead to a monopoly? The barrister's liability for legal aid in court proceedings shall lie with the barrister. This is the central public obligation of the Bar Association. That is why the Estonian Bar Association has been created as a public corporation, and it also has a mission for society that lawyers must perform in addition to their commercial or economic professional activities. In this competition, it is very important that quality is guaranteed at the minimum level that people are given advice that they can benefit from and not misleading advice. But, of course, the price criterion is also important, and that is definitely what we are following. It is possible that, as I said, professional law firms are competing with some law firms who can provide this assistance in some area. I very much hope that non-profit organisations will also participate. I consider it very important that those organisations that have done so to date have the opportunity to participate. I am sure that they will be able to profile this service and offer it in every way competitively. I don't want to see the situation that we have allocated eight times as much money for the service, but the terms of the competition are that compared to the price of this year, we will, figuratively speaking, only get twice as much service. I would like the orders of magnitude that we currently have to remain similar, the market is not very extensive in Estonia, but this service should still be offered at a price that is subject to competitive pressure. As far as legal aid for people with special needs is concerned, of course it must be distinguished from outside the competition. There is no point in imagining that, for example, people with hearing or visual impairments would be offered assistance as a result of a public competition other than a representative organisation of those who have done so to date.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U137	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U138	Thank you, good manager. Good minister! I read in the explanatory memorandum that there are 100000 people living in absolute poverty in Estonia who receive 203 euros per month and 280800 people living in relative poverty, who receive 394 euros per month. In total, 380000 poor people. As I understand it, there's no more money. Tell me, how much will the state allocate to the legal costs of these 380,000 poor people?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U139	Thank you. When we talk about judicial legal aid, this amount amounts to EUR 4 million, which goes to the Bar Association. Now we are seeking that, in addition to the legal assistance provided in court proceedings, which is provided through the Bar Association, the possibility of obtaining first-level legal advice is also improved. And I have good news: there'll be more money. This year it will be EUR 100000, next year EUR 800000. If we establish fair competition terms Whether this is quite the case depends, of course, on how active and agile the offer comes from different regions. A very important question for me is in which regions we consider it important to improve access to first-level legal assistance. Here I hope for very serious cooperation with the Riigikogu Legal Affairs Committee and with all the ambassadors' associations. Do we take it as a model that such aid is granted in all county centres or in one of the major regions? It is certainly the starting point that this money does not make sense, of course, to spend it in order to build some kind of houses, that is not enough. On the contrary, I am hoping for good cooperation with local authorities, public authorities, rural governments in order to create a point of legal advice where people can go and where the cost of maintaining this would be as minimal as possible. We wish to organise these competitions in cooperation between the Ministry of Justice and the courts in such a way that the premises necessary for the provision of the service do not require additional costs. For example, there is a courthouse in Tartu, where there is certainly an opportunity to offer this legal aid. So the basic money goes specifically for the provision of legal assistance, or the remuneration of professional advisors.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U140	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U141	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, You said it was decided to start paying him an extra fee to get the head of the Viru County Court. Do you think this fixed rate is enough? And is such a measure the only way to get good judges in Ida-Virumaa, and how will the wages of other judges working in Viru County be raised?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U142	Thank you. A serious question and an embarrassing question in the sense that over the last few years, competitions have repeatedly failed to fill judges' seats in Viru County Court. This isn't normal! At the beginning of the summer this year, we announced a competition for 11 judges, which has not ended. These are long procedures for testing human characteristics, for background and security checks. I can't say anything right now, I don't know if this time it will end with a positive result or if it won't end with a positive result. Solutions have been found in different ways. For example, some judges in the service of the Viru County Court and other legal officials work in other areas. This is some sort of solution, but in itself I consider it reasonable that, in the case of permanent work, especially lifelong work, a person can live on the ground. This is a broader question of how the state can motivate people in different fields to work in Ida-Virumaa. Yes, we must also be prepared to take emergency incentive measures. This isn't a little bit of a corner or a shame-worthy story. There's a very clear principle in prison service. If you go to work in Ida-Virumaa, whether from some other prison or entering the system outside, in Jõhvi prison in Ida-Virumaa, the basic salary is 25% higher. It doesn't matter, you lived in Ida-Virumaa before, or you came from another county. And the point. Now we want to bring the Viru County Court Chairman's premium to a significantly higher level. Let's see how this summer contest works. If this proves to be a failure, perhaps additional motivation will be needed to fill the judges' seats in Ida-Virumaa. I do not rule out that we come up with new proposals to raise the salaries of these people. This requires the opening of the Law on the salaries of senior civil servants, but then the premium or basic salary of judges can be raised in Ida-Virumaa. But if the situation demands, we have to do it. They have a decent basic salary. If this basic salary is not enough, we must allocate additional resources.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U143	Dmitri Dmitriev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U144	Thank you, Minister. When you answered Mr Külmiki's Hatter's question, you said that this is only one list of where state legal aid is provided. There's a few places left out. You also have a habit of secreting on the committee from time to time. Where's the other list? Usually, a complete list of explanatory notes is kept.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U145	One list is in the sense of an entity or unit, it is one or the only list. When I say one list, it doesn't mean there's one list in numerical terms, and there's another list or some longer sequence. This is the proposed list, the current list. My point is, it's not a locked list. If there are objectively compelling reasons which we can consider on the basis of the resource limit, which is the amount to be allocated from the state budget, it is possible to expand this list, as I said, if there is such a proposal, if we, together with the experts, consider it right, or vice versa. I would like to emphasise once again that in the regions where this legal aid is being provided, it is important not to take a dramatic view of the matter. When finding premises, an agreement should be reached with the county government, with the state's own judicial authorities on the ground or with local authorities. It only depends on whether the legal counsellor has a working space in which he can serve people and whether he has a vehicle whose costs are covered. If they exist, I imagine the counselor can drive around relatively quickly. The aim is not to say once again that there will be no error ♪ some special primary legal counseling houses in the areas. No, it's not. What is important is that the places that we have proposed in one of the lists, the only ones on this list, are guaranteed that people will receive this service at a certain time of the week and on certain days of the week. If there is a desire to increase this circle, to diversify in different regions, it is for discussion and we are open to it. There is no secrecy here, on the contrary, everything is completely public.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U146	Thank you, Minister. No further questions for you. And now I would like a presentation by Rait Maruste, Member of the Committee on Legal Affairs of the Speaker's Office.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U147	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The 299th draft debate took place on Tuesday 11 October. a. All its members, with the exception of Andrei Novikov and Olga Ivanova, took part in the meeting of the Committee on Legal Affairs. Mr Urmas Reinsalu, Minister of Justice, and Mr Gunnar Vaikmaa, Head of the Department of Justice Administration Policy, were also invited to attend. As an introduction to what was discussed at the meeting, I would say that the best way to reduce the cost of legal aid is if the right that we produce here with you is simple, clear and understandable, so that people do not need the help of a specialist for legal orientation. I do not consider it necessary to repeat what the Minister has already said. He also explained in the Commission all the same things that we have here today. After the introduction, a debate was followed by a debate in the Commission, which I will summarise. As an introduction, the speaker asked whether legal aid could be provided in English in a particular region. As we know, at least in Tallinn there are quite a number of people who are not Estonian or Russian, but in other languages, whose main lingua franca is English. Urmas Reinsalu agreed that this was a topical issue and that advice could also be given in English if necessary. Heljo Pikhof wanted to know how refugees receive legal aid. Gunnar Vaikmaa explained that counselling for refugees is organised by the Ministry of the Interior. Kristjan Kõljalg wanted to know how much savings are expected from the reduction of defence obligations and pointed out that there is a slight contradiction between the draft explanatory memorandum and the text. In fact, according to the explanatory memorandum, legal aid should only be provided by law firms, but the text of the law does not confirm it. It's settled. Urmas Reinsalu confirmed that legal aid should be provided by law firms as well as law firms and other legal professionals acting in the form of a foundation or a non-profit association. The Minister also admitted that, if necessary, the explanatory memorandum should be clarified. The speaker also asked what paragraph 2 (1) of the draft refers to in particular. Urmas Reinsalu explained, as he did today, that it would be reasonable to provide for a higher premium in order to find a suitable candidate for the position of Chairman of the Viru County Court. For my part, I can assure you that this problem has been in East Virus since the early days of statehood. We further discussed how access to legal aid for people whose mother tongue is not Estonian is guaranteed. The Minister explained that this problem may be theoretically present, but in practice it is the practice that all people who turn to the court first receive an explanation in their native language, including Russian. However, further proceedings should still take place in the national language of the court, as the language of Estonian court proceedings is Estonian. Valdo Randpere explained that it is known from earlier times that when people turn to the court in either Tallinn or Ida-Virus in Russian, no one's first return is known to have been rejected because the language requirement has not been met. If anyone has other information, please report it to the Commission. That was a brief summary. At the end of the debate, the Commission first decided to propose that the draft be put on the plenary agenda by 18 October. The decision was consensual. Yesterday, the draft could not be discussed, and it is on the agenda today, 19 October. Secondly, we have decided to propose that the first reading should be stopped, and this was also a unanimous decision, and thirdly, to propose that the deadline for amendments be set initially at 1 November; now it will become at 17:00 on 2 November. It was decided to appoint a speaker here. These decisions were also taken by consensus.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U148	Thank you, dear waitress. No questions for you. Ladies and gentlemen, I will open negotiations. Heljo Pikhof on behalf of the Social Democratic Party Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U149	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good fellows! It is pleased that today the Riigikogu has a draft procedure aimed at extending the access of persons living in Estonia to state legal aid. After all, there is a substantial increase in funding to ensure better access to public legal aid and an expansion of the range of first-level legal aid providers. One important issue, however, requires a consensual decision before a second reading of the draft. Indeed, it is important for the social democrats that all persons living in Estonia who have the need and right to do so receive legal aid from the state regardless of their mother tongue. It is important to ensure universal access to Russian legal aid, given regional differences. The aim of the Social Democrats is to ensure that people's fundamental rights are strictly protected and that high-quality legal assistance is available at an affordable price to those in need. According to the current law, an application for legal aid can be submitted in Estonian and, by way of exception, in English. The law provides that applications submitted in another language are to be rejected. At the same time, a significant number of the Estonian population are people of Russian nationality or other people who use Russian as a language of communication. In practice, this provision has created problems and was also addressed by the Chancellor of Justice in a letter to the Minister of Justice dated 21 March 2016. § 15 of the Constitution provides for the right of everyone to apply to the courts in the event of violation of their rights and freedoms. The right of access to the Court of First Instance is an absolute fundamental right, the limitation of which is permitted only for very serious reasons. However, it follows from the last sentence of § 12 (5) of the Law on Legal Aid that if the application is not filed in Estonian or English, it will be returned. It is an imperative norm that does not provide for discretion. However, according to the procedural laws, the courts have a margin of discretion in resolving requests for legal aid from a foreign language state and the court may set a deadline for submitting an application in a foreign language to remedy the deficiencies, i.e. also for submitting an application in Estonian. If the application is still in a foreign language after the expiry of that period, the court may dismiss the application. As a result of this mismatch, the practice of courts in resolving foreign-language legal aid applications is also different. Some courts set a deadline for the correction of the deficiencies, while others do so without considering the possibility of a recovery order. The Social Democrats therefore consider that § 12 (5) of the Law on Legal Aid, in conjunction with the Code of Civil Procedure, is not unambiguous and needs to be clarified. In particular, the current regulation needs an unambiguous change so that translation assistance can also be applied for as procedural assistance if it is necessary to prepare the application in Estonian. In the light of the above and of the fact that persons whose economic status does not allow them to pay for legal aid themselves also need state legal aid, there is insufficient justification to limit the availability of state legal aid to the imposition of strict language requirements for the application and to put those who are already in a difficult situation in an even more difficult situation. As I have already said, the Social Democrats consider it important that state legal aid is available to those who do not speak Estonian. When coming to the version of the legal aid law of the former State, it provided that if the application or documents attached to the application were not submitted in Estonian, the person processing the application would arrange for the document to be translated if necessary. Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U150	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U151	If the application for legal aid is rejected, the costs of translating the documents shall be recognised by the applicant and the costs of the translation shall be taken into account when determining the obligation to reimburse the recipient of the legal aid. In the last session of the Committee on Legal Affairs, I asked the Ministry of Justice to clarify the provisions of the current law and to propose amendments to remove the imperative restriction of the law so that the request in another language would be returned. The Minister considered that it could be considered that if the person had to return the application, the court had to explain to the person how he could apply as a procedural aid for translation assistance in which the person was advised and assisted to prepare the application in Estonian. The Minister promised that they would propose amendments to this effect for the second reading of the draft. We look forward to it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U152	Thank you. Raivo Time on behalf of the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U153	President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, When we read our literary classics, we see that Estonians have stood firm for their right throughout history. In disputes between themselves, the right to assert a third party, whether it be a community elder, a landlord, a Russian czar, a court or the European Court of Justice today, is often asked. It was only recently that we learned that Estonia has been per resident of the European Court of Human Rights in terms of applications, compared to other countries, well above average. Anton Hansen Tammsaare vividly describes his 'True and Righteousness' search for the truth of Andres and Pear, which also reached a trial for justice. Our constitution, too, clearly states that everyone has the right to defend the state and the law, the right to apply to the courts in order to protect their rights. There must be no discrimination on the grounds of property or social status. In principle, all rights are just as available and guaranteed, but in reality this may not be the case, especially in the case of civil litigation. Civil disputes are so nuanced and complicated in nature that so-called ordinary people are generally unable to orient themselves there without legal assistance. In addition, court proceedings are financially burdened with fees. Since people sometimes simply lack the material ability to buy high quality legal aid, everything can end up simply missing the necessary legal protection. True, apart from the paid legal assistance available for more or less than legal and legal fees, there are also a number of free counselling options offered by non-profit institutions. The paradox, however, is that such aid is intended primarily for people living in deep poverty. In addition to the additional financial instrument, the greatest value of ongoing innovations is that the possibilities for legal assistance extend more equally to different regions of Estonia. And people who do not live directly in deep poverty, but simply have less money, will also be able to apply for legal aid. Maybe they don't get it in full, but in some limited amount of hours. Once again, since this legislative amendment is primarily aimed at ensuring the protection of the rights of the vulnerable population, many will have the opportunity to deal with their money more sustainably. In what way? If, thanks to high-quality legal aid, a person gets an adequate overview of his or her real or imaginary rights and the possible perspective in the forthcoming proceedings before the court before the action is brought, this will make it easier to decide on the need for further courts. If a person is convinced, with the help of a lawyer, that his or her case is not possible, he or she may fail to do so, thus saving his or her scarce resources. It is also very important from a human perspective that the documents that must be submitted for legal argument are drawn up correctly, accurately, purposefully and in good time. This is also the added value of this legislative amendment. I am quite convinced that the planned steps in the form of broadening the country's initial legal assistance will add a good dose of faith in the rule of law to citizens. I hope that it will be possible to discuss the loose ends between the two readings and find solutions for them. In particular, I am thinking of the language problem that has been touched on several occasions here today. But it must also be borne in mind that, in addition to the need for Russian legal aid in the near future, the linguistic ampluaa in Estonia can be significantly expanded, and it must be considered whether as a state we are prepared to provide legal aid in all the necessary languages. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U154	Thank you. There's no more calls. I'm closing the negotiations. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 299. First reading is over. I shall set the deadline for the submission of amendments to the draft, including 2 November at 5 p.m. We have discussed today's second item.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U155	Thank you. Honourable Minister of Justice! I must mention from your previous point of view that the Centre Party Group did not want to change the language of the court proceedings, which is Estonian, with its draft. It was about the language in which the legal aid applications were submitted. Some time ago, the Estonian Bar Association applied to the Ministry of Justice for an additional amount of EUR 440000 to provide state legal aid. In particular, this year, the Bar Association has incurred considerable costs in resolving large criminal cases, and there is a risk that by November the provision of state legal aid may stop because the Bar Association simply does not have the money to do so. But instead of allocating extra money to the bartender, you will change the criminal proceedings in such a way that, with the consent of the suspect, he will not be assigned a lawyer in accordance with an obligation. Would it not have been more appropriate to allocate the funds needed for the bar instead of changing the provision of state legal aid in criminal matters?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U156	It is the duty of the Ministry to ensure that legal aid is not interrupted in any way, but can be provided nicely until the end of the year and also next year. There are two issues. This is an emergency, force majesty. We have such organized crime groups in Estonia. Lennart Meri once said that every normal country has its own mafia and its own Coca-Cola. We also have our own organized crime groups. Fortunately, there are not too many of them - not after the war in Sicily - and we will deal with them. But one case recently increased the volume of legal aid in a surge, one case in which a large part of the members of the Estonian Bar Association were lined up in order to fulfil the state-guaranteed protection obligation. It took over 10% of the total amount of legal aid in criminal matters for the entire country for a year. Finally, the news came that in Paul's process a fellow worker had a health problem, which means that in some of the things that did not have an agreement, the process begins again, so that the whole train again passes through the station. This is an extraordinary situation and this is the way to deal with the exceptional situation. We analyzed it in the ministry, and I have promised the barrister's office that I will definitely apply for extra money. This is why a government reserve fund is provided to cope in emergency situations. This is a force majesty situation, and we're filing this request for money. Now, this question, and this is another issue for me, not at all linked to the cost of Paul's process, as regards the abandonment of compulsory protection under the simple procedure and the replacement of this obligation with the right to such protection, is a question for drinkers. They do not dispute the penalty, this decision will be taken in simple proceedings. In the case of a drunk driver, should he have no interest in contesting anything if he does not seek protection? This is not the case in very many European countries. As regards guaranteeing the rights of defence of accused and suspected persons in criminal matters, Estonia has established a rather exceptional and luxurious system. Finland, which is ten times richer than us in terms of GDP, has taken the view that if there are simple criminal cases, the right of defence is not absolute, but is what we propose in the case of simple procedures. And I don't think we're doing the wrong thing. A person has the right to seek protection, but there is no obligation to indicate it. This money remains in the system and goes to cover other legal expenses, I think that makes sense.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U157	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U158	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good minister! In the explanatory memorandum to the draft law, you have already provided for these cities, municipalities, where you must be able to meet with an advisor. For what reasons have Jõgeva and Rapla been excluded?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U159	It's a list. It's a list, and I think it's a suggestion. I do not think it makes any sense to confirm this list by law, to lay down specifically where this legal aid is offered every year as a result of the competition. It is currently offered as a result of the competition for EUR 100000 in Kadriorg. This foundation also makes lightning visits to other regions, but since it is essentially three people who do this kind of work in the main place, the possibilities are, of course, limited. Let me put it this way, it's been attempted to define some sort of minimal optimism. Any proposals for which areas should be covered are welcome. Several options are certainly possible in terms of better profiling of the service. If we do not say that we are building a separate primary legal aid house in Jõgeva, then there is no question I imagine that the terms of the competition stipulate that the person will provide legal assistance three days a week in Tartu and half a day in Jõgeva. This can certainly be arranged. Rapla can also serve a person who has travelled from Tallinn or another city. I'm looking forward to all the suggestions. Too much has been said that there is always a movement out of the regions. There's been too much talk! Let's take one step backwards, and let's not be afraid of that step! We do it together, we do it confidently, we do it with a smile.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U160	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U161	Thank you, good manager. Good minister! You say in the explanatory memorandum that, in the case of simple criminal offences, there is no need to provide state legal assistance, there could be savings. I understand we're talking about the poor who drive drunk and the ones who kill someone or do something crazy. How much of the four million is the amount that is now going to those drunks and the poor?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U162	I don't know if you think they're becoming poor in the category of compassion or economic, income category. I think that steering drunkenness is relatively cross-cutting in society in demographic terms, as are many other offences. For some types of crime, we can talk about a socio-demographic drawing, be it age groups or income groups. Sometimes you can derive a socio-economic profile on this basis. Generally, the lion's majority of violent crimes are attributed to younger men, and that is the case for quite logical reasons. I would like to emphasise once again that people will not be deprived of this right, even for drinkers, that right will remain in the light of the simple procedure, but the state will be deprived of this obligation. However, if a person does not want to exercise the right that is introduced to him, it is not mandatory for a lawyer to sit next to him. Often the person himself says, "Well, I was wrong. Okay, I don't see that my rights have been violated, I agree with the simple procedure. " If, however, he finds that he needs a lawyer, I do not know whether he or she wants to defend his or her position, then he or she is entitled to it. How much of this $4 million will we save? I said at least EUR 70,000, or about 1700 hours. We save 1700 hours in Estonia for one of the best paid, most competent professional work, or lawyer work. Its power can be diverted, these 1,700 hours they're doing some other work. They don't dig a ditch, they either give their private practice advice or legal aid, which is assigned to legal proceedings.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U163	Heljo Pikhof, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U164	Today's third item is the first reading of the draft law amending the law on the Small Islands Act initiated by the members of the Riigikogu, Mark Soosaare, Raivo Aegi, Kalev Kotkas, Jüri Adams, Johannes Kerdi and Imre Sooääre. Mark Soosaare, member of the Riigikogu, please waitress!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U165	Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. Which one of us wouldn't want to be in a park, forest or even better, on such a beautiful golden autumn evening, in some small islands, to see how people live there, and to feel free and just citizens of the rule of law. Six members of the Riigikogu representing four political parties have drawn up this draft, the names of which were just read out by the honourable President. Looks microscopic, but as we know, the devil is in the details. Since our constitution is built on the principle of equal treatment, we could not behave in any other way than to bring this draft before our colleagues in the Riigikogu. The Small Islands Act, which came into force in 2004, provides that these islands, which are inhabited, are to be listed by the Riigikogu with their amendments to the law. There are a number of differences and rights for the inhabitants of these small islands, where permanent settlements have indeed developed and are developing, and perhaps the most important of these are the five differences laid down in the Fisheries Act. For example, a recreational fisher, who is mostly a permanent resident of a small island pensioner, can use 300 fishing lines instead of three, 100 fishing lines, etc. instead of one gillnet. The technical inspection of motor vehicles in the smaller islands will also be carried out under simplified procedures. Municipalities with permanent settlements in their administration receive some support from the state budget. Unfortunately, it has happened that since 2006 when we raised the question with the Assembly of Islands in Estonia, Naissaar has been left out first, who proposed (Woman's Island belongs to Viimsi rural municipality). Next, in 2010 I brought a draft to the Riigikogu procedure which, in addition to Naissaar, provided for the recognition of the permanent establishment of Väike-Pakri and Aegna. This bill was put on the shelf, and the Government of the Republic announced that it would take this decision in the future and take care of it in the near future. Unfortunately, it is now 2016 and we are almost at the same point. We have forgotten why the law on the permanent settlement of the smaller islands was adopted in 2004. The reason was that most small islands lost their settlement in the second world war. The Soviet bases were created there, and there were deportations. Part of the settlement came back to the islands during the German occupation, but as the Red Army approached Estonia, these islands ran out of people. Both in nature and in human society, it is easy to break up, but it is very long and painful to restore, once biodiversity has ended somewhere, when human settlement is broken. The aim was to restore permanent settlement in our small islands to preserve the traditions of the island's way of life, to create new communities. One of the sections of the Small Islands Act says that one rather important objective is national security, because one soldier may also be a fighter in the field and even the presence of a few people on the island throughout the year is quite important for our security. I have taken data from the City of Paldiski, Viimsi municipality and Tallinn in recent years about the settlement and where it has come to. Väike-Pakri had ten permanent residents at the same time last year, Naissaar also had ten and Aegnal six. By October of this year, the permanent settlement has increased, with 11 people living there. There are eight people on the Naissaar Island that have been written into it. The biggest setback, however, is the Small Pakri, because the suffering of people has been interrupted. Three men, who raised a decent herd of cows there, moved away, went under Padis's parish because the connection with Paldiski, a city three kilometres away, is nonexistent. The high lights and electric winds at the cargo port of Paldiski City seem very far away, even behind the islands of Pakri, but people cannot get there. So the young Swedish mother decided to take her six - year - old son this year and move away from the island, because if the child cannot go to school, there is no point in living on the island. According to the six of us, it is high time to change this situation and give the inhabitants of these islands all these rights, all these differences, but also all the obligations that lead to living in the harsh nature of the small island. However, in order to be able to include these three islands on the relevant list at all, it is necessary to amend the law on the smaller islands with permanent residence. In particular, only islands with either their own parishes on top of them are island municipalities or belong to one of the parishes are currently considered as small islands. If it is, for example, in Saaremaa Kihelkonna, that the municipality government and rural municipality are located on a large island, but the small island is located on the other side of the sea, then it is a public municipality, or rather an island part of the rural municipality. As you have noted, Väike-Pakri is the city of Paldiski and we all know that Aegna is the city of Tallinn. It is therefore necessary to replace the word'municipality' with 'local government unit' throughout the law. The third amendment to this law is reflected in the spirit of administrative reform, but it is not directly linked to administrative reform and can certainly remain in force after the administrative reform. In particular, in the smaller islands with permanent residence, it is the duty to convene the General Assembly once a year. The law also defines the functions and rights of the General Assembly. For example, the approval of the island's development plan, as well as the coordination of communication with the nearest major island or continent, and a number of other vital issues. During the administrative reform, several islands have quite seriously consulted and discussed whether to move on to one county or another or to move on to a rural municipality that disappears, but now joins a larger city to strengthen local democracy and grassroots decision-making. On islands, it is particularly important for communities to be stronger, so that they can decide for themselves what their administrative affiliation will be in the future. Perhaps again the close-up for the Tallinns is Naissaar, Aegna and Prangli. Prangli is known to be part of Viimsi rural municipality, Naissaar is also the same and Aegna is the city of Tallinn. Now it would be natural for no one anywhere in Tallinn City Government or in the Government of the Republic to decide what will happen to Aegna in the future. All I'm telling you right now is an example. If it is more appropriate to organise regular transport or communication with Aegna in one municipality or in one municipality, it may be appropriate to bring Naissaar under Tallinn or to take Aegna under Viimsi. In such a case, it would certainly be more appropriate, more economical, to keep in touch with the same small ship. What is absolutely certain, though, is that the decision maker should still remain the permanent residents who have to live there all year round to guard their island and protect its nature. The small islands can be told for a long time, but I think our debt of honor to these three island communities so that they do not fall apart, just as the Little Pakri is now going, needs to be redeemed. I hope that everyone in this Chamber will support this idea. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U166	Thank you, dear waitress, there are also questions for you. Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U167	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! This bill is very sympathetic and takes very much into account the need for the preservation, progress and survival of Estonian culture. But if I read a letter from the government that does not support this bill, I am puzzled because this letter speaks as in another language, it says that no additional analysis of impacts, investments and services has been done, considering their productivity. Please tell me what happened to us! We are talking about bigger and more important things in these small islands. As the initiators of your bill, how do you assess a letter from the Government of the Republic?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U168	I think that instead, the Government of the Republic could have carried out this analysis, because the draft was first put into proceedings without this third paragraph as early as 2010. In 2011, it passed the first reading, but went to the shelf. So the government has had, in the form of different individuals, the time to do this analysis for six years. Could have done it this summer. We still have a deep fall. There are two dozen people living on these islands, as you have heard, and they are entitled to all the same distinctions imposed on other residents of the smaller islands of permanent residence.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U169	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U170	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! In the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, we have decided to kill your bill, based, of course, on the position of the government. Here's my question for you. The government has been dragging pig skins for six years, and now there are five members of the coalition parties of six people who, in my opinion, have come back with this necessary bill. Mark, please explain to me why the coalition has acted like this! Why has the government been dragging pig skins for six years, and now he's behaving quite brutally with his people?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U171	Good Peter, I'm not a hiromant who can understand other people's thoughts. But I have to say that one of the reasons why this bill has not been transported through a well-fine mesh has been the wish for the government to decide in the future without Parliament, which islands belong to the list that the islands do not. And secondly, there's no money for that. The money is microscopically scarce. This analysis had to be taken care of by a representative of the government when he appeared before the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. The missing amount, which was named, is EUR 36000. That is how much should be given to the three municipalities to which these islands belong. Perhaps the reason is that your party is not able to maintain and manage the Aegna island, which belongs to the city of Tallinn. However, I hope that between two readings, the government will find time for analysis, and the city of Tallinn will also publish how much would go to the city centre of Tallinn or the city centre of Tallinn, after all, we are now in the centre of Tallinn to pay for the regular connection with the island. This would mean a connection at least once a week from September to April, so that those people who have come from a very far Oriental country and want to continue or start meditating there could be our rare and very sympathetic guests.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U172	Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U173	Thank you. Good colleague! I am not opposed to the expansion of democracy on the islands, but the Constitution says that there are municipalities and cities in our country. You propose to replace them with the term 'local government unit'. I looked at this question on the other hand: our parts of the city in Tallinn or Kohtla-Järve have never been called local government units. How do you comment on that? Are we going to introduce a completely new concept from the point of view of our constitution?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U174	Thank you, good Valeri! I'm so glad you read the Constitution. It says this: the units of the local government of the Republic of Estonia are municipalities and cities. This expression is taken from the Constitution.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U175	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U176	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! I think a lot more money has been spent on Aegna Island than it has to do with the other two islands. My question is about the general assembly of the islands. Open up that idea for us a little bit. Why doesn't it work for a lot of people?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U177	There are many reasons for this. We think we are improving democracy, but in fact we have diluted it or concentrated it in one point or one person. We do not have enough small municipalities and also large municipalities, where the word of one man or woman costs much more than the word of the council, not to mention grassroots decision-making. The idea of creating general collections on the smaller islands, whose activities would be regulated by law, arose in 1992 when we created the Estonian Association of Islands in Vormsi and Muhu County, on two islands, as a result of two meetings. The idea of the maximum inclusion of the community in the form of a general assembly comes from the oldest known local government in Estonia on Ruhnu Island, where in 1644 luandskap started its activities, which remained until 1944 and was tolerated by the Republic of Estonia during its first period of life. Even Konstantin Päts was present and said that this may be the case if your men all want to gather on their luandskap every spring, February or March, choose their former island elder each year, or choose a new one, if you want to have a role, who is a messenger, who disbands his orders, and if we agree on all hunting rules and rules of conduct, then go ahead. It was Konstantin Päts who gave Ruhnu this privilege. From this point of view, the general assembly's idea of law became in 2004 and, fortunately, there are quite a number of islands where a general assembly is regularly organised each year, where more than half of the island's inhabitants come together. For example, in Vilsandi and Manija, I can tell you, it is done on a regular basis. But there are also islands where, for 12 years, when the law has been in force, no general assembly has been organised, where the parish elder of the island does not consider it important and has not made a corresponding statute. Unfortunately, I didn't mention the formula. Vormsiski has held general assemblies, where more than half of the islanders have been together. Those things happen regularly, but there's a problem with meeting the Quorum. The problem is often why at least 50% of the population cannot get together in the general assembly, a little second, of our subject today, it is a little bit out of the question, but with a few sentences I will explain. The story is that at the last population census on 31 December 2011, it was stated that in almost all Estonian municipalities, data showing the entries do not overlap with data about what people called their actual place of residence in the population census. I very much appreciate Jüri Adams' position, who recently pointed out in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs that it is time for us to review the Population Register Act very thoroughly and to recognise that very many people in Estonia have two residences. We could have the same right as the Finnish people, who themselves determine how their taxes are divided between the two municipalities.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U178	Thank you, dear waitress, there are no further questions for you. I would like to ask Kalle Laaneti, Chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, for a presentation.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U179	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Constitutional Commission discussed the draft on Monday 10 October 2016. Jüri Adams, Andre Sepp, Andres Anvelt, Anneli Ott, Kalle Muuli, Lauri Luik, Einar Vallbaum, Mikhail Stalnukhin, Peeter Ernits and myself participated in the meeting. Mark Soosaar, the Honourable Representative of the initiators of the bill, gave us the same comprehensive overview as he gave you in this Chamber, and I will not recount it. I would go ahead with the government's position, represented by Kaie Küngas. He explained that the Government of the Republic decided not to support the draft at its meeting on 30 June. The government considered that the law should not contain at all a list of permanent settlements in the smaller islands; this list could be established by the order of the Government of the Republic. The law could set out the criteria by which the Government of the Republic would place small islands on the list with its own order. The draft also includes unanalysed costs necessary to ensure access to the public services provided by law to the inhabitants of the additional islands. As regards the transfer of competences to the General Assembly, it is likely that the draft would enter into force as a law at a time when local government councils have already decided to join and essentially agreed on mergers. In this case, the opinion of the General Assembly on the administrative-territorial arrangements would not be in line with the timetable for the overall administrative reform. As regards the regional membership of the smaller islands, according to the current law, regional membership can only be changed upon accession. If the smaller islands apply for a derogation under the Administrative Reform Act, i.e. non-unification, it is not possible to change the regional status of the smaller islands under the current law. Mr Laane said in the session that the problems outlined in the draft should be addressed and addressed, in particular in the context of administrative reform. It also considers that it should be accepted that the law should not include a list of islands which should be covered by the Small Islands Act on permanent residence. This is because if anything changes on this list, we need to start changing the law again. The power to establish a list could therefore be exercised by the Government of the Republic, which draws up that list on the basis of the criteria laid down by law. Anneli Ott asked whether the initiator of the draft had already tabled a proposal to this effect in 2010. Mark Soosaar replied that this was indeed the case. The Small Islands Commission set up by the Government of the Republic has already been a member of the Council since 2004, and it has been said from the beginning that the Government of the Republic would like to decide for itself which islands are on the list of smaller islands, which are not. So far, the Government of the Republic has not initiated this draft. In the meantime, the Government of the Republic also held the view that all those islands which have not been registered with at least 10 persons at three addresses will be removed from the law on the permanent settlement of the smaller islands. As far as the total quantities of small islands and their decision-making powers are concerned, they must certainly be given more competence. In the Administrative Reform Act, the topic of public administration and villages, and in particular the subject of small islands where they do not have a municipality, has little understanding. The question of how life will take place in the small islands where there is no municipal council and no municipality government has not been completely worked out after the administrative reform. The organisation of general councils is very important because it is possible to implement participatory democracy in a small community and to keep the community united. That was the answer to Anneli Oti's question. Anneli Ott asked again that, if these proposals have been made since 2010, how is it possible that the Government of the Republic cannot plan additional funds for the budget to be added to the list of these small islands? Mark Soosaar replied that Aegna, Naissaar and Väike-Pakri were included among the applicants in the small islands programme organised by the Pärnu County Government, where there is one representative from each county. So the financial situation isn't that bad. This amount, which is distributed between the smaller islands, is about EUR 600000 and is given precisely to provide essential primary services in the smaller islands. Of course, there are still programmes in the budget in which small islands receive grants. Peter Ernits asked why no changes have been made in the six years that have been mentioned by the Government of the Republic in its opinion. What has really been done for the smaller islands during this period? Kaie Küngas replied that so far the Government of the Republic has discussed various criteria that should be met by the small islands with permanent residence. Other amendments to the Small Islands Act have also been discussed. Peeter Ernits stated that the opinion of the Government of the Republic stated that if Aegena, Naissaar and Väike-Pakri were to be included in the list of permanent settlements, there would be a need to pay a grant of EUR 36000 to these islands. Is this meant to require a grant of EUR 36000 for each island? Kaie Küngas replied that this amount should be paid on three additional islands, provided that they were subject to the same conditions as the other smaller islands with permanent residence. Andres Anvelt noted that during the procedure of the draft law on administrative reform, the draft law on administrative reform was supplemented in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs in particular as regards the institution of municipalities and village elders. The village elders were given quite a few rights, and the village manager will be able to participate in the municipal council meeting with a say in the future. However, the question is whether people themselves want to participate in the life of the community. Anvelt asked when the Government of the Republic was planning to come out with amendments to the Small Islands Act, and it would also be interesting to know how many of the general assemblies have visited the smaller islands with today's permanent settlements. Kaie Küngas replied that the draft was currently under preparation. It has not formally been sent out to the parties, but a meeting was held with representatives of the islands to discuss the general principles. The plan is for the draft to enter into force in early 2018. There is also an amendment in the draft, which replaces the word'municipality' throughout the Small Islands Act with 'local government unit' and should enter into force in line with the administrative reform. Mark Soosaar replied that there had been no statistics on the gatherings of the general councils of the smaller islands. Very good examples are from Abruka, Vilsandi, and Manija, where more than half of the island's inhabitants come together to discuss various issues. In 2008, the Association of the Riigikogu ordered a study of the entries and permanent settlements. In doing so, the parish elders were asked how many residents were on their island and how many people were registered. All the parish elders pointed out two different numbers and gave a clear indication that some people were fictitiously registered and only some lived there all year round. The law does not differentiate these people. Jüri Adams found that as a political decision has been taken in Estonia that the small islands must have a special legal regime, it must also be developed. If it is ever decided that such a regime is not needed, then that is another question. Mr Ernits asked how far the debate currently taking place in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs differs from the debate that was held six years ago when the amendments to this content were last discussed. Mark Soosaar replied that there was not much difference. At the time, the issue was not raised that, in the course of the administrative reform, each island should have the right to decide which municipality it will join in the future. Administrative-territorial mergers should take into account the opinion of the local population and the opinion of the population can be obtained through the general assembly. However, Aegnal, Naissaar and Väike-Pakri cannot convene the General Assembly because they are not on the list of small islands with permanent establishments and therefore do not treat them in the same way as other small islands with permanent residence. The laane said that it agrees with the initiators of the draft that the issue of the small islands where people live all year round must be resolved as a matter of urgency, because these islands do not receive the subsidies provided for by the law on the permanent settlement of the smaller islands to other islands. This is an unequal treatment. At the same time, it must also be accepted that the small islands need to be resolved in a comprehensive way, which is not sensible to do in small parts. The laanet proposed to the representative of the Government of the Republic that the topics of the smaller islands be taken to work quickly and that Mark Soosaar, a member of the Riigikogu, be included in it so that the amendments to the law on the permanent settlement of the smaller islands can be dealt with in the Riigikogu as soon as possible. What was decided? It was proposed that the draft be put on the plenary agenda by 18 October 2016; it was actually yesterday, but the agenda has shifted. It was a consensual decision. In addition, it was decided to propose to reject the draft law, which was for 5, against 3 and impartial 2. By Laane, Sepp, Muuli, Luik and Vallbaum and against Ott, Ernits and Adams, with the abstentions of Anvelt and Stalnukhin. Mr Kalle Laanet, Chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, was appointed rapporteur and this was a consensual decision.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U180	Thank you, dear waitress. You have questions too. Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U181	Thank you, Honourable Chairman. Respectable waitress! First of all, thank you for finding, as an islander of your own nationality, that these small islands must be resolved in the future. But I didn't get that much from the rest of the story. Did I hear correctly that 36000 is the amount that is currently the case with this template and that the government representative is saying that the authors of the proposal have come up too late, that the budget for the coming year is already together as a project? I have still thought that we as members of the Riigikogu have a certain opportunity to influence this budget, but I am probably wrong. Are we really talking about a sum of EUR 36000?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U182	Thank you. I have not understood that the main issue of this draft is money, because EUR 36000 is really no amount in terms of the state budget. It is a question of the principle of how the distinctions granted to the smaller islands should be regulated. As I said in the record, and as Mark, the previous speaker, pointed out, has repeatedly tried to change this law in this large Chamber. It is important that we are dealing with small islands, but if we count these people, how many people are directly concerned, then according to my data, 11 people have now designated Aegna as their place of residence, seven people on Naissaar and five people on Väike-Pakri. Here we are maiming at something that could have been done a long time ago and not at the level of the legislator.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U183	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U184	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, It is good to hear that a lot of things should have been done a long time ago and it is not about money. Unfortunately, we know that things have not been done. When we look at these little islands, the situation of these people is quite sad. If the coalition does not agree with this draft concerning the small island, then I have a question as to why the other decisions do not support the small island. My specific question is that, in spring, the government decided to support the kindergarten with EUR 13 million, this money is intended to renovate them, repair them, heat them, etc., but the minimum number of inhabitants supported by the municipalities is 5000. Vormsil, Kihnu and Ruhnu will never meet 5,000 people, but there are children, there are kindergartens that also need support and renovation. Why are other laws and decisions not improving the situation of the people of the smaller islands?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U185	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, The Chancellor of Justice has repeatedly said that we, the people of the Riigikogu, should be more active in legislative drafting, coming up with various drafts. One example is in front of us today, but as you can see, what is the result: the government's decision is to send the draft to the trash and this, of course, was confirmed by our Committee on Constitutional Affairs. This is despite the fact that six members of the Riigikogu came up with the bill, five of whom are respected coalition ambassadors, and despite the fact that the Government of the Republic is six years, I stress six years! The pig's skin is dragged, saying that it's about to take action. And even now, the government had the same claim: right now, peace! What's going on? On the one hand, Chancellor of Justice Ülle Madise encourages us to be more active and not just to let the government act. On the other hand, from the current example, we can see well that if we come up with a draft, what will be done with it. And the rumor is that 36000 euros is missing, it's a laughing stock. I recall the speech made by a good colleague, Mikhail Stalnukhin, who said that we could hang the model of the plane of Estonia Air somewhere here so that there would be a lively testimony to what the government has done without any prior records. So they shot 70 million off their hips, or was it more? To the chimney. And now, like, 36000 euros! Personally, I'm embarrassed. Are we really just a rubber stamp, and as soon as we lift our heads, there will be a ruthless sword, even when it comes to coalition ambassadors? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U186	Thank you. Andres Ammas on behalf of the Estonian Free Party Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U187	Honourable President! Respectable members of the Riigikogu! First of all, the Free Party Group supports this bill and wishes it to be adopted. Above all, we like the fact that it has been submitted by the members of the Riigikogu. Interestingly, this is the second such draft we are dealing with today. I would like to remind you here an hour ago of what Mrs Savisaar has pointed out that it is in initiatives that have been brought together by MPs from different political groups that the strength of the work of the Riigikogu is, and this is an example of five futures, not something strange. It seems that the Government of the Republic and the public employees in its service are still having some difficulty understanding this. After all, we might ask whether we ever needed this law on inhabited small islands. But if we already have it, let it be as perfect as possible and best of all possible. If members of the Riigikogu find shortcomings in this law and want to improve it and improve it, it is only a welcome initiative. There are no reasonable or unreasonable reasons why this initiative should be rejected. As read in the view of the Government of the Republic, I would like to stress that the arguments why the Government does not support the draft are precisely the reasons that have been sought. This small amount of money has already been mentioned at EUR 36000. It is clear from the arguments put forward by the officials that, honourable Members of the Riigikogu, you have come too late with your thoughts, we are already ready for the draft budget for the coming year. I would like to stress once again that I'm sorry, we're just going to discuss this bill, we're going to make it better, we're going to take away money from one place and put it on another. It's all just in the way! If I read from here, oh, my God, if we adopt this bill as a law, then everything must be done in accordance with the law of the small islands of permanent residence. At least one regular transport link with the mainland or the nearest major island shall be ensured in the smaller islands. This link must be supported from the state budget; the costs of the port forming part of this link must be covered from the state budget. The small island must have emergency communication in the public use of its inhabitants 24 hours a day, the small island must be equipped with electricity. I'm sorry! If people live there, it is the responsibility of the Estonian state to do all of this. This is not an additional obligation or a disgusting obligation, but pure joy. Let us rejoice that we have inhabited small islands! You know the Latvians don't. We're lucky. Let us keep and honor the people who live there! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U188	Thank you. Mark Soosaar on behalf of the Social Democratic Party Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U189	Ladies and gentlemen, I have such a suggestion for you: who has not yet been to the Pakri Islands, who has not been to Naissaar and who has not been to Aegna, take one day and try to get there, and try to get back from there! On the Pakri, make sure you go and see the foundations of the broken houses, the islands of Pakri were used as a polygon of bombing during the Soviet era. Think of the communities that were driven out of Naissaar and Pakri in 1939 when the Soviet Union needed military bases, without giving anything back! And think of the year 1944 when these people left their home island for the second time! It took a long time to get my lands and land back. And now that their descendants and new people have come to the islands, they can leave these places for the third time, because such an attitude is impossible to live on small islands. What if a child cannot go to a school three kilometres away simply because, as Andres Ammas said, the state does not comply with the legal obligation to ensure regular connection to the mainland or to a larger island? This regular connection should not be ridiculed at what we do, whether we set a tram there twice a day, in the morning and in the evening. No, there's already a regular connection once a week. Or the solution is that on five days a week, children and other people will be taken with a small piece of ships, which I hope the state budget still has money, in the morning to school or work, and will be returned home from three kilometers away in the evening. In Finland, you can see how a helicopter follows a boy or girl in the morning and brings her back in the evening so that she can live in her house. In the Faeroe Islands, a teacher is brought in for a week to give lessons to a child in his own home. He is not wanted to be ripped away from home for primary education. Why can't we guarantee human life on the small islands where the inhabitants preserve nature, preserve traditions? And when you go to Pakri, look at the pebbles the rare ridges that the sea has built there, which meadows of orchids bloom there in the summer, and you will not see it anywhere in Estonia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U190	Thank you. Kalle Laane on behalf of the Reform Party Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U191	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I would remind you that everyone thinks that problems need to be solved and complex solutions. Many questions need to be considered, including those which this bill does not concern and which Mark is talking about. How is it going to be shipping and how ports can fix these things need to be done and properly thought about how to solve these issues. I am more than convinced that the Minister of Public Administration will in the near future have a draft on this matter in this large Chamber, and then we will discuss it in a completely different key. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U192	Thank you. The political groups have no further wish for negotiations. The commission has proposed to reject the draft 254 at first reading and we will go to the vote on this proposal. Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting to reject the draft proposal of the commission at first reading. Please take a stand and vote. 30 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, 32 against and 0 abstentions. The proposal was not supported. The draft will remain in order. I am sorry, ladies and gentlemen, to set a deadline of 10 working days, i.e. 2 November, at 5 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U193	First of all, I must say that your question comes out of the framework of this bill. But if we go to the small islands of permanent residence as a whole and look at this subject a little bit more widely, I'll give you a brief overview. Maybe that's how things are clearer. How much do we have in a small island that's under the law of the permanent settlements of the smaller islands? There are now 11 of them, the largest of which is Kihnu, where there are allegedly 696 inhabitants, the following are Vormsi 419, Prangli 185, Ruhnu 152, Piirissaar 104, Manija 52, Abruka 33, Vilsandi 23, Kesselaid 5, Osmussaar 5 and Kõistu 1 inhabitants. The main objective of the draft is that the three smaller islands will be added to the list, and it is absolutely right that the three islands, which also have permanent residents, must receive the same benefits. But the main argument now is that being covered by the law should not be governed by law, but by sub-laws.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U194	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U195	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! I'm gonna grab the end of your sentence. In the pre-war Republic of Estonia, it was unthinkable for the parliament to decide on matters concerning Estonia's country, its people, its preservation, including the small islands of life. It was Parliament's competence because it was considered so important. Please explain why you think it should be up to the government to decide this issue today.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U196	It's very simple. Life itself makes it happen. Mark Soosaar has told me how many times he's been to the remote with this bill. There is still no consensus, no political agreement. Consequently, this needs to be done in a much simpler way.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U197	Thank you, dear waitress, there are no further questions for you. I'm opening negotiations. Peeter Ernits on behalf of the Estonian Centre Party Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U198	Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on. The next item is the fourth item on which we have arrived today: 'Basic principles of sport policy for 2030'. 2015 Implementation Report. The rapporteur is Indrek Saar, Minister of Culture. But before I go to the item on the agenda, I will present the procedure for this procedure. First, there is a presentation by the Minister of Culture, which lasts up to 30 minutes. Any member of the Riigikogu may ask an oral question to the rapporteur. There will then be negotiations where there may be political group representatives. Indrek Saare, Minister of Culture of the Speaker's Board, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U199	Hello! Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! Honourable guests! Good sports friends! First of all, I would like to thank the Riigikogu for this decision and the whole circle of people involved... [[The manager's ringing the bell.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U200	Ladies and gentlemen, Please pay attention to the waitress!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U201	... who has made a pleasant commitment to the government and has thus given the Minister of Culture the opportunity to come to the Grand Hall of the Riigikogu every year with a report on the fulfilment of the fundamentals of sports policy. During the Rio Olympic Games in August, more than one third of the athletes in the Estonian team reached the top ten and the rowers were able to win the bronze medal. A few weeks ago, we were able to go along with our volleyball team's fight game and rejoice at the result, which will take them back to the European Championship finals tournament. The Estonian team has played in the final tournament three times already: in 2009, 2011 and 2015. Now it's the fourth time. While I'm in this hall, I can't get over or around the recognition of the Riigikogu, because for nine years we've been proud of the victory of the Riigikogu basketball team over the Baltic Assembly Cup tournament. The success of our athletes in international title competitions is not just for nothing. Its prerequisite is not only to prepare one particular athlete or team, but to have a broader attitude towards exercise and a healthy lifestyle in society. The state must guarantee the conditions for this and create opportunities for all to engage in sport. National sport policy must be seen as a comprehensive, planned and consistent activity, covering a wide range of areas from youth sport to top sport and from running paths to Olympic preparation. The 'Principles of Sport Policy 2030' approved by the Riigikogu a year and a half ago determines vision, national objectives and priority trends in the field of sport. The written report taken up by the Government on 13 October and presented to you will provide you with a comprehensive overview of the current state of implementation of the strategy and of the major developments and changes that have been made. Dear Riigikogu! As a nationwide goal, Sport 2030 has stated that movement and sport play an important and growing role in promoting the vitality of Estonians, creating wealth in the living environment and shaping the good reputation of the Estonian state. The overall objective will be achieved through four priority axes. First of all, the vast majority of residents move and sportb. Secondly, mobility and sport are an important industry with a strong organisation and an employer. Third, movement and sport are the bearer of spirituality, coherence and positive values. Fourthly, Estonia is represented at international level in an effective and dignified manner. Let us take a closer look at the major changes that have been made over the past year and a half and what are planned for these four developments in the near future. A broad-based exercise survey conducted by the Ministry of Culture in autumn 2015 confirmed that the proportion of people engaged in exercise regularly is increasing. At least twice a week, 45% of the population engages in exercise. We are on the average in Europe for this indicator, but our goal is ambitious: catching up with the Nordic countries, where about 70% of the population regularly engages in sport. However, the fact that one third of the population is not engaged in exercise is a cause for concern. The participants in the study pointed out as an important solution that employers would support worker sport, but here there is an important obstacle to the so-called'special incentive' tax on such costs. This is not a new issue. The sport sector, as well as some political parties, has been calling for the abolition of this tax for more than ten years. Bills have also been initiated in the Riigikogu, but they have never received support from government or coalition parties before. On 27 April this year, the Government supported the Ministry of Culture's proposal to introduce a fundamental amendment to the Income Tax Act and to abolish the special incentive tax on expenditure to promote workers' health. Today, after some time in the Riigikogu, according to the first-reading bill, employers will be able to support tax-free sports for every employee of the Riigikogu in the amount of 400 euros per year from 2018. By adopting the bill as a law, we would clearly show that the state supports and recognises employers who invest in the health of their people. There is no reason to doubt that, as a result, more and more businesses are making use of the opportunity to shape and encourage the exercise and movement of workers, thereby contributing to both human health and physical and mental well-being. This will extend the circle of those who will benefit from the services of swimming pools, sports halls and other training areas. The support system for interest activities developed by the Ministry of Culture will certainly contribute to making mobility more popular among young people. According to youth monitoring, in the last three years 10% of young people have not taken part in any kind of activity or exercise, i.e. nearly 30,000 children and young people, to whom the state is now providing a helping hand with local authorities. The aim of the advocacy support system, which will apply from 1 September next year, is to give every child the opportunity to participate in high-quality and supervised regular activities of interest, one of which is, of course, sport, as an important and wide-ranging part. To this end, the government provides EUR 15 million per year for additional funds to be transferred to local governments through the Ministry of Education and Research. After all, it is local authorities who are best aware of the situation in one city or another and are able to assess how to create opportunities for every young person living there to participate in activities of interest. When you talk about the skills you have acquired for a young life, you can't miss swimming skills. The objective is clear: to ensure that all primary school graduates have adequate swimming skills and thus reduce drowning deaths. For this purpose, municipalities have been supported through the Ministry of Culture since 2005 with EUR 230000 per year, but this is not enough to ensure the necessary number of high-quality swimming hours. In the last six years, 369 people have lost their lives in water accidents in Estonia. A survey commissioned by the Rescue Board in 2015 revealed that 62% of families with children aged 7 to 18 rated their children's swimming skills as poor. A quarter of the kids can't swim at all. In 2015, new and higher standards of swimming skills were developed, following the example of the Nordic model, under the leadership of the Estonian Swim Association and the Rescue Board. They provide that in order to perform the test, a child must be able to jump into deep water, swim 100 metres to the chest, dive and bring an object out of the bottom with his hand, stay on the surface for three minutes while resting and changing positions, then swim 100 metres to his back and exit the water. The survey shows that only 15% of young people in Estonia have such swimming skills. In order to raise swimming skills to the required level, I presented a memorandum with three government colleagues, proposing to update the description of learning outcomes in the physical education syllabus of the national comprehensive school curriculum, to increase the funding of the initial swimming education course and to continue training swimming trainers, tutors and teachers according to an updated methodology. The initiative of the four ministers found fundamental support in the government office, but the EUR 1.1 million needed to implement it each year still needs to be found. The Government Office decided to return to the subject next year during the negotiations on the country's budgetary strategy. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! The organisation of sport is based on the activities of voluntary voluntary sports associations on their own initiative. Sport is financed mainly by local authorities, individuals, companies and the state. Based on public sector bodies' budgets, studies and peer reviews, sport was supported in 2015 with a total of around 137 million euros, of which 46 million euros were contributed by municipalities, 42 million euros by individuals, and 25 million euros were contributed by both the state and companies. An international survey shows that there are more than 15000 jobs directly or indirectly related to sport in Estonia. Therefore, the contribution of sport to the economy and employment should not be underestimated. I first introduced the initiative of the Ministry of Culture and the Ministry of Social Affairs so that the employer would receive a tax credit on employees' health and sports expenditure. This would also directly contribute to the second priority development of sport policy: mobility and sport are an important industry with a strong organisation and an employer. The more people go to sports clubs or participate in sports events, the more money there is in sports. Each additional euro helps organisations and businesses active in sport to develop infrastructure, recruit coaches and raise wages. Two years ago, a large proportion of youth trainers were without permanent employment contracts and social guarantees. To address this serious concern, we created a national labour cost support system for higher-skilled trainers. Sport clubs, sports schools and sports groups can apply for up to 50% of the labour cost allowance for fifth- and higher-level coaches from 2015 onwards. The aim of the grant is to improve opportunities for children and young people to exercise anywhere in Estonia, to value coaching and to ensure the secondary growth of highly qualified trainers. As a result, this year the state receives wage support from nearly 1,200 highly skilled trainers who supervise sports activities of more than 37000 children and young people in 369 organisations. In the state budget next year, we have provided additional resources for 100 other coaches in cooperation with the Ministry of Finance. In 2015, the Ministry of Culture also launched a reform of the financing of sport, which will make sport funding clearer and more transparent and reduce bureaucracy and unnecessary running of people. The first steps have already been taken. In previous years, if sports organisations had to rely on them to find the necessary additional resources during the state budget procedure in the Riigikogu, now 1.5 million euros of additional support from sports organisations has been written into the government's proposed state budget project, the so-called base. This change will increase confidence and ensure that taxpayers' money is distributed on the basis of an understandable and transparent model agreed in sport organisations. The Ministry of Culture has also proposed to amend the Gambling Act and to direct the full amount of money for sport to the EOK to support the Olympic preparatory projects. Discussions on the reform of the Gambling Tax Council will continue and we hope to reach an agreement soon when the Minister of Finance comes to a comprehensive solution to the government. Good Riigikogu! Sport issues often reach out to money. Yet, movement and sport are the bearer of spirituality, coherence, and positive values. Sporting requires compliance with agreed rules, respect for peers and competitors, the ability to win honestly and to lose with dignity. Respect for competitors provides a basis for positive values in society. Sport is an effective means of education and inclusion, with the effect that joint action and social integration can be expanded. I believe that no one in this hall left the 12th man in the Icelandic football team cold during the summer European football championship. Thousands of hands clapping in the same rhythm and fans shouting, "Huh! " This boosted both the team and the entire nation. And not just to the people of Iceland. Fortunately, similar examples can be found in Estonia. Only ten days ago, more than 5,600 passionate spectators lived along the Estonian volleyball team in Tondiraba, as if they were the seventh man on the field. The joy of a good and fair game unites us all. We live from week to week with our top players in the Polish and England football leagues. It encourages our young people to exercise and integrates different groups of society, as well as the achievements of our team at the Rio Olympic Games. I am also pleased to acknowledge the work of all those people and organisations who, every day, contribute to the promotion of exercise and sport among people with disabilities, when speaking here today. These people often do much good unnoticed for very many people with limited resources. Sport and movement also help these people to keep their eyes glowing. You could ask me what else would help. Remembering the success of our athletes and developing the history of sport in general promotes athletic values. The Estonian Sports and Olympic Museum was founded in Tartu in spring, which took over the functions of the Estonian Sports Museum as a cultural heritage researcher, collector, keeper and intermediary. The museum, in cooperation with the Estonian Olympic Committee, has the opportunity to become an attractive and up-to-date institution for communicating sports history to the public. Speaking of sport, studying and introducing its history, we still need to be able to talk about problems alongside the greatest and most sublime ones. Sport has to be honest. That is why, together with 19 European Union colleagues, we wrote a joint return before the Rio Olympic Games, in which we clearly supported WADA in its anti-doping work. As a country, we must do everything we can to prevent our sports talent from reaching the pedestal because some competitors do not want to comply with agreed rules and play a dirty game. Both the Ministry of Culture and the Estonian Olympic Committee have increased their financial support to the Estonian Antidoping Foundation in recent years with the aim of standing up for pure sport in both cutting-edge and youth sport. This attitude must be uncompromising, as must the attitude towards manipulating sports competitions. Estonia acceded to the Council of Europe Convention to combat the manipulation of sporting competitions, which aims to protect the integrity and ethics of sport in accordance with the principle of autonomy of sport and to enhance international cooperation. There are amendments to the Gambling Act in the Riigikogu, after which manipulators of sports competitions can be punished in criminal proceedings in the future. Honourable Riigikogu! Estonian athletes have won more than 125 medals a year on average from international championships in recent years, about 10% of which have been won in Olympic areas. Last year was special for Estonian sports, because after the record number of medals, there was a situation where two sports games represented the adult national team at the European Championship finals. Decent representation, however, does not just mean good sporting achievements. Estonian sports organisations have proven themselves to be very good organisers of international competitions. These competitions not only increase the capacity of sports organisations, but also have a significant economic impact on both the region and Estonia as a whole. Through these competitions, Estonia can be introduced as an attractive travel destination. Of course, competing in front of the home audience encourages all our athletes. It is not easy, of course, to gain international trust and thus to gain the right to organise high-level competitions. This is a continuous and long-term work, the success of which is confirmed, among other things, by the fact that Estonia's representatives are, for example, the governing bodies of volleyball, cycling, athletics and international organisations. Estonia is represented at international level in an effective and dignified manner. Last year we were also shocked with a pleasant surprise, because sending the two teams to the European Championship finals meant an additional need for money. I have to admit, we weren't ready for this. Such situations have now also been considered and the Government, on a proposal from the Ministry of Culture, has endorsed the principles to ensure that the large-scale teams have access to the international title competitions' finals with additional funding. Energy may now and in the future be directed to the ballpark instead of budgetary disputes. Good Riigikogu! Finally, I will mention the most important investments in sport. This year, the state provided several important sports objects. The renovated Männiku shooting range was able to host the Junior European Championship in shooting. On 9 July, the Pärnu Beach Stadium was inaugurated and high-level international athletics and football competitions can now be held in the summer capital. The 2016 budget allocated 5 million euros to the Estonian Football Association for renovating the Lilleküla Stadium. The renovated and larger capacity stadium was a prerequisite for organising the UEFA Super Cup game in Estonia in 2018, where the European Championship League winner and the European League winner will meet. This game will take place on 14 August 2018. The Estonian sports landscape, however, does not have a single complex for organising sports camps, where areas can be dealt with specifically and a full set of possibilities for supporting activities are ensured. To solve this problem, we will continue to invest in turning Kääriku Sports Centre into a modern training centre. The modern training base for Kääriku gives the majority of sports representatives the opportunity to train in Estonia and definitely brings foreign visitors to Estonia, creating jobs and increasing turnover and thus contributing to regional development. Finally, I am truly delighted that the Government supported the Ministry of Culture's proposal to allocate EUR 7 million to renovate Kalev Stadium in the coming years. This stadium is symbolic for the entire Estonian people. Dance parties have been held there for over half a century. At the 2019 anniversary party, dancers and audiences will bless a brand new, long-awaited square. It is also a fully sized stadium that meets international requirements, a sports facility that can be used for several purposes throughout the year. Good listeners! All the activities I have spoken of are, of course, just a fraction of what thousands of dedicated people do in the field of sport day after day. From exercise to performance sport, and vice versa, there are an infinite number of activities and details, but none of them is of little importance if we are to achieve our own goals as a nation. For all these purposes, we should always keep in mind the unique opportunity offered by sport to become a better person. That's what gives the whole thing meaning. Sports competitions create a situation where, on the one hand, we must focus on achieving the best result and, on the other hand, as a person, we must control our thirst for victory and abide by the rules, respecting competitors. It's a universal exercise to be a member of a civilized society. We can only learn to lose with dignity and win generously, despite the elevated adrenaline in a competitive situation, if compliance with the rules of the game is a recognised norm in society. No unfair victory must be consecrated, so fair play is a prerequisite without which nothing else makes sense. Fair play is a sporty lifestyle. Thank you for your attention. Long live sporty Estonia!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U202	Thank you, Minister. You have a lot of questions. George Jaanson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U203	Thank you. Dear waitress, thank you for your presentation. In addition to many positive things, it has really been a concern that, for a long time, this has also been the case in previous studies, since 2003, the share of non-actors with mobility has remained within a third. One of the methods that the government plans to reduce this figure is the abolition of the special advantage on the employer's costs. There is also a choice in the Coalition Agreement to specifically encourage the employer's investment in and maintenance of public sports infrastructure. Why is investment in public sport infrastructure currently excluded, although it would benefit a larger target group than only contractors?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U204	When we talk about what is in the draft, or the employer's ability to pay for the employee's use of sports facilities and participation in sporting events, this ultimately affects all people. One way or another, people are contractors. Of course, when people at work are given this opportunity, there is a much greater likelihood that they will also take their children and set an example for them. As regards sport infrastructure, there is indeed a restriction here, although this draft also includes the costs of using the sport infrastructure set up by the employer, which can be covered free of the special preferential tax. The point of consideration was, of course, first and foremost the calculation by the Ministry of Finance of the potential cost to the state budget, although there are different opinions at the government level as to whether this calculation, which the Ministry of Finance has made, is actually valid. But ultimately, the state budget is prepared by the Ministry of Finance, who is also responsible for ensuring that revenue and expenditure are properly forecasted. I think it is quite appropriate for the Riigikogu to ask the Minister of Finance why it is precisely these restrictions that have entered the bill in this form. There are other questionable issues in this draft, which, I hope, will be resolved during the Riigikogu proceedings. On this draft, as it is now presented, I also have some differences of opinion. For example, the introduction of a tax credit on a fixed-term basis. I do not know of any other place where we would have introduced fixed-term tax incentives. I think it is completely unreasonable that we do this once in this form. But since this bill is related to the processing of the state budget and there are certain deadlines, there was also a government session understanding that the wisdom of the Riigikogu must be trusted and hope that this bill can be optimal wording within the Riigikogu procedure.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U205	Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U206	Thank you. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. The report on the fundamentals of sport policy has been written very clearly. Thank you. But my question is about coaches. Three years ago, Estonia approved an eight-stage vocational qualification system. I'll see that according to the report, the seventh level is 185 coaches, no one has the eighth level. Do we not have such qualified trainers or did something go wrong?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U207	We very much hope that this eighth level will occur in Estonia. I guess the time hasn't come. We hope that there will also be eighth-level trainers in the near future.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U208	Lauri Luik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U209	Thank you, good Chairman of the Riigikogu! Minister, thank you for a very thorough and comprehensive report. It was really good to hear it. In my opinion, it is already a major step in our discussion of this issue in the large Chamber. However, one issue that was not addressed in the report is that of sports judges. I myself am active in the sport organisation and I can see that this is a major problem not only for our organisation, but also for many other organisations that use the service of judges in their activities. How do you see a possible solution to the issue of funding judges? We know there's a question mark in the air about taxes and scholarships.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U210	Thank you for your question. During discussions on the state's budget strategy, we applied to the Ministry of Finance for additional appropriations from the Riigikogu to help sports federations, and in this same request we provided for an additional EUR 600000 to go on with the topic of paying remuneration to judges. Unfortunately, we did not find a common understanding with the Ministry of Finance this time. We will definitely continue to work, consult as much as possible with the tax authorities to find sources of additional tax receipts. I hope, however, that we will be able to find new solutions in the near future so that the concerns that we have with the judges' fees can be adequately resolved, as has happened with the salaries of young trainers.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U211	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U212	Thank you, good Chairman. Good minister! One big hot potato every year is the topic of sponsoring state-owned enterprises. When you became a minister, you personally promised to lay down rules on how and to what extent public enterprises could offer sponsorship. You promised it by November last year, and somewhere came along by December this year. What are your suggestions? What could these rules be?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U213	I don't remember personally promising that. I guess I did when a good member of the Riigikogu says so. Indeed, I am trying to remind you when it was, I would suggest that it was a proposal to the government about sponsoring state companies and state-owned companies a year ago. The Ministry of Culture's proposal was to regulate it in this way instead of the current regime: instead of taking decisions by company boards or sponsoring committees, a certain percentage of companies' profits should be allocated to the Ministry of Culture and Sport's budget and then distributed according to criteria agreed with the sector. The coalition also has a clear opinion, represented by the Minister of Finance, that any sponsorship of state companies should be banned. Unfortunately, these discussions have dragged on because our offer at the time did not find support. But the Minister of Finance is responsible for developing these principles, that is, in fact, his responsibility, that is certainly the case formally, and he has not reached an agreement with the rest of the government either. I know that a new offer has come fresh to the government, but I suspect that it will also not satisfy the government, because this offer, once again, simply provides for a ban on supporting sport and culture, which means a significant amount of money going out of the sector. Since the situation has been indeterminate and the attitude of the Ministry of Finance has not been favourable, this year it has meant that sport has received EUR 400000 less sponsoring support from state-owned enterprises. I think it will soon become a serious problem in the field. I hope that the Minister of Finance will propose a solution here that, on the one hand, would be in line with the public's expectations of how sponsorship should be organised in public enterprises, namely, it should be sufficiently transparent and meet understandable criteria, but, on the other hand, the sector should not suffer from a reduction in resources.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U214	Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U215	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear Minister of Culture, thank you very much for an interesting and very positive and hopeful presentation. You've made a lot of progress as a minister, and you'll probably make it. But in the report or review, you touched on the invasions and the invasions. In addition to the recognition of supervisors and trainers, athletes and Paralympic participants themselves deserve recognition. But my question is not so much about the investments planned for new objects or also for the remediation of existing objects. How is it monitored that those objects, where public money goes, are accessible to everyone so that everyone can exercise there as well as go there as a spectator? Time and again, when I meet people's organisations with special needs, I hear that new sports objects are often not accessible to these people, they do not get there to exercise or to watch competitions.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U216	Yes, we have stated in our house that those objects that depend on our funding and which we can directly influence must always be guaranteed. For example, in the light of the investments made at Kalev Stadium, I can say that we have engaged in this working group, which is reviewing the initial task, as well as the representative of the Estonian Association of Invasports. We hope that it will become a standard practice and will always be with an expert in this field, if any investment is made, if a new object is built or if the old one is corrected. Of course, this is the right theme setting. If new and newly renovated objects do not take into account the fact that people with disabilities must have access, then it is really evil. The other way around is to understand that we have a huge number of sports objects that have already been built before. It will take time to reconstruct all of them, as well as a great deal of resources, which will certainly not be possible to find in a short period of time. But of course, it's elementary that it be required for all new objects.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U217	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U218	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you for your report and report. There was no doubt that our sport was doing well and is going even better. That's my question. You will look to the future in this report, which is very sympathetic. Here is a programme of regional fitness centres. Who's gonna make this program? Does this programme also have any hope of being put into practice, and could there be solid funding from the state budget strategy?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U219	Now, about this point, I'm going to talk a little bit about the spikes, because we're still working on it. There are about 120 fitness centres in Estonia. Traditionally, we imagine that these are places where people go to sports with their family this weekend. You can ski there in the winter, many of them also have illuminated ski trails, and during the snow-free season you go there for cycling, hiking or jogging. According to the capacity of an on-site developer, the health centre has either different or different sports opportunities. We have tried to look at the overall picture across Estonia as to what the situation is. We have asked for help from regional sports federations and we have a preliminary picture. We would like to achieve that there are such sports centres in all regions (they could be one or two per county, depending on how this region is located and how scattered it is), where state support would also provide incentives to maintain this centre in order. It is clear that in the future we will probably have much less than 120 municipalities, so that we will not be able to do so everywhere and perhaps it will not be optimal. If you can do it in social order on the ground, it's very nice. But all people and families should be able to use regularly maintained and modern health trails on the weekend or evening, schoolchildren also on the school day, at most 30 minutes away. This is a sort of pilotage, we are trying to launch it to some extent as soon as possible, and we are really going to propose a country's budgetary strategy to provide for it in the future. This would provide an opportunity for the state to be a partner to local authorities or entrepreneurs who take care of health sports centres and their sports trails on the ground on a daily basis.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U220	Yeah, there's another door behind every door where you go in, you realize there's something you can do better, and you see where you need help. As far as judges are concerned, as I described, we want to take one major step forward with regard to the fees paid to judges. On the other hand, as far as the sub-unions are concerned, as I have also described, we have taken a number of steps to ensure that the funding of the sub-unions is more predictable and that this amount is more secure. If, at the present stage, there is, in principle, an initial agreement on how the criteria for allocating money will be agreed next year, then this means that the majority of the sub-programmes will have an increase in basic support, which will in turn give them the opportunity to make their'sports policy choices'. But, of course, like in the field of culture, it is very important in the field of sport that the people who work there receive a salary that not only enables them to live but which gives them a signal that their work is valued and that there is a perspective, that it is worth investing their time in it and that it is worth investing in this card for a long time. That is a very big question, but the solution is certainly complex. The one and only method, except that the state is hiring judges, I don't see it here, but that's probably not the solution we're looking for right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U221	Ain Lutsepp, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U222	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear Minister, "Sport 2030 clause 5.5. A support system for children's and young people's interest activities will be developed and introduced to boost mobility and sport. ' So. The new support system, which the government plans to launch 15 million euros a year, will be implemented by the Ministry of Education and Research. This requires relatively large investments. At what stage do they come into the administration of the Ministry of Education and Research? It's supposed to be planned.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U223	By investment, you probably mean not infrastructure investments, but general financial resources. The financial resources are planned to be EUR 15 million per year from 2018 as agreed in the country's budgetary strategy. This is foreseen by the country's budgetary strategy for the years 2017 to 2020. Moreover, if you start reading the draft state budget for 2017, you will see that there are already EUR 6 million foreseen for 2017. As this system will start from 1 September 2017 and will be half a year, this amount will be 6 million euros in the first year and 15 million euros every year thereafter, as foreseen by the country's budgetary strategy. So this money is planned in the budget.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U224	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U225	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. The lion's majority of children go to sports clubs because sports schools just don't have that many and everywhere. Have you thought about introducing a tax credit in the government for parents whose children go to sports clubs? How many of these children could there be, and what might this decision cost financially?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U226	We have talked about this in different formats, but there is no solution and there is no calculation of what it could cost. So I don't know what the real solution to this problem is right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U227	Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U228	Thank you. Dear Minister, Sport is one of the best opportunities for integration or, using a more modern word, and the Estonian football team is a good example of this. But here's my question. Ida-Viru County is the largest counties in Estonia, but there are no male or female teams in the Estonian championship league in basketball, handball or volleyball, and now there are no teams in the Estonian Ice Hockey Championship from Ida-Virumaa. Having communicated with many sports federations, I know that Ida-Viru County does not exist on the map for many sub-unions. Do you share my concern about the regional development of sport from this point of view and do you have some kind of opinion on this?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U229	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister of Culture, I'm also asking about the coaches. From the beginning of 2015, support was given to fifth- and higher-level trainers. Has it not been discussed whether to support, for example, the third and fourth categories of trainers in order to ensure the sustainability of the sport system, on the one hand, and to increase the motivation of coaches to pursue higher levels of professionalism, on the other?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U230	I actually answered that part in answer to the previous question. There hasn't been a plan to take all the coaches on public pay. Let me remind you that what the state is offering is a specific wage subsidy for higher-level coaches. We assume that the salary will be paid by clubs, sports schools and sub-marines. Therefore, no one has planned to create such a system of coaching on public wages as of now. If we were to start supporting all the categories, it would start pointing it out.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U231	Monika Haukanõmm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U232	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you for your presentation. My colleague Hunter's question about the accessibility of sports objects is very important. Since 2012, we have a requirement of accessibility to all public objects, both buildings and facilities that we are building. It is certainly worth keeping an eye on this accessibility not seemingly, but actually, since it is sometimes apparent to us. But my question is about coach pay. It is great that it will be there as of 2015. It is currently in place since the fifth level of professionalism. In order to qualify for level five, the trainer must have been a fourth-level trainer for three years. This has led to a situation where levels have been set more easily in order to obtain money, because then the state will receive support. Have you analysed how much more applicants would need to be compensated from level 4 onwards?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U233	We have not carried out such an analysis, because we do not have any data to show that this fifth category is somehow very easily shared. Our partner here is the Estonian Olympic Committee, which in very many things is our main partner and umbrella organisation in the field. It is clear that the Ministry of Culture cannot handle all things. The three people we have been able to hire in the sports department are too small a resource to take responsibility for the whole area. As I said before, there is, in fact, a great deal of civil society organisations and sports federations that have joined on a voluntary basis. I certainly dare say that, given the pace of the rapid increase in applicants with categories five to seven, we would most likely not be able to raise the money if we were to significantly expand the circle to which we are willing to provide support. Of course, on the other hand, we still assume that qualifications are high enough so that we can be sure that coaches are top specialists in their field: they understand what is happening in a young person's body, they have pedagogical abilities and they are able to be road indicators for young people in ethical categories. It is certainly our assumption that the youth trainers that the country will support will be as highly qualified as possible. But we haven't done that kind of analysis directly.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U234	Dmitri Dmitriyev's question.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U235	Thomas Stone Mountain, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U236	Thank you for asking me a very specific question when it got mixed up. I think it is in the public interest that the criteria for the sponsorship of state-owned enterprises become much clearer. Therefore, the Ministry of Culture has proposed as a solution that funds of the same magnitude that are currently allocated by the sponsor committees and management boards should be fixed as a percentage of the profits of public undertakings or public undertakings, but should be allocated on the basis of sectoral competences. The sector competence is certainly much higher in the Ministry of Culture or in associated organisations than in most state-owned companies or state-owned companies, and it is much bigger there than in the Ministry of Finance. Therefore, I do not think it is right that this money should in future be simply allocated to the state budget and distributed, as proposed by the Ministry of Finance. I will fight to the last drop of blood that the proposal of the Ministry of Finance would reduce the money available in the field of sport and culture. I object to that. But I am very much in favour of becoming much clearer on the basis of which the profits of state companies support sport and also culture. The current solution simply takes a lot of money away from the field and it is not responsible.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U237	A grain of Thomas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U238	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Good Minister, I also thank you for your presentation. I will continue with the question of my colleague, Lauri Luige. Lauri asked about financial support for the judges. But is there any understanding in the ministry, or does the ministry even think that there is a problem that there is simply a lack of judges in very many areas? There is no need to talk about an international category of judges. Does the Ministry have any motivational package, or have you thought about how to come to the aid of sub-unions and clubs so that we still have qualified judges?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U239	As I have already answered Krista Aru's question, I completely agree. In some cases, it seems to me that we have assumed that only the municipalities will contribute, which does not guarantee that there will be access to a proper ski trail or a cycling trail anywhere in Estonia in a reasonable time. We will not be able to ensure this if we do not motivate the keepers of health trails by means of a national motivational programme. We are working on it, we have the original picture, and we hope that we will be able to find some tools for this in the near future.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U240	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I congratulate you and the Government of the Republic on the fact that investments in sport have been greatly valued. Whether the extension of A.Le Coq Arena or the construction of Kalev Stadium, mentioned by you, is mentioned, but also the construction of the Pärnu Beach Stadium, where the country's share was a million euros. But in my opinion, rowing among our most brilliant sports for decades is still part of the orphanage. We were all very proud of the bronze medal we received in Rio, but when we look at the conditions under which this medal was born, it is incredible that we could continue to receive medals in this sport. Will Pärnu rowers finally get a worthy training centre, or is there an investment planned in rowing in Pärnu, so that before the next Olympics we can have a decent base and we can hope for medals again?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U241	Yes, I very much agree that rowing is one of the traditional areas that have still delighted us and where we also have very good tutors in addition to tradition. Since we have both been chosen from Pärnu and Pärnu is one of the places where these traditions are the strongest and the most long-term, and Pärnu rowing schools have undoubtedly received the most medal places, I have, of course, tried to make the most of this subject. During this time, when I have been a minister, I have been so much clearer thanks to the Union of Rows, the Estonian Olympic Committee and, of course, Jüri Jaanson, who is in this Chamber, who has a heart in this area, that one might say that something can now begin to be planned. So far, there were a lot of plans, nor had the rowing federation made a perspective on where to invest. On the one hand, there are very strong traditions in Pärnu, on the other hand, we know that international competitions cannot be held in Pärnu because there is moving water there. We now have a perspective plan so that we can first find the possibilities for keeping up-to-date training conditions in Pärnu and one day in Viljandi, so that international competitions can be organised there too. Now at least there's some kind of plan. Sometimes it seemed like there were four or five of them. The picture is now much clearer, and I hope that we will make good progress in good cooperation with all those involved. The question of the role of local government is certainly important for these investments, because, as I described in the report, it depends to a very large extent on whether things work, on what the local government's contribution and responsibility are for one object or another. In Pärnu it is important to understand the extent to which this should take place, on which shore, and whether there could also be some functions needed for the city, or whether we are only talking about pure rowing.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U242	Peep Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U243	Thank you. Dear Minister for Culture athletic. It was a pleasure to hear the name of Viljandi flashing. I dare say that when it comes to rowing, the city of Viljandi is always ready to go along. Pärnu is, of course, a great place, so let's do things together. My question is a little bit different, but it still has to do with sport. 15 years ago, politicians also had such a trend in the Ministry of Culture that there could be at least one modern stadium in each county, one public sports centre and at least one swimming place. The stadiums have been doing pretty well in recent years. You spoke very thoroughly about the public sports centers and gave a good perspective. But have they also studied the status of swimming pools in different regions? I have to admit, Viljandi has been wrestling this problem for 15 years, but he hasn't done it. Can the state come here to help?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U244	Yes, in the stadium sense, Pärnu was the last of the regional debts, otherwise we have circled the stadiums. This activity has been regularly supported. In Viljandi, I think there will be a final repayment next year, which the state will support. There hasn't been such a strategy for swimming pools, and I dare say now that neither will the country's tooth. I dare to set an example here in another city, which has reasonably found various ways of cooperating. One of the proudest of these is Rakvere, where, in cooperation with the public and private sectors, a swimming pool was established, not only, but also a water centre that has been recognised and known all over Estonia. It brought about a hundred new jobs to Rakverre, a decent hotel and catering facilities and accompanying services. It is clear that if the local authority had undertaken this alone, its investment would probably have been greater than it now had to do, and all this would never have happened. Since local governments have so far had to deal with this matter on their own, given the possibilities of the state budget, I do not believe that, in the near future, regional swimming pools will have reason to expect the state to go to very large aid there. Rather, here is the question of whether we still have a proper 50-metre swimming pool in Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U245	Jaak Madison, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U246	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Good Minister of Culture, thank you for your good presentation. My question is about the regional establishment of sports schools. Let's look at the statistics. In 2011, there were 155 sports schools and in just one year the number increased to 251. Last year it was 352, which I believe is a very positive trend as a great sports friend. But what has been the main indicator or influence in setting up sports schools compared to opening sports clubs? What are the substantial reasons for going down the path of establishing a sports school rather than setting up a sports club?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U247	There are considerably more sports clubs in Estonia than sports schools, and it will probably remain so in the future. I am now speculating a bit, but I assume that the very rapid increase in the number of sports schools is due to the fact that when children participate in a sports school and the curriculum of a sports school is registered in the EHIS, parents receive a tax refund. It's probably the surge that's come from.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U248	Kalle Muuli, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U249	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Minister, thank you very much. My question is about sponsoring state-owned enterprises. If I understand correctly, you do not consider it appropriate to ban the sponsorship of state enterprises in sport. But I didn't understand exactly what your position was, how to organise this sponsorship.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U250	All this mobility in school education has been criticised for a long time. The current situation is that the Ministry of Culture is also involved in the development of this so-called pilot, but above all the Ministry of Social Affairs and the Ministry of Education and Research are involved in this work in cooperation with the University of Tartu, which is developing a children's mobility programme in schools. The pilot has already been launched, largely for money from gambling. The result should be a comprehensive concept of how to make school physical education, often based on traditions that have been going on for some time, up-to-date and so that we are satisfied with the mobility opportunities offered to children and young people at school. I do believe that the expert group that does this work is competent enough and that there will be good solutions. Everyone who is badly needed will be involved in this group, including the Ministry of Education and Research, and will carry it out, so I believe that these results will be implemented.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U251	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U252	Thank you, manager. Minister, thank you very much. What kind of support for sporting events is foreseen in the country's sport policy? I think we can get a lot more tourists through supporting sporting events than through some tourism measures. For example, last year the veteran World Championship was on the verge of orientation. As far as I know, there were 3000-4000 very rich Western tourists around Tallinn, who left quite a lot of money in Estonia. Well, I don't want to talk about Latvia anymore, but Latvians are more successful here than we are. For example, next year, as far as I know, there will be at least three stages of the world chalice of motor sports. At least three, but I think there's more. It involves tens and tens of thousands of tourists who bring money to the country and get to know the country more widely. What is the government's understanding of how to support sporting events?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U253	The biggest money comes from EAS through the state budget as a measure for international sports events of EUR 400000 per year. This has been an important help in organizing these things. The Ministry of Culture has an application round where you can apply for money to support international events, as well as the Cultural Capital Sport Foundation has played a significant role in organising these events. As I said in my presentation, many of these events, apart from what comes with them, bring a great deal of money and work to Estonia. Studies show a different contribution, up to that point, that for Rally Estonia, for example, the ratio was 1 to 11, i.e. the state's contribution and the turnover generated.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U254	Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U255	Honorable manager! Honorable Minister! In both your report and your presentation, you brought out nicely the proportion of funding for sport, how much sport is financed by municipalities, individuals, the state and companies. If investments are deducted from the State's share, it is not as excessive as it seems at the beginning. Can you briefly tell me how it is organized in the rest of the world? How do we look compared to other countries? In these proportions, that's right.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U256	Very different. But if you look at the average, you can't say we have little state support. If we look at the relationship between state support and population, we are rather better off with this proportion. But that's the joy of the small people, because they still want to be more or less involved in all popular sports. This assumes that the State's contribution is proportionally higher if the population is smaller. The same is true of many other things if they are to be expelled from the national team. But these figures are very different, up to the point that in some countries all the responsibilities are imposed on state-owned enterprises, most of the state funding comes from state-owned enterprises. As I said above, we are threatened by the opposite trend that there will be no more support. I hope that this will not be the case and that these instruments will continue to reach sport and culture.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U257	Mikhail Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U258	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. I'd like to ask you about the swimming area. In fact, you are certainly aware that the largest swimming pool in Tallinn is planned to be rebuilt. It is now possible to practice on a 50-meter track, but the pool is being rebuilt so that the 50-meter track no longer remains, it is only 25-metre. There are no other swimming pools with this long track in Tallinn. I think it will worsen the practice and development of this sport. Do you see any solution here, or do you intend to intervene in this matter?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U259	After all, regional policy could tell everyone that welcome to Tartu for a swim. There is a swimming pool with a 50-metre track in Tartu. Actually, it's not that bad. At first, there was news that the 50-meter pool in Kalev's swimming pool would be abolished. But some time ago, Kalev's swimming pool explained that it was not planned. While they are planning conversions, I do not know exactly which ones, but they have confirmed in their public explanation that the 50-meter pool will remain. Of course, there should be a 50-meter pool in a city the size of Tallinn. I know that Tallinn is actively engaged in this and that the Tondiraba region is potentially going to be a private investment. After all, there were plans to build such a pool on Mustamägi next to the TUT campus. But to think about it from here on out, you should still understand what the Kalevi swimming pool plans are and what the investments that Tallinn and the private sector are planning anyway. We understand, of course, that it is very expensive to build a 50-meter pool that also meets the requirements for organising international competitions. There is certainly a need to look for synergies that can be found. For example, when we talk about Kalev's swimming pool, the private sector has a significant role to play. Tallinn is also thinking in this direction. If the state builds a'state swimming pool' and tries to maintain it itself, it is certainly a very, very large investment and there will be very high fixed costs.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U260	Andres Metsoja, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U261	Honourable Chairman! Good minister! Sport is an important part of the economy. Surely you can't keep repeating that for every 60. The euro earned in the European Union is precisely about sport, not to mention its leverage. However, the public sector must intervene to create certain conditions. We've met on different ski trails in winter, I think. One of the hotspots is the production of artificial snow at different points in Estonia. Having been in close contact with this snow mathematics at the Christmas Mountain fitness centre, I ask whether steps should be taken in Estonia to create conditions for the pursuit of winter sports in the form of a specific public finance facility, so that these conditions are guaranteed and the possibilities used.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U262	Thank you, Minister of Culture Indrek Saar! The members of the Riigikogu have no further questions. I'm opening negotiations. On behalf of the Group of the Lauri Luik Reform Party, please! I'll give you three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U263	Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! Honourable sports friends! The fact that we are discussing sports mathematics in the large Chamber of the Riigikogu is, in my opinion, a very big step forward. I would like to thank all the parties who have been involved and who have contributed both to the development of the fundamentals of sport policy and to the preparation of an overview of the area under discussion today. The fundamentals of sport policy set out four main trends, the first of which is the rarity of movement. Based on these trends, it is very good to assess how sport has developed over the years. The overall increase in the popularity of exercise has been significant over the last five years: from 32% to 45%. This proves that we are on the right path to development. For example, the very good exercise project brought a total of 120,000 people to a European sports week last year and held almost 500 sporting events, but this year there were already 700 sports events and 200,000 people involved. However, what worries us, as the Minister mentioned in his presentation, is that nearly a third of Estonians do not exercise or engage in any kind of exercise other than maybe just walk into work. In my opinion, it is very important to place emphasis on those people who are more passive, that they should start with school benches and school sports. As we move on to youth sport, I welcome the development of a comprehensive concept of mobility education, which should integrate mobility with the various subjects, to which the Minister also referred in his reply. The activities of the Estonian School Sports Association continue to play a major role here. I very much appreciate what is being done to develop the basic teaching of swimming, because Estonia, as a sea state, has a symbolic meaning for our young people to be able to swim. People with special needs have been given great emphasis in sport activities in recent years. The role of society as a whole should be to ensure that people with disabilities also have the opportunity to feel themselves as full citizens. The Estonian Paralympics Committee is certainly worthy of praise here. Developments can be seen in this area; more people with disabilities are also involved in organising public sporting events and solutions are sought in cooperation with local authorities to improve access to sport infrastructure, etc. Another important direction is top sport and performance sport. I find that the funding and management of top sports in Estonia has been relatively well established over the years. The foundations have become clearer and more specific. The medals of the title competitions are sometimes taken for granted too much, but let us not forget that there is systematic work behind it, and this has all been planned and thorough action. As the Minister mentioned, Estonian athletes have been very successful in the title competitions, 125 medals have been awarded from the title competitions in the middle of the year, 10% of them in the Olympic areas. I think that is a very strong word for small Estonia. In my opinion, we have much to learn in shaping top sports from another small sports country in Iceland. The Icelandic experience shows that it is important to put specific focus in place in order to achieve excellence in sport. The third block is sport as an important industry and employer. I would like to highlight the movement of volunteers led by the NGO for the Sports Year, because more and more we understand when organising major sporting events, how important volunteers actually play a role in making big events work. Dealing with the social guarantees of coaches, which have been very much discussed in recent years, is very positive. We have found extra money there, and I hope that will continue to do so in the future. On my question, I already touched on the topic of sports judges. It is good that the Minister also gave a substantive answer to this. This issue is moving forward, and I very much hope that there will be a sensible solution. Forward, infrastructure. I am not going to give any more examples, the Minister described them in detail, and they are also written in this development document. In my opinion, the sports infrastructure in Estonia is quite well developed. At times, however, there is a problem with the cost of maintaining infrastructure. So we must also calculate maintenance costs by planning and investing in infrastructure in the future. However, my concern as President of the School Sports Association is that we still have some schools where sports conditions are rather poor. I very much hope that the Ministry of Culture and the Ministry of Education and Research will take this to heart. The country's priority will undoubtedly continue to be to bring the big competitions here. This will help introduce Estonia and help bring foreign capital here. A very positive example is Rally Estonia, which last year brought 4.9 million extra euros into our economy. It was very positive. As I move forward on the subject of funding, the amount invested in sport every year by the private sector, the state and local authorities is very significant at 137 million euros. I hope that this trend will continue and that the local authorities, which do not contribute so much to sport, will do so in the future. I congratulate the Ministry of Culture, who, in cooperation with the EOK, has set out to make sport funding more transparent and clearer. The abolition of roofing money in the field of sport and the new foundations for supporting sports federations are two concrete steps in this direction. The current plan for restructuring the Gambling Tax Council is, in my opinion, incomplete. I know the Treasury is working on it. We hope that there will be a comprehensive solution. I would like to stress that the system of financing sport must function as a whole and that sport must not suffer; I am thinking, among other things, of non-Olympics and also of smaller sports clubs. However, two new initiatives to promote sport have already been mentioned: the support system for young people and the abolition of the special preferential tax since 2018. This is very welcome. The fourth block is sport as a carrier of spirituality and positive values. I would like to emphasise healthy lifestyles in this context. I believe that society should focus more on health promotion, movement, healthy eating and adequate rest, as well as health surveillance. Unfortunately, we must talk too often about the consequences and the fight against them. Finally, the Estonian Antidoping Foundation. I very much commend their actions in introducing fair play rules from a young age to schoolchildren. Doping has no place in sport, and it needs to be explained to people. Ladies and gentlemen, I am pleased to note that we are moving strongly towards the targets set out in the programming document. I hope that legislative action will be able to keep pace with this strategy paper. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U264	Andres Ammas on behalf of the Free Party Group, please! Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U265	Honourable President! Respectable members of the Riigikogu! Respectable sports friends! Respectable Minister for Culture and Sport, sorry, currently only Minister for Culture! For many years, the sports media have been quite critical of the employees of the Sports Department of the Ministry of Culture, and now there have also been changes in the scenery. Perhaps because of all this, when the officials write this report, I think that they have overreacted in a good way. This overview of the achievements of Estonian sports during the year is sometimes sweet like a cream cake with more sugar on it. I'd like to bark the herring right up. Remembering this spring debate between the aspiring president of the Olympic Committee, this debate revealed that there are still a little problems in Estonian sports and, in fact, it would be good if the spirit of debate and the demandingness of sports public and sports media against sports functioners were preserved and continued. The main concerns of Estonian sport have been the lack of money and the fragmentation of the financing of sport, lack of transparency and lack of clarity. I very much appreciate that Minister Saare's leadership has begun to move the ice, but of course it is still moving hard. It has been difficult and slow for the rest of the government, including regrettably the involvement of the Minister for Finance, who is leading one of the sub-unions. In our group's view, the most interesting part of the report on this development plan is the last view of the future. It's very clear and interesting. We very much hope that the individual points of this vision will be complemented and confirmed in the form of concrete action plans and preparation of regulations and drafts. The coalition, including the honourable minister's party, has rightly been proud of the fact that support for worker sport will finally come about, as the special incentive tax will be abolished. This is an important and symbolic decision. But it's up to the opposition to pick on it. First of all, of course, I ask this board this question: but, my friends, why is it only from 1 January 2018 and why is it that an entrepreneur will have more bureaucracy as a result of the implementation of this decision, but not in the way that all expenditure paid for the health of workers will be dealt with? So now it's only half the work done, not the whole thing. Sponsorship of state-owned enterprises was mentioned here. I very much agree with the Minister that the rules under which public undertakings finance sport should be put in place. The state companies themselves have made this subject a little more comic. In time, the Port of Tallinn took the principle of supporting maritime areas, such as sailing, but then Tartu dancers began to be supported on the initiative of the Chairman of the Supervisory Board. This forces public companies to take a critical approach to sponsorship. But I very much agree with the Minister that sport must not suffer, and it is very regrettable that this year this EUR 400000 will not come from that source. Provisions for sport infrastructure. We believe that allocating EUR 5 million to Lilleküla Stadium was not the best idea. We think there's money in the sports infrastructure here and there. Most games are held in front of half-empty stands. We are not convinced that it would be wise to pour 5 million euros of concrete into one game only in order to realise the dreams of the Prime Minister and the fanatic leader of one sport. It's too expensive a price. In what ways do these additional seats expand the opportunities for human recreation, we too find it confusing. But it is nice that the budget for the coming year will be paid by Kalev Stadium. It was justified to talk about the problem of rowers. As a haapsallane, I cannot get past the topic that Haapsalu built a fencing hall for fencing all of Estonia, which will soon be opened, and asked for a little support from the state. I thought I looked closely, but I did not see this support in the budget for next year. It could be added to it. The trainer's wage subsidy was already mentioned; it is a very necessary decision. It's a long way to go. As my colleague Monika Haukanõm pointed out, the coaches have complained that there is already a combination and an easy way to go. Maybe we could give the fourth graders some money. Point 6.4 of the plan states: "In recognition of the role played by sport organisations, their diverse and rational development is supported and encouraged. " When I read it with a sportsman who has been running a sports club for a long time, he asked, but why hasn't there been an increase in sports money for sports clubs since 1999. Since my good groupmates gave me a so-called blanco bill, I will devote the last minutes of my speech to one of my favourite areas and also to the current worried child, namely Estonian chess. As a member of the chess council, I am very interested in what the system of financing non-Olympics will be like in the future. In my opinion, the current scheme is obviously unfair. For the next year, nearly 32,000 euros have been planned for the Estonian Bodybuilding and Fitness Association to support adult sport, but 6490 euros have been planned for the Estonian Male Union. The difference is five times. The problem is in the point system, according to which bodybuilding enthusiasts have the best results possible, but those of chessians have the worst possible ones. It is not taken into account that, for example, some technical sports have more than 25 competition classes where you can earn international title points, but there are only a few in chess: more traditional, fast, lightning, chess. In December, nearly 800 chessmen will come to Tallinn for the fastest European championship, all of whom will compete in one class. This system should also be considered, the sub-mobile should also focus on the number of enthusiasts and the training and accreditation of coaches. I very much hope that the Ministry's experts will take a critical look at this system. In the 100th anniversary year of Paul Kerese's birth, it is the least that can be done for Estonian chess. I am pleased that the Minister of Culture is an athletic and sport-loving minister. Indeed, he could also become Minister for Culture and Sport, and he would carry out this title with honour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U266	On behalf of the Group of the Social Democratic Party of Toomas Jürgenstein, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U267	Honourable President! Ladies and gentlemen, Good Minister of Culture, thank you for a very thorough presentation. Before I say a few words on the report on 'Sport Policy Fundamentals 2030' 2015 (hereinafter referred to as 'Sport 2030'), I will dive into history for a moment. I find it remarkable that Estonia's first internationally recognized and top-notch athletes, Georg Lurich and Georg Hackenschmidt also sought to understand and analyze sport more generally alongside the world scenes. If Hackenschmidt became a well-known European philosopher after the wrestling mat, then the Estonian conditions have perhaps been more succinctly understood by Georg Lurich. I'll start with a quote from him. In 1903 Lurich said: "It seems to me, however, that it is the duty of every well - grown man to make sure that he is not powerless, weak, and unwilled, so that the spirit of his body is appropriate. [---] It is believed that if man is destined to be the crown of nature, then he has the right to live loosely. However, no one can deny that the greatest treasure on earth is health; it is such a universally understandable matter that I may not explain it more closely. " That's what Lurich said in 1903; we try to understand and analyze sports over a hundred years later. But there are multiple parallels, I'll come back to that. Let's continue with Sport 2030. It is only natural to clarify the situation and to set more distant guidelines. The environment we live in is changing. All of us feel computers linking us more and more to a chair and a desk. We all have experience of how we have planned a multi-hour walk, but the anxious messages from the smart device have quickly ended it. In addition, nature has so arranged that the ageing population must be motivated by more than younger people, etc. We really have where to go. While in Estonia about 40% of the population regularly engages in sports, in the Nordic countries there are 65-70% of these people. However, certain anxiety notes can also be heard in the Nordic countries, although there are really 65-70% of people involved in sport and exercise. For example, Finland's new curriculum has significantly increased the number of hours of physical education. Speaking of 'Sport 2030', I would like to highlight the positive background. Something's about to happen in the next few years. For more than ten years, social democrats have been willing to abolish the special tax on workers' health costs. This has now been resolved. Important financial support is being given to students by engaging in recreational activities, including sports. Sports clubs have the opportunity to apply for coach wage subsidy, etc. At the same time, Sport 2030 cannot be blamed for the lack of ambition. When talking about one of the underlying movements of health, Sport in 2030 sets out an attempt to bring the number of sports enthusiasts to the Nordic level in Estonia. Today, it is true that a third of our people do not think of regular movements at all. However, personal experience confirms that progress is being made step by step. I've been in the last four years... Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U268	As far as health sports centres are concerned, it is certainly important that their network covers the whole of Estonia. We know that there is an excellent example of Nõmme-Harku health trail in Tallinn, and also Pirita has an example, but this picture is not so happy everywhere in Estonia. I guess that's why we're doing this. The city of Narva has, of course, invested in the state and the coach's wage subsidy was also important for Narva, as a large number of additional resources came in. It has been helped by investments in the rowing base, etc. As far as I am concerned with the opinion of this minister, who is also happy to curate cultural diversity or integration, I am convinced that sport is certainly one of the great opportunities for integration and there are very good examples of this. Of course, it is not always the investment that ensures its integration, or it is not always the one or the other team that has to play at the Estonian league level. There was a reference to football. The same SPIN project, which is a project at European level and which the football alliance is working very hard on, or the Karate summer camps funded by MISA, where Estonian and Russian-speaking young people work together, are examples where it is precisely those areas where there are many young people who speak Russian as their native language. But, of course, if there are any other things that we can still do, ideas are very welcome. Of course, doing anything in any region also requires the local authority to be interested in it and to go along with it. The state cannot simply go and set something up without the local authorities having an interest in it and being prepared to participate financially. Otherwise, the result is not what we expect.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U269	Mati Raidma, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U270	Thank you. I'm gonna go back to the school bench for a second. A few years ago, a course of physical education disappeared from upper secondary school for incomprehensible reasons. Would it make sense for sport policy to recover it, or should it be taken as an inevitability? Will this be the case, and when we talk about upper secondary school and physical education, we cannot even guarantee the situation that was four years ago? I am thinking, in particular, of the relatively poor physical preparation of young men and conscripts.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U271	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U272	Good manager! Good minister, excellent review! But you, as Minister of Culture, are asking me this question. On 12 February 2014 the fundamentals of Estonian cultural policy were confirmed here in the Riigikogu, but only until 2020. Sport is part of culture, but the view is ten years longer. I mean, they could go in parallel. When will the fundamentals of Estonian cultural policy come here until 2030?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U273	In sports policy, I recall that there were no fundamentals before. For cultural policy, they were made once in the mid-1990s, some kind of foundation existed earlier. The preparations for the next period of the fundamentals of cultural policy start to run out as early as 2017. But I think that the time for reaching the Riigikogu is more in 2018, then the next period can be negotiated here. It is clear that there should be another social agreement in which direction we are going. However, since I have no further questions, I would like to thank you all for this debate. I would also like to thank the Government of the Republic for all the constructive discussions that have enabled me to do my job as minister in this area. I am pleased to hear that very many colleagues in the Riigikogu recognised this work, which has been done by many parties. Overall, I share the view that it is certainly largely because we have 'Basics of Sport Policy until 2030' and the broader agreement we are on the road to, that there is clearer social support in sport for a number of things that may have been the subject of a dispute for years to come. So once again, I am very pleased that we have a document on the basis of which I, as Minister, have been able to work.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U274	Dmitri Dmitriev on behalf of the Centre Party Group.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U275	Honourable Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, I am certainly not exaggerating when I say that movement is the basis of a healthy and happy life. The number of healthy years of life in Estonia has decreased by almost two years compared to 2009. That is why sport policy is an important area that should not be underestimated in any way. Sport policy can have an impact on people's mobility habits and, therefore, on their health. In order for children to become accustomed to exercise and exercise when they are young, we need good trainers who can motivate young people. The non-remuneration of long-term coaches and their remuneration in the form of scholarships received relief in early 2015 when support was given to fifth- and higher-level trainers. Unfortunately, level 3 and level 4 coaches were excluded from support. Only support for higher-skilled coaches was justified by the need to ensure follow-up. However, lower-level coaches also want to live and get paid, only then can they reach a higher level and maintain the motivation to engage in the development of sport. Apart from the issue of coach remuneration and social guarantees, it is extremely important not to forget judges. Both professions must be supported. A commendable initiative is the development of a programme of children's mobility mentioned in the government action programme, aimed at increasing the physical activity of children. I would like to mention once again that a third of Estonia's population is not engaged in sport at all in this digital age. This is extremely sad statistics. Transforming physical education through a children's mobility programme for modern mobility education and a school model supporting mobility is an excellent tool to ensure children's and young people's interest in sport in the future, which in turn contributes to increasing people's mobility habits. The problem in Estonia is the uneven distribution of sports facilities. The existence of sport facilities in rural areas and the condition of these facilities must be considered with particular care. Attention should be paid to the creation of various facilities from ski trails to basketball courts and football fields, from Narva to the lower leg of Sõrve. Without them, we cannot increase the number of people who are athletic. Unfortunately, speaking of counties, I have to say that Ida-Virumaa is still the only county without a representative stadium for large sports events. For example, the reconstruction of Kalev Stadium as a modern sport object and the home of dance parties is a long-awaited step. The stadium, which has been considered the Estonian national stadium over the years, is in a very poor position and urgently needs planned reconstruction. As a general criticism, I point out the popularity of funding sport, which leaves less popular areas behind. At the same time, Estonia can be considered a success precisely because our athletes have achieved good results on a very wide scale of sports. In order to preserve and develop the diversity of successful areas, it is also necessary to support less popular sports. At the same time, the financing model for regional sports federations should be reviewed to ensure their stable and sustainable financing. I would like to point out a subject very close to my heart - swimming. If we could reduce the number of drownings by using swimming instruction, this would be a big step forward, especially given our demographic situation and the invaluable importance of each person to society and the economy. It is therefore necessary to place a very strong emphasis on the basic teaching of children's swimming, which the government has also taken up. The goal is for all children to be able to swim at least at basic level. Unfortunately, the current system does not fulfil this objective and needs to be improved. Finally, I would like to highlight an initiative that has been long awaited: the abolition of the special preferential tax on the sports costs of an employee. What the Centre Party Group has been talking about for years is now finally happening. We are really happy about that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U276	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U277	... At a distance of 10 km from the Tartu city marathon, and I can confirm from my experience that there have been a few hundred more participants each year. When we look at what the participants wear on their feet, we see that equipment goes quietly for the better, no more killing their feet. Sport is also a connecting and economic influence. Maybe I'm wrong, but I seem to remember the claim that the productivity of Estonian companies was linked to the results of the Kalev basketball game last day. There was only one Kalev in basketball back then. There is no doubt that sport is a uniter of people and a bearer of values. This 'Sport 2030' also notices, thinks and tries to guide. It is sympathetic that the measures are broad-based. Schools, Estonian Defence Forces, sports organisations and invalid organisations are involved to understand sports culture, but also to draw attention to threats, but also Estonian Antidoping. It is natural that Estonia must be represented with dignity at international level. The bar's been up here since the very old days. Again, I will give an example from the beginning of the last century. Theodore Roosevelt, President of the United States of America, said to Georg Hackenschmidt, who was already mentioned in the White House in 1908: 'If I were not President of the United States, I would like to be Hackenschmidt. In 'Sport 2030', the top athlete's tea is seen as a top athlete with great potential from a young trainee boy or girl who offers experiences to many Estonians. Scholarships, training centers, coaches, athletes for mental balance, fans, these are some of the keywords included in Sport 2030. To sum up, it seems to me that Sport 2030 and its implementation are a good compromise between conservativeness and innovation. The next thought is said with a slight irony. Last week, I read in the media that fishing and postal dance are also expected to be new Olympics. Here, Sport 2030 is a little conservative, and they are not called sports. Perhaps it is also better that these activities retain their traditional status. At the same time, new solutions have been proposed in the form of various programmes, support systems and inclusion. Finally, I quote once again our legendary wealthy hero Georg Lurich. It seems to me that this quote bears the spirit of Sport 2030. This is what he said: "Hold a respect for your health! ... We may not have so many sick homes, poor houses, prison homes, and taverns, and similar facilities at the expense of the people. " That's what he said in 1910. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U278	Kalle Muuli on behalf of the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U279	Honourable Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, thank you very much. The Year of Sports 2015, which we are talking about here today, went down in history, among other things, by the fact that the President of the Estonian Olympic Committee was convicted of corruption this year. He committed a crime trying to raise money from a state company to promote sport. I recall this shameful story in order to ask whether there can be an even more prominent, more eloquent and even more depressing example that the system of financing sport is rotten, at least in some respects. Although the Ministry of Culture has taken steps to improve the financing of sport and I think that these steps have been quite long, the current public funding for sport is still characterised by fragmentation, lack of transparency and dependence on political pull winds. After all, all of us in this Chamber also have personal contacts and experience with the problems of this financing system. When members of the Riigikogu try to finance sport using roofing money, it certainly shows that we have a good will to help those who are in need, but also that we have not been able to establish a clear, transparent and based procedure for the financing of sport. When you look at the Olympic Games or the national sports events, it seems that our sport is actually fine. Gerd Kanter's disk is still flying pretty far, and there are more and more participants in public sports events. The result of the fragmentation of sport funding and the lack of a firm target is looking at us from elsewhere, namely health research and the state of public health. According to the Eurobarometer, about 40% of the population regularly sports in Estonia. Sweden has 70% of these people, Denmark has 68% and Finland has 66%. The same chasm separates the new Nordic countries from the old Nordic countries, even when compared with the average life expectancy and the healthy years. Research confirms that regular exercise prolongs a person's healthy lives by five. But those who do not exercise at all are more than one third of the population in Estonia, i.e. at least one third of our population, one third lose five healthy years of life. There are many reasons why this is the case, but in addition to comfort and laziness, the studies have identified lack of money as one of the reasons. This concern would be mitigated by the employer's support for the costs of sport. Here, fortunately, we can take a major step forward by supporting the amendment to the Income Tax Act, which allows the employer to pay tax-free expenses for improving the health of the employee for a total amount of EUR 400 per year. Such costs include fees for the use of a training facility, the maintenance of sports facilities, as well as the costs of rehabilitation and participation in public sports events. Ladies and gentlemen, Despite the fact that we had here today to report on the Minister of Culture, I would like to conclude by talking about a problem which concerns more the Minister of Education and the Ministry of Education. The exercise begins where everything else in a person's life begins at home and at school. Scientists argue that if a child has not acquired a sports practice and certain skills needed for sports by the age of 12, there is a very high likelihood that he or she will not continue to exercise. Therefore, the number of physical education hours should certainly be increased at least in primary classes. This does not necessarily mean extending an already long school day. I have said before from this speaker that the national curriculum needs to be severely cut down and homework needs to be significantly reduced. It is at this time that the number of hours of physical education in school should be increased. In view of the fact that the exercise of adults depends in many ways on how much sport has been done as a child, I recommend that the Estonian sports development plan be supplemented with one simple and clear goal, which should be started from school: all children move! And this certainly sooner than in 2030. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U280	There are no more requests to participate in the negotiations. The 2015 Implementation Report on the fundamentals of sport policy until 2030 has been discussed. Thank you to the Minister of Culture.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U281	The next item is the third reading of Draft Act 202 on the Amendment of State Secrets and the Secret Foreign Information Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. I'm opening negotiations. There's no call. Let's go to the final vote. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the draft Act 202 amending the State Secrets and the Secret Foreign Information Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. Please take a stand and vote. There were 61 members of the Riigikogu in favour of adopting the draft act, 2 against and 2 abstentions. The Act amending the State Secrets and the Secret Foreign Information Act has been adopted.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U282	The third reading of the draft Act amending the Victim Assistance Act initiated by the Government of the Republic begins. I'm opening negotiations. No requests, let's go to the final vote. Now there's a desire to speak. Please, on behalf of the Group of the Liina Kersna Reform Party.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U283	Good chairman of the sitting! Ladies and gentlemen, It's a badge day. For the first time, the concept of a victim of violence against women reaches the Estonian law, and for the first time, we describe the services guaranteed by the law for the victim of violence against women. This is a sign that we, as a society, have recognised the issue of close relationship violence and the importance of helping victims. The adoption of the revised Victim Assistance Act, which will soon be voted on, is a visible milestone in the development of our society. In addition to the national victim support service, an all-Estonian network of support centres for women has been built over the years, based in particular on the sense of mission. There are dedicated and sector-specific professionals working there. I'm not exaggerating, saying that these are people who really save other people's lives. Over the last five years, public support for support centres has doubled. In addition to the state budget support, the network and services of the reference centres have also been developed with the support of the Norwegian State and through several projects. In the state budget for the coming year, EUR 620000 is planned for the provision of the service, plus nearly EUR 40000 for the operation of the hotline. However, experts have estimated that at least EUR 1 million would be needed to provide an adequate service to victims of violence against women. At the same time, Professor emeritus, statistician and mathematician Ene-Margit Tiit has calculated on the basis of an international formula that domestic violence costs Estonian society 116.5 million euros a year. If we focus only on the direct victim of violence, in the lion's part, this victim is a woman, we will not be able to reduce the damage to society caused by near-relationship violence. As a next step, we must also focus on other important players: children and violent men. Children also witness violence against women in 70% of cases, leaving a mark on them. More than half of children who have experienced violence at home will use violence themselves one day. Since the pattern of violence tends to repeat from generation to generation, children need to be given enough counsel to help them get out of this vicious circle. We can't do this systemically right now. Violence against women will not be reduced if we do not deal with men. Each adult person must be able to take responsibility for his actions, including those who are violent with their loved ones. But in addition to taking responsibility, we should also give them a helping hand. Violent behavior is committed to attitudes and values. In most cases, the perpetrators themselves have also been victims of violence. The Men's Crisis Centre in Tallinn offers advice on this. In a year, they can support 13 men at most through these changes. Given the fact that 1,600 women a year turn to women's support centres, this aid is clearly too little for men. Therefore, we are taking the first major step today by providing national services to victims of violence against women. As the next steps, we should also provide services for children who have experienced violence or who have seen violence at close proximity, and certainly also for men who act violently. Finally, I would like to thank my fellow Members from the Committee on Social Affairs. We were able to make all the decisions unanimously. I would like to thank the Ministry of Social Affairs, which, in cooperation with the social partners, sought working compromises. I thank the Estonian Women's Shadows Association for its active and powerful contribution. I also thank Tähtvere Open Women's Centre for thinking about how to improve the quality of service. Thank you very much to all the bets!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U284	Helmen Kütt on behalf of the Social Democratic Party Group, please! Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U285	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, At the very beginning, I say that the draft law amending the Victim Assistance Act at the last reading today is a good draft and that the Social Democrats support its adoption as a law. Now I'll give you a little explanation for why. The amendment of the Victim Assistance Act provides for the legal regulation of the services of the Women's Support Centre. Its content is a composite service for victims of violence against women, including requirements for service providers and service components. It must also be considered very important that the amendment of the law ensures that victims of trafficking in human beings are better identified and able to receive services, and that there will be support services for those victims of trafficking in human beings who have been subjected to criminal proceedings outside Estonia and who have been victimized by the competent authority of a foreign country. The amendment to the Victim Assistance Act provides victims' assistance to sexually abused minors even if the report has not been submitted or if criminal proceedings are not started. The draft has been drawn up taking into account the Council of Europe Convention on the Prevention and Prevention of Violence against Women and Domestic Violence, the Istanbul Convention, which Estonia already signed on 2 December 2014 and which imposes on the State the obligation to provide support and protection for all victims of violence against women, and the Council of Europe Convention on the Protection of Children against Sexual Exploitation and Sexual Abuse, the so-called Lanzarote Convention. Of course, we look forward to the rapid ratification of the Istanbul Convention and the fact that it will reach the Riigikogu in cooperation with the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Social Affairs in the first half of next year, in the run-up to the Estonian Presidency. Violence against women is a specific problem and requires constant willingness to deal with victims, as well as the possibility of immediate safe accommodation. Until now, specific services for victims of violence against women were not described at law level. It was therefore necessary to regulate the service of the Women's Support Centre at the level of the law, to ensure its funding and to provide for administrative supervision of the provision of the service. Currently, civil society organisations known both in the world and in Estonia as women's shelters or women's centres provide assistance to women. Therefore, the Victim Assistance Act also calls these services women's support centre services. Specialised support centres have so far been funded on a project-based basis and have only been financed from state budget resources for the last two years. I am pleased that I was able to begin this principle as a minister, and the Minister of today will continue to do so. The biggest change to the bill is in the organisation of work of the Social Insurance Board. Organising the work of the Women's Support Centres is no longer the responsibility of the Department of Equality Policies of the Ministry of Social Affairs, but it is the task of the Social Insurance Board, together with all rights and responsibilities, both in organising procurements and in supervising. In order to support women and their children who have experienced psychological, physical, economic or sexual violence, support centres for women are open in every county. In addition, you can call 1492 free of charge 24 hours a day. In order to avoid any different interpretations, the Social Committee decided to support the proposal of the Association of Estonian Women's Shadows Association and maintain a specialized complex service for victims of violence against women in as many counties as it is now, the county principle remains in the law. In order to ensure that those colleagues who do not have a social field have a better understanding of the need for this specific service, I will give you a few figures. In 2015, 1763 women and 165 children accompanied by them went to support centres for women in Estonia. I would very much like to congratulate everyone who has contributed to the process of this bill: experts, politicians and officials of ministries and agencies. The proposals and opinions on the draft were presented by the Estonian Women's Shadows Association, Tähtvere Open Women's Centre, the Estonian Psychotherapy Association and the good co-worker Monika Haukanõm. The Social Affairs Committee has dealt with this bill for a very long time. The Commission's rapporteur, Liina Kersna, did a very great job and Liina Kanter, Head of the Department of Equality Policy at the Ministry of Social Affairs, together with the department's advisor Kristiina Luhti, sought and found compromises that are also included in the draft today. However, I would like to express my greatest gratitude and appreciation to women working in support centres and shelters who work emotionally very hard according to great love and their best skills. I myself have been in Viljandi County at the birth of a women's support centre and I know how hard this job is. At the same time, however, I encourage all women who experience violence to turn to support centres and not remain alone or with children as victims of violence. With this draft law, which will immediately become a law, the State will make a clear commitment that this specific service will be sustainably guaranteed and funded on the basis of clear principles. This is only the first step, we are now dealing with the consequences. We will also take the next steps to prevent this violence! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U286	On behalf of the Peeter Ernits Centre Party Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U287	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, Love is a wonderful thing. On the one hand, it gives wings, on the other hand, makes it vulnerable, very vulnerable. This is where the dog is buried. What's going on between hometowns is really only known by the people who are in the hometowns. A woman who's caught up in this vicious circle is ashamed to talk about it, and often we don't hear about it. The 2,000 women or just under 2,000 women who went to the women's support centers last year are actually the top of the iceberg. We men are, either because of our inferiority, our dignity, our violence, or anything else, the rulers of the situation. I am very pleased that, at the end of the day, Bill 236 has reached this hall and is going to be passed as a law. This is a great step, because it takes a great deal of help to come out of this vicious circle, or domestic violence. In fact, people have great difficulty coming out of it, so help is extremely welcome. It's a good thing this help is finally being offered. We have dog shelters and so on. We have rehabilitation programmes for alcoholics and drug addicts, but drug addicts and alcoholics are largely responsible for what they find themselves in. Women have not fallen into this situation on their own account. I come back to the beginning: it is primarily love for this man, which has led them into this helpless position. In this sense, this bill is a great step again. I think this is the way to proceed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U288	On behalf of the Group of the Aivar Kokk Fatherland and Res Publica Union, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U289	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, I, too, want to thank all the parties who have contributed to this law! It was not a short process. We have already started around Midsummer Day and hopefully we will arrive today in a few minutes to decide that an important step will be taken in Estonia. Permanent state funding of women's support centres is an important step towards helping victims of violence against women. Despite the active cooperation between the state and the support centres, the activities of the women's support centres have so far been project-based and unregulated. Support centres, however, need clarity and solid ground to provide sustainable and high-quality assistance. The amendment ensures the necessary public funding and supervision of the service, which is also necessary for the development of this service. It is a free service and will remain a free service for all women and their children who are victims of violence in the future. Admission to secure temporary accommodation and initial crisis counselling will also take place 24 hours a day in the coming years. I stress that victims of violence against women must receive help that will really help them to change their lives and escape violence. It is therefore crucial that the state participates more in the design of this aid. The service intended for victims of violence against women will continue to be provided by specialists with relevant experience and skills and relevant organisations in all Estonian counties. To this end, the Social Insurance Board will in the near future organise public procurement and conclude contracts with the winner of the procurement in order to provide this service in the coming years. Once again, thank you to all the people who have provided this service on a project basis so far! I hope that in the coming years they will have greater confidence; they will no longer have to think about whether one project is going to end and will have to start writing an application, but they will be able to commit to what they think is right in their hearts: they will be able to help people who, for some reason, are in a family dispute and who have fallen victim to violence. Thank you. The IRL supports this bill with all its votes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U290	No more calls, let's go to the final vote. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the draft law amending the Victim Assistance Act initiated by the Government of the Republic 236. Please take a stand and vote. There were 70 members of the Riigikogu in favour of adopting the Act, no respondents or abstentions. The Act amending the Victim Assistance Act has been passed.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U291	The second reading of the draft Act 279 on the ratification of the Council of Europe Convention on the Protection of Children against Sexual Exploitation and Sexual Abuse initiated by the Government of the Republic begins. The President of the Committee, Heljo Pikhof, shall make a report on behalf of the Committee on Legal Affairs. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U292	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! On Tuesday, 11 October, the draft Act on the ratification of the Council of Europe Convention on the protection of children against sexual exploitation and sexual abuse was on the agenda of the Riigikogu Legal Affairs Committee. The adviser responsible for the bill informed us that no proposals had been received within the deadline for submitting amendments. Mr Rait Maruste suggested that the Ministry draw up the draft explanatory memorandum on a more rational basis in the future. He felt that the assessment of the effects at the draft stage was speculative, as the act was not yet in force and that the case law had not come into existence. Two important decisions were taken at the meeting on 11 October: we proposed that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda by 19 October 2016 and we proposed that the draft be put to the final vote. Both decisions were taken by consensus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U293	Any questions for the waitress? It is. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U294	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! In terms of self-education, I wonder if you have discussed the rehabilitation of high-risk sex offenders. How far is the programme that should have been adopted this year, for which EUR 100000 has been allocated, and what should be in place next year?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U295	Thank you. This is not what we discussed at the committee meeting.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U296	No more questions for the waitress. I'm opening negotiations. Heljo Pikhof, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U297	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! In a few moments, we will have the opportunity to ratify the Lanzarote Convention on the protection of children against sexual exploitation and sexual abuse. This does not require the creation of new laws or changes to existing ones, but it is a crucial, very signicant step that should be followed quickly by the ratification of the Istanbul Convention on Women's Protection. Estonia signed the Lanzarote Convention eight years ago. It is rather sad that we are one of the last countries to ratify it, but that does not mean that we have not yet dealt with child protection. On the contrary. At the same time, this Convention is the most comprehensive international agreement on the protection of children against sexual exploitation and sexual abuse. The fulfilment of the objectives set out in the draft will help to ensure better protection of children's rights in Estonia. When it accedes to the Convention, the State will undertake additional commitments, which to a large extent are envisaged in the 'Strategy for the Prevention of Violence for the period 2015 to 2020'. As important as putting a stop to the sexual abuse of minors is to put an end to violence against women in our society. This means that the Istanbul Convention must also enter the Chamber of the Riigikogu. Unlike children, we have many shortcomings in protecting women. A convention is needed for the health of both young and older women, but also for the health of society as a whole. The Istanbul Convention is a supranational agreement that gives priority to victims of violence. This document, which has been recognised by tens of European countries, obliges the State that has ratified the Convention to provide as much support and assistance as possible to the victim of violence. The main path of the Convention introduces the understanding in society that violence against women and domestic violence has no justification whatsoever and stresses that committing violence in the presence of a child is the most difficult form of violence. The Istanbul Convention was signed by Andres Anvelt, Minister of Justice, already in December 2014. Estonia was then the 37th country that signed it. The public coordination circle currently has a draft law amending the Penal Code and Aliens Act, which brings Estonian law into line with the requirements of the Istanbul Convention, which in turn is a prerequisite for ratification of the Convention. The draft criminalises harassment, female genital mutilation and forced marriage. In addition, buying sex from a victim of human trafficking becomes a crime. Today, we had on the agenda a draft law amending the Victim Assistance Act, complementing the system of assistance to victims of violence, to ensure that victims are protected and supported according to their needs and to specify the payment of compensation. The existence and sustainable provision of such specialised services is also a prerequisite for accession to the Istanbul Convention. I hope that we will come to the approval of this important convention before Estonia takes the role of President of the Council of the European Union for the first time. Although the problem of gender-based violence has been acknowledged in Estonia, what has been done so far is not enough to protect women's rights and human dignity in all circumstances. This requires a change of attitudes and consistent action. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U298	There's no more calls. No amendments to the draft were tabled. The Governing Commission's proposal is to put the draft to a final vote. Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on the draft Act 279 on the ratification of the Council of Europe Convention on the Protection of Children against Sexual Exploitation and Sexual Abuse, initiated by the Government of the Republic. Please take a stand and vote. There are 66 members of the Riigikogu in favour of adopting the bill as a law; there are no opponents or abstentions. The Act on the ratification of the Council of Europe Convention on the Protection of Children against Sexual Exploitation and Sexual Abuse has been adopted.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U299	The second reading of the draft Act 242 on the ratification of the Agreement on the facilitation and mutual protection of investments between the Republic of Estonia and Georgia, initiated by the Government of the Republic of the Republic, begins. The rapporteur on behalf of the Committee on Foreign Affairs is Andres Herkel. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U300	Mr. Chairman! Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! The first reading of this draft law on the ratification of the Agreement on Investment Promotion and Mutual Protection and its Amendment was completed here in the last working week of September. No amendments were received by the deadline for submitting amendments, which was on Wednesday 5 October. That's why I have very little to report to you here. The Committee on Foreign Affairs continued to deal with the draft at its meeting on 10 October and the members of the Committee on Foreign Affairs who were present decided unanimously to put it on the draft ratification law agenda by today, 19 October and to propose the adoption of the draft law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U301	Thank you. You have questions. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U302	Good manager! Good waitress! I have a short but very important question. Some colleagues and high officials use the name 'Georgia', in the old days the country was called Georgia. Now I see a Georgia-variant again here. Which one is it? Are we ratifying the agreement between the Republic of Estonia and Georgia or between the Republic of Estonia and Georgia?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U303	Thank you, dear Peeter Ernits. I am afraid that this was not mentioned in the committee, but I can enlighten you that both options are correct. The name 'Georgia' has come into Estonian as a russism; it is probably from the Turkish language 'Gürcistan'. The name 'Georgia', which was much more used in Estonia between the two world wars than it is now, is also correct and it is nice to revive it. Georgia-variant has also been used in previous documents of the Riigikogu, but since this draft has come from the Government of the Republic, their decision has probably been different. The President also said that the agreement would be concluded between the Republic of Estonia and Georgia.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U304	Jaanus Marrand, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U305	Thank you! Dear waitress, Today's the second reading, but I'm asking for self-esteem. Perhaps you can specify what investments have so far been made from Georgia to Estonia and from Estonia to Georgia?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U306	I can't tell by heart. These investments have not been very high. A certain recovery and enthusiasm arose after the Rose Revolution, but there have been setbacks due to intervening events and war. We will definitely ratify this agreement with a view to revitalising relations. But I don't know how to tell the bill, I'm afraid I'm wrong.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U307	Juhan Parts, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U308	There have been elections between first and second readings in Georgia. As an expert in Georgia, would you give your assessment in a few words, which could be expected of the new Parliament and the established government in this particular context, that this investment protection agreement should encourage mutual investment? What is our message to Estonian entrepreneurs after the Georgian parliamentary elections?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U309	Thank you. We discussed this issue in the Committee on Foreign Affairs on Monday, where Mr Parts was perhaps not present. I would not associate this issue significantly with the ratification of this Treaty, but I think we expect the same spirit of cooperation from the new government and the post-election Parliament that was during the preparation of this Treaty. This agreement, regardless of which government is in office in one country or another, will certainly contribute to trade, business and investment.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U310	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U311	Good manager! Good waitress! You referred to the use of the name 'Georgia' as referring to Russianism. If the government is now using this 'Georgia', do you think the Estonian government is Russian?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U312	Thank you, Mr. Ernits. This was also not discussed in the Commission. Your ethymological thought development is definitely too far off. That is not the conclusion I draw.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U313	Imre Sooäär, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U314	Thank you. It's a name that fuels passion in the hall, I guess. In fact, if Georgia's delegations have been to Estonia and if they have been asked, they themselves have preferred their country to be called Georgia. In Georgia or Georgia, we could also ask how it is right, whether it is Estonia or Estonia, and how it is written. But a small remark here maybe it is, it is not directly related to the draft, but if the context is taken out of the sentence 'Estonia and Georgia relations... ', then some may think it's a neighbouring state of Florida. There's gonna be a little mess about what kind of Georgia is meant to be. Maybe there's a way to put it in place. How does the author feel about this?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U315	Thank you. I don't think so. This observation has been made before. This depends on the context in which something is presented. But it's definitely the 'Georgia' we're talking about here, the culturally much older name.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U316	Thank you, dear waitress. No further questions for you. No amendments to the draft were tabled. Do you want to negotiate? There's no call. The Governing Commission's proposal is to put the draft to a final vote of 242. Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on the draft Act 242 on the ratification of the Agreement on Investment and Mutual Protection between the Republic of Estonia and Georgia, initiated by the Government of the Republic of the Republic, and the Protocol amending it. Please take a stand and vote. 64 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, and there were no respondents or abstentions. The bill has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U317	Today's ninth item on the agenda is the second reading of the draft Act 277 on the ratification of the Treaty on the prevention of double taxation and prevention of tax evasion between the Government of the Republic of Estonia and the Government of the Socialist Republic of Vietnam and the Protocol thereto. The rapporteur is Priit Sibul, member of the Committee on Monetary Affairs. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U318	Thank you. The draft was discussed by the President at his meeting on 13 October. On 12 October, the deadline for tabling amendments was set, but no proposal was submitted for that date. No questions were put to the Commission and no discussion took place. The Commission decided unanimously to conclude the second reading and to propose that the draft be put to the final vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U319	Thank you, dear waitress. You have questions. Eiki Nestor, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U320	Dear waitress, were you wrong? There must have been a debate.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U321	The debate was still taking place, but there were no questions raised during the debate.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U322	The debate took place without question.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U323	Absolutely! We discussed when to deal with the draft, but no substantive questions were asked or there was no substantive debate.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U324	Jaanus Marrand, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U325	Thank you! Dear waitress, Although today is the second reading, I am asking about previous debates. Since we are talking about double taxation of income taxes, how much are we talking about both Vietnam and Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U326	You have to look at history. Vietnam has been a relatively marginal trading partner for Estonia. In 2014 and 2015 Vietnam was 49th most of Estonia's trading partners and no significant investments have been made. Unfortunately, the first time, too, there was no question of sums, so I cannot give a concrete answer to this particular question.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U327	Jaak Madison, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U328	Thank you, Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu. Good waitress! Perhaps you can describe more vividly how the debate looked without question, how long it lasted, and whether it took the form of monologues, it was lively and emotional. It would be very interesting and educational to know.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U329	Thank you. It was far from as passionate as the questions you are asking now. It was pretty peaceful. There was a representative, the chairman asked the members of the committee if there were any questions, but there were no questions. That way we could make that decision.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U330	Mark Soosaar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U331	Good colleague! Does this law concern those Vietnamese blueberry pickers who will be coming to us soon?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U332	No.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U333	Raivo Põldaru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U334	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, Do you have any idea how it is in Vietnam with the ratification of this treaty?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U335	There is an idea, but it wasn't mentioned in the committee. [[In the Laughing Hall.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U336	Thank you. Dear waitress, there are still questions. Jaanus Marrand, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U337	Thank you! I was moved to ask for your answer to my esteemed colleague Mark Soosaar. What does this bill apply to, if not precisely, the situation that might be faced by Vietnamese blueberry pickers? That's exactly what this should be about. You said no with great conviction. How is this thing anyway?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U338	It is a transnational agreement whose direct object is not blueberry pickers. [[In the Laughing Hall.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U339	Jaak Madison, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U340	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! What is your hunch of how far the other side is with ratification? Is a hunch good, positive, bad, negative? Can you describe it?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U341	Thank you. I don't want to talk much about my feelings here, but it's definitely being ratified in Vietnam.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U342	Thank you, dear waitress. No further questions for you. Do the members of the Riigikogu wish to negotiate? There's no call. No amendments to the draft were tabled. The Governing Commission's proposal is to put the draft to a final vote on 277. (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on draft Act 277 on the ratification of the Treaty on the prevention of double taxation and the prevention of tax evasion between the Government of the Republic of Estonia and the Government of the Socialist Republic of Vietnam, initiated by the Government of the Republic of the Republic of Estonia. Please take a stand and vote. (meeting of 59 members of the Riigikogu), no one opposed, with one abstention. The bill has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U343	Today's 10th item is the second reading of the draft Act 283 on the Approval of the Protocol to the North Atlantic Agreement on the Accession of Montenegro initiated by the Government of the Republic. For a presentation, I would like the Vice-Chairman of the Foreign Affairs Committee, Enn Eesmaa!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U344	Ladies and gentlemen, The first reading of the draft act took place here together on 28 September. No amendments were tabled by the deadline of 7 October. In the Committee on Foreign Affairs, we continued to deal with the draft at our meeting on 10 October. Our proposal is to conclude the second reading of the draft, to put the draft to a final vote and to adopt it as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U345	Thank you, dear waitress. No questions for you. Do colleagues want to negotiate? There's no call. No amendments to the draft were tabled. The proposal of the commission is to put the draft to a final vote on 283. We are going to the final vote. I am voting on the draft Act 283 on the approval of the Protocol to the North Atlantic Agreement on the Accession of Montenegro initiated by the Government of the Republic. Please take a stand and vote. (meeting of 56 members of the Riigikogu), no one opposed, with one abstention. The bill has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U346	The 11th item is the second reading of the draft law amending the Foreign Service Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic, 241. For a presentation, please, the Chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Sven Mikser.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U347	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The first reading of the draft law amending the law on the External Action Service before you took place in plenary on 28 September. The Committee on Foreign Affairs discussed the draft again at its meeting on 10 October. We stated that no amendments were received by the members of the Riigikogu, political groups or committees within the deadline, but the Committee on Foreign Affairs itself formulated several amendments. The most important of these may be, in essence, the first-place amendment in the table of amendments, which was based on a letter from the Committee on European Union Affairs received from us, and the need for which was also presented to us at the session by Ms Maria Alajõe, Director of the Chancellery of the Riigikogu. The purpose of this amendment is to change the status of the representative of the Chancellery of the Riigikogu at the European Parliament (advisor to the European Union Affairs Commission) in such a way that his status is similar to that of a professional diploma. This is quite a practical problem that has been going on for many years. Posting a representative of the Riigikogu to the European Parliament has been more costly for the Riigikogu than, for example, sending professional diplomats to the ministries of industry. There have also been significantly lower social guarantees and one-off solutions have been needed to address these problems. If this amendment receives the support of the hall and the draft is adopted as a law at third reading and enters into force, these problems will be resolved and the official posted by the Riigikogu will receive the same position and status as the professional diplomats. In addition, at the meeting on 10 October on the principle of approval of this substantive proposal, we decided to make several linguistic or technical changes to the draft. They are contained in the list under "3' and "3' and "6'. The last amendment concerns the change in certain deadlines due to the fact that the Estonian Presidency in the European Union has shifted to six months earlier. Now I am talking about procedural decisions. On 10 October, we decided to propose to the Riigikogu Board that 241 Riigikogu plenary sessions be sent to the Riigikogu for a second reading on the agenda of 19 October, which is today, and we proposed to stop the second reading and refer the draft to the third reading. Once again, we discussed the draft on Monday, 17 October when we approved the new text, the list of amendments and the second reading explanatory memorandum. We have also formulated, in the light of the discussions that had already taken place between the members of the Commission and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, an amendment which is listed under No 2 and which gives the Ministry of Foreign Affairs the opportunity to also appoint'sectoral diplomatic special representatives' in the rank of Ambassador. If, up to now, we have been able to appoint diplomatic representatives only to foreign countries or international organisations, then if this change comes into force, we, as is the case in several other countries, have described in the explanatory memorandum, would be able to appoint sectoral diplomatic special representatives to deal with the current problem at some point. The Commission also decided to send the draft, if the second reading is completed today, to a third reading by 26 October, i.e. in a week's time. When the second reading is completed today, we propose that the draft be put to the final vote on 26 October and adopted as a law. I hope that the second reading will be concluded today after examination of the amendments.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U348	Thank you, dear waitress. No questions for you. Do colleagues want to negotiate? There's no call. There are seven amendments to the draft and we will examine them together. The first amendment, tabled by the Committee on Foreign Affairs, is the position of the commission in full consideration. The second amendment, tabled by the Committee on Foreign Affairs, is the position of the commission in full consideration. The third amendment has also been tabled by the Committee on Foreign Affairs; the position of the commission is to take full account of it. The fourth amendment has also been tabled by the Committee on Foreign Affairs; the position of the commission is to take full account. The fifth amendment is tabled by the Committee on Foreign Affairs; the position of the commission is to take full account of it. The sixth amendment is tabled by the Committee on Foreign Affairs; the position of the commission is to take full account of it. The seventh amendment has also been tabled by the Committee on Foreign Affairs; the position of the commission is to take full account of it. We have examined all the amendments. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the second reading of draft 241. Second reading is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U349	The 12th item is the second reading of the draft law on the ground, initiated by the Government of the Republic, 213. The rapporteur is Rainer Vakra, Chairman of the Environment Committee. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U350	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! We're in the middle of a second reading of draft law 213. I recall that the draft was initiated by the Government of the Republic on 11 April 2016. The first reading of the draft act took place on 18 May and the deadline for tabling amendments was 2 June. No amendments were tabled by members of the Riigikogu, political groups or other committees on the draft. The Committee on the Environment decided to propose 51 amendments to the draft. The Committee on the Environment prepared the draft for a second reading at three meetings. Representatives of the Ministry of the Environment, the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications and the Ministry of Finance attended the meeting on 7 June. Representatives of the Association of Estonian Rural Governments, the Association of Estonian Cities, the Association of Estonian Construction Materials Producers, the Association of Estonian Mining Industries Enterprises, Eesti Energia AS and Viru Keemia Group AS participated in the meeting on 13 September, who also submitted their views on the draft and possible amendments. The views of the stakeholders supported the draft. I was pleased to note that the second draft has already been evaluated and supported in the Committee on the Environment by both the Cities Union and the Association of Rural Governments in a row. Representatives of the Ministry of the Environment, the Ministry of the Interior, the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications and the Ministry of Finance took part in the meeting on 26 September and the amendments to the draft by the Commission were discussed. There were three types of amendments. Some of the proposals were the result of proposals made by the Riigikogu during the procedure of the draft, including proposals from other government bodies. Some of the proposals were raised in the course of the procedure; these were corrections to inaccuracies. Some of the proposals concerned subsequent legislative changes, including for example the amendment of the Environmental Charges Act. Let us then look briefly and briefly at what the content of these amendments was. First of all, this bill abandons the distribution of deposits into national and local deposits. Why? That's why we need to speed up the permit process. For both types of deposits, the law provides for exactly the same procedural procedures, and so far there has been a difference in authorisation. From now on, mining permits will be processed only by the Environmental Board and the Ministry of the Environment will retain the role of policy designer. The principles for authorising activities affecting the status and use of the ground and for coordinating planning shall also be specified. For example, if the activity has previously been coordinated with an authority authorised by the Ministry of the Environment or the Minister responsible for the sector through a plan, there is no need to ask for new and duplicative coordination for construction or for changing the cadastral unit's destination. In addition, as was the case today in this Chamber, the keyword of the bill is the small islands. One very important change that the smaller islands have been constantly talking about is the addition of provisions allowing the local government unit of the permanent settlement of the smaller islands to collect rock and sediment not registered as mineral or mineral for the purpose of performing the functions of the local government unit without a mining permit. This reduces the workload of the state and local authorities and shortens the procedures for geological exploration and mineral extraction permit applications. The local authorities of a permanent-based small island can apply for a permit for the acquisition of mineral or mineral stone and sediment, which is granted in the middle of a three-month period, instead of a mineral mining permit. Of course, taking the material involves the obligation to clean up. In addition, the Environmental Impact Assessment and Environmental Management System Act removes the organisation of the local environmental assessment and the extraction of peat if the area for extraction is less than 150 hectares. In order to avoid excessive regulation and bureaucracy, the need for an environmental impact assessment will be assessed in an ex-ante evaluation. The Commission has taken a consensual decision to support all amendments and to send the draft to second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U351	Thank you, dear waitress. You have questions. Kersti Sarapuu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U352	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! I read in the explanatory memorandum that the total amount of the resource fee received by local governments will be retained. If, however, the change affects the income base of a particular local government, it shall be taken into account through the Equalisation Fund. Very many municipalities are concerned that this may not be the case. Can you confirm, for the sake of the verbatim, that this money will certainly be received by the fine-tuning fund when there are no more resource charges? The second question is whether local government representative organisations were involved in the debate on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U353	Thank you. That's the right question. The Committee on the Environment also repeatedly raised this problem. Of course, both the Cities Union and the Association of Rural Governments were repeatedly invited to the discussions. It is clear from the minutes that there was a very specific question as to whether they would accept and support the amendment. The answer was yes. I can assure you that the money will be found. While the first version provided for five years before the summer for the Equalisation Fund, during the summer there was good work and this period was extended to eight years. It can be clearly said that we have once again made history in the Committee on the Environment and received the approval of the relevant alliances.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U354	Erki Savisaar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U355	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, The explanatory memorandum to the draft law states that municipalities with a negative impact of more than EUR 1000 will be provided with a five-year compensation mechanism covering the effect of the change as follows: 75%, 55%, 35%,15% and 10% of the reduction. At the same time, the explanatory memorandum mentions that this is an initial proposal, a compromise must be found in the finance working group organised by the Ministry of Finance in autumn. Can you tell us what the results of this working group will be today?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U356	A very good question would go on with the previous question! The result was that during the summer, i.e. by autumn, it was reached that, after five years on the table, it was agreed at meetings with the municipalities that we would extend the time during which we would be reimbursed to eight years. This agreement was suitable for all parties concerned.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U357	Anneli Ott, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U358	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! We also had exactly the same debate in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, on which the previous speakers asked. If the Association of Estonian Cities and the Association of Estonian Rural Governments have calculated that with this amendment 91 municipalities lose part of their income, has it been corrected in the draft law for the second reading, and the Commission can confirm that no municipality will lose the bill if it enters into force as a law? This issue arose very specifically in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. In this regard, the Commission could not make its own proposal.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U359	Thank you. For the sake of history, and not only so that it remains somewhere in the verbatim, but also so that we can all understand the matter in the same way in this Chamber, I will read a passage from the minutes of the Committee on the Environment. The members of the Committee on the Environment asked whether the Cities Association and the Municipalities Association were in agreement with the tax base of local authorities and whether the draft would extend this period from five to eight years in the future. Ott Kasuri replied that there were no objections from local authorities as regards compensation for environmental charges. Specialist of the Ministry of Finance Sulev Liivik added that during the summer the compensation mechanism has been redesigned and more favourable to the local government. There was a five-year compensatory period before, and now it is eight years long, which it estimates to be a sufficient buffer period. Period.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U360	Thank you, dear waitress. No further questions for you. Do colleagues want to negotiate? There's no call. There are 51 amendments to the draft and we will examine them all together. The first amendment is tabled by the Committee on the Environment; the position of the commission is to take full account of it. The second amendment has been tabled by the Committee on the Environment, the position of the commission is to take full account of it. The third amendment is tabled by the Committee on the Environment; the position of the commission is to take full account of it. The fourth amendment is tabled by the Committee on the Environment, and the position of the commission is to take full account of it. The fifth amendment has been tabled by the Committee on the Environment, the position of the commission is to take full account of it. The sixth amendment has been tabled by the Committee on the Environment, the position of the commission is to take full account of it. The seventh amendment has been tabled by the Committee on the Environment; the position of the commission is to take full account of it. The eighth amendment has been tabled by the Committee on the Environment, and the position of the commission is to take full account. The ninth amendment has been tabled by the Committee on the Environment; the position of the commission is to take full account of it. The 10th amendment is tabled by the Committee on the Environment; the position of the commission is to take full account of it. Amendment 11 has also been tabled by the Committee on the Environment; the position of the commission is to take full account. The 12th amendment has been tabled by the Committee on the Environment; the position of the commission is to take full account of it. Amendment 13 is from the Committee on the Environment; the position of the commission is to take full account of it. Amendment 14 is from the Committee on the Environment; the position of the commission is to take full account of it. The 15th amendment is from the Committee on the Environment; the position of the commission is to take full account of it. Amendment 16 is from the Committee on the Environment, to be fully taken into account. Amendment 17 is from the Committee on the Environment, to be fully taken into account. Amendment 18 is from the Committee on the Environment, to be fully taken into account. Amendment 19 is from the Committee on the Environment, to be fully taken into account. Amendment 20 is from the Committee on the Environment, to be fully taken into account. Amendment 21 is from the Committee on the Environment, to be fully taken into account. Amendment 22 is from the Committee on the Environment, to be fully taken into account. Amendment 23 is from the Committee on the Environment, to be fully taken into account. Amendment 24 is from the Committee on the Environment, to be fully taken into account. Amendment 25 is from the Committee on the Environment, to be fully taken into account. Amendment 26 is from the Committee on the Environment, to be fully taken into account. Amendment 27 is also from the Committee on the Environment, to be fully taken into account. Amendment 28 is from the Committee on the Environment, to be fully taken into account. Amendment 29 is from the Committee on the Environment, to be fully taken into account. Amendment 30 is from the Committee on the Environment, to be fully taken into account. Amendment 31 is from the Committee on the Environment, to be fully taken into account. Amendment 32 is from the Committee on the Environment, to be fully taken into account. Amendment 33 is also from the Committee on the Environment, to be fully taken into account. Amendment 34 is from the Committee on the Environment, to be fully taken into account. Amendment 35 is from the Committee on the Environment, to be fully taken into account. Amendment 36 is from the Committee on the Environment, to be fully taken into account. Amendment 37 is from the Committee on the Environment, to be fully taken into account. Amendment 38 is from the Committee on the Environment, to be fully taken into account. Amendment 39 is from the Committee on the Environment, to be fully taken into account. Amendment 40 is from the Committee on the Environment, to be fully taken into account. Amendment 41 is from the Committee on the Environment, to be fully taken into account. Amendment 42 is from the Committee on the Environment, to be fully taken into account. Amendment 43 is from the Committee on the Environment, to be fully taken into account. Amendment 44 is from the Committee on the Environment, to be fully taken into account. Amendment 45 is from the Committee on the Environment, to be fully taken into account. Amendment 46 is from the Committee on the Environment, to be fully taken into account. The 47th amendment is from the Committee on the Environment, to be fully taken into account. The 48th amendment is from the Committee on the Environment, to be fully taken into account. Amendment 49 is from the Committee on the Environment, to be fully taken into account. Amendment 50 is from the Committee on the Environment, to be fully taken into account. The 51st amendment has been tabled by the Committee on the Environment; the position of the commission is to take full account of it. We have examined all the amendments. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the second reading of draft 213. Second reading is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U361	Today's 13th item is the second reading of the draft Act amending the VAT Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. Mr Kalvi Tõvi, member of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, please waitress!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U362	Good chairman of the sitting! Ladies and gentlemen, Second reading of the draft Act amending the VAT Act 276. Decisions on the second reading of the draft were taken in the Committee on Monetary Affairs, including at its meeting on 13 October. It must be said that by the deadline for amendments, 12 October, the members of the Riigikogu, the committees and the political groups did not propose amendments to the draft. However, this does not mean that we have not had a debate in the Commission. The debate, of course, took place. The main objectives of the draft were discussed. What are these? Firstly, to increase the threshold for VAT registration from EUR 16000 to EUR 40000, in particular because the administrative burden on businesses would be lower and micro-enterprises would be more invigorated. Secondly, add metal products used mainly in the construction and mechanical engineering industry to the list of goods subject to reverse charge. The main objective of this amendment is to reduce tax fraud. That's what we were discussing. Of course, in accordance with § 36 (21) of the Riigikogu Law on Home and Rules of Procedure, we asked stakeholders who were involved in the preparation of the draft. No additional proposals were submitted by the relevant stakeholders. This is normal because no amendments were tabled either. The Finance Committee decided to propose that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu for a second reading by 19 October and that the second reading be closed. It was a consensual decision. You will be reminded of the reasons behind the Committee on Monetary Affairs' consensual decisions. These are the members of the Commission, Remo Holsmer, Andres Ammas, Martin Helme, Kalvi Tough, Kalev Eagle, Priit Sibul, Aivar Sõerd, Tarmo Tamm and Urve Tiidus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U363	Thank you, dear waitress. There are no questions for you. Do colleagues want to open negotiations? No amendments were tabled to the draft. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the second reading of draft 276. Second reading is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U364	We go on: The 14th item is the first reading of the draft law amending the Construction Code, the Construction Code and the Planning Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and the State Fees Act. Mr Kristen Michal, Minister for Economic Affairs and Infrastructure, as rapporteur!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U365	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! The draft proposed by the Government aims to transpose into Estonian law the Directive on measures to reduce the cost of deploying high-speed electronic communications networks. Three fundamental changes will make the construction of communication networks more favourable, easier and faster. Firstly, the exchange of information between network owners and communications operators takes place electronically through the building register. The information exchange will enable the communication undertaking to have access to infrastructure which is also suitable for the network infrastructure (tubes, masts, ducts, etc.). There will be an opportunity to access both existing and future physical infrastructure to be built. Secondly, the obligation to build together. The interoperability obligation will directly reduce the cost of deploying the communication network. The analysis, further described in the draft explanatory memorandum, has found that civil engineering works, regardless of the technology used, represent a major part of the cost of network deployment, estimated at up to 80% for certain technologies. Thirdly, the provision of new buildings with infrastructure inside the building, which enables the provision of a communication service, i.e. a rapid data link service. The provision of new buildings with physical infrastructure inside the building will allow communication operators to provide end-users with communication services at low cost. For this requirement, a parallel may be drawn with an electric and water line with which the provision of the building to be built is also mandatory. This court will apply to new buildings from 1 January 2017. The implementation of the changes listed will reduce the cost of deploying the communication network, which will in turn enable communication operators to provide even faster data services to consumers. The reduction in the cost of deploying the communication network contributes to achieving the objectives set out in the Digital Agenda for Europe and the Estonian Information Society Development Plan 2020. The draft will affect individuals, public authorities and network owners, including communication operators. Of the public authorities, the most important influence of the draft is the Technical Supervisory Authority, which is the pre-trial dispute resolution body within the meaning of the Directive, by settling disputes that have arisen. The amendments to the State Fees Act shall establish the state fees for the examination of the dispute settlement application provided for in the draft by the Technical Surveillance Authority. I would ask for support from the Commission and the first reading of the draft to be completed. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U366	Thank you. Minister, there are also questions for you. Erki Savisaar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U367	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. The draft refers to the possibility of co-development and the possibility for the infrastructure owner and the telecommunications operator to agree that they will go in the same direction as the route is planned. Could there be a local authority in the context of this draft rather than a communication undertaking, which says that, for example, a tube for optical readiness or a very optical cable should be installed together with this water line?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U368	Indeed, as you describe, in this very module of network facilities, the exchange of information will take place in the future. The point is precisely that the communication company will look at which infrastructure is being built so that it can install its communication cables together with this infrastructure. This will achieve the objectives that I described in the future that everything will become cheaper, simpler and better. We had a little discussion about whether there could be a local government instead of a communications company. I think that this should be discussed further during the reading of the draft. According to the current idea, this is still done by the communications operator. After all, the municipality may not always have this communication authority. Perhaps he can agree with the communications companies just hard to say. Well, then, we will have to clarify in the course of the draft procedure what the practice is like in other parts of the world.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U369	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. No more questions for you. I would now like to ask for a presentation by Jaanus Marrandi, member of the Committee on Economic Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U370	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The 250th draft law amending the Building Code, the Construction Code and the Planning Act and the State Fees Act was discussed in the Economic Committee of the Riigikogu on 11 October including. Minister Kristen Michal had been invited to the meeting of the Commission, who also presented the content of the draft to you here, and Deputy Head of Communication Department of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications Mart Laas. They gave an overview of the objectives and content of the draft and answered the questions. As the Minister has already introduced the content of the draft, I will address more specifically the issues that have come to the discussion. There were five of them, and most of them were actively presented by Erki Savisaar, who participated in the debate. One question was, for example, whether building together also means designing at once. A representative of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications replied that if a larger road construction or a gas or electricity pipeline was planned, it would be reasonable to involve interested communications operators. In this case, the project will be joined and the costs will be covered jointly. The second question was whether, just in case, the design requirement could include a reserve for the installation of communication cables, so that the communication undertaking would not have to dig the ground again later in order to install the cable. According to the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, the developer does not have such an obligation, but this kind of foresight would be welcomed. At the same time, the communication undertaking should take the initiative, in particular, because the entire draft is designed to ensure that the communication undertaking is informed of the construction of the relevant infrastructure. The third question was about the directive, which states that a real estate developer should provide for the supply of every apartment with empty ducts ending inside an apartment building. Tanel Talve asked whether, as a result, such an obligation had been imposed on new developments. According to the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, it would be necessary for such a requirement to be met for buildings. The fourth question was whether the same requirement could apply to routes outside the building. According to the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, the issue is that someone has to pay for the pipe and dig it into the ground. If the gas company starts installing a gas pipeline, it probably won't start installing a pipe for the communication cable. Therefore, the initiative should still come from the communications operator. The fifth question was how the cost of using infrastructure was dealt with in the directive to be transposed and the meaning of the term'reasonable price'. Tanel Talve also asked this question. According to the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, if the communication cable becomes a fixed cost element, the company should compensate for it. The charges for connecting and adding cable to the second infrastructure will be subject to agreement between the parties. In the absence of an agreement, the Directive provides that there should be an out-of-court reviewer who will assess and analyse and, if necessary, order an expert opinion. According to the draft, the Conciliator is the Technical Surveillance Authority. The Commission meeting proposed that 250 drafts be placed on the agenda of today's plenary session on 19 October. The second was to conclude the first reading, and the third was to set a deadline of 10 working days, i.e. 2 November at 12 noon, for the amendments. All the decisions were consensual. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U371	Thank you, dear waitress. There are no questions for you. Do the political groups want to open negotiations? There is no wish to negotiate. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of the draft 250. I will set the deadline for submitting 250 amendments, including 2 November at 12 noon.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U372	Ladies and gentlemen, since the Minister for the Environment Marko Pomerants has arrived in the Chamber, we can go to the 15th item, the draft law on ratification of the Paris Agreement initiated by the Government of the Republic. The rapporteur is Marko Pomerants, Minister for the Environment.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U373	Good evening, Mr President. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! You have received a draft law on ratification of the Paris Agreement prepared at the Ministry of the Environment. The Paris Agreement is an international agreement under the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, which was adopted in Paris on 12 December 2015, with 195 countries participating. The agreement aims to increase global responsibility for climate change mitigation. To this end, the agreement provides for a global action plan to keep the average temperature increase below 2°C or better below 1.5°C compared to the pre-industrial period. In addition, the agreement aims to strengthen the capacity of society to cope with climate change. In order to achieve these ambitious targets, countries have a duty to take measures to substantially reduce greenhouse gas emissions into the air. The agreement provides a framework for climate finance, new technologies and country capacity building, thereby supporting the activities of the most vulnerable countries to climate change. The agreement also provides for a reinforced reporting framework that provides for ever more stringent levels of greenhouse gas emission reductions for countries from 2023 every five years. The Paris Agreement will be implemented through joint action by the European Union and its Member States to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 40% in the Union by 2030 compared to 1990. This objective is based on the European Council conclusions of 2014 and will be complemented in line with the European Union's 2030 legal framework for climate and energy policy. Under this legal framework, emissions must be reduced both in the energy and industrial sectors covered by the EU ETS and in sectors outside the trading system, such as transport, agriculture and waste. However, legislative negotiations within the Union are still ongoing and agreements are expected to be reached in 2017 and 2018. Today 191 countries, including Estonia, have signed the agreement and 81 parties have ratified it, including the European Union. The conditions for the entry into force of the Paris Agreement were met exceptionally quickly. By 5 October 2016, a number of countries and also global emissions were required together (74 States and 58% of global emissions instead of 55 required). There were also the European Union and seven Member States, as well as the USA, China and India. The Agreement will enter into force 30 days later, i.e. on 4 November 2016, i.e. just before the United Nations Climate Conference in Morocco on 7 November. The first meeting of the parties to the agreement will take place during the climate conference. Most Member States of the European Union that were not able to ratify the Paris Agreement at the time of its entry into force intend to do so at the latest for the Moroccan climate conference. It is also important for Estonia to ratify the agreement at the latest by the time of the climate conference. The Paris Agreement provides an opportunity to move to a low-carbon economy, which gradually means transforming the economy and energy system into a more resource-efficient, productive and environmentally friendly economy. The impact assessment carried out during the drafting of the fundamentals of Estonian climate policy shows that this objective is feasible and is likely to have a positive impact on our economy and energy security. In conclusion, I note that the entry into force of the Paris Agreement less than a year after its signature is a major achievement, given that it took eight years for the Kyoto Protocol to enter into force. I would ask you to support the bill.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U374	Thank you. Minister, there are questions for you. Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U375	Thank you, Mr. Vice Speaker. Minister, thank you very much. In your introduction, it was said that the aim is to achieve a climate of average warming below 2°C compared to pre-industrial times. 11000 years ago, the world was much colder than it is now, and somewhere somewhere around 200000 or 400000 years ago, it was much warmer than the world is now, and there weren't many people around. How serious is it at all that climate change is man-made? How much can people direct, prevent, increase, reduce them?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U376	Thanks! After all, to prove that the man - made part is large, a specific change in the state of the atmosphere compared to the time when the industrial revolution began. Estonia has also been a very bad example. After all, it seems nice that the climate is warming, but in Estonia the temperature has increased by two degrees over the last half-century. We should be concerned now about what is happening during and after our lifetime. The 400,000-year perspective may be nice, but it should also be decent to live on a planet today.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U377	Raivo Põldaru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U378	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. This will entail a considerable financial burden to support technologies and developments in developing countries. Are there, and have there been, mechanisms for how this is going to happen to them, and how can we be sure that they are actually using the money for purpose?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U379	Thanks! As far as the rational use of money is concerned, money contributors can ensure a control mechanism, and that is reporting. However, for this purpose, both public and private funds are indeed to be spent in billions of euros.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U380	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U381	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Ladies and gentlemen, You said that the agreement would establish responsibility for climate warming and oblige countries to take measures to prevent it. Perhaps you can briefly tell us what these obligations are and what responsibility will be if they are not fulfilled.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U382	Thanks! There is no reason now to talk about specific sanctions. If countries ratify one agreement, they will take on voluntary responsibility. However, these obligations are broadly divided into two parts within the European Union. On the one hand, it is a binding commitment to reduce greenhouse gas emissions within the European Union by at least 40% compared to 1990 levels. In those sectors where the EU ETS is concerned, such as energy and industry, it is through the relevant trade in emissions, free quotas and also through the sale and purchase of goods. Here we must reduce emissions by 43% by 2030 compared to 2005. As regards sectors outside the ETS, Estonia has a draft obligation to reduce greenhouse gas emissions in the transport, agricultural and waste sectors and small-scale energy production by 13% compared to 2005 levels by 2030. In the near future, this means that the amount of emissions from Estonia may increase until 2020 and we should reduce it further. What does it look like? It looks like we are analysing with representatives of the sector in which this effect can be achieved in the most cost-effective way, and on this basis we will also propose concrete measures. Implementation of the Paris Agreement in itself starts in 2020; we are still in the process of the previous agreement.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U383	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U384	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, The text of the Paris Agreement itself is quite general, but according to it, each country itself must probably work hard to clarify, amend or establish its own laws. Have you assessed the size of the work that awaits national legislation? Have you started this job?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U385	As regards the ratification of the Paris Agreement itself, it is only necessary to amend the law on atmospheric air protection, where, in addition to all the documents that form the basis of the current law on atmospheric air protection, 'and also the Paris Agreement' must be recorded. As far as the furnishings that your colleague asked about are concerned, there are already specific legislative proposals or strategies in specific areas. They're being made, and it's kind of a continuous process. It is good to speak in December 2017 about how these drafts will become a law in the European Union, as Estonia will, unfortunately, be holding the Presidency. One of our major roles is to make Europe-wide draft laws as acceptable as possible.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U386	Arno Bridge, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U387	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. What leverage is envisaged for those countries that do not intend to ratify this agreement?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U388	Accession to the climate agreement is a voluntary activity. 195 countries have considered this reasonable, and as I mentioned, in a short period of time, since 12 December last year, more than half, or almost 60% of the total global mission, has been covered and more than 70 countries have joined. So this agreement is in force, and everyone who has signed has made that commitment by themselves, and it doesn't take a stick of any kind.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U389	Siim Kisler, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U390	Thank you. Good waitress! Is there any kind of commitment in this agreement that we would not assume in the European Union, or is everything that we are ratifying here, in essence, covered by the commitments made in the European Union anyway?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U391	In the European Union, we make commitments together. A brief summary could perhaps be that, regardless of whether we are fighting climate change or not, the move towards a low-carbon, resource-efficient economy is very sensible. And that's what you have to work for.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U392	Jaak Madison, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U393	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! By agreement, as I understand it, developed industrialised countries have promised developing countries USD 100 billion in development aid. Can you also give a thorough overview of how this 100 billion will be put together? Who will contribute, in what proportion and on what basis will the countries to which the aid is granted be selected? How much could Estonia potentially play in this project that aims to allocate 100 billion?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U394	Thanks! Estonia does not participate in this project separately. For our part, through the Green Climate Fund, we will contribute EUR 1 million over three years. A detailed overview of how this 100 billion comes together and how it's divided, I don't have to present it to you right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U395	Thank you, Minister. No more questions for you. I would now like to ask Rainer Vakra, Chairman of the Committee on the Environment, as rapporteur.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U396	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! The Committee on the Environment discussed a draft 310, i.e. a draft law on ratification of the Paris Agreement, on Tuesday 11 October 2016. All members of the Commission, with the exception of Rein Ratas, participated. Among the invited were Marko Pomerants, Minister of the Environment, and Katre Kets, adviser to the Climate and Radiation Department of the Ministry of the Environment. In addition to what the Minister has just reported, the Commission had three important questions. This is where I report them. First of all, Member of the Commission asked Mati Raidma to clarify why Estonia still needs to ratify a separate agreement once it has been ratified by the European Union. The answer was that, in order for the objectives to become binding, the Member States must also ratify the agreement separately. According to the Minister, most Member States have promised to ratify the agreement already in October. Yoko Alender wondered whether Estonia had a separate action plan to meet the objectives of the Paris Agreement. The Minister of the Environment replied that measures that would achieve the objectives of the Paris Agreement were already in place. And thirdly, Andres Metsoja wanted to know what the Paris agreement would bring in the domestic business environment. The Minister explained that the accession to the agreement had been negotiated before with representatives of industry and other organisations. As a result of this agreement, we will achieve a more carbon-free society, where growth will also be maintained. The Commission also decided by consensus to propose that the first reading of the draft be closed and that the deadline for amendments be set at 12 noon on 20 October. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U397	Thank you, good waitress. You have questions too. Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U398	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, Perhaps you will also say a few words about the answer that Mr Metsoya received to his question in the committee?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U399	I repeat, my pleasure! The Minister explained that the accession to the agreement had been negotiated before with representatives of industry and various other organisations. As a result of this agreement, we will achieve a carbon-free society where growth will be maintained. I reiterated what was said in the Committee on the Environment.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U400	Jaak Madison, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U401	Thank you, Mr President. Chairman of the Committee on the Environment! Perhaps you will tell us whether the Minister has explained what was the opinion of the industrial operators, what disadvantages and what pros they saw in the Paris Agreement. For example, did they assess the economic impact on their own businesses, not on economic growth in the country in general, but more specifically?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U402	Thank you. As the Minister replied, it was confirmed during the previous negotiations that economic growth would be maintained. However, I would point out that the European Union, including the Estonian state, has also been one of the spokespersons in the context of the world in previous climate-related drafts. The European Union, among the European countries, is one of the main examples. Therefore, the question that was asked in this Chamber today before the Minister was that how much this agreement specifically alters the activities and action plans of the Estonian state can be answered briefly that these activities have already been integrated into various action plans. Tomorrow, the day after tomorrow, in two days, no drastic or unexpected changes will have to be adopted.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U403	Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U404	Thank you. Good colleague! Did the Commission talk about the consequences of ratifying this agreement for our oil shale industry and the price of electricity?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U405	Thank you. As I emphasised in the previous response, nothing will happen here today, tomorrow or the day after tomorrow. But I am personally convinced that the contribution of the Estonian state in the light of this climate agreement could be that at some point we will take strategic decisions and consider how we will proceed with oil shale electricity. For my part, I would also stress that, in the case of the Paris climate agreement, one of the groundbreaking points that the Minister did not mention is that countries such as China and India have not previously published how much they actually have, it has been estimated and calculated. So the most important change since the conclusion of the Paris Agreement is that we have the information and data that are being made and how the world's largest polluters, China and India, are moving. This is certainly one point that cannot be underestimated, especially when we look at the fact that the vast majority of environmental behaviour comes from the European Union and the biggest polluters have so far said that they will not sign any contracts or agreements. I think this is a breakthrough that environmental people can sincerely enjoy.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U406	Thank you. No more questions for you. Do the political groups want to open negotiations? Martin Helme on behalf of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia, please! Five plus three minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U407	Mr. Speaker! Good minister! Ladies and gentlemen, The Paris climate agreement was concluded with the participation of so many countries only because it is very general and essentially non-binding, as we have actually understood the non-responses of the minister and the co-rapporteur here. No sanctions are foreseen for those countries that sign, but they are not going to meet the objectives quite generally declared. This is a classic left-wing activity, where a posture is taken, something noble is declared, but what actually happens is no longer very interesting. As I have tried to draw attention to my question, the agreement aims to limit global warming by 2 °C compared to the pre-industrial era, while at the same time it is completely open and uncontroversial, and it is what causes global warming at all. There are many theories that have to do with solar activity, volcano activity, or things that people have nothing to do with. And a very important point is that this agreement does not concern coal emissions from China, India or the US, or allegedly one of the largest greenhouse gas elements. The very serious question is the same 100 billion dollars. The climate agreement does not set out in any way how the 100 billion dollars will be collected from developed countries and given or paid to developing countries so that they can renew their energy production. Similarly, it is in no way clear what will happen at a time when Vietnam or some Latin American countries, for example, are busy switching to new technologies which, by the way, still do not exist, old industrialised countries with energy consumption and production at times higher than the current developing countries, in order not to say tens of times. Whom this money will be taken from, how this money will be passed on, what they will do with this money after, how checks will be made to ensure that the money is spent properly, of course, has not been set. So all these declared targets are essentially voluntary and, just as in the course of the Kyoto Treaty, the management of all these emissions is a huge international racket, where money is simply being extorted from one place or another. We have seen, in the case of CO2 quotas, how people who have nothing to do with the production of energy or emissions pay terrible money, mediate terrible money that goes nowhere. Of course, much of this money goes into the pocket of political activists who go around talking about how the world is about to sink. There is, however, one thing in this agreement that bothers me personally. There is a 'obligation' to put in place a more stringent plan to limit emissions every five years. However, once again, there is no mechanism for this plan to come together, who should do it, what these obligations are and how to actually verify that they are being met. I also think it is vital to point out that global warming has not taken place for the past 18 and a half years, throughout this ratification process. Once again, for 18 and a half years, the world has not warmed up! The last year where the climate warmed was 1998. I was in college at the time. We are told how there is a break in climate warming, and if this long break is no longer explained, they are simply talking about heat fluctuations, but no one has yet been able to explain convincingly what it is about, whether it has anything to do with human activity. After all, for the last 18 and a half years, the same emissions in the world, which are said to cause global warming, have continued to increase and have been present at all times. So I say again: this is a big international racket, not a rescue of the world. One thing I want to draw attention to is that it is not worth confusing or putting together the green behaviour we are all on, i.e. that we simply do not pollute our living environment and the climate messianism that people go around talking about how they save the world. Mankind has coped in much colder times and has coped in warmer times. The planet Earth has had much colder and much warmer times when there were no people at all. And another very important aspect. Both Estonia and the European Union have their own climate policy, which is completely separate from this Paris Agreement and which, by the way, is stricter than the Paris Agreement. So this whole ratification process is a complete babbling and, as a result, the Conservative People's Party Group proposes to reject this draft at first reading.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U408	Thank you. There is no further wish for negotiations. The proposal of the commission is to conclude the first reading of Bill 310, but since the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia has proposed to reject bill 310 at first reading, we are going to the vote on this proposal. Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on the proposal by the Group of the Estonian Conservative People's Party to reject the draft law on ratification of the Paris Agreement at first reading 310. Please take a stand and vote. 7 votes to 37, with 1 abstention. The proposal was not supported and the draft remains in the process. First reading is complete. I will set the deadline for the submission of 310 amendments in s. 20 October 2010 at 12 noon.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U409	Today's 16th item is the first reading of the draft Act amending the Income Tax Act and the Social Tax Act 302 initiated by the Government of the Republic. Waitress Secretary of Finance Sven Sester, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U410	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear Members, I hereby give you an overview of the draft law amending the Income Tax Act and the Social Tax Act, which bears the number 302. Under the current Income Tax Act, most of the costs for the health promotion of workers are treated as a special advantage and are therefore subject to income and social tax. The purpose of the draft law is to enable the employer to reimburse, exempt from tax, certain expenses to promote the health of the employee and thereby reduce the number of sick days. For this purpose, the Income Tax Act will be amended and, as of 1 January 2018, expenditure to promote the health of workers up to EUR 100 per quarter shall not be considered as a special benefit. It is important to note here that the bill gives the employer an opportunity rather than an obligation to offer such a benefit. The tax advantage is introduced for a period of five years, after which an ex-post evaluation will determine whether the number of sick days decreased with the benefit of the benefits. The cost of this tax advantage to the state budget will amount to EUR 11,3 million in 2018. With a view to promoting the health of workers, the social tax on sickness benefits is also amended. The amendment to the Social Tax Act allows the employer to pay the employee a social tax-free sickness benefit for the second and third sick days of January 2017. The employer will not be obliged to pay compensation, but the law will provide an opportunity to do so in a social tax-free manner. As a result, workers' sickness should be reduced and their capacity to work restored more quickly. In addition to the above, the following amendments to the Income Tax Act will enter into force on 1 January 2017. The additional tax-free pension income will increase to EUR 2832 per year, or EUR 236 per month, which means that the average pension of EUR 416 per month will continue to be tax-free in 2017. Increasing the tax-free income of pensions reduces the income tax revenue of natural persons by nearly 3.2 million euros in 2017. In order to ensure equal treatment of persons, the exemption from income tax shall be extended to the allowance or benefits payable in the event of the death, death or loss of capacity to work of ordinary officials, auxiliary police officers, a volunteer savior and a person employed in an emergency. Finally, the collection of data on the interest paid by Estonian residents to natural persons residing in other European Union countries and their transmission to the person's country of residence are repealed. From now on, this information on the financial income of a non-resident taxpayer will be automatically exchanged. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U411	Thank you, Minister. You have questions too. Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U412	Thank you, dear Deputy Speaker. Good minister! The same bill has been in different forms here before. It has been presented by the Socats and presented by the Centre Party. True, both when they were in opposition. At the time, this bill was rejected because there is no money, and such a thing cannot be done at all, because everyone is cheating on the country. What's changed since then?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U413	Thank you. I have a historical memory, you don't, because you're only here for the first time. I'd say I wasn't rejected. On the contrary, the first reading has been completed, just has not reached the third reading.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U414	Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U415	Honourable President! Honorable Minister! Please, let us look together at the proposals that have been made by a number of organisations and which have been taken into account by the drafters or not. The Estonian Employers' Confederation has proposed to extend the exemption to all expenses incurred by the employer for the health of workers. The decision is 'Not counted'. I ask you to explain the following sentence: 'We find that extending the exemption to all the costs of promoting health entails the risk that the quality of services might fall. " Please explain what this could mean! In what sense can the quality of services fall?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U416	Thank you. I have looked at the whole picture and taken into account all the costs included in the proposals. Through discussions involving employers, several organisations and also ministries as interest groups, it has finally been agreed that this list, from the participation of the public sport event to the physical therapist and clinical logo beet services, is very specific. According to the government, it's basically the final list. If we make this list very long, in one context or another, the question arises as to whether it meets the objective that we have in relation to the sick days. Predictably, when asked, as has been the case before, whether this particular money could buy shoes or sports equipment, this is not an option.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U417	George Jaanson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U418	Thank you. Mr. Minister! There are quite a lot of positive and good things in this draft to promote health, such as providing health benefits for entrepreneurs. However, from the point of view of sport, the question arises as to why the levying of the special premium is not extended to investments in public-service sports infrastructure and its operating costs. This would allow a much larger target group to access sport and exercise than employees alone, such as the unemployed, young people and pensioners.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U419	Thank you. If I have understood the question correctly, we have nevertheless been guided by the advantage that the employer can offer the employee. I say to good Jüri that I think it is worthwhile to please you, to please me who I am a waitress here today, and to please the entire Estonian society. As I said to one of the previous speakers earlier, the issue is not that the earlier draft has been rejected. It has simply never reached the third reading. I don't think that's the case this time. We have reached a whole new level in our constructiveness in the government coalition. I think that this constructive nature now also leads us to see the second and third readings of this draft. I think that this is a good signal for all those people who love to do sport, who love to do it both indoors and outdoors, as well as for all employers who think that their workers are healthy and want to contribute to it without a special tax on the state.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U420	Dear Minister, Reaching a new level of government also encourages the Riigikogu to rise to a new level. Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U421	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear Minister, I would like to point out that in your report you said that the tax-free portion of pensions will increase to EUR 2832. The text of the bill, which is in this Chamber, contains 2844 euros in the text of the amendment to the law. The right amount should be 2832. Do you agree that the text of the bill has gotten the wrong amount? And a second observation on the bill, too. Here, the budgetary cost of implementing the exemption for health promotion costs will also be 11,2 million in 2017. But that can't be the case when the bill comes into force in 2018. It's probably gotten here from some earlier option when there was a plan to put this change into effect a year earlier. Are these correct remarks?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U422	Yeah, let's fix it. Very correct remarks. I also noticed that the draft explanatory memorandum and the draft own text are 237 euros multiplied by 12. Let us make it clear that the real amount is EUR 236. Speaking of content, I draw the attention of a good Parliament to an important nuance. In many European countries, the average pension is not income tax-free. I can't remember if it was five or six years ago when the political decision to keep the average pension exempt was taken in Estonia. Regardless of what the subsequent coalitions have been, the average pension has been kept exempt from income tax over the years. This is a real cost to the state budget, or the taxpayer. I think we could be proud of the fact that the state does not take any percentage of income tax from an Estonian pensioner who receives an average pension. In many countries it is different; however, the country takes away this income tax with the other hand.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U423	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U424	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, We sincerely rejoiced that the government has reached a new level of constructiveity. Employers will certainly be delighted that the special incentive tax will decrease. However, what about the increase in the administrative burden on employers in reporting, which is also part of this bill? How much do you estimate the increase in administrative burden and reporting?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U425	Thank you. Let us start by saying that this is, of course, an opportunity for businesses, not an obligation. It is certainly very important that we do not impose specific obligations on anyone. It's still an opportunity. And if an undertaking considers that for some reason it does not want to take advantage of this opportunity, then I think that the reason for the administrative burden is the least of them. I assume that these are, in most cases, financial reasons because investing in the health of their employees means a real financial outturn. But when it comes to administrative burdens and possible administrative bureaucracy, I understand that in today's circumstances, various platforms have already been set up to collect cheques if you give your employees the opportunity to use swimming pools, gyms, etc. Of course, if an undertaking makes use of the option offered, it must take into account that it may be subject to additional reporting obligations. Inevitably, he has a duty to share this information. If you ask the other way around whether information should be provided in this regard, it is very important to make one thing clear: this exemption or non-payment of special preferential tax is personalised. If a company employs 100 people and can make payments per person for EUR 400 per year without paying the special preferential tax, the maximum amount for such an enterprise shall be EUR 40000. In order to avoid a situation where, for example, a three-member board takes a ski trip for this money and does not pay special preferential tax, this exemption is personalised. This automatically ensures that you are forced to give an overview of it.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U426	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U427	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, I don't really agree with you. This new level of constructiveness is, in my view, half of the work, which involves a great deal of formalisation and bureaucracy. However, I have one more philosophical and, on the other hand, a specific question: how much of this special preferential tax will be collected in the state budget? Wouldn't it be easier not to suspect an entrepreneur that these expenses will become part of some sort of salary or that they will somehow be misplaced? Perhaps, however, this tax would be completely abolished, not only to a limited extent and with a high administrative burden? What exactly is stopping it?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U428	Thank you. It is not about not trusting or distrusting. If we want to understand whether this bill and the law in the future are fit for purpose and whether this advantage has been used in a purposeful way, then we may think that data will also need to be obtained for this purpose. I don't think we should have any disagreements here. As far as constructiveness is concerned, you will see for yourself what good drafts will come from the government to you and how much life will improve in Estonia. I do not think we have a different understanding of our bright future, either. We're heading in the right direction. Finally, the very specific question was: what have the costs been? Of course, I'm not gonna let that go. When we talk about 2015, the last year for which we have an overview, 3.39 million were declared for the costs of the special advantage. Accordingly, the social tax was paid at 1.4 million and the income tax was paid at 0.85 million. Very specific amounts are known.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U429	Imre Sooäär, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U430	Thank you, good manager. Honourable waitress! A perfectly good law, such a law is certainly needed, and everyone agrees with it. But bringing any list to the level of the law always raises issues of interpretation. It is possible to discuss whether participation in a public sports event is also included in the fee if a fishing athlete in Hiiumaa organises a winter uncatching competition and can also include it in the so-called revenue. The point is that the needs of employers are different, the nature of work is different. Would it make sense to clarify this list a little during the procedure or to give some discretion so that the list is not easily used and invented? Perhaps to clarify the rules a little bit and give some decision-making or discretion, because the work is different, the working environments are different and occupational health needs to be based.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U431	Thank you. That's a good question. I would say that the more precise the law, the less room for interpretation, the easier it will be for all parties. In itself, it is always the explanatory memorandum that specifies the will of the legislator. If you look at the explanatory statement, it's relatively accurate, the room for interpretation is narrowed as much as possible. But once again, most of the laws that come to Parliament do not come out of here in the same way that they came here. It's not a rubber stamp. In this sense, constructive proposals are welcome, and you are ultimately the decision-makers on how the law goes out of here. I think that if you can make the constructions even more precise so that there are no misinterpretations, it makes a lot of sense. Very reasonable, I very much welcome it!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U432	Kersti Sarapuu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U433	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! The current draft allows the employer to make tax-free payments or to pay fixed expenses on behalf of the employee in order to promote the health of the employee, such as expenditure on the use of a training facility and the maintenance of sports facilities. What do you think about the idea of allowing the employer to compensate for the private health insurance exemption?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U434	Thank you. First of all, I would like to congratulate you on your political party's position as Chairman of the Council. I'm sure it's a big deal. Congratulations to you, I haven't been able to do this before! If you are asking whether to bring in private health insurance, it is a question of debate. I think it has both pros and cons. During the procedure of the draft here in the Riigikogu, it is possible to discuss what it adds and whether it meets the objectives that we have set ourselves. I think that we could come back to this during the debate. At the moment, we have not foreseen this in the potential list.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U435	George Jaanson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U436	Thank you. Indeed, we are talking about the possibility of imposing obligations on employers within the framework of health promotion, but health promotion, like health insurance, should be available to the widest possible population. According to this draft, the employer's own costs for the maintenance of sports facilities will not be taxed as a special advantage. Here's the question. Why did the Ministry of Finance not consider it possible to extend this abolition of the special advantage in such a way as to allow for tax-free investment in sport infrastructure in public use as well?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U437	Thank you. Once again, someone has to pay for the reward. It's an analogous situation to when we collect money into the second pillar. If I put 2% in there, the country's gonna give me another 4%. We could then ask why the country does not give more than 4% to people who are unemployed, why we only put more than 4% to those who are working. It's always a question of proportions. However, the benefit in question is specific to the employer, whether or not he wishes to do so. I do not want to bury your ideas in this Parliament during this debate, but I do not see the angle of approach that has been assumed in this draft. Maybe I get it wrong. I am only talking about this subject of the special benefit, although there are other things in the draft, such as the increase in the income tax-free share of the average pension. However, when we are talking about abolishing the special preferential tax on sport and health promotion, it is in this respect that the draft is aimed specifically at employers, the possible future costs to be incurred by employers.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U438	Andre Sepp, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U439	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! For my part too, thank you very much for bringing out this bill! It is like a strawberry to the first item on today's agenda, where we discussed the fundamentals of sport policy. It is clear that one measure to contribute to sport sport is now on this table as a concrete bill. Here's my question. I understand you came up with a quarterly distribution. This is probably explained by the fact that this money cannot be used at the same time, but is indeed used for its purpose. Were there any alternatives to this EUR 100? Does this amount appear on the basis of the average cost of a sports enthusiast or on the basis of the possibilities of the state budget, or is it just a beautiful number? Were there any alternatives to linking it to, for example, average wages or minimum wages?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U440	Thank you. There were now quite a number of questions embedded in one question. I'm trying to answer them in line. Perhaps it would start with whether the money could not have been allocated for a year, so that this quarterlyity comes from where. This is where we came from, that there should be some sort of regularity. If we want to use this money as a health measure, regularity will certainly provide a higher probability that it will not go on a "one-time ski trip." It may be agreed that the entire company's staff will receive a ski trip at the end of the year, but that is not the way it is meant. Regularity is more likely to achieve the objective we expected, i.e. to reduce the number of future sick days. That's the quarterly logic. When it comes to why there is EUR 400 per year, why there shouldn't be any other amount, there were also in-depth discussions about this. For example, at the beginning of the negotiations, the Ministry of Culture proposed that this amount be set at EUR 50 per month. We also looked at the situation in the nearest countries. We did not have a very large amount of data, because in many countries there is no such benefit. Finland has and has this amount of EUR 400. Look, if we compare Finland and our average salary now, then the correlation is EUR 400 much higher. If our percentage had been significantly lower, we could have said that we are correlated with Finland. We raised that percentage far above our average salary. So much for this EUR 400. You also asked whether this amount could be linked to other indicators, what this figure could be. I would say that this advantage has no relation to other indicators, I do not know if we are talking about an average salary or a minimum wage. There's no connection. It is not justified to link the amount of this advantage to them; there is no direct link here. I hope that I answered more or less thoroughly all the questions that I could remember.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U441	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U442	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good minister! Indeed, the reduction in the special preferential tax is very positive. However, if we are talking about a special advantage for the health of an employee, please explain to me what is the logic of declaring the use of this tax credit right there is also a declaration of compensation for the use of a private car. What's the connection between these things? Why are they put in a boiler like this?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U443	Thank you. It is not specifically a special health promotion tax. There are other changes inside.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U444	Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U445	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, I'd take the substance from your story where you mentioned ski trips. Obviously, the debate in the Committee on Monetary Affairs was not comprehensive, because there are some things that I myself cannot understand. Take this example: A part of the company's collective regularly travels to Finland once a year. Can the costs of such a trip, for example, be covered by this benefit?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U446	I can't. First of all, it is a quarterly calculation; you cannot sum up the total annual costs. Secondly, we also have very clearly fixed the places where this money can be channelled. These include a public sports event, but if you have a company in skiing, it is not likely to be a public sports event where everyone else can participate. No, the legislator's will is certainly not aimed at such things.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U447	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U448	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. I didn't realize to ask in the Committee on Monetary Affairs, but right now I thought I'd ask anyway. Do you want to predict what the situation will be in five years' time? As we know, there will be some sort of intermediate phase in five years' time. Has this abolition of the special preferential tax promoted human health, created some kind of positive process of promoting health?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U449	Thank you. Was it a question of why such a five - year period is there?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U450	No, no, I asked you what you're forecasting, if in five years' time, the figures will be happy to come together and say that we're going to continue with this thing, it's going to have a good effect on a lot of people.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U451	Thank you. Of course we hope so, otherwise we would not be here today in the Riigikogu and would not be discussing this issue. We expect this discount to be used, if not otherwise, otherwise it would make no sense. We expect employers to really invest in their employees. When they do, there is a logical connection: when a person does sports, he should usually be healthier. This also means that the number of sick days should give some indication in the future, in five years' time, whether the measure has worked. It has not been asked in this Chamber today, but in my answer, you can also read why some sort of rudeness has been established, in this case for five years. Since this is an advantage which has not been enjoyed so far and which we are now giving, it is necessary to measure at some point whether this advantage works, as you have asked. We expect in good faith that it will work and create a positive background that people will be healthier. But in the end, the analysis will show whether or not this has happened. That is why, in the future, it would make sense to put some noise. You can feel whether the decision was right or not. For the state budget, as I mentioned earlier, this certainly means loss of revenue. This side must also be taken into account. But we assume that this will make people healthier.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U452	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U453	Thank you. I did not receive any answer to my question as to why the declaration of compensation for the use of a personal passenger car is in conjunction with the declaration of compensation for the cost of promoting health. You said there were other changes. Maybe you'll tell me what the changes are about using a private car.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U454	Thank you. This is the declaration form, which contains the fields of the various special concessions, which is Form INF 14. Those who are entrepreneurs know this form. In one part, there is compensation for the use of a private car, for the costs of training or reimbursement in the other, and now, separately, for the costs of promoting health. It didn't exist in the past. If I am not mistaken, then maybe 2015 was the first year I could be wrong, I need to review what the declarations for granting special advantages for different companies have been made in aggregate. The state now has a clear view that the companies have declared in this case, which Mr Ammas asked about, 3.39 million, which has been paid both and so much social tax and so much income tax. So don't let yourself get involved in car compensation, that's not what we're talking about right now. It's just a part of this form.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U455	Andres Metsoja, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U456	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good minister! Well, the level of detail always precludes anything. I caught myself thinking about golf, for example. If I play golf, I'm a member of the club, there's a whole bunch of competitions in the season, and I want to buy a season card, will it be classified under this benefit? From spring to autumn, it may indeed cost 400 euros and I myself will add 400 euros. Is this an area that fits now, or rather not?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U457	Thank you. First of all, I have already said the first thing about this speaker today, but I will mention it once again, the advantage that is granted to one person in the company must also extend to everyone else. This is certainly the primary responsibility of the company. This is now the issue of personalisation. I don't think you're gonna get that discount when you buy golf clubs when you talk about the level of detail. But if you play golf in the fresh air, I will not rule out that these costs may be reimbursed to the extent currently foreseen. Or the other way around, let's say that the company takes the decision to book each Thursday at 18 to 20 for a swimming pool or a hall for power training, and all employees can use this option. All of this is possible, but it must be an equal opportunity for everyone. There are several possibilities here. You can book a particular swimming trail or gym, as I have shown. Or it is an alternative, as the previous speaker asked, if there is an additional administrative burden, that the cheques will be entered in the accounts.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U458	Thank you, Minister. No further questions for you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U459	Please support the bill!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U460	Aivar Sõerdi, member of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, will now be a waitress.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U461	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Finance Committee discussed this draft law amending the Income Tax Act and the Social Tax Act at its meeting on 13 October. The Minister of Finance, Sven Sester, gave an overview of the objectives of the draft. Once again, briefly on the objectives. Firstly, the employer will have the opportunity to reimburse the employee for health promotion expenses of EUR 100 per quarter without being taxed as special benefits. Secondly, the additional tax-free amount for pensions will be increased to EUR 2832 (not to EUR 2844 as in the draft text). The third amendment is the exemption from social tax on sickness benefits paid for the second and third days of sickness and the extension of the exemption to benefits and allowances paid in the event of the death, death or loss of working capacity of a regular official, a deputy police officer, a volunteer rescuer and a person employed in an emergency situation. The Commission's debate focused mainly on the costs of promoting health. Members of the Commission had a question of how the use of the sport site would be furnished in practice. For example, whether the use of a spa falls within the scope of the provision. The answer was that the use of a spa can be compensated. Here it was also stressed that the employer has the right, not the obligation to compensate. In the event of compensation, all employees should be compensated on the same basis and in a uniform manner. That's what the Minister just said here. The members of the Commission had the same question as here in the Saalisk that why this benefit must be guaranteed to everyone in a uniform way, why it is not possible for the employer to use it as part of, for example, the motivation package. The answer was that, according to the draft law, workers must be treated equally. There was also the question of whether, with this tax credit, we are not directing people to "indoor sport" or "run or ski," there is not much to compensate for, as ski costs cannot be taken into account here. The answer to this question was that the measure also allows support for participation in external sports events such as marathons and other races. Then there was the question of buying skis, i.e. whether the purchase of skis was tax-free. No, it wasn't. In this regard, the explanatory memorandum contains a separate paragraph which states that expenditure on equipment, clothing and footwear which may be necessary to carry out an activity is not to be considered as expenditure on sports or exercise. The aim is not to cover all expenditure relating to the promotion of the worker's health, but is a shared responsibility between the employee and the employer. The question was also about why it was 100 euros per quarter. The question was whether the option was considered to amount to EUR 50 per month, which would amount to EUR 600 per year. The responses of the initiators of the draft act were that the example was the Finnish practice, which pays EUR 400 per year. During the drafting of the bill, monthly fees for sports clubs were analysed and the principle that the person should retain a part of the bill. A broad approach could be that 1/3 has an own contribution and 2/3 an employer's contribution. The Commission had a question as to why the amendment would only enter into force on 1 January 2018. The answer was that this was the political agreement and it also corresponds to the country's financial opportunities. The financial impact of the tax exemption on health promotion costs was further questioned. In the case of social tax, it will amount to 6.8 million in 2018 and these estimates will be included in the draft explanatory memorandum. Just as today, here in the saalisk, they asked about the declaration form. According to the reply, the overall trend in taxation practice is still such that in the future entries and red tape should be reduced. The Commission took the following procedural decisions: It was decided to end the first reading of the draft act in a consensual manner. The members of the Monetary Commission who reached this consensus were Remo Holsmer, Andres Ammas, Martin Helme, Kalvi Tul, Kalev Kotkas, Priit Sibul, Aivar Sõerd, Tarmo Tamm and Urve Tiidus. The second procedural decision was to set the deadline for the submission of amendments at 5.15 p.m. on 2 November 2016. It was also a consensual decision and was made in the same composition as I read out. Of course, there was still a decision to put the first reading of the draft on the agenda today and to appoint the person responsible to be the speaker here. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U462	Questions for the waitress. Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U463	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! I'm asking about the interpretation of the law. Paragraph 1 states that the following employee health promotion costs are not taxed as a special advantage, and one of these costs is the participation fee for a public sports event. Does that include bridge tournaments and tournaments? Obviously, mental health is also in mind. That's one question. The second issue is the cost of maintenance of existing sports facilities mentioned by the employer in the same section. What does the word 'existing' mean? If there are no such facilities, it is not possible to spend them. Is the word "existing" necessary here or not?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U464	Thank you. I'm gonna start the question from the other end. I think the word 'existing' isn't random, it's perfectly purposeful there. As I understand it, when the government discussed the subject at the cabinet meeting, there was a measure on the agenda to extend, in addition to the exemption, this advantage to public investment in sport infrastructure up to 10% of the company's profits in the previous financial year. The proposal was not supported by the Cabinet. This is also mentioned in the explanatory memorandum. I can't answer the question about the bridge club. I don't know if bridge is a sport or not. Rather, I think these costs will be covered by this advantage, but I'm not 100 percent sure. We may be able to clarify this between the first reading and the second reading. We did not deal with this in the Commission, of course, but my opinion is that it will qualify.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U465	To clarify to the Minister of Finance that he will always have the opportunity to speak during the negotiations. Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U466	Thank you. Well, I hope that during the procedure for the draft, it will be clear whether jumble, bridge and many other such sport activities promote health and how they promote it. However, I still did not understand the costs of maintaining the employer's existing sports facilities. There was nothing in your answer about the "existing" of this supplement. If public sports objects do not go down here, then it would be enough to have an "employer for the maintenance of sports facilities" in the text. What does the word "existing" mean? I think it's still misleading.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U467	Thank you for your question. That, of course, you could have asked the Minister why they put the draft in this way. We did not discuss this in the Commission. But I still think that's what I said, i.e. "existing" refers to what exists. This does not go below the cost of an investment to set up, for example, a new sports facility in the future. It does not benefit from this benefit.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U468	Thank you, Aivar Sõerd! The members of the Riigikogu have no further questions. I'm opening negotiations. On behalf of the Kersti Sarapuu Central Party Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U469	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, thank you very much for your congratulations. The draft law amending the Income Tax Act and the Social Tax Act discussed today is an example of how sometimes the substance is not important but the initiator. I am thinking here of the provision which gives the employer the opportunity to make tax-free payments or to pay fixed expenses for the health promotion of EUR 100 per quarter for the employee. If, in general, a person who does not care about his/her neighbour or goes after his/her property is still being punished, then the opposite is the case for entrepreneurs. The State penalises the undertaking for caring about its employees. Under the current law, costs for the promotion of workers' health are treated as special advantages and are subject to income and social tax. For years, the Estonian Central Party Group has stood for the idea of enabling employers to invest tax-free in the health of employees. This is to increase the motivation of workers to improve their health and reduce the risk of occupational diseases. I am pleased that, two years ago, when the Minister of Finance of that time spoke on this platform about how, as a result of such a change, all employers will pay employees a salary in golf courses or gym tickets, the understanding has now changed. It turns out that today's minister has brought this matter into very nice procedure and believes and trusts employers. Good health is the foundation of active work and long working life. Unhealthy lifestyle, low mobility and early death rates do not allow the full potential of the labour force to be exploited, thereby adversely affecting both the quality of life and the productivity of the labour market. According to statistics, poor health reduces men's working hours a week by more than 12 hours, and women by more than 8 hours. More than half of Estonia's disease burden falls to the working age population. This is reflected in both the hours of work lost by illness and early retirement as well as the high mortality rate of the working-age population. In order to keep workers healthy, active and productive, they need to be motivated. Health promotion is a commendable initiative by the employer, which ultimately helps the employer himself, the employee, and also the country that receives productive and active residents. It is therefore safe to say that the costs of improving and maintaining the health of workers must not be covered by the special advantage, which is why the draft we are discussing today is a major step forward towards healthier Estonia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U470	Andres Ammas on behalf of the Free Party Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U471	Honourable President! Respectable members of the Riigikogu! Honourable ministers! The Free Party supports the idea contained in this draft, but for us it is a sign of the draft in another sense. In fact, it gives us tremendous optimism in future work. It shows that even the darkest night is followed by dawn, and at the end of the tunnel there is still light. You present one idea once, you reject it, as the previous speaker says, you submit another one, you reject it. Maybe you're gonna do it for the tenth time, but there's gonna be a day when your idea comes true. This gives us much more meaning for the opposition's further action. But now, looking at the big picture, it has to be said that, besides the good part, there are some minor errors in this bill. First of all, it is incomprehensible why the bill was brought before us so late. It's been 15 months since the government's meeting, and this idea was actually pre-mature. I'm sorry, gentlemen, but isn't that a little flegmatic behavior in our tense time? Secondly, why does this draft come into force only from the year after that? I do not believe that the Ministry of Finance would not have found a way of putting it into effect from 1 January next year. Third, why so little? Too little! Why does this draft not include a proposal to exempt all expenditure on workers' health from the special preferential tax? Why, for example, does this not include the long-standing proposal of employers to exempt the costs of transporting workers from this tax? What I am talking about right now is not the fantasy of the Free Party, but it is also included among other good ideas in the report prepared at the request of the Ministry of Justice. This draft is too bureaucratic, which has already been highlighted several times today in the form of questions and answers. The bill speaks of distrust of entrepreneurs. In fact, the fact that the draft is intended to be adopted only for five years also speaks of this distrust. If something really goes wrong, you can always make a different suggestion, but to say at the beginning that, no, let's just look at it for five years, we find it a little inappropriate. And finally, why so little? Why, after all, 400 euros? What do you mean, Finnish example? Why do we not look at the wider picture and be more ambitious than Finland? We hope that these other options, which have been referred to by employers, will in future become the work guide of the Ministry of Finance. The Free Party supports this draft to become a law, but we will certainly propose a number of amendments. Minister, thank you very much. Now, when our amendments are discussed in substance, seriously and thoroughly and are deepened, the government coalition will reach the new level of constructiveness that you referred to earlier. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U472	Thank you. On behalf of the Conservative People's Party Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U473	Dear Chairman, Ladies and gentlemen, Good minister! Today is getting to a very late evening, but the discussions that have been today and the draft laws that are and will be before us are really great. They deal purely with Estonia's own people and Estonian laws; we do not have to rely on directives coming from anywhere in Europe. The draft we are discussing is worthy of praise, although I will join the previous speakers so that it can always be better. The things that my colleague mentioned earlier are right about God. Today, we are talking more about this special bonus tax and sports and health. However, I would also like to congratulate the other amendments to the draft. It is to be commended that the average pension, which should be EUR 419 per month in the following year, is exempt from tax, as well as for the exemption from the special preferential tax for rehabilitation provided by the listed professionals. It is a pleasure that we have taken the example of Finland. There is one little thought-provoking question, though. In Finland, the amount to be reimbursed or paid is EUR 400 and we also have it. But, as the previous speaker said, we could also pay more, because people's own contribution, the part that goes over 400 euros, tends to be bigger than compared to Finland and our incomes. So really, maybe there could have been a bigger amount here. And when it comes to bureaucracy, it also gives rise to question marks. Is five years sufficient time to assess the impact and effectiveness of this law? Will health begin to improve immediately in such a short period of time, and will this really reduce the number of sick days if the employer is given the opportunity to pay up to 100% compensation for the first days of sickness? Whether this sickness allowance is going to work so quickly, and in five years' time, you can see a result, of course, is a bit suspicious. It is usually the case that health improvements and results take a little more time than this five-year period and that the effects of the tax credit also occur over a little longer period. So there are such questions, but it is nice that the law that the Bill 302 contains is before us. The draft certainly deserves to be supported and perhaps improved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U474	Priit Sibul on behalf of the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U475	I'm closing the negotiations. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of Bill 302. I will set the deadline for submitting amendments at 5.15 p.m. on 2 November.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U476	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, Honourable ministers! Before I talk about a specific draft that will allow the employer to make employee sport spending tax-free and still keep the average pension tax-free, allow me to make a small introduction. I am pleased that, broadly speaking, we are still based on the understanding that taxes are not being played. However, it is no surprise that our labour taxes are higher than we would like, and the economy is developing more slowly than we would like. The costs, however, are increasing. I think it is important that we have been able to deal with small but important things. Some time ago, there was a second reading amendment to the VAT Act, resulting in an increase of the minimum VAT rate from EUR 16000 to EUR 40000. This is important for small businesses, where inputs are low and the added value of the company is higher. It also organises the market for metal companies and, for certain goods, shifts to reverse charge. Personally, of course, I would like us to be bolder and take advantage of the possibility of reverse charge on a wider scale. Now, however, about the draft we are currently dealing with. Of course we support this bill. We have been talking about this need for years, and we have reached a result today. We have not been alone on this path, as has been said many times. Ladies and gentlemen of the Social Democratic Party and the Centre Party have also stood up for this for years and have submitted drafts to the proceedings. Today, we will hopefully start together, and we will also be able to reach the third reading, close the procedure and adopt the law. If you ask me if I'm happy with this bill, of course not. I would like the amount free of the special preferential tax to be more than EUR 400 per year. Today's reality and agreement, however, is that a total of EUR 100 can be reimbursed or paid for in the quarter for the staff member's costs of using a sports or exercise facility, the costs necessary to support a sports facility, the costs of rehabilitation services and public participation fees for public sports events. In the course of the procedure, I think we could also discuss that the employer could make tax-free contributions to health insurance, which Kersti Sarapuu had a question for the Minister. Of course, this is not an ideal draft, but it is an important and symbolic step in the right direction, thanks to the current leader, Minister Sester. Finally, I would like to thank my fellow Members in Parliament, who have maintained this issue. However, as I said, although this is not an ideal draft, it is a very important, correct and notable issue: a person is responsible for his own health. It is up to us and everyone else to be here to help, each within our means, to support employers by creating opportunities for them to do so. Given our demographic situation and health behaviour and the increasing pressure on healthcare costs and the budget of the Health Insurance Fund in the pit, this is the only right step. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U477	Aivar Sõerd on behalf of the Reform Party Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U478	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, It is certainly to be welcomed that we are discussing the draft amendment to the Income Tax Act and the Social Tax Act on the same day that we had on the agenda a debate on the report on the implementation of the fundamentals of sport policy last year. Indeed, there has been a significant increase in mobility in Estonia and an increase in training in sports clubs. However, while we are looking at data from the Tax and Customs Board, last year employers declared health promotion costs of those that go under a special incentive of just EUR 3.9 million. If we assume that the cost per employee could be EUR 400 per year, as is the case in the draft, then the amount so far declared will only cover a few per cent of all employees. It is true that employers have also contributed in other ways to the health of workers in such a way that there is no such tax liability. The main problem, of why these costs are so low, is that the tax law treats them as a special advantage, and this unduly increases the employer's tax burden. This is then one reason why the employer's contribution has been modest. This bill will certainly increase the employer's contribution. We need to focus more attention on health promotion in society as a whole, and ultimately the employer will also benefit directly from it, because we still expect that the change should result in a reduction in the number of sick days for workers. It is certainly extremely welcome that we continue to pursue this policy, according to which the average pension is exempt from income tax. The proposal also welcomes the possibility for employers to pay social tax-free benefits for the second and third sick days, as has been the case so far from the fourth to the eighth day of sickness. The Reform Party Group supports the adoption of this draft as a law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U479	Helmen Kütt on behalf of the Social Democratic Party Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U480	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Good Minister of Finance! How to find and keep employees is a daily issue for thousands of Estonian entrepreneurs, because their development opportunities are now more limited than ever by labour shortages. In the coming years, the working age population in Estonia will be further reduced by an average of 4800 people per year. According to Eesti Pank, in 15 years' time, we will have nearly 75,000 fewer people on the labour market than we do today. Thus, people's health and ability to contribute to society in the long term are increasingly important. In a working document published last year, the European Commission notes that although the employment rate of Estonian residents is higher than the European Union average, the trend of people leaving the labour market for health reasons has not decreased. Therefore, the state should do everything in its power to guide people to a lifestyle that helps to maintain health and prevent disease. For the state, the tax system is one of the simplest and fastest means of influencing the behaviour of businesses and people. Unfortunately, in all previous years, and it is still the case that companies' investments in machinery and equipment are tax-free, but contributions to the health of workers are penalised by a special preferential tax. This means that the costs of sports, health control or health improvement are accompanied by both income tax and social tax, which makes such investments almost twice as expensive for the company. For example, paying an employee's 30-euro training room bill means spending nearly 50 euros for the employer. I have always believed that if the state changed its attitude and allowed companies to invest tax-free in sports and health promotion of workers, there would be much more people involved in sport. Overall, disease prevention is often cheaper for society as a whole. The Social Democrats have submitted a bill to the Riigikogu seven times in the last 13 years, allowing employers to contribute tax-free contributions to the health of their employees for a certain amount a year. We did this for the first time in 2004. We have faced cynical attitudes on this issue over and over again. Promoting health is a matter for people, and no one prohibits them from doing so on their salary. In addition, such an exception to the tax system would mean that companies would pay their wages at the entrances of the sports club and the state would lose millions of euros of tax revenue. Such claims cannot be accepted. Of course, a person can contribute to his own health, and many do. However, in a situation where half of the Estonian population earns less than 858 euros in gross income per month, and that is the median wage for the second quarter of this year, it is quite likely that all income will be spent on the education, transport, home and family building of children. Therefore, at first glance, people are often forced to give up secondary matters, but it does not really help to maintain their health. As regards the state budget and employers' interest in offering sports clubs cards instead of wage increases, on the contrary: firstly, the burden of improving people's health on the state budget is reduced, and secondly, in a situation where there is a shortage of working hands in Estonia, the employer cannot afford to behave that demotivates the employee. For today's people, it is important not only for wages but also for the working environment, but also for the employer to contribute to their health and development. The tax relief granted by the State contributes to the company's willingness to contribute to the development of human capital at large and not to merely pay wages. The Social Democrats are undiagnosed to welcome the fact that at last this long-awaited change will be introduced into our fossilised and uniform tax system and that, from 1 January 2018, companies will be able to contribute EUR 400 per year to the health of their employees, free of tax. Yes, the amount could be higher, but it is important that a good start is made. Since a healthy heart, lung, and kidney are directly necessary for a happy life and fruitful work, I think... More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U481	Please, an extra three minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U482	... that many entrepreneurs are starting to contribute much more to the health of their workers than they are now. The winners are all three parties: the person, the employer and the state. As social democrats, we are deeply convinced that state intervention is a prerequisite for sustaining competitive conditions. As mentioned above, taxes provide faster opportunities to change social attitudes. In 1991, Pope John Paul II concluded his hundredth letter as follows: "Once upon a time the decisive factor of production was the earth, and later it was capital. Today is the decisive factor for the person himself... " It is also time for Estonia to step into the 21st century in its economy and place a person, his well-being and health at the heart of political decision-making. Only by acting in this way can we hope to survive in the competition between countries and to ensure the preservation of the Estonian nation, language and culture throughout the ages. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U483	Minister Sven Sester has wished to participate in the negotiations. On the basis of § 71 of the Home and Rules of Procedure Act, I now ask the Minister for a chair of speech!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U484	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear Members, I just wanted to mark today's negotiations on this particular draft in a few words. Pleasure! It was a pleasure to note that this constructive nature, which is at coalition and government level, has also moved to this Chamber. Regardless of which political parties were the people who spoke here today and gave ideas on this draft on behalf of the political groups, they largely and clearly supported it. It hasn't been seen very often. Here I want to thank you all. If we look at this bill once more on the substance side, I would mark a few things both for you and for the 19 viewers who are currently watching us online. There are two important things. One is what we have spoken less about today, but what we should be proud of in Estonia is the average pension tax exemption. We have maintained this principle every year. The average pension has increased. I will be narrating: next year, the average pension will rise to EUR 20, i.e. from the current EUR 396 to EUR 416. We have kept the pension exempt from income tax. I think we could really be proud that the state has not taken away with the other hand the 20% that is otherwise taken from income tax in Estonia in general. Another important thing we have talked about today is the possible payments, mainly the exemption from the special preferential tax on expenditure on the promotion of workers' health. As a number of previous speakers have said, it has been said for many years, but it has been like a pile in the way, which we have not been able to push away in any way. I would therefore like to thank the individual coalition partners with whom this issue came at one point in agreement with our government's work plan and is now a concrete draft formulated on your tables. I would like to emphasise once again what I started: together we are strong. Today's speeches from all the political groups supported the draft and it was nice to hear it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U485	Our next item is the first reading of the Act on Insurance Activities initiated by the Government of the Republic and, in connection with this, the draft Act amending other laws 275. The initiating waitress, Secretary of Finance Sven Sester, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U486	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear Members, I hereby give you an overview of the Act on Insurance Activities and the related draft law amending other laws, which bears the number 275. The government has submitted a draft to you for discussion, which is motivated by a regulation directly applicable to the European Union, which lays down requirements for the supply of investment products. The draft law aims to increase the transparency of investment products, which is an important measure to protect retail investors. The laws of the financial sector are amended for the proper implementation of the Regulation in Estonia. The draft requires investment product providers, i.e. insurance companies, investment firms, credit institutions and insurance and credit intermediaries to draw up a summary key information document for each investment product. Such investment products in Estonia include investment-risk life insurance contracts, investment deposits, financial derivatives and various other structured financial products. The information document in the standard format gives the retail investor an overview of the nature, characteristics and risks of the investment product and of the costs associated with the product. Since the requirements are identical across the European Union, they also help to compare products and make prudent decisions. The regulation is scheduled to enter into force on 31 December 2016. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U487	Questions for the Minister. Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U488	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you, Minister. I have a very specific question. It is well stated in the explanatory memorandum that, six months before the draft regulation enters into force, market participants are in principle informed and informed, but they start preparing when the technical documents or standards are ready. Who will draw up these technical documents or standards? Is this the Ministry of Finance? When will they be finished?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U489	Thank you. The information documents shall be drawn up at European Union level and shall be uniform for all Member States. This is the charm that in any country you fill in this information document, a retail investor, or a regular customer, always has the same information field. At present, it is between countries that the fields that could be contained in the information documents are being coordinated.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U490	Thank you, Minister of Finance Sven Sester! The members of the Riigikogu have no further questions. The rapporteur for the Monetary Commission is Kalev Kotkas, Member of the Commission. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U491	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Finance Committee discussed the draft Act on Insurance Activities initiated by the Government of the Republic and related amendments to other laws at the regular meeting of 13 October. The initiator was represented and explained by Minister of Finance Sven Sester. In addition, Thomas Honourable and Chief Specialist of the Insurance Policy Department, Kristiina Kubja, Head of Financial Markets Policy Department, was present at the Ministry of Finance. The Finance Committee agreed with the plan that in the future the investment product provider would have to draw up a key information document providing the retail investor with an overview of the nature, characteristics, risk profile and costs of the investment product. Such an approach should in the future be beneficial to both parties to the transaction, and improve customer protection and the reliability of the investment product. Therefore, the Committee on Monetary Affairs agreed that better implementation of the directly applicable EU regulation requires the introduction of appropriate references to the key information document in the Insurance Activities Act, the Credit Institutions Act, the Law of Obligations Act and the Securities Markets Act. Two factors attracted more attention in the Commission's debate. First, national options. In particular, the regulation leaves Member States the right to regulate the provision of a key information document to the customer also in respect of documents outside the scope of application of the regulation, for example in the case of pension products. According to the national decision, the scope of application of the Regulation is not extended to these products. One reason is that the Regulation aims to provide retail investors with an overview of products that are complex, linked to unclear risks and which are therefore difficult to compare. At the same time, extending the obligation to draw up and submit a key information document to products without investment risk would unduly increase the administrative burden and would not fulfil the main objective of this Regulation. Secondly, the Commission's discussion was also about the entry into force of the law, as there is a risk that the entry into force of the regulation will be postponed in Europe and the new date of entry into force is not yet clear. Before the second reading of the draft law, the Committee on Monetary Affairs will be able to provide for changes to the draft text taking into account the new time limit for enforcement. The Committee on Finance also made some procedural decisions. First, to propose that the draft be put on the agenda of 275 plenary sessions by Wednesday 19 October (the decision was taken by consensus); second, to propose that the Riigikogu terminate the first reading of draft law 275 today (by 8 members of the committee, against 1); thirdly, to propose that the deadline for amendments be set at 5.15 p.m. on 2 November 2016. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U492	Are there any questions for the Commission's rapporteur? No, it's not. Thank you, Kalev Eagle! I'm opening negotiations. There's no call. The Commission's proposal is to conclude the first reading of draft 275. I will set the deadline for the amendments at 5.15 p.m. on 2 November.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U493	Our next item is the first reading of Bill 301 of the Health Insurance Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and amendments to other laws. Evgeni Ossinovski, Minister of Health and Labour, the initiating waitress, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U494	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear Riigikogu! I will introduce you to the draft law amending the Health Insurance Act and other laws. The main objective of the Act is to create, restore or modify a system of dental benefits for adults, whatever it may be called. Since some other ideas, both substantive and technical, have emerged from the amendment of the Health Insurance Act in this respect, we have also included them in the draft. But the most important thing is indeed this package of amendments concerning adult dental care. The purpose of the compensation is to increase the availability of dental care services and thereby improve the health of adults' teeth, which is also an important part of the general health status of the population. It is worth noting that changes in the compensation of adults for dental care also have a significant impact on reducing health inequalities. Dental conditions that depend on the regular use of dental care services have a major impact on quality of life and early preventive dental examination can prevent further complications and even reduce treatment costs in the future. We know that the use of dental care services in Estonia is very unequal between income groups and there is great injustice in society to the detriment of the poorer population. According to Eurostat's latest data for 2014, uncovered dental needs are higher in the poorer population than those with higher incomes. For financial reasons, on average 7.6% of people in Estonia lose dental care, with a significant gap between the highest and the lowest income. In the highest income group, 1.8% of people without dental care are left without dental care, while 15% of poorer people are left without dental care. The latest in-depth study on the breakdown of the own contribution of health care expenditure by household income group is from 2014. According to this study, if people with the highest income spend more money on health in absolute terms, less earners spend a higher percentage of their income on health. If we look at how Estonia's own contribution to health services is divided, which is roughly 25%, or rather closer to it, then the largest part of it goes to medicines, and the second part is precisely dental care, which accounts for about a quarter of its own share. And, as I said, wealthier people have much better access to dental care. Given the need for treatment that has not been covered, it is clear that State compensation for dental care costs is, in any case, essential for reducing both health and equity. It can therefore be said that the purpose of applying dental benefits is to make the service more accessible to those for whom it is not affordable so far, i.e. to reduce the financial barriers that most people have had for this service. Now let's get closer to the changes. Under the current system, dental care for insured persons up to 19 years of age is free of charge and, if the situation is quite bad, essential assistance is guaranteed to the minimum. Otherwise, the state's compensation for dental care is very limited. Pensioners can apply for dental care benefit of 19 euros per year from the health insurance fund afterwards. This amount has remained from the old age when the compensation was 300 kroons. Clearly, there's not much dental care for that money. Moreover, a system in which a person has to pay for his or her service first, and later it will be reimbursed to him, is inherently unreasonable and inefficient. We have three other smaller groups who, under the same system, receive a slightly higher amount of dental care benefit, just under 30 euros. These are pregnant women, mothers of children under one year of age and persons with higher dental needs for medical reasons. For them, too, the rate is low and financial compensation is obviously not the most appropriate. As a result, we have undertaken a broader survey of adult dental care, a broader reform. According to the draft proposed by the Government of the Republic, the dental benefit for adults would become in kind. Non-cash means that the settlement does not go between the patient and the health insurance fund. After the person has received the service, he or she will not be compensated afterwards, but will be settled between the health insurance fund and the service provider, i.e. the corresponding amount will be deducted from the person's dental account. The simplest analogy can be found with prescription medicines: if you go to a pharmacy with a prescription and buy a medicine, the benefit provided by the health insurance fund in the case of preferential medicines will not go back to your account, but will be deducted immediately from the price of the medicine. We want to switch to a similar system in dental care, and therefore we have developed a package to that effect. There are a number of technical aspects that are inherent in this system. We need to set out a list of services, or dental services, for which this compensation can be obtained. We must enter into contractual relations with those dental care providers who are prepared to serve patients under such a scheme together with the health insurance fund. We also need to state, in addition to the list of services, what prices these services are guaranteed to keep expenditure under control. If we go to the compensation rates, we can see that there could be a difference between the population groups. The dental care of minors will continue to be free of charge, there are no changes here. When we talk about adults, we have divided them into two groups in terms of compensation. The first is the "higher dental needs' target group, which includes current beneficiaries: pregnant women, mothers of children under one year of age, persons with increased medical needs and pensioners. In their case, we can see that the benefit paid by the health insurance fund is limited to EUR 85 per year and that EUR 15 is paid by the patient himself, i.e. 15%. In other words, if a person goes to a dentist and the amount of his dental care is 100 euros, 15 euros is paid by the person himself and 85 euros is paid by the sickness fund. There are about 400,000 people in Estonia to whom this increased threshold applies. For the remaining adults who are insured but do not belong to these groups, we foresee a higher own contribution rate, which is 50%. We have also based here on practices in other countries, where dental care generally has a higher level of ownership. In oral health matters, a great deal depends on the person's own health behaviour, keeping oral health, ensuring oral hygiene, and consequently it is justified to introduce greater ownership. According to this proposal, which we have brought here today with the bill before you, the level of the compensation limits is not a law-level decision; this is a decision at the level of the Government of the Republic, we have planned the compensation limit for the rest of the adults to be 30 euros per year. The package would enter into force on 1 July 2017, i.e. the second half of next year. Its financial contribution is expected to be an additional EUR 6 million from the state budget to the sickness fund for the following year and then EUR 12 million for the whole year. In addition to adult dental care benefits, which will be two-tiered, with an upper limit of EUR 85 and a general limit of EUR 30, prosthetic benefits of EUR 255 over three years will continue to exist. We're not gonna change that. It is also planned to convert dental prosthetic benefits into benefits in kind. If it is currently paid in the same way as the adult dental care allowance already mentioned, i.e. the person pays for the service himself and then submits an application for reimbursement of a fixed amount, then in the future the person could deduct this 255 euros from the cost of the service immediately after three years. Since such a change will take a little more time, we will not be able to do so from 1 July 2017. It is planned to enter into force on 1 January 2018. Now some minor changes. We have foreseen that the Health Insurance Fund will pay for the necessary anaesthesia service for dental care services in medical indications for persons aged 19 years and over. These are primarily disabled people for whom dental care cannot be performed without anaesthesia for medical reasons. It is currently not financed from the Health Insurance Fund's budget, but it will be possible from next year. We expect about 500 people to use this service. The financial cost is between EUR 77000 and EUR 150000 per year, which is significant, but it is certainly a long-term serious problem in the Estonian health insurance package, and this is how we can solve this. Now other amendments to the Health Insurance Act, which are not related to dental care, but which we have considered reasonable. Firstly, the Health Insurance Act amends the provision on the basis of suspension of insurance cover for a member of the management and control body of a legal person and a person receiving work and service charges under a debt contract. In simple language, as of today, we have such a situation that if a person is working under a debt-law contract, such as a contract of employment or a contract of command, his insurance cover will be valid for exactly as long as the contract is in force. The Health Insurance Fund guarantees this health insurance according to the IRS. If the 20th day is the date on which the tax is due and the tax is not due on that day, the next day, the person's sickness insurance will automatically run out. We have found that to be unreasonable. For various reasons, it may be that the tax is not paid on that day, whether the accountant's mistake or something else. Leaving people in this situation automatically and without health insurance on the day is unreasonable. As a result, we will extend the health insurance cover for people working under a contract of employment or a debt contract by one month, which will make it possible for people to better guarantee the continuity of health insurance. As of July this year, there were 26500 persons with this type of insurance, so this affects quite a large part of Estonia's people. The relationship between the supplementary medical benefit and the benefits for medicinal products related to the ART procedure shall be specified. Figuratively speaking, the situation has also been referred to by the University of Tartu that the same medicines are compensated under two different laws, and it may happen that the person receives more money from the state with compensation paid under different laws than he has paid for the medicines. This is a technical error that we will also resolve with this draft. The Health Insurance Act is amended in such a way that care benefits can also be obtained for nursing a family member in the case of hospital care. At present, the right to this care allowance is limited to nursing at home. The only exception is that care benefits can be granted to children under 12 years of age in case of hospital care, but this age limit is not justified. The Chancellor of Justice has also pointed out this, as the need to stay at the hospital with his or her child is often not dependent on age, but depends on the condition of the child, on his or her medical indications. For example, if there is still a disabled child, the situation is certainly different. That is why we are making regulation more flexible. The impact on the budget of the Health Insurance Fund is potentially quite significant, but it is a good thing and the right thing. There are also some technical issues that I would not focus on here. As the last substantive amendment, I note the point in the programme of action of the Government of the Republic, which extends the health insurance of conscripts. The situation has now developed where conscripts go through military service by spring and fall, from September to study, but in the meantime, after a month, they will end their health insurance. They're two months out of health insurance, which doesn't make sense. Very many of them register themselves at the unemployment fund during the summer without any substantial suggestion to get a job, but just to get health insurance. This creates an unnecessary burden at the unemployment fund. People are not actually looking for a job during this period, because they are going straight to study in September. As a result, we have agreed with the Ministry of Defence that the Ministry of Defence will pay social security contributions for people who have completed military service and that their health insurance can be extended by a few months. On average, there are about 3,000 conscripts per year in Estonia, so we will help them to live in this summer transition as a health insurance. The Act enters into force, as has been said, in general on 1 July 2017, but two provisions, first, on the in-kind conversion of dental prosthetic benefits already mentioned, and second, on 1 January 2018. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U495	Questions for the initiator of the draft. Siim Kisler, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U496	Thank you. Honourable Minister! I have a question about dental benefits. Why is it so difficult to apply for it that there is still a need to submit a separate application and supporting documents? Couldn't it be easier the way the Health Insurance Fund works? To just say you've got so much compensated, the rest of you have to pay more in your pocket and that's it. Why is this draft ministerial regulation here, which has a very bureaucratic effect?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U497	The purpose of the case is to ensure that the dental benefit also becomes in kind, as I explained. In cash means that the person and the health insurance fund no longer settles, but the health insurance fund and the service provider. This is the system we are moving towards, and it will enter into force on 1 January 2018. If the health insurance fund currently settles with the customer or with the insured person who has to submit an application, then in the future we will, in principle, move in the direction that the amount of the benefit is deducted from the price of the service itself.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U498	Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U499	Honorable manager! Honorable Minister! I'm sorry if something's gone by in the late hour! Paragraph 1 (18) of the draft law repeals Paragraph 38 (4). This relates to the fact that in the future the insured person is not directly linked to any of the regional structural units of the sickness fund, but is listed on a general basis. Is it going to happen anyway, and we're just going to fix it in the draft, or is the bill going to deal with it in any way?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U500	Thank you very much. I'm not going to look for this section here right now, but generally, the so-called regional structure of the Health Insurance Fund itself is disappearing. People are all in a single health insurance database. In this context, the area in which anyone is living does not matter. We are also taking such references out of other legislation at the moment, and this is probably one of them.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U501	Thank you, Minister of Health and Labour Jevgeni Ossinovski! People's ambassadors have no further questions for the initiator of the bill. The Social Affairs Committee waitress is Helmen Kütt. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U502	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister of Health and Labour! The Social Affairs Committee heard the Minister for Labour and Health at its meeting on Monday 10 October. Kaija Lukakka, adviser to the Health System Development Department of the Ministry of Social Affairs, and Ülle Jordan, head of the medicine department, Dagmar Rüütel, Head of the Department of Health Insurance Benefits of the Estonian Health Insurance Fund, Tiina Sats, Head of the Department of Development of the Special Medical Care Package, and Kadri Kurvits, head of the legal department. Just as the Minister gave a thorough and concise explanation in the Commission today, so I will no longer present the draft in this Chamber, and I will go straight to the questions raised in the Commission and the answers given to them. The Commission was asked to clarify what primary services meant. The reply explained that the list of essential services to be reimbursed to adults on the basis of the list of health services has been drawn up by the Estonian Health Insurance Fund in cooperation with the Estonian Dental Association. Recoverable services include diagnostics, including X-rays, placing and installing temporary filling, installing cheaper permanent filling, amputation and tooth removal, opening and treatment procedures, root treatment, curing, surface and injection anaesthesia. The Minister added that adult insured persons would be provided with the necessary dental care instead of the current financial compensation. Monika Haukanõm asked whether it was planned to change the level of compensation in the future, as after five years, for example, EUR 30 might not even cover the cost of the examination. The minister replied that the compensation could certainly increase in the coming years. If you look at the benefits received by high-risk groups, in this case pensioners, you can already say that the average patient gets the costs covered. When it comes to adults, of course, I would like the compensation to be higher, but the EUR 30 that is currently being proposed comes first and foremost from budgetary constraints. Aivar Kokk asked if the dental benefit was calculated according to the calendar year. The answer was that the following year will be a period of six months, from 1 July to 31 December, thereafter calculated on the basis of the calendar year, i.e. from 1 January to 31 December. Aivar Kokk asked whether the situation with the hepatitis C medicine could not occur in the next semester, that the cost was higher than expected, and that due to the fact that half a year would be reimbursed, half the money would be planned. The minister replied that attention had been paid to this. It is not possible to predict exactly how many people will use dental benefits in the next half-year, but the best idea is that the budget should be sufficient next year. Jüri Jaanson asked how the prices of dental care services have changed so far and why the bill did not take the price increase into account. The reply explained that the compensation rates were not linked to the price increase. Wages are the biggest component of the rise in the price of health services, which means that the wages of health care workers also affect the prices of services. The benefits should certainly be increased in the coming years, but this can be done according to the budgetary possibilities. Marika Tuus-Laul asked how to see if the dentist had a contract with the health insurance fund or not. The answer was that it is now known from the Health Insurance Fund, and in the future it is intended to include a corresponding label on the website of dental clinics. Aivar Kokk asked that if the dental prosthetic benefit was for three years, the dental benefit was for a year, whether it would not be transferred to the next year. In reply, it was clarified that the compensation would not be passed on to subsequent years. The purpose of the benefit is to motivate people to go to checks every year. Monika Haukanõm asked if the children were eligible for curative care. He claimed that there were cases where the clinic had a contract with the health insurance fund and children were provided with dental care, but no root care was provided. A representative of the Health Insurance Fund replied that root care services were included in the list of health services. Unfortunately, why some contract partners do not treat children at the root is not clear at the moment. It was asked that if there was such information about a contractor, it could be forwarded to the health insurance fund. Vilja Thomas asked what was the start of the three - year cycle of dental reparation. The answer was that the calculation is based on the bill, which means it's accrual-based. The dental benefit is currently not changed, but it is planned to be in kind from 2018 to make it as convenient as possible to receive the dental benefit and should no longer apply for it. Monika Haukanõm asked if and when the price list for children's dental care services had been updated. The representative of the Ministry of Social Affairs replied that this started in 2015 when the prices of dental care services were revised together with the Dentist Association. This year they should be coordinated and the following year's price lists will change. Jüri Jaanson asked why the list of services to be reimbursed includes the installation of a permanent filling with less expensive filling. The Minister explained that the idea was to describe a certain standard in the service list. There are a lot of innovative things in medicine that are extremely expensive and whose advantages over cheaper ones are not always clear or often non-existent. And cheaper doesn't always mean worse. The committee composed of Aivar Kokk, Monika Haukanõm, Marika Tuus-Laul, Viktor Vassilyev, Vilja Toomast, Liina Kersna, Maire Aunaste, Jüri Jaanson, Raivo Põldaru and Helmen Kütt made the following procedural decisions. It was proposed that the draft be put on the agenda for the plenary assembly on 19 October, that the first reading be closed and that the deadline for amendments be 10 working days, i.e. 2 November at 5.15 p.m., and that Mr Kütt, Member of the Commission, be appointed as rapporteur. All the decisions were consensual. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U503	Questions for the Commission's rapporteur. They don't because no one wants to ask them. I'm opening negotiations. A procedural question, Igor Gräzin!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U504	My question does not concern the substance of this draft, this report or this problem, but is a matter of procedure. That's why I expect you to express your opinion. The Commission's report has been a complete report on the minutes of the Commission sitting: it said, it replied, it said, it replied, it replied, and so on. The minutes of the Commission are available in writing. In fact, such a report is the third time today, if I'm not mistaken. Is this going to be the case now, or do we expect a summary of the Commission's report?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U505	I am quite sure that this will be decided by the Commission and the rapporteur himself. The Bureau has never provided the Commission's rapporteurs with any guidance on the need for a co-report. In practice, I can tell you that there have been very short and very comprehensive summaries, as we are now. This also depends on the member of the Riigikogu who will co-report the committee. I'm opening negotiations. On behalf of the Conservative People's Party Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U506	Good Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, Good minister! Today's long day is once again covered by a bill that deserves only praise. Although money is the same as money always is, isn't it always a little, but this movement from EUR 19 to 30 will help. It is a pleasant relief for people, too, that money does not need to be paid at first, just as it now needs to be 255 for prosthetics and a little more to be put out. So these are the reliefs that people can benefit from, although, as mentioned above, money is really small and could be bigger. Other positive matters included in the draft law, such as the reimbursement of anaesthesia, the extension of health insurance to boys and girls from military service who become students, as well as the one-month extension granted to people working under the debt law contract, should also be commended. Among the suppliers of medical devices, the question may have arisen as to whether the amendments introduced by the law do not reduce the availability of the equipment. Perhaps in the future, if the Commission continues to deal with the draft, a common view will also be found of these problems. It is very nice, and it will certainly benefit people that care benefits are also paid to people who are in hospital care. There are people like that, in my own community. So it's nice to end today with a bill like this. As they say, helping our people anyway and a relief. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-19_U507	There is no further wish for negotiations. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 301. I will set the deadline for submitting amendments at 5.15 p.m. on 2 November. The sitting is adjourned. I'll see you tomorrow. Closure of the sitting at 10:14 p.m.
