ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-04_U1	Dear Riigikogu, good afternoon. Question Time. Incoming check, please! There are 52 members of the Riigikogu in Question Time. The Minister of Health and Labour, Jevgeni Ossinovski's Prime Minister, Liisa Oviir, Minister of Enterprise, Kristen Michal, Minister of Economic Affairs and Infrastructure, is in briefing today. According to the number of respondents who registered yesterday, I will give a traditional opportunity for an additional question.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-04_U2	The first question is to Mr Ossinovski, Minister for Health and Labour, who is responsible for the Prime Minister's duties. Dmitri Dmitriev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-04_U3	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Minister of Health and Labour in charge of Prime Ministership! The question is the introduction of job creation support in Ida-Virumaa. A company employing at least 20 unemployed people in Ida-Virumaa should receive such special state support. However, when we are talking about new investments to create jobs, I can say as a former member of the Development Council for Industrial Areas of SA Ida-Virumaa that it may take one and a half to two years for a business idea to build up production capacities. However, the duration of the measure is until 1 January 2018. This puts potential investors in a very narrow time frame, so that they do not actually get the benefits. In my opinion, the idea itself is very good, but the issue of unemployment in Ida-Virumaa will not be resolved in one year. Are you ready to adjust the rules of the measure and, if necessary, to extend the deadline for its operation in order to achieve a better effect on the labour market in the long term?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-04_U4	Thank you very much, Honourable Asker. Indeed, the unemployment situation in Ida-Viru County is worrying. Traditionally, the unemployment rate there has been twice as high in the middle of the years as in Estonia on average. If we see an increase in employment in Estonia in general, and in some areas we are already talking about labour shortages, for example, in Harjumaa and Tartu County, unemployment has fallen to 3%, then labour market figures have deteriorated in Ida-Viru County over the last year. If last year unemployment was around 9.5%, we have now reached a rate of over 12%. This means that in a year, there have been quite a number of new unemployed. The reasons are, of course, known to all of us, on the one hand, the deterioration in the oil price economy has affected the largest industrial sector, the oil shale sector, and, on the other hand, the fall in rouble prices has certainly affected both trade and tourism. The government has therefore taken certain steps to improve the situation in Ida-Virumaa. Your procedure has already been followed by a draft Environmental Charges Act, which will temporarily ease the tax burden on the oil shale sector, and a new job creation measure will be launched from this week. It is planned to be valid until the end of 2017, as you said, but it is a pilot project, which is why we will assess its feasibility for the next period.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-04_U5	Thank you. The question to be specified, Dmitri Dmitriev.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-04_U6	Thank you. In the past, when you comment on the job creation support measure, you said, quote: '... New job creation and diversification must also be addressed. " Yesterday's Äripäev editorial also referred to the fact that Ida-Virumaa would benefit from more diverse entrepreneurship. As the creation of 20 jobs is relatively problematic for smaller businesses, have other specific labour market measures been discussed, for example, to support small businesses in Ida-Virumaa?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-04_U7	Thank you. Indeed, it is a rather restrictive condition for using this measure to employ 20 unemployed people. This measure has been established on the basis of an expert assessment and analysis carried out in cooperation with EAS, including the industrial areas of Ida-Viru. It is primarily aimed at companies that already operate in Ida-Viru County and think that they would like to expand their industry, i.e. they have plans that are essentially made. This measure is partly on the social benefits side, because we are really subsidising job creation with it, but certainly also an entrepreneurial measure, which will ease the costs we face in the start-up phase of businesses. On the other hand, it is aimed at potential foreign investors with whom negotiations have already taken place. Their number, about 30, has been through the media as well. Specific projects are actually completed. So we can say that we are ready to invest and create jobs during the first period of operation of the measure. This is why we have planned that, as a result of this measure, which is projected to cost the state some EUR 3 million, some 600 jobs could have been created in Ida-Virumaa. We hope, of course, that the result will be even better. As far as borders are concerned, of course, any support for job creation, especially on a larger scale, is certainly a competition intervention. However, since competition intervention can also be, say, abusive, we have tried to limit it precisely by making it a matter of the number of people to be recruited. Figuratively speaking, we should not have one flower stand in Narva next to another who would receive a 50% discount on labour costs and eat out an entrepreneur who has already fairly fixed himself on the market. So it's all just to prevent abuse.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-04_U8	Thank you, Minister. Let's try to stay in two minutes. Heimar Lenk, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-04_U9	Thank you. Minister, please tell me if I am wrong. Is it not a paradoxical situation that we have the highest unemployment where the only large industry still remains? In my opinion, there should be the most jobs there. Have our industrial policy been such a failure? You also mentioned that unemployment has increased in recent years. Has the politics of the previous government and of the current government been misguided? We have an industrial minister and everything, but unemployment is increasing. I think it's a paradox.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-04_U10	If you ask me if you're wrong, I'll say yes, you're wrong. Indeed, the industrial potential of Ida-Viru County is, on the one hand, important for the development of the region's economy and also for the development of the Estonian economy as a whole. On the other hand, if we look a little inside the economic structure, we can see that the economy in this region is very focused on individual large employers. If large employers do well and are mostly exporting employers, so the world market is doing well in their segment, then the region is doing very well too. If there were to be a problem, as we know, that happened a few years ago with Kreenholm, when the big industry went bankrupt, and now, as we see, the oil shale sector is also in difficulty because of oil prices, then we are facing not only a single economic issue but already a wider social problem, i.e. a very large number of unemployed people. That is why we have really talked about the need to diversify the economic structure of Ida-Viru County, and we should do more to encourage small business there. If we look at the overall concentration of companies, there are twice as few per capita in Ida-Viru County as on average in Estonia, and this is definitely a problem. That is why it is also reasonable to increase diversity in terms of sectors. If we come to this job creation support measure in Ida-Virumaa, then indeed, it does not favour micro-enterprises employing between five and ten people. The reason is that we want to avoid abuse, but on the other hand we do not restrict economic sectors. Having now negotiated with the companies, we will certainly see, as a result of this support, new industries, new industrial sectors coming to Ida-Virumaa in terms of production. They remain industrial, higher than average, but they are different sectors. This reduces the risk that, if global concerns arise in one sector, there will be a major socio-economic problem in the whole region at once.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-04_U11	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-04_U12	The next question is for the Minister of Enterprise Liisa Oviir. Raivo Põldaru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-04_U13	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Minister, thank you very much. Yesterday, the Governor of Eesti Pank considered the situation in our export markets to be worrying in this hall. Estonian trade has decreased for the last three years in a row and it is clear what the brakes are and why this has been the case. But my question is this: what has the government done to find new markets, and when can we taste the fruits of their actions?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-04_U14	Thank you. It is true that Estonia's exports of goods and services decreased by 2.7% in 2015. The export of goods rather than services decreased. However, if you look at our major export partners, the first four are Sweden, Finland, Latvia and Russia. There are clear economic difficulties in Finland; political issues are currently emerging with Russia. In summary, a decrease of this magnitude shows that things are not very bad with our exports. We have quite a selection of export markets. However, what is important is that we also started to export to more markets last year than in the year before, 78 markets in 2014 versus 80 in 2015. So we have found new markets, rather it is a question of what we are exporting and how much we are exporting. So we need to look seriously at the problem and do more to increase the value of goods. Smarter products must be made, because it is clear that we do not hit with bulk products and cheap products in our country's size. For this, we have a company development programme developed in EAS, amounting to 73 million euros. This money can be distributed, and we will try to channel it to the maximum, so that the company can take the lead in developing the products and services that it offers, to start producing more expensive services and products and to export them in this form. I believe that this could also give us great progress in the area of exports in the near future.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-04_U15	Raivo Põldaru, a more specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-04_U16	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. The world's population is well known to grow and demand for food should also grow. It is estimated that about 70% more food will have to be produced by 2050. In this light, how do you assess the prospects for our farmers to reach world markets? As we know, information is already coming from the Japanese and Chinese markets that we are not going to get there and that our products are not good enough for them.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-04_U17	Thank you. In fact, both markets are very new to us. It wasn't until two years ago that the first rehearsal batch went to Japan. We have now come to the point that some permanent contracts have already been concluded and permanent exports are taking place. In the case of one product group, it is true that the health requirements of our products do not meet the Japanese requirements, but there is still a great deal of work going on to solve the particular problem. The Japanese company believes enough in our business, which is why we are negotiating that they make an investment and that we can bring our products here into line with these requirements. The Chinese market opened in principle only yesterday. It is also one of our large target markets, because the volumes are very large, the opportunities are very large, while the distance is also quite large. I would also say that, although food exports are, above all, under the administration of the Ministry of Rural Affairs, we will also try to support its efficiency in every way in the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications. We only talked last week to agricultural people who thought that one of the interesting opportunities for them was the Egyptian market, because it is close enough and the volumes are large enough, but the quality requirements for food are the same as we have to offer. So we are now putting together a plan on which to proceed specifically on this subject.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-04_U18	Rock Hard, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-04_U19	Thank you, good Chairman of the Riigikogu! Good minister! It is undoubtedly important to look elsewhere for the market for our goods. At the same time, it is also very important to offer Estonia as an investment market for large investors. I read in the country's budget strategy that we are going to have a pilot project on investment support for a large investor, 3 million in 2017. Perhaps you can explain to the members of the Riigikogu what it is and how we can get new investors through it, who will find a new market in Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-04_U20	Thank you. The truth is that exports are a very clear priority for us. But it is also a priority to receive new investments, both foreign and domestic, because many companies keep money in a bank account or also withdraw it as dividends, but do not use it for new investments. That's why I wanted to make some pretty common personal offers in the world. This is a tailor-made measure, because we know the big investments that are looking for a place in this region. We are currently negotiating with 30 companies about Ida-Virumaa, with 38 companies all over Estonia. They look precisely at the wider region, and it goes through several areas, one thing is the logistical position, but the other is the tax conditions and the offers that are made to the company. For this reason, yes, as Minister of Enterprise, I proposed direct offers to the Cabinet of Government, direct agreements to become large enterprises in Estonia, in particular to enable the creation of new industries and new jobs in those regions where there is a great need for it. This means, once again, Ida-Viru County as a single destination. If we could get here a company with high market power and lead to additional exports, labour taxes would also come back to the state budget.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-04_U21	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-04_U22	The Minister for Health and Labour, Jevgeni Ossinovski, is now asked a question by Andres Ammas, who is in charge of the Prime Minister's duties. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-04_U23	Honourable President! A respected minister in the duties of Prime Minister! The state's budget strategy for 2017 has a smart idea of ensuring the sustainability of the financing of Estonian health care, but it has been forgotten how this is ensured. Would you open this well-kept secret?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-04_U24	Thank you very much. This is indeed not reflected in the country's budgetary strategy and there is a very simple reason for this: it does not have to be reflected. In particular, it has been agreed by the government, and it has also been made clear in the programme of action of the Government of the Republic, that the Ministry of Social Affairs must make its proposals for the sustainability of health funding. The large working group has been working together over the last year, the proposals have been formulated and discussed by the Government of the Republic in May at its study session, and then one solution or another is moved forward. There are indeed many solutions, but I can say so much that there is no structural financing problem at the sickness fund in the near future, i.e. until 2020. The Health Insurance Fund, according to the budget approved by the Riigikogu, will be a little bit, a few million euros in deficit in the coming years, but given the reserves, there is no reason to worry about running out of money in the health insurance fund or in health insurance in general, and people will not receive health care. Yes, they can. As far as financing of health care is concerned, this is a question of a long-term perspective. We know that from this year on, more people will retire from the labour market than the lower education system will come into the labour market. However, since our current health insurance budget is, in principle, entirely labour tax-based, i.e. social tax-based, it is not sustainable in the long term. The number of those paying taxes is decreasing, but those who are being spent on them, especially the elderly, are constantly increasing. Consequently, it is, of course, necessary to extend the income base of the sickness fund. Proposals to this effect have been made to the Cabinet and will soon be discussed by the Government.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-04_U25	Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-04_U26	Thank you. I understand you don't want to open the conclusions of the government task force yet, so you want to keep it exciting. But I'll ask you about the interview at the Postman yesterday. Was the possibility proposed in the paper your personal position, your party's position or your working group's position? Can this form the view of the government?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-04_U27	Thank you. No, the question is not that I do not want to open these proposals. It's just Question Time doesn't allow it. I'm afraid I'm about to ring the bell every time I start talking about things. That's the format, unfortunately. You will, as you know, also be able to ask questions, so I can explain these questions to you at length. [[A comment from the floor.]] You see, it's already been presented. Well, that's great, so we can talk about it for a while. However, we have two proposals in broad terms, which relate precisely to the revenue base. The Ministry of Finance proposes to compensate the Health Insurance Fund for the deficit resulting from the decrease in the working age population due to other state resources compared to the forecast. The second option that I have proposed, which I consider to be much simpler, is that the state should pay the social security contribution for the other insured. That's how we simplify the system, bring in the extra transfers that are coming to the Health Insurance Fund right now. We are going to have a small reform under a single system and this will be a long-term solution. Between these two options, the government has not made a choice because it has not yet been discussed, but it is clear to everyone that the system needs to be changed. However, the same analysis also contains a lot of other important issues in the context of access to healthcare, not just money. This also concerns issues of regional coverage, the burden of ownership and a number of other issues related to health care, such as coverage of health insurance. We have tens of thousands of people in Estonia who do not have health insurance because their income is irregular. So all these topics have been analysed in a complex way, and in some other formats, I will be happy to introduce them to you in more detail.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-04_U28	The manager can really chair this meeting only by law, so now Monika Haukanõm is asking. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-04_U29	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. Indeed, health issues have been very much under the attention of both the media and professionals in recent months. My question concerns the provision of specialist medical care. At the moment, if the person in need wants to go to specialist medical care, he or she must choose the service provider who has a contract with the health insurance fund. Hospital Masterplan hospitals are clearly in a privileged position. This means that the patient cannot choose the service provider insofar as he or she would like to do so. Do you consider the current situation reasonable? The patient goes where the money is, not the money goes where the patient is, maybe it's a matter of voting with his feet. Maybe we should change that situation. Perhaps it would also save money if we could choose who we want to get the service from. What do you think of such proposals?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-04_U30	It is such a big issue that a separate question could be made about it, and I would be happy to explain it for hours. At first glance, it really seems to be a simple and reasonable idea that the patient goes to any healthcare provider and pays his or her share, and the health insurance fund pays the part that he or she would otherwise have paid elsewhere in the hospital. But the consequences, if this system is not very well thought out, are rather bad. Not to point out other countries in this context, but in some countries it has been the case that solidarity insurance has therefore virtually collapsed, i.e. a more prosperous group of people have gotten to the doctor much faster and less wealthy people have almost lost their healthcare. I think that the pressure for this type of reform is understandable, given that the situation in Estonia is abnormal due to the order of treatment. The queues are too long, we have a clearly uncovered need for treatment, as is said in technical language, i.e. people do not always get to the doctor when they need it. But I can see that one of the fundamental values of the Estonian health care system is that it is of high quality and at the same time solidarity, so that people with low incomes also receive a top-level service. I think it is worth preserving this value and looking for solutions to solve the issue of treatment queues within a functioning system. The easiest way is, of course, to give more money, so you can order more services, but you also need to look at health management issues, such as getting the right help at the right level. In Estonia, people are known to have a very specialized doctor's faith, go to a specialist as soon as possible, although in fact the family doctor could solve most of their problems. It is precisely the strengthening of the level of family doctors that the Ministry of Social Affairs will be working on in the coming years.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-04_U31	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-04_U32	Minister for Economic Affairs and Infrastructure Kristen Michal asks a question to Tarmo Tamm. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-04_U33	Thank you, manager. Minister, thank you very much. On Monday, we discussed the correlation between Elering's profits and network charges in this very hall. Network charges account for more than 40% of the electricity bill for Estonian people, in some cases 50% and more. I have in front of me the last month's electricity bill, there's 38 euros for electricity, the network fee is 50 euros. Your answer, however, was that Elering's network fee only accounts for about one sixth of the electricity bill, and the rest of the network fee goes to Elektrilevi, which is a subsidiary of Eesti Energia and belongs to the Ministry of Finance. But I ask you as a consumer: do you consider it normal and justified that more than half of the electricity bill is network charges, network services?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-04_U34	Thank you, good questioner! Not only did we talk in this Chamber, but we also continued to have a friendly conversation at the door of the Chamber and talked like a consumer and like a colleague. I repeat, this is a regulated business. I think we both agree on that. This is the result of the Electricity Market Act, which says that the Competition Authority is developing a methodology for calculating prices. And this is actually quite simply the net profit of the company comes from the product of the company's assets and the regulatory rate of return. Looking at the value of Elering's fixed assets, in 2015 it was just over EUR 860 million. The rate of return allowed by the transmission system operator, i.e. the average price of the weighted capital, was 4,92% for Elering, i.e. the lowest in the entire regulatory area. For example, for district heating, the same price was 6.07%. Why am I bringing up these accounts? Not just to fill the day, but to say: it is a regulated business that is subject to the supervision of the Competition Authority. On this basis, all price components are also evolving. So if we want some kind of change, it actually assumes that we say that the return on some assets must be less profitable or so. I would point out that Elering, which is in my administration, lastly raised the network charges for electricity at the beginning of 2013. In spring 2014, the tariff fell instead. Also, as has been said last time, Elering's share of electricity price components is indeed about one sixth.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-04_U35	And now a member of the Riigikogu, Tarmo Tamm, asks the Minister of Economic Affairs and Infrastructure Kristen Michal. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-04_U36	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you for your constructive response. But then the methodology of the Competition Authority should be reviewed. After all, it is not normal for Elering to make 41 million euros in profit on sales income of some 120 million euros last year, of which the State took 31 million into its budget as a dividend. This 31 million could easily have remained in the wallet of the Estonian consumer, either the entrepreneur or the consumer. This would have improved the competitiveness of the company and the consumer would have been able to consume more of the other services. It is not normal for a company to have such a high level of profitability, or at all, that there is, in essence, a hidden tax hidden in the network charges through which the State seeks to implement its own budget.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-04_U37	Thank you. Now I have to read the numbers again to have a more accurate overview. In 2015, the company generated revenue of EUR 132,4 million and the net profit was EUR 25,1 million. As far as dividends are concerned, I think we all have a hunch where they go. They go to the state budget. The state budget finances different areas. We discussed the social, educational, medical sector here. That's all the money's really going to be for. Elering's income goes for the good of the taxpayer. Revenue is calculated on the basis of what the return on capital has been promised by the Competition Authority. In Elering's case, I say again, 4,92% of their total assets. I don't think that's too much. But once again, there's always a right to think about it one, two or three, and ask the Competition Authority why.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-04_U38	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-04_U39	Minister of Enterprise Liisa Oviir asks a question to Uno Kaskpeit. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-04_U40	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. I was moved to ask for your speech in the Riigikogu on Monday, in which you mentioned that no one is going from Tallinn to Latvia for Valka's alcohol. And excise duty has been raised precisely to improve the health of Estonians and to keep us out of alcohol consumption. I would add that the same alcohol warehouse is also open in Ikla, Pärnumaa, at the Latvian border crossing point. Your comment from the day before yesterday gave the impression that you only consider Tallinn and its surroundings as Estonia. Is that right? Have you compared the income from alcohol duty to the same time last year? How big is the change and in which direction?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-04_U41	Thank you. I can at this point confirm that I really do not regard Tallinn as Estonia alone; it seems quite unexpected in itself to say so. Alcohol policy is certainly very important, as excise policy is part of it. Estonia has taken the direction that we are taxing harmful consumption patterns, which generate additional costs, especially in terms of human health, but also more generally, to our internal security, health insurance, etc. This is a very important question in itself. I understand that you have pointed out that it is cheaper to have excise duties on alcohol in Latvia, and I agree with that. But I'm not sure it's bad. In Finland, alcohol is much more expensive than in Estonia again, and people from Helsinki go to Tallinn to buy alcohol. The same applies to a certain extent from South Estonia to Latvia. The question is, in fact, broader, how to change the behaviour associated with alcohol consumption? And that's what I tried to imply on Monday. In Latvia, the average wage is lower, the GDP per capita is smaller and the average pensions are lower. And from here on in, there's a lower price for alcohol. But it's not that important. What is important is that alcohol is one of the biggest negative influences on our health and must be limited. One way is to do this is with excise policy. But the Minister of Health and Labour and I are also working on other ways to do this, and we will definitely do it. There is also an increase in excise duty and excise duty has already increased.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-04_U42	Thank you. Uno Kaskpeit, more specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-04_U43	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear Minister, I don't care about alcohol duty, but I also have a small point about fuel excise. I have clarified the situation and it turns out that not only companies located in Valga, but also in the area close to the Latvian border, have signed a contract to refuel fuel with Latvian gas stations. The cars that travel between Russia refuel their machines in Russia anyway. In my opinion, the government, with its ingenuity and ignorance, has quite a hole in the state budget. Is there a comparative analysis of the same time last year? How much less fuel is being fueled now and who will pay for this difference, either the coalition parties or the Estonian taxpayer?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-04_U44	Thank you. It is clear that high excise duties on fuel have a negative impact on the competitiveness of the economy. But it is equally clear that the state needs money, for example, to maintain and build roads. I am also forced to mention here that the development of excise policy is primarily in the hands of the Minister of Finance, so he will certainly be able to provide the most precise answers to excise policy. He may also be able to name the analyses that his house has done on the subject. But since this question arose on Monday, I asked for the data on fuels to be taken out on 29 April, and the price difference for the same fuel No 95 referred to is 0.03 eurocents in Tallinn and Riga. The Minister of Economic Affairs and Infrastructure said that as of yesterday, the difference is said to be the opposite, i.e. the same fuel had been 2 cents more expensive on the Latvian side. So things can be shown in a number of ways. I understand you have the task of urging the government and showing that there may be something better to be done somewhere. Again, these are the decisions that have been taken to get funding where the state is obliged to receive funding. However, if you have very precise analytical questions about excise policy in particular, I suggest that you submit them to the Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-04_U45	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-04_U46	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. You did not answer the question whether a comparative analysis has been carried out for the previous year and for the current year on the receipt of both excise duties on fuel and alcohol. I understand if you don't have a bill available right now. I therefore have a request to send comparative data to our group, but perhaps to other groups as well. We'd be very grateful. But I also have a very specific question about alcohol policy. Are you planning at some point, along with the Ministry of Social Affairs and other ministries, to ban alcohol advertising or tighten its rules?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-04_U47	Thank you. My department, the Department of Economic Development has not done any excise research, but I will pass on a request to the Ministry of Finance and ask them to send your group's data. As far as alcohol policy is concerned, it would be best to ask the Minister for Health and Labour, whose administration has this part of the government's action plan. Work is ongoing and the Minister for Health and Labour has expressed very clearly his support for restricting alcohol advertising. I, too, support it. This issue has now been discussed two or three times in the Cabinet and we will continue the debate. It is clear that one activity cannot achieve a good enough result to change the health behaviour of alcohol in Estonia, so other measures must also be found. After the increase in excise duty, which has already been agreed, there will be advertising restrictions and there will probably be something else. But the most competent person to answer is the Minister of Health and Labour, who is in charge of developing alcohol policy.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-04_U48	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-04_U49	Minister for Economic Affairs and Infrastructure Kristen Michal now answers Artur Talvik's question. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-04_U50	Good President! Good minister! The situation on the Estonian railway is quite sad. Trains do not move, goods are scarce and all this is explained, of course, by sanctions against Russia. But now, from the beginning of May, the already low flow of goods from Russia is halving, as Russia has imposed a technical restriction on 12 trains and can travel to Estonia by six instead. However, no such restrictions have been imposed on Latvia, Lithuania or Finns, who were also represented at a very high level at the recent TransRussian fair, where Estonia was not represented at a high level. What has the Estonian Government done to restore Russian trade flows?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-04_U51	Thank you, good questioner! It's a good thing we met here in Question Time, we're about to get the facts right. Firstly, the rail sector as a whole is in no way sad, as it still operates. If we look at passenger train traffic, passenger trains have driven 7% more in the first three months of this year and 12% more in 2015. The drop in goods, six instead of 12 trains, is a reflection of some moment. In fact, this has not changed so drastically, although the volume has decreased. In the first three months, the volume of goods on Latvian railway fell by 20.6% and in Estonia by 16.6%. Your third claim was that the volume of goods has not fallen in Latvia and elsewhere, but in Estonia it is that all the rest are very active and there are some administrative restrictions. However, the Russian Minister, my colleague, Mr Sokolov, has publicly confirmed that this is not a political decision, but is primarily a question of how they see economic benefits. It is a question of commercial efficiency for them, also on the railroad side. That is why we are planning to merge this whole value chain into one group. This will increase the financial capacity of the sector and enable better offers to be made for goods. In addition, there will be a change in the long-awaited methodology in the sector, i.e. we will finance an increase in rail safety and speed. Five million euros was needed last year, but I expect a little more this year.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-04_U52	Arthur Talvik, a more specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-04_U53	Good minister! Putting the sector under one holding doesn't make the goods move. Every little kid knows that. At the same time, we also know that freight transport has also been heavily subsidised by rail passenger transport, namely in the form of infrastructure charges. However, I ask specifically whether the Estonian Government has done anything in the direction of Russia. Are you planning on visiting Russian ministers and discussing this issue? Do you intend to do something to increase trade flows? The Latvians were mentioned here, but their trade flows were much larger before.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-04_U54	Thank you. Let's start at the back again. Since the Latvians were mentioned, I would say that first of all, their decline was much greater at the beginning of the year. Secondly, the change in methodology responds to the same question as regards the allocation of rail charges between passenger and freight traffic. Of course, freight transport has borne the greatest difficulty in paying rail charges. The new methodology will make pricing more flexible by type of goods and will also, to some extent, increase the burden on passenger transport. The State takes this into account when subsidising passenger transport. In fact, I think the sector is also waiting, but it is probably not realistic to assume that passenger transport alone will pay for all rail use in the same proportion. As far as the politicisation of trade flows is concerned, I strongly recommend that trade flows be not politicised, they do not increase. As we have already talked about, transit in neighbouring countries is decreasing. This is still due to Russia's economic situation and its desire to boost its economy. In this key, I understand that their steps are primarily rational and are based on their economy. If you look at the cooperation between the Estonian-Russian Ministry of Economic Affairs, I dare say, on the basis of some concrete examples, that this is rather good. We have also had problems, such as motorists and road transport licences, but they resolved in a completely polite and correct way. So I can say that relations between states and ministries are a work in every way.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-04_U55	Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-04_U56	Honorable Minister! I am concerned about the situation between the Rice Family and Rohuküla, where trains do not run at all due to the lack of tracks. I read the country's budget strategy carefully and, sadly, did not find the slightest reference to rail. Was I looking badly or is it really not there? If not, why not? What is the latest news on this subject?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-04_U57	Thank you. I saw the word 'railway' in the title, and I knew that question would come. For that, you and Lauri Luige must be honoured, you are the most consistent practitioners of one subject. At the moment, as far as I am aware, the support group led by Lauri Swan, to which I am sure you belong and where you will probably exchange information with each other, will discuss with political parties what sources of cover could be in the future if this project were to be carried out. The calculations are now at ministerial level, I dare say, more or less at the stage where we could bring it here for political decision. If political parties take a stand, whether and at what expense this is possible, how to do it, and if funding is clear, then we can move forward. We rather expect discussions to be held within the support group, because we could already discuss it at political level. Then we could talk about funding and everything else in the context of the RES. The RES still goes to things that have already been prepared for a long time and that are clear and secure, like the Tartu highway in Tallinn.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-04_U58	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-04_U59	Kristen Michal, Minister of Economic Affairs and Infrastructure, will now answer the question of the member of the Riigikogu, Arno Silla. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-04_U60	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. First of all, when we discuss these problems with taxi company drivers and taxi drivers that are connected to Uber's arrival, they all claim, as one word, that at present our taxi industry is normally advanced and that we do not need additional taxi services. Secondly, Uber's arrival has led to a lot of confusing problems with the safety of customers, road safety, etc. Thirdly, we also know that it is not much use to our country economically, because Uber's headquarters is not located in Estonia, and the revenue that comes from it goes out of our country. In these and other circumstances, disprove my view that we do not need Uber. It is claimed that there is now a fierce fight across Europe to allow them here in the first place and to allow them to operate here.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-04_U61	Thank you. I think it's gonna take a long conversation. However, I share a few points with you, in every way in the spirit of the sharing economy. In fact, the question is very simple. Is it based on the benefits of the consumer or on the fact that some sector has always been doing so in a certain way? I would rather choose from the benefit of the consumer. Estonian people, who, among other things, drive from point A to point B and sometimes also drive from point B back to point A, use various driving-sharing services. Technological progress has led to a quite positive overall attitude towards the use of these services. A study carried out at the University of Tallinn reached my desk, which shows that 91% of Estonians are in favour of or neutral in the wider distribution of the trade agreement. For example, 43% think that it can reduce the number of other cars bought into families. To whom does this gain, and where does the gain go? In the case of the trade agreement or, let's say, the collaborative economy, it is certainly very positive that the movement of money and tax compliance is much better there, perhaps not even compared to the traditional taxi sector, but to the grey outskirts of those we do not want to see in traffic. Cooperation with the tax administration is currently such that everyone will be able to carry out their activities in a single system in the future, everyone will be able to declare their revenue and it should be very simple in the future. So if you ask who will have the income, I say that it will still be for the people who drive the car in Estonia and for those who will receive a better service as a result. And I think your interest should be primarily to stand up for Estonian consumers and Estonian leaders.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-04_U62	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-04_U63	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. You're contradicting yourself. In Elering's case, for example, you very much believed that taxes should be paid to the state and then the state will distribute them again. In this case, it is completely unclear how taxes will be collected and how tax compliance will be ensured. And these are also very serious problems because we do not know how social guarantees are guaranteed for people who are going to provide a service within Uber, because it is actually providing a paid service, not driving with a good heart. It is also unclear how safety can be guaranteed for drivers, health protection for accidents that pay for whom, etc., etc. Can you say that all these questions and problems are also in focus and that the state is able to solve them?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-04_U64	Thank you. You've had a lot of questions and even arguments here. I'm getting ahead of the end with my answers. Yes, I am absolutely certain of the legislator's ability to address all these issues. I know that the procedure for the draft regulation on driving distribution in the Committee on Economic Affairs is ongoing, the deadline for amendments is 10 May. And I understand that after that there will be more extensive meetings with all market participants and interested parties. I assume that you, who are in pain for this, will surely go there and ask all the same questions. If you are asking about taxes, payment should be much easier in the collaborative economy, because in the case of Uber or Taxify, all business is through a credit card, and if the tax administration is working on its own solution, then every step is actually observable. I suggest you try using this service yourself, then you will see how it works. The drivers are ordinary Estonian people, by the way, and they retain income, i.e. the beneficiaries are ordinary Estonian people. I think it is positive that the development of communication technology, especially information technology and mobile phones, has led to a somewhat more free market in taxiing, too, instead of strict regulation. It doesn't get decent cab drivers out of circulation, it's pirate taxi drivers out of circulation. And that should be the purpose of this action. I would add that, if you look at the general logic of public transport, the world's experience shows that when there is a functioning, good quality, constantly supervised and affordable public transport, it increases the usability of public transport. So that's what I suggest you take into account.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-04_U65	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-04_U66	Evgeni Ossinovski, Minister of Health and Labour, will be asked by Monika Haukamm in his duties as Prime Minister. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-04_U67	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. In the previous Question Hour of the Riigikogu, Prime Minister Rõivas answered my question concerning the financing of health care and brought in, among other things, the issue of self-participation. I am very surprised that he has informed us that the budget of the Health Insurance Fund is in a critical state because, for a long time, we have had very low levels of ownership. He also said, I read it out loud: 'We have deliberately built a healthcare system where, for example, in the case of operations and other treatments, as well as in the case of payment for medicines, the patient's own participation would be as low as possible. " He noted that it had been a choice for years. At the same time, we know that in Estonia the participation rate is close to 25%, which is already critical, because the WHO says that 15% is a reasonable limit. Has the Prime Minister misunderstood anything? What are you planning to do in the government to stop the increase in ownership because there is too much 5% over the last few years?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-04_U68	Thank you. The Prime Minister is undoubtedly right that the solidarity health care system has been a long-term political choice for Estonia. I think this choice has been very correct. The fact that an Estonian person can go to either an outpatient reception or a planned operation essentially free of charge is one of the highest values of the current system that must be maintained. Indeed, the question may arise: if most procedures, especially the more expensive ones, are very small in Estonia, essentially with only a visit fee, how does the patient's own contribution begin to approach 25% of the overall costs. In order to understand this, it is worth looking into the ownership of the company. We can see that other than the usual health care service, especially the visit fee, as well as such things as glasses and other objects of vision, medicines and dental care, comes under ownership. If we look at the last two, the medicines together account for 37% of the ownership and 26% of the dental care. The own contribution is reaching the limit that the state itself has set itself with the population health development plan, i.e. 25%. So, in fact, we should go precisely in that direction to reduce our participation in two groups in particular: one is medicine and the other is dental care. The good news is the government's agreement that from the second half of next year, adult dental care benefits will be paid. For this purpose, money is foreseen, the concept and drafts are in the final stages and will reach the Riigikogu in the autumn. On the other hand, we are also analysing ways of reducing the participation of medicines, particularly chronic patients and elderly medicines.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-04_U69	Monika Haukanõmm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-04_U70	Thank you! Thank you for your answer. I'm sure your participation will also be increased by a bed-day fee that you didn't mention in your story. But in order to know how to take these steps, we must also set a final goal in order to understand what purpose we want to achieve. My question is this: what is the government's wish that we would like to achieve by lowering the percentage? What is the government's goal, 22% or, for example, 20%? What and when do we want to get to?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-04_U71	Finally, it would like people to be less sick and less in health care, so the problem of ownership would be solved, and the problems of financing treatment would also be more easily solved. Therefore, under my leadership, the Ministry of Social Affairs will certainly place greater emphasis on health promotion and problem prevention, whether in the case of tobacco, alcohol, drug addiction, HIV or other diseases. As far as ownership is concerned, once again: if we look from a slightly different angle, we can see that the costs for groups of people with different incomes are very different. While more wealthy people account for most or a large part of their own contributions to dental care, less wealthy people have basic costs for medicines. At the moment, we are working to change the procedures for the payment of dental benefits so that older people and chronic patients receive broader insurance cover in terms of the system and more favourable medicines as a patient. Now, in terms of percentage of the primary goal. Well, national logic forces the percentages to be recorded as a goal. For me, it is more important that the person gets all the necessary health care, be it dental care or medicine. We know that this is not the case at the moment, and for many people the availability of treatment, especially dental care, is poor. That's why we're starting the dental benefit. On the other hand, we know that certain segments, especially older people and people with chronic diseases, have difficulties in accessing medicines for financial reasons, despite our prescription system. We certainly want to lower both our holdings. Whatever percentage it eventually falls depends on a lot of indicators and doesn't need to be overfocused on, but it should come down.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-04_U72	Marika Tuus-Laul, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-04_U73	Thank you. Mr. Ossinovski! The own contribution is closely linked to the entire funding process. Ralf Allikvee, Chairman of the Management Board of East Tallinn Central Hospital, has taken the floor very keenly and said that he does not remember his 37-year practice in financing health care as it is now. He sees that the so-called financial viability will be zero in a few years. You yourself have also been very critical, for example, in yesterday's Postimees story. Could you give me a couple of or three points that can be done right now, and could you agree on a government deal? I understand that some parties do not come with you and do not share your thoughts on how to improve health care and its financing.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-04_U74	Thank you. About half an hour ago, I also addressed the question of what a sustainable model of healthcare financing could look like in my responses. This requires us to move towards more revenue from other national budget allocations, based on the income model of the Health Insurance Fund based on labour taxes. There are several ways in which this can be done. The Government of the Republic shall discuss such proposals and analyses, which have been carried out over a long period of time in cooperation between the various parties, including with the participation of the Hospital Association. On this basis, the necessary decisions will certainly be made. It is important that the funding of health insurance is sustainable, although it will not be a problem in the coming years, but in the longer term. The second issue referred to by the Honorable Doctor Allikvee concerns the hospital network. Of course, it is understandable that if the demographic situation changes and it changes, it is reasonable to review the hospital network. At the same time, it should be noted that the reform of hospitals was carried out in Estonia a long time ago, and the hospital network is generally beautifully optimal. But we'll see that some of the specialties are moving more there and there. The analysis is currently being carried out. I understand that they are impatient and want results now, but we want to reach a longer-term plan until 2030 and see which specialties should be guaranteed in which hospital. The work is currently very active and the results will certainly be introduced to the Riigikogu in the second half of the year. So, yes, the financing model needs to be changed, and the Government of the Republic will be discussing this in the next month.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-04_U75	Thank you to the ministers. Question Time is over.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-04_U76	Let's start the Wednesday hearing. Transfer of enquiries and drafts. Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-04_U77	Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of 20 members of the Riigikogu, I will refer an inquiry to Prime Minister Taavi Rõivas. This concerns an issue that is important to Estonia, because our money is also in play: it concerns the situation in Greece, Greece's ability to repay existing loans. On 8 June last year, Greece submitted another application for financial assistance to the European Stability Mechanism. The majority of the Riigikogu, or coalition ambassadors, supported this draft Memorandum of Understanding between Greece and the European Commission. In the meantime, the time has passed without the most alarming news, but spring has brought the clouds of anxiety back to heaven. The finance ministers of the euro area decided to cancel the planned extraordinary meeting by the end of April, where new disbursements from Greece's third aid package would have been discussed. The Athens Stock Exchange has reacted to this with a strong fall. Greece has undertaken a series of tasks that it must carry out, but the progress report is modest. Rather, the IMF estimates can be viewed here, which, for example, show that 55% of households in Greece do not pay personal income tax. But we are in a situation where Greece will have to repay EUR 650 million to the IMF in June and EUR 2.3 billion to the European Central Bank in July. For these repayments, Greece needs a new payment from the third aid package. At present, it seems that the previous scenario is repeating: Greece needs a new injection of funds to cover its previous liabilities. We therefore have four questions for the Prime Minister. Has his optimistic assessments of Greece remained as optimistic, or is the loan relief still on the agenda? Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-04_U78	On behalf of the Bureau, I have adopted an inquiry which we will forward to the addressee if it complies with the Home and Rules of Procedure Act. Incoming check, please! 77 members of the Riigikogu registered for the plenary session, 24 are missing.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-04_U79	Honourable Riigikogu! Our work yesterday was interrupted at the moment when we discussed draft law on the settlement of the dispute between the housing association initiated by the Group of the Estonian Central Party in 187. The representative of the initiators of the draft could ask questions to Mikhail Korb. Please, Mikhail Korb back to the speaker's desk! You can ask him more questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-04_U80	Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-04_U81	March Sults, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-04_U82	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good waitress, Mr Miša, is the structure you offer an extension to the bar Association to make it easier for the bar Association to work and to unravel the problems before taking them to court until the last piece? Does this structure have legal status?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-04_U83	Thank you for your question. Yeah, this structure has decision-making powers, and its decisions are to be enforced. If one of the parties is not satisfied with the Commission's decision, both parties have the right to appeal. However, if the decision has not been appealed, the party that demanded the protection of its rights has the right to go to the bailiff and the bailiff is already taking the following steps to ensure that the decision can be implemented.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-04_U84	Thank you, Mikhail Korb! There are no further questions for the representative of the initiators. The rapporteur for the Committee on Legal Affairs is Kristjan Kõljalg. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-04_U85	Dear Chairman, Ladies and gentlemen, The Committee on Legal Affairs discussed this draft law in two sessions. For the first time since April 12th, Mikhail Korb introduced it to us. We decided that since there were linguistic inaccuracies and contradictions in the draft, we are giving the opportunity to supplement it. That is what Mr Korb agreed to, and so we came back to the subject on 18 April. This time, too, we discussed the draft law and made proposals for further processing. The vote placed the proposal to close the first reading of the draft, with 5 votes in favour and 5 against. As the proposal for the termination of the first reading did not receive more than votes against, according to § 38 (1) of the Riigikogu Law on the Rules of Procedure and Rules of Procedure and the comments of that Act, the Commission proposed to reject the draft at first reading. Other procedural decisions were that I was appointed rapporteur and that it was proposed to put the draft on yesterday's agenda. Since the Commission's rapporteur is also responsible for speaking about the Government of the Republic, a few words about this. The Government of the Republic does not, in principle, oppose the extension of alternative dispute resolution options, but the Government of the Republic does not consider it possible to support this draft. In civil matters, it is believed that the direction should primarily be towards the wider implementation of the Conciliation Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-04_U86	There are no questions for the Commission rapporteur. Thank you, Kristjan Kõljalg! I'm opening negotiations. There's no call. As you have heard, the proposal of the commission is to reject the draft 187 at first reading. That is what we need to vote on. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the commission's proposal to reject the draft law on the settlement of the dispute between the housing company initiated by the Central Party Group at first reading. Please take a stand and vote. There were 45 members of the Riigikogu in favour of the proposal, 26 against, 4 abstentions. The decision of the commission has been taken: draft 187 has fallen out of the procedure.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-04_U87	We begin the third reading of the draft law amending the Electronic Communications Act and the Product Compliance Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. I'm opening negotiations. There's no call. Dear Riigikogu, we are going to the final vote! I am voting on the draft law amending the Law on Electronic Communications and the Law on Conformity of Products, initiated by the Government of the Republic, 130. Please take a stand and vote. 71 members of the Riigikogu are in favour of adopting the draft, 5 against, no abstentions. The Act amending the Electronic Communications Act and the Product Compliance Act has been adopted.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-04_U88	The next item is the third reading of the draft law on environmental monitoring initiated by the Government of the Republic. I'm opening negotiations. No requests, let's go to the final vote. Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on the draft law on environmental monitoring initiated by the Government of the Republic 100. Please take a stand and vote. There are 65 parliamentarians in favour of adopting the draft law, against one, with three abstentions. The Environmental Monitoring Act has been adopted. The manager's break is five minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-04_U89	Honourable Riigikogu! According to a representative of the Government of the Republic, the Minister has just landed on his way here. Therefore, the manager will take another break, this time seven minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-04_U90	Kadri Simson, procedural question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-04_U91	Dear Speaker of the Riigikogu, Since the rapporteur obviously does not find time to come to the Riigikogu to defend the draft, even after two breaks, it is proposed to exclude this draft from the agenda.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-04_U92	This is an extremely substantive and very serious proposal. But since the Minister has now walked through the door, our agenda now includes the first reading of the draft law amending the Defence League Act, the Defence Forces Service Act and the State Defence Penalty Penalty Act 212, initiated by the Government of the Republic. Thank you for your understanding. Secretary of Defense Hannes Hanso, on behalf of the initiators, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-04_U93	Honourable members of the Riigikogu! The draft, which I present here, provides for changes in the area of administration of the Ministry of Defence relating to the reform of working capacity. As we all know, the main objective of the labour capacity reform is to support the employment and employment of people with reduced working capacity. As a major change, the reform will move to an assessment of the ability to work and end the percentage of loss of work. The social guarantees for members of the Defence Forces are compensation for damage to health caused by the performance of their duties and the principle that the amount of the financial compensation so far depends on the extent of the damage suffered. Compared to other civil service, more damage to health occurs in the Defence Forces, and injuries are also very serious. The transition to a partial and missing capacity assessment in the national system would mean a significant reduction in guarantees for defence personnel, as compensation rates should be harmonised in the case of injuries of varying degrees. Social guarantees for members of the Defence Forces and the Defence League have been approved some time ago in the veteran policy adopted in 2012. It has also been decided at the meeting of the Cabinet two years ago, namely 24 April, that the social guarantees of the Defence Forces will not be changed in the course of the labour capacity reform. That's what this bill is about. The preservation of the guarantees is also possible because, so far, the determination of permanent loss of working capacity in the area of the Ministry of Defence has taken place within the Defence Forces Medical Commission, not just like ordinary people in the national system. The cash benefits and pensions provided for in the Defence Forces Service Act and the Defence League Act are paid from the Ministry of Defence budget, so it does not impose any additional cost on the state's purse. According to the draft, the regulation on the determination of permanent employment capacity will be transferred as a whole to the Defence Forces Service Act and the Defence Union Act, as well as amendments related to the entry into force of the Employment Capacity Allowance Act. The bill should enter into force as a law as from 1 July, while the Employment Capacity Allowance Act will be in force. That's all I'd like to do right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-04_U94	Questions for the initiator of the bill? There are no questions. Thank you. Commission waitress Johannes Kert, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-04_U95	Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, Ladies and gentlemen! For bill 212, I have the following to report. The National Defence Committee discussed the draft at its meeting on 18 April before the first reading, where Erki Kodar, Deputy Chancellor of Justice and Administration of the Ministry of Defence, participated as the initiator of the draft. The purpose of the draft is to make changes in the area of administration of the Ministry of Defence regarding the reform of working capacity. The Defence Union Act, the Defence Forces Service Act and the National Defence Penalty Act will be brought into line with the law. a the Act on Disability Allowance, which will enter into force on 1 July, while maintaining the social guarantees provided to members of the Defence Forces in their current form. Compared to other areas, the most serious damage to health occurs in the Defence Forces, and injuries in the performance of their duties are also very serious. The transition to a partial or missing capacity assessment in the course of the work capacity reform would result in a significant reduction in the guarantees for the members of the Defence Forces, thus continuing to maintain a one-off compensation according to the severity of the injuries suffered. In the area of administration of the Ministry of Defence, the Medical Commission of the Defence Forces continues to identify the extent of permanent incapacity for work and to express it as a percentage of incapacity for work. The periodic payment of disability and survivors' pensions under the Defence Forces Service Act will also remain valid in order to ensure that the members of the Defence Forces are more confident in performing their duties at a higher risk. In addition to the changes related to the identification of incapacity for work, the draft harmonises the organisation of the provision of social services and assistance facilities provided for by the Defence Forces Services Act with the amendments to the employment capacity reform. The draft under discussion is intended to be enforced as a law on 1 July this year, when amendments to the Labour Capacity Allowance Act and related other laws will enter into force. As the draft relates to the reform of the working capacity, the National Defence Committee also requested the opinion of the Sectoral Commission, the Social Committee, on the proposal of the Member of the Commission, Ain Lutsep. At its meeting on 18 April, the National Defence Committee decided by consensus to propose to the Board of the Riigikogu to include the draft under discussion for the first reading on the agenda of today's sitting of the Riigikogu, the rapporteur being appointed here. In addition, the National Defence Committee decided by consensus to propose that the Riigikogu conclude the first reading of the draft and set the deadline of 13 May at 15. That's all I'm gonna do. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-04_U96	Questions for the waitress. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-04_U97	Good manager! Good waitress! I read in the explanatory memorandum that there are currently 70 individuals in the area of the target group of prosthetic prosthetics, since there are no new complex military missions. However, it is noted a little above that ten military personnel do not have either one or two legs, four do not have one or two hands, and three have prosthetic eye prosthetics. Who are the other about 50? What's their prosthetic?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-04_U98	Thank you for your question. I owe you an answer at this level of detail. I'll give you an additional answer.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-04_U99	No further questions. Thank you, Johannes Kert! I'm opening negotiations. There is no wish for negotiation. First reading of Bill 212 is complete. I will set the deadline for the submission of amendments at 3 p.m. on 13 May.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-04_U100	We will begin the first reading of the draft law on family benefits initiated by the Government of the Republic. Margus Tsahkna, Minister of Social Protection, will make a presentation on behalf of the initiators. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-04_U101	Honourable Chairman! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! The draft law on family benefits 217 is before you at first reading. This is a large draft aimed at achieving that everything that concerns public family benefits, parental benefits and maintenance support is included in a single law. One of the most important political decisions of this law, I would say, is the regularisation of a maintenance scheme, which marks the end of an era. If we look at the other parts of this law, we do not make major substantive changes here, but by regularising the maintenance scheme, we will introduce a new regulation aimed primarily at improving the well-being of children who grow in the care of one parent. I would like to start by thanking all the politicians, but above all those who have been taking the lead in the interest groups who, over a long period of years, have been holding up the issue of the livelihood and dignity of people raising children alone. Over the last ten years, there has been a major change in public opinion. In the past, it was thought that if parents split up and could not cope with each other, it would be more of a problem between them. It is now understood that we must take care of all children. It is the duty of the state to guarantee all children the rights they have under the law and, if necessary, to take the weaker side. But I'll come back to the maintenance plan later. The specific draft, the title of which is the Family Benefits Act, consists of three parts. We currently have the State Family Benefits Act, the Parental Benefits Act and the Maintenance Aid Act already mentioned. The Family Benefits Act is part of the codification of the Social Code. So far, the regulation of benefits and benefits for families has been very incomplete in law; it is enshrined in different laws. With the Family Benefits Act, we bring them all together in one place so that both those who apply the law and, above all, the people who need help can get their answers from one place. The merger of the three laws has been defined as one of the main objectives: to support families with children and to support the raising of children. The law also uses a new term: 'family benefits'. These are state-owned family benefits, parental benefit and maintenance support. In the course of codification, the laws have been simplified, updated, their terminology has been updated and brought into line with the Law on the General Part of the Social Code, which entered into force on 1 January 2016. A limited number of substantive changes have been made to the law. And indeed, the exception is the same new maintenance scheme that we implement by law as from 1 January 2017. The general provisions combine the common parts of the three laws. This avoids duplication of similar provisions in three laws and makes it considerably easier to implement the law. General provisions are important because they give us a clear picture of how family benefits can be applied for, how they are determined, how they are paid, and also lay down the grounds for the termination of payment. So legal clarity increases. In order for parents to receive benefits quickly and without difficulty, it has been made as easy as possible to apply for family benefits and parental benefits. We have also regulated the implementation of this new information system by law. The aim is for young mothers and fathers to receive information about the benefits they are entitled to after the child is born. In essence, in the future, one click on the computer will be sufficient to allow the benefits to reach the parent's bank account. We plan to make it as simple as possible so that all the information is known as a collection by the parents. Specific amounts are laid down for national family allowances. If so far child benefits have been enshrined in the law as rates, then now, in order to facilitate an understanding of the exact amount of this family allowance, specific amounts have been written in each case. I would remind you that child benefits have also risen and will rise further in the future. The objective of the coalition agreement, as well as the legislation, is that in 2019 the first and second children's allowance is EUR 60, the third and each subsequent children's allowance is already EUR 100, and the new EUR 200 family allowance will also enter into force in the half of 2017. So we can say that, as early as the middle of next year, families with three children will receive EUR 400 from the state. This is one of the steps we want to encourage Estonian men and women to have more than two children in their family. Studies show that Estonian men and women want more than two children in their families, but in fact our birth coefficient is 1.5. Very often there are reasons why the family does not have a third or fourth child, an economic one. And here I am pleased to say that there is no political disagreement. We must contribute to making our people larger in number. One fact is that, in order for us to grow more births or to maintain the current level, we have ten years, because from there the generation of many potential births will begin to end in childbirth, and in the future the growth of births by purely demographic indicators will be much harder or even impossible. The new law has waived the calculation of family benefits on the basis of the rate, the amount of benefits is specified in specific numbers. The law also improves the situation of children under guardianship or family care. The allowance for a child in custody or family care is paid in accordance with this law at least until the guardianship or family care contract is terminated, regardless of whether the child continues to study after completing his or her basic education. At present, there is a child over 16 who is not studying and who is not raised by his parents, without the support of a child in custody or family care, which is designed precisely to enable the child to grow in the family. The payment of child benefit to children over 16 years of age is still related to learning. However, there are no fundamental changes to other family benefits. We do not fundamentally change the parental benefit law. The purpose of parental benefit is to maintain an old-age income for one parent and to support reconciliation between work and family life. The structure of the law has been changed, a number of clarifications have been made, differences have been reduced. For example, there are regulated situations in which another parent, adopter, guardian or guardian applies for compensation. And now for the maintenance scheme. Why are we working on implementing this? The figures and problems involved have been discussed several times in this board over the last few years. I am pleased that the previous Riigikogu adopted a fundamental political decision before disbanding. All the political forces represented in the Riigikogu basically supported the creation of a livelihood fund. In Estonia, parents raising children alone are now almost full of people in Pärnu, i.e. over 42000. In such families, 56000 children grow, i.e. one in four Estonian children grow up with one parent. And when you look at those groups in society that are difficult to manage economically, it is precisely the parents raising a child alone who are the hardest to cope with. I already told you about child benefits. These benefits relate specifically to children and all depend on how many children are in a particular household. But one serious problem is that when parents have broken up, there are many children, for various reasons, who are not paid for by the parent who left the family. Very many parents can agree on how the child will be cared for in the future, how they will contribute to raising him. Very often, however, adults are unable to solve their problems among themselves, and the child suffers. There are now more than 8 000 maintenance claims, i.e. claims against debtors, in enforcement proceedings. The amount owed to their children to maintenance benefits, maintenance support , is already more than EUR 15 million. It's the budget of one proper government for a whole year. We must understand that this money is owed to our children. The purpose of the maintenance scheme is to ensure that child maintenance aid of at least EUR 100 is received. I would also like to point out that this is not a new family allowance or child benefit, but a scheme based on a court-ordered livelihood on one side. If that party does not comply with this obligation, the claim shall be turned against it through enforcement proceedings, while the State shall take the weaker party and recover the money itself. At the same time, the state will pay the child a maintenance allowance of EUR 100. On 1 March, legislative changes came into force to make the debtor's life as difficult as possible and to give enforcement procedures more opportunities to recover maintenance aid debts. What is important is that we pay this EUR 100 per month until the child reaches the age of 18 and, if the child continues to study, until he or she reaches the age of 21. This is an important addition. It is very important that we have also reviewed the ranking of claims on the debtor. No matter what claims are against this person, banks or anyone, the child's claim is always the first and the state's claim follows. If the State is able to obtain money from the debtor through enforcement proceedings, then the child's claim against him and the State's claim are met first. The logic is that this monetary claim, which is EUR 100 per month, will continue to be directed against this debtor in the future. What is also important is that we have looked at the whole procedure. Let's look at a real situation in life that can happen and in many cases happens when parents break up and cannot agree on how to take care of a child in the future. Often, one party fails to fulfil its obligations. In that case, the other party must apply to the court. The basis for the active character of the maintenance aid scheme and its payments and claims is the judgment of the Court of Justice, which is specifically enshrined in the law. But we want to guarantee the child a living allowance already during the trial. This law therefore extends the period of maintenance aid during court proceedings from the current 90 days to 150 days, and the daily maintenance aid rate of EUR 3,2 is replaced by a specific amount of EUR 100 per month. If the parent goes to court, he or she shall be entitled to a maintenance allowance of EUR 100 per month during the period of 150 days. So we will raise the total amount of € 288 to € 500. This money, which will be paid to the child during court proceedings, will continue to be charged to the parent who evades the payment of maintenance aid and owes it. Now, when it comes to the payment of maintenance aid, the judgment will be enforced in enforcement proceedings after the judgment has been handed down. If, in the course of enforcement proceedings, the funds have not been recovered within four months, monthly payments of EUR 100 will be made. Why four months? That is precisely because, in enforcement proceedings, bailiffs are given the opportunity to claim debt. It's actually their responsibility. If this money is not received, in four months' time, we will pay the child a maintenance allowance of EUR 100. We have also regulated by this law the receipt of a maintenance debt from a debtor living abroad. Unfortunately, we have to admit that we do have legal regulation, but there is a specific question about how we actually get the money. The draft also concerns the implementation of this system, i.e. the development and implementation of the Information System of the Social Insurance Board as well as the Information System of the State Support Services Centre. Finally, I would like to say that this is an important step in the interests of very many parents raising children alone and, in fact, in the interests of society in general. The country will take one fundamental step forward in its family policy, and this step will be taken to protect the weaker party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-04_U102	Thank you, Minister. You have questions too. Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-04_U103	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. We tend to see that every bill has an impact analysis. On page 75 of this draft explanatory memorandum, you can read about the impact analysis, but I can only see the positive impact on children and their parents. There is no direct section that would reflect the impact on the state budget in the coming year and later. You have said in the past that in the case of a maintenance fund, only EUR 100 per month is taken over by the State because there is no more money. 7.2 million euros are planned for next year. Is this 7.2 million enough to carry out all the obligations that have already been passed on to the court, or is it also taken into account that there are many parents who have not yet taken up the courts because they have considered it hopeless, but they may come if they realise that at least EUR 100 will help them get their hands on them?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-04_U104	Thank you, good questioner! For the implementation of the maintenance scheme, EUR 7.2 million is foreseen in the state budget and in the state budget strategy. This is the amount that has been politically agreed, provided for in the state budget, and there will be enough of this money for all children who are justified to receive the same EUR 100 per month. If this law is passed, the state will be obliged to pay this money to all the children who are entitled to it. If we look at this amount from a state budget point of view, this amount is calculated, but all children, no matter how many they are, if they are justified to receive this EUR 100 maintenance allowance from the state, they will get it. If there are very many children, i.e. if this 7.2 million, which is estimated to be in the state budget, is not enough, then the state budget will in any case have to pay this money and the amount will then be higher. According to current estimates, this $7.2 million will continue. Similarly, in the case of income support, for example: we count certain amounts from the state budget for this, but if there are more recipients of income support, no person will lose this money. So you don't have to worry about someone losing a living grant because of the state budget shortage. As far as this EUR 100 is concerned, I will bring some parallels. In Germany, for example, there is a similar system, and even though there are only nominally higher incomes, and also higher claims imposed by the court, it is the German state that guarantees a maintenance allowance of EUR 100. If we look at Latvia, which is perhaps a better comparable country to us, then a little more than a year ago this amount was EUR 30, now they have proposed to raise it. In Finland, this amount is just over 130 euros. So, in this system, we are setting up our EUR 100 maintenance allowance for a position of every dignity.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-04_U105	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-04_U106	Thank you, good manager. Good minister! I will continue on the subject of the previous question. You say there's enough 7.2 million, but at the same time the bailiffs' house is worried that maybe there's gonna be more support, and they don't have the money. This is also the only comment that has not been taken into account in the draft. But here's my question. Mothers who raise their child alone What's that all about? As I understand it, you live somewhere in Himmas or in Ignas' village and go online. So what happens now?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-04_U107	Thank you. Our aim has been to make the whole procedure as simple as possible for a specific parent and child. I will then repeat once more how this procedure begins and how it goes. If the parents break up and cannot reach an agreement between themselves on how to take care of the child and one parent considers that the child is justified for a living, he or she will turn to the court and make an appropriate application. When presenting this, he also makes a one-time application to potentially start a maintenance scheme. If the court realises the maintenance and does not pay for it, then it automatically goes to the e-Filler system, i.e. if the parent has made a statement, the bailiff will have the claim. This e-Filler is actually an information technology solution for bailiffs. The aim is for the information to move specifically between the e-Filler, the Social Insurance Board and also the state. The aim is that a person who lives in an apology, I do not remember what places you mentioned somewhere further away, should not run to the various institutions, but to the bailiff, but to the Social Insurance Office, but to present this application at the same time. It's online. Similarly, this side will be taken into account when the State receives money from the debtor. All this calculation would be automatic and, above all, the interests of the child would be guaranteed, then the interests of the state. We would also have an estimate that these monthly payments of EUR 100 would be made on the right date. So this e-Computer isn't some ugly animal. This is an electronic environment for bailiffs, where all relevant information gathers. And the e-Computer is not only developed because of the support fund, it is already a longer-prepared electronic system for bailiffs.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-04_U108	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-04_U109	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, By browsing this bill and perhaps too long explanatory statement, I had a specific question about § 8 (3). This provides one basis for suspending or stopping the payment of family benefits when a person is listed in the population register, but in fact no longer lives in Estonia. Right now, I understand there is no such foundation. Hence the question: how long will the absence in Estonia begin and how will it be determined in more detail? Secondly, this problem is understandable, and obviously it must be resolved in some way, but there should also be some measures to balance it in order to bring people back to Estonia or, at least, to keep in touch with their homeland. Do you have any of these?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-04_U110	Thank you. This Article 8 (3) is the basis for a more general objective, which I am happy to introduce to you. In fact, we have very little information about children until the obligation to attend school arises. This is a serious and wider problem. We want to ensure that we have as much information as possible about as many children in distress as possible. An early detection system for children is currently under preparation. The point is to get the best possible overview of the situation of all children in cooperation with the Social Insurance Board, the local governments and health information system, or doctors. This review would be ongoing. The system would in itself be such that when a child is born, he or she will be registered with a family doctor at the maternity home. So right after the moment of birth, a family doctor is assigned to the child. A parent can ask him or her to register with his or her family doctor or another family doctor is assigned to the child. This gives rise to the obligation to visit a family doctor for a certain period of time. It's still there now, but all the information is very incomplete. On the other hand, we are planning to make the family doctor or, at least, the family nurse's home visits mandatory for a certain period of time. There is, on the one hand, a child's health interests at stake, but on the other hand, it also gives some kind of picture of the circumstances in which the child lives. The system should look like this in the future, so that if the parent has not shown up to the family doctor in time, the family doctor will turn on the lamp and try to contact the parent. If he or she does not get in touch, he or she shall forward this information to the social worker or childguard of the local government on that information system, who must go to check for the reasons for which the child has not been subjected to health surveillance. This is how we learn that some children and their parents have moved from Estonia to Finland or anywhere. Or we may find out that in some families, children are not being cared for. The point of this provision is that if it turns out that a child does not live in an official place of residence and not in Estonia at all, there may have been a basis for suspending the payment of family benefits. The question was how long the child should have been out of Estonia, i.e. when his family will be considered to have left Estonia. Logic says that the question is whether a person is resident in Estonia or not. Right now, I owe you a specific number of days. The point of this provision is precisely that if it becomes apparent that there is a need to suspend the payment of child benefit or other family benefits, there is a basis for this and a margin of discretion takes place. I very much agree with your comment that we also have to deal with people coming back to Estonia. Today's population migration numbers were published, we're in surplus for a long time. More people have come to Estonia than have left. I can also say, to my satisfaction, that this is not the arrival of mass refugees, but, above all, the return from Finland to Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-04_U111	Dmitri Dmitriev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-04_U112	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister for Social Protection! In 2015, the Riigikogu adopted a decision that provided for the payment of maintenance aid amounting to 215 euros. In the draft currently under way, we see only EUR 100 instead of 215, which is, of course, better than nothing. I'll check it out. Was this a pure political agreement in the government coalition based on the possibilities and priorities of the state budget, or was there another reason?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-04_U113	Good questioner! The previous Riigikogu discussed the creation of a support fund as a political decision. I myself was one of those who prepared this particular draft decision and brought it to the hall, and I defended the same decision in this Chamber. That amount you mentioned is the average sum that is to be calculated. However, in particular during the preparation and processing of this draft, we also looked at the practice of other countries. As I have told you, EUR 100 is, in my opinion, a dignified and optimal amount, which we will, in any case, guarantee to any child who has been granted a living. I will once again bring you a parallel from Germany, where this amount is also EUR 100. It is slightly larger in Finland, much smaller in Latvia. So the decision we made here in 2015 together meant political consensus. It was the first time that all the political forces in this Chamber said yes, we are willing to go to help parents raising a child alone, yes, we are willing to bring this support fund into practice. This was proposed to the Government of the Republic. I recall that the current government took office a little over a year ago and the preparation of the maintenance scheme has been one of the highest priorities in the Ministry of Social Affairs. I am pleased to note that before you there is a well-designed maintenance aid scheme and, in the case of technical solutions, a precisely completed maintenance aid scheme. In the Family Benefits Act, this regulation is all written down.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-04_U114	Monika Haukanõmm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-04_U115	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. My question specifically concerns § 43, which refers to the recalculation of parental benefit when the calendar year changes. As we know, in general we do not recalculate parental benefit when the calendar year changes, but there is a difference in the law currently in force that if the parent receives the benefit at the minimum wage level, the benefit will be recalculated when the minimum wage level rises and he will receive a little more. The draft that is currently on our table will eliminate this distinction, which means that this compensation will no longer be recalculated. For what reasons has such a decision been made? After all, these are parents who usually earn low wages and are certainly the most vulnerable group.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-04_U116	Thank you, good questioner! Once, when this parental benefit system was approved, such a distinction was actually written in. But I wouldn't say it's the most vulnerable group. The minimum parental benefit is also not recalculated for those who have no income at all and are paid at the lowest rate. Since we have a period of parental benefit of one and a half years, there will also be a change of year when the second minimum wage rate will apply. And if you get this minimum, then this recalculation has also taken place. It has repeatedly been pointed out why we treat persons receiving parental benefit differently so that the principle of equal treatment should apply here. That is why it has now been decided in favour of equal treatment. The parental benefit, if granted, shall be the same for the entire period. In conclusion, the amounts are not high, in particular we are pursuing the objective of equal treatment for all persons who have been granted parental benefit. There's no other big political decision behind this.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-04_U117	A grain of Thomas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-04_U118	Thank you very much, Mr President. Good minister! My question concerns the organisation of a maintenance scheme. It is currently foreseen to pay EUR 100 for the parent from whom maintenance aid has been demanded through the court. I hope it's only a theoretical opportunity, but I'm still asking. Suppose the court has charged the parent some 250 euros, the state pays the child 100 euros until the age of 18, in some cases until the age of 21. But what happens if the state is unable to obtain this higher amount of maintenance aid in enforcement proceedings? When will the enforcement proceedings be completed? When the baby's 21 years old? And after that, will these parents be counted among the parents who give children 15 million dollars to lose? I'd like to figure it out a little bit, I can't figure it out on my own.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-04_U119	Indeed, we have to go over it. First of all, here's two sides. One thing is that the court has given the child a living. If a person who has a maintenance obligation, has not taken up or has paid part of it, that claim shall be maintained. The state will ensure that a maintenance allowance of at least EUR 100 is paid every month. If the court has determined EUR 200 or EUR 250, the money will also be recovered and if the remainder is recovered, the child will receive it. If you don't get that money, you're gonna have to keep it. The same e-system used by bailiffs keeps records of the level of claims against that person. When a specific child becomes an adult, whether 18 or, in certain cases, 21 years old, our age is important in the sense that up to that age we pay it 100 euros, but the debt claim against the parent still remains when he or she continues to be in debt. That money will continue to be collected. So a person in debt doesn't have a day when his child turns 18, in that sense not a day of celebration, but a debt still remains. We actually changed this regulation: from 1 March, new limitation periods started to apply, and now the requirement will expire after 10 years. So becoming an 18-year-old is not a day of celebration for the debtor, so we will just stop paying 100 euros.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-04_U120	Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-04_U121	I also have a question about this EUR 100. Currently, 75% of children receive maintenance aid at a minimum rate of half of the minimum wage on the basis of judicial decisions. This year it will be 215 euros. A new agreement has now been reached that next year the minimum wage will be EUR 470, i.e. the maintenance aid will probably be EUR 235. You have a provision in the draft law, § 50 (3) which states that maintenance aid during enforcement proceedings shall not be paid if the amount paid by the debtor is equal to EUR 100 or more than EUR 100 per calendar month. This means that if, for example, in 2017, the court finds out EUR 235, it will be enough to pay the EUR 100, and there will be no state aid. Or please reject it if I misread this provision!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-04_U122	You read it quite correctly. As I have always said, our aim is not to pay the full amount of the claim that exists, but to provide at least EUR 100 per month of maintenance assistance to a child who is entitled to maintenance aid. The second thing that I keep stressing: it is not about creating some kind of support system by which we are simply going to pay someone something. Everything is based on the real requirement imposed by the judgment. The goal is to get the money from the people who owe the maintenance aid. If, for example, the debtor pays EUR 100, the child receives the money and the child is guaranteed EUR 100. Then we won't pay him another 100 euros. That makes sense. For example, if the parent pays EUR 75, we will pay EUR 25. The aim is to provide a child with a maintenance allowance of EUR 100 per month. Right now, this kid's getting nothing. If you explain to the people what the principle of a livelihood fund is, please stress to them that we are simultaneously going to defend the weaker side and demand debts on behalf of the state, making use of all the possibilities that the state has. On the other hand, we ensure that the child receives at least EUR 100 each month. That logic has been explained in the provision you have indicated. If a person really pays 100 euros to a child in any month, this month the country will not pay 100 euros to the child, but if the maintenance claim is 215 euros at the same time, then the rest, 115 euros, will still remain as a claim. There is no way a person can escape this claim, or payment of his debt, if he pays 100 euros.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-04_U123	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-04_U124	Thank you, good manager. Good Minister for Social Protection! I read that the purpose of the bill is to support families with children and the raising of children. Now, surprisingly, I discovered that the draft includes a change to the National Death Allowance Act. Does this concern funeral allowance for children's deaths? If it's said that 7.2 million is going to be a maintenance grant, how much is going to be a funeral grant? I couldn't find that number in the bill.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-04_U125	Good questioner! Yes, indeed, the provisions on the payment of public funeral allowance are also included in the draft. There is, however, no change in substance. The state funeral allowance that we have restored is based on the 'need-to-need' principle. This can be requested in certain cases.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-04_U126	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-04_U127	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, I, too, will turn to the text of the bill. I, too, raised the question in paragraph 8 (3). It is very clear here that the Social Insurance Board has the right to rely on other data in addition to the data provided for in the Population Register Act. Which ones? Doesn't that mean you're gonna start getting data in pursuit? What is meant by the word pair 'other data'?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-04_U128	Good questioner! The Social Insurance Board shall be given discretion. In fact, local governments currently have the right to suspend the payment of child benefit in certain cases if it is seen that the parent does not take care of his or her child. The Social Insurance Institution will now also have discretion. I was talking about the implementation of the early detection system for the child, and it is the Social Insurance Board that pays child benefits. If certain information reaches him, for example, through a common system of child welfare, he or she may decide to suspend the payment of child benefit for a fixed period. This is the exercise of discretion, and this law is the basis for it. But such a decision cannot be made for any reason, but, as it says here, other data must also be used. When we arrive at the Riigikogu with a system of early notice of a child, this document must state precisely on what basis the Social Insurance Board may make such a decision.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-04_U129	Monika Haukanõmm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-04_U130	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. In answering my previous question, you said that you wanted to stop recalculating the unfair situation and its so-called'recalculation'. I propose a more favorable option for a human being. On the contrary, it would be possible to recalculate this amount each year and to pay the allowance at the rate applicable for a given year, as well as at the minimum rate for the individual parent receiving the allowance. But my question is, I think, that it is already, it seems to me, my favourite question is, "SKAIS2" and "e-Complete." These two systems must start working very well together. It is known that the development of the e-Filler has been difficult. How and when does an e-Filler apply so that bailiffs do not have to do manual work?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-04_U131	During the drafting of this bill, it was and is also now one of our serious tasks until 1 January 2017 that if e-solutions did not run from 1 January and there is a high probability that it is precisely this side of bailiffs that does not really run, then at least it would be guaranteed that these same requests and information would be processed. What's there to deny is to do it manually for a certain period. We have that readiness. I certainly do not want us to leave the maintenance scheme unimplemented because it is not possible to run the e-Filler system in its entirety exactly from that date. However, in any case, it must be ensured that the system will start from 1 January, we will be able to communicate this information safely to people, to move data between the Social Insurance Board and bailiffs. We actually have that readiness. Current forecasts show that we will, in any case, be able to ensure that the electronic procedure is operational over the course of the year. But possible failures do not mean that people's situation is different than in this bill. People make a single appeal, and it is the responsibility of the state to move all this information. I consider the postponement of this bill to be very harmful for those children who are currently not receiving maintenance support. We have had special attention precisely for them. And we've been working manually so far. Of course, this'manual' does not mean that houses with 'paper packs' are run between houses. Information travels with secure computer records.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-04_U132	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-04_U133	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, The experiences of other countries have certainly been analysed, and my question is this: to what extent could this support fund's money start to come back? Like in Latvia or like in Sweden? On page 84 of the explanatory memorandum, you try to evaluate it and suggest that you return 25% at first and 40% at the end. What is the basis for this optimism? It seems to me that our people's customs and attitudes are perhaps closer to Latvia than to Sweden in a bad way.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-04_U134	That percentage is impossible to say exactly today. I am sure that everything depends on this, and I fully agree with you, what is the attitude to this issue at all. Some men even think it's an honor to brag that you see, I haven't had to pay anything to my ex-boyfriend, I've been able to shirk it. Looking at Latvia's problem, Latvia implemented a livelihood fund and, in fact, they only managed to cash in 13% of the claim money. Our analysis shows that we have done the right thing if, first of all, we have wanted to apply precisely that side in order to give more rights to the enforcement procedure to make use of any sanctions. We have wanted to do more thinking about how to get the money. If a man is in debt, he has to pay the money, the bailiffs demand it. These amendments entered into force on 1 March of this year. In enforcement proceedings, enforcement authorities have been given a number of responsibilities as well as rights. Latvia did not start in this respect, but simply started to pay monthly maintenance support. It was their strategic mistake, and afterwards they've been trying to fix it. In conclusion, I think that Latvia's problem is that the side of the enforcement proceedings is weak. Our example is, in fact, Sweden. In Sweden, this figure is almost 90%, I am saying now. We have studied their system, and there is a little bit of reporting, that is, what is considered debt and what is not. The interesting thing about the Swedish system is that both parents must register in Sweden after the child is born. There is also a much better information system on who is responsible for raising a child. This also applies to other data. For example, there is a certain part of the father's obligation to withdraw parental benefit. I think it will not be too long before I come to the Riigikogu on the same subject and talk about how to link fathers more with children with measures aimed at the family and raising a child. This certainly also affects how much we get to pay off maintenance debts, and should have any effect on the fact that the other senior ♪ are now indebted to most fathers ♪ are not indebted to their children. We have very much devoted our attention to paying the children 100 euros and, on the other hand, how to get the money from the debtors. But the whole point of this system is that people even realize that caring for their children is the most natural thing. Even if you break up with people, you still have to take care of your child and contribute to raising him. If you don't, your life will turn to hell. It will still be much easier for you to live your life in the Republic of Estonia and outside the Republic of Estonia if you pay off the maintenance allowance. This message should reach society from a perspective, not only remind people of morals, but also let them know that their lives will be extremely difficult in practical terms if they avoid the payment of maintenance support. Of course, any additional percentage that exceeds the estimated percentage of receipts will benefit the taxpayer. But the aim is to provide maintenance support of at least EUR 100 for all children who grow up with one parent, because they are absolutely not responsible if the mother and father cannot cope with each other or if one parent simply decides not to take care of his or her child.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-04_U135	Olga Ivanova, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-04_U136	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear Minister, In your report, I did not hear anything about measures that would change the current situation. We see that bailiffs are unable to recover from their fathers the amount fixed in the judgment. How do they get that chance now, as it were? That's one. The second question is what happens if the father against whom the claim has been turned dies. Will this debt be automatically extinguished, or will the heirs have to pay the debt?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-04_U137	Good questioner! In fact, it does not deal with enforcement procedures relating to the requirements of the draft. The Family Benefits Act does not concern the recovery of debts. The law was amended in the previous Riigikogu, and the Minister of Justice Andres Anvelt carried it. The previous Riigikogu confirmed this and it entered into force on 1 March in the s. a. There were a number of changes since bailiffs became obliged to contact the debtor for a certain period of time. It was very often before that because the procedure was complicated and the sums were not very large at first, the bailiff had little interest in dealing with the subject. In fact, he has a duty to contact the debtor. The second amendment concerns the freezing of invoices, and now there is also the possibility of freezing 'linked' invoices. The debtors have had their salary credited to a relative or friend. The state is now also aware of the income from wages, as we have an obligation to register a person's work in the register from the first day of work. Thus, these options have come up until the bailiffs have substantially wider rights in enforcement proceedings to seize a person's property, to enter housing, etc. These measures only entered into force on 1 March this year. It is too early today to say what effect they have had on the recovery of maintenance claims. But my personal view is that these requirements are still too lenient. If a certain period goes by, whether a year or a half, we will see whether the legislative changes that have made procedural procedures more stringent have had a sufficient positive effect. If not, we should review the law and provide for additional measures to make it easier to get money out of the people who owe their livelihoods or to motivate these people to pay their debts. For me, it is incomprehensible, for example, why the state also makes contributions to the second pillar of the pension pillar for the maintenance debtor. If this person is indebted to the state, why should he receive certain benefits from the state? All these issues can still be discussed. This draft law, however, deals with how to ensure that a child who is entitled to maintenance support receives at least EUR 100 per month of maintenance aid. It's in here.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-04_U138	Marika Tuus-Laul, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-04_U139	Thank you. Mr. Minister! I'm going to ask you again the question of Peeter Ernits, you may not have understood exactly. We are dealing with a bill 217 entitled 'Family Benefits Act'. This law brings together the right number of grants. In ten words, the text of the law also states the purpose of the law: "The purpose of this law is to support families with children and the raising of children. ' And at the same time, there's a funeral allowance in here. How does funeral allowance support families with children?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-04_U140	We're all somebody's kids.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-04_U141	Yeah, and nobody's forever. Viktoria Ladynskaja, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-04_U142	Good minister! What you can deny there is the most difficult question about this bill in relation to those children who have had one of their parents leave Estonia. How do these children qualify for this support? And are the hands of the Estonian state long enough to provide assistance to those whose parent is a foreigner?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-04_U143	With the Ministry of Justice, we spent a long time figuring out how to handle it. We have provided for regulation on how to ensure enforcement procedures also against those who have left Estonia. Practice shows that very many of them work in Finland. Once the relevant agreements have been concluded, this enforcement procedure can be "transferred', the necessary data will move into the system of national enforcement proceedings and this money will be recovered. That's the kind of exchange of information that we have prescribed by law. Our goal is that leaving Estonia will not release people from fulfilling their obligations. Statistics show that the people of Estonia are mostly not far away in New Zealand or anywhere else; they are 80 kilometres behind the bay. The exchange of information with Finland, including in the wider social system, is a major challenge for us. The prerequisites for the implementation of the maintenance scheme are laid down in this draft; it is a matter of how it turns out in practice, but the possibilities for this draft, when it becomes a law, will provide.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-04_U144	Marika Tuus-Laul, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-04_U145	Thank you. Speaking of funeral support, it was yesterday in the committee that we had the draft of the Estonian Centre Party Group on raising funeral support to the level we had before. All the families who had to arrange this sad event received this support. The funeral allowance was introduced by the Regulation since 1993. It was paid from 2000 on the basis of the law, ended in 2009 as a universal subsidy and started to be paid only to recipients of income support in 2015. About 15,500 people die a year, less than 500 people have received this support. Funerals are also very, very expensive for people on average pay. Why, however, does neither the IRL nor the Reform Party support an increase in funeral allowance? In the vast majority of European countries, it exists for everyone who has to organise this event.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-04_U146	We supported the right of people who have to bury their loved ones and who are not economically able to do so to apply for a funeral allowance. Indeed, the actual funeral allowance has not been restored. I think it is up to us, in cooperation with the municipalities, to pay this money precisely to those who need it.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-04_U147	Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-04_U148	Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. I would say that the bill really does have a plus: families receive support. I am not going to repeat the other questions, but I will come to the entry into force of the law foreseen on 1 January 2017. I looked at those paragraphs that we're postponing entry into force. Some paragraphs will be implemented in two years' time. I checked them out. They don't take too much money. What does this postponement have to do with?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-04_U149	Some of the dates of entry into force relate to the development of IT solutions. The second part relates to the plans of the state budget. If we look at the increase in child benefits over the next few years, the first and second children's allowance is to be increased in three consecutive years, in the meantime, the allowance for a family rich in children will apply. Hence the different dates of entry into force of the various provisions in this draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-04_U150	Thank you, Minister. No further questions for you. Please report to Helmen Küti, member of the Social Affairs Committee of the Speaker's Committee.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-04_U151	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, The Minister gave a comprehensive overview of the draft here today, and I will try to give you an overview of how the Social Affairs Committee prepared the draft Family Benefits Act 217 for the first reading. First of all, on 18 April, a meeting of the Social Affairs Committee was held in which Mr Margus Tsahkna, Minister of Social Protection, Joanna Karu, Adviser to the Children and Families Department of the Ministry of Social Affairs, Katre Pall, Head of the Social Security Department, and the Legal Advisers of the Ministry, Kersti Berendsen-Koržets and Jaanus Põldmaa. Deputy Chancellor Rait Kuuse was also present. Just as thoroughly as the Minister presented here today, he presented the draft law to us in the Commission. Fewer questions were asked at this meeting. The members of the Commission asked to clarify whether, in addition to the maintenance assistance to which the Minister devoted the most time, this was to bring family benefits to a new level in order to improve children's livelihood, there was something else that the Family Benefits Act wanted to change. The reply explained that this was a codification exercise. For clarification and the sake of the verbatim report, codification was already started in 2010 at the Ministry of Social Affairs. In the case of this draft, the Parental Benefits Act and the Maintenance Aid Act have been put together in a single law. Of course, terminology and more specifically the obligations of regulated people, the responsibilities of local authorities and the activities of administrative bodies have also been updated. One change has been to inform parents about their rights. The conditions for receiving maintenance support were asked. The reply made it clear that, in particular, legal proceedings should be initiated against the person liable for the child's maintenance. The Commission was interested to see how far the information technology system "SKAIS2' should be implemented on 1 January 2017. The Minister explained that there was a readiness, when it was implemented everything would work nicely. He also added that the House of bailiffs has a new e-Filler system under development. At this first meeting of the Commission, procedural decisions were also adopted and I will read them immediately, because I will also present the minutes of the next two sittings of the Commission. The procedural decisions were as follows: to put the draft law on the plenary agenda by today, 4 May (consensus), to propose that the first reading be closed (also by consensus), to propose a deadline of 18 May at 5.15 p.m. (consensus) and to appoint Mr Kütt as rapporteur. In front of you, I'm doing this report today. The next meeting of the Social Affairs Committee where we discussed this draft was on Tuesday, 19 April. True, the name of this bill is not on the agenda, but the members of the Social Affairs Committee wanted to get an overview of the preparedness of information systems and SKAIS2 has a great deal to do with this bill. Ain Aaviksoo, Deputy Chancellor of e-Services Development and Innovation of the Ministry of Social Affairs, Head of the Information and Communication Technology Department of the Ministry of Social Affairs and member of the Board of the Estonian E-Health Foundation Margus Honourable, Head of the Social Insurance Board, Merlin Murumets, Head of the Social Services Unit of the Social Insurance Board Liis Sild, Chairman of the Board of the Estonian Unemployment Insurance Fund Meelis Paavel and Head of the Social Security Department of the Ministry of Social Affairs Katre Pall were invited to the meeting on 19 April. The members of the Commission were given a very thorough overview of the SKAIS2 and its implementation. The Commission was interested in the timetable and asked questions about it. The Vice-Chancellor replied that in the performance of any contract entered into, the schedules have not been broken, if they are late, only a day or two. The project is complete due to its own source of funding and has a total budget of over EUR 7 million, of which EUR 4 million is public budget money and the rest is covered by the Structural Funds. During this meeting, we obtained the assurance that the application of the family benefits section in the SKIAS2 should be completed as early as 3 October and that we will have legal clarity by midsummer day. The Commission was also asked to find out about the e-Fulfilment system. The answer was that there is currently no more information about the e-Filler than the promise made during the discussions that the Ministry of Justice and its IT development agency, the Registries and Information Systems Centre will take this seriously and the work will be done on time. Now, as you can see, the bill is 93 pages, plus 14 pages of implementing acts. The purpose of the draft is to amend 19 specific laws. Yesterday, on 3 May, we held a meeting of the Social Affairs Committee, attended by Hanna Vsevov, Head of the Children and Families Department of the Ministry of Social Affairs, Joanna Karu, Adviser to the same department, Katre Pall, Head of the Social Security Department, and legal advisers Kersti Berendsen-Koržets and Jaanus Põldmaa, Head of the Service for the Enforcement Procedure of the Registers and Information Systems Centre, Piret Saarte, Adviser to the Private Legal Service of the Ministry of Justice, Jekaterina Agu, Member of the Board of Directors of the Chamber of Lawholders and Bankrat Administrators, Arvi Pink, Senior Lawyer Angelina Mihhaljova and Adviser to the Chamber Jaan Lõõnik. The Commission considered it essential to have a full overview and also to hear how the various parties, all of whom are bound by the same law on family benefits, whether they are maintenance aid or other, are prepared to carry out these tasks. Sadly, no one from the single - parent organization showed up yesterday, even though they were invited. What happened in the Commission? The Commission has given a comprehensive overview of what has been done, and I want to give great credit to those who have done here and say that the work done by the Legal Advisers and other staff of the Ministry of Social Affairs is excellent. In the Commission, the draft was dissected by sections. I believe that anyone who reads the bill and its explanatory statement will have answers to all the questions. I would like to focus on the issues raised by the Members of the Commission. The concern pointed out by the Chamber of bailiffs and Bankruptcy Administrators was that the state has to take on clear financial commitments here, and nothing can be done at the expense of bailiffs' money. EUR 35000 is intended for bailiffs to start the application of this scheme, so that no additional costs are added to them. We have 48 fulfillers and each executioner receives an extra EUR 60 per month. The members of the Commission were also interested in how they were expected to get their money back, how it would be ensured that the debtor would still not be in debt to the State either. In particular, the members of the Commission were pleased that the child's interests were at the forefront, that even the child was ahead of the country. There was also interest in what would happen if the SKIAIS2 and the e-Filler system still did not work. A firm response was given that there is now an analysis phase and the transition will be two-part, by the end of this year we will also get an interface. There was also a question of how changes to the population register are controlled. These were issues that were discussed very seriously in the Committee on Social Affairs, analysing this draft law. I have already said the deadline for amendments at the beginning. However, some concerns remained with bailiffs, for example because other claims are monthly, but these claims are submitted in half a month and are counted on the 15-14th and not on a full month basis. So probably some amendments will be tabled. There will certainly also be proposals from the Committee on Social Affairs, but, overall, the opinion was expressed that this law is very necessary. This will reduce child poverty and improve families' coping. In fact, one major step has been taken to ensure that women who suffer from domestic violence also dare to do something to protect themselves, because they know that if a spouse does not pay their children a living, it is possible that the state will support them and they will manage without a man. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-04_U152	Thank you, dear waitress. No questions for you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-04_U153	Sad, very sad.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-04_U154	I'm opening negotiations. On behalf of the Group of the Aivar Kokk Fatherland and Res Publica Union, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-04_U155	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, Today we have discussed the draft law on family benefits at length. It seems to me that this bill could be called 'The State will come to the aid of single parents'. Children living with only one parent are 56000 in Estonia. Every fourth family is one where one of the parents does not pay the child a living allowance. As of the end of 2015, more than 8 000 maintenance creditors were subject to enforcement proceedings. This is as much as the population of Põltsamaa city and rural municipality combined. The total amount of money owed to children was more than EUR 14.5 million. Families where one parent does not care for their children may be at risk of poverty and the country must come to the aid of each child because it is important. It is important for Estonia that young people have greater confidence in creating families and raising children. One step in this direction is a maintenance aid scheme that provides additional certainty for single parents. The establishment of the fund will ensure that children of debtors receive at least EUR 100 each month. Maintenance aid shall be paid until the child reaches the age of 21 or until the age specified in the judgment. How does the new maintenance scheme work? If the maintenance allowance is not paid, the judgment must be addressed to the bailiff and the application must be submitted for the opening of enforcement proceedings and for maintenance assistance. After the application has been filed, the bailiff shall initiate proceedings and coercive measures. If the debt still persists after four months, the trustee will forward the information about the amount of maintenance aid due to be paid to the Social Security Board. No later than the fifth day of the following month, the maintenance allowance shall be paid. Children who grow in families at higher risk of poverty, including single-parent families, are currently in a worse situation. It is the duty of the state to help children suffering from poverty, but this does not mean that a maintenance debtor should not have to fulfil his obligations. It has to! The new maintenance scheme is not a new form of support; this money will be recovered from debtors. It's just that kids don't have to suffer. The state has more levers to get money than a private individual. If the debt is not paid, the debtor cannot, for example, formalise a new document or use another public service. The purpose of the payment of child support is to combat child poverty and social exclusion, while promoting the well-being of children. The child support scheme is only one way of helping single parents; family benefits and parental benefits will also play a greater role in the future. Data published by Statistics Estonia show that social benefits led to a decrease in the number of children living in relative poverty of almost 36% in 2014. That doesn't mean you can be satisfied with the situation, but things are getting better. In order to combat poverty, subsidies will be increased further over a few years. The action plan of the Government of the Republic until 2019 foresees that the first and second children's allowance will rise to 55 euros in the coming year and 60 euros in 2019, which is nearly three times more than in 2014. Since the third child, the child benefit is already EUR 100 per month. This is a clear message for parents that family and children are an important asset to the country and that more and more money is being invested in this area. In the coming year, there will also be an entirely new family allowance for families with children: a family raising three to six children will receive 200 euros and a family with seven or more children will receive 300 euros per month. In addition to family benefits, wage growth, which has been projected at around 5%, and the tax return law already adopted for low-paid people will help improve the situation of poorer families. There are approximately 80,000 people who work hard every day from morning to evening but receive a salary that is so low that it is difficult to cope with. This year, a system of reimbursements aimed at improving the livelihood of families was launched. Two more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-04_U156	Thank you. Heljo Pikhof from the Social Democratic Party Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-04_U157	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good fellows! I believe that many of us will remember the night sessions in December 2013, when the coalition at the time found that the whispers were merely pranking when organising night sessions to raise child benefits. Now for the second time in the government coalition, we have actually been able to do something tangible for the children. With great perseverance, the Social Democrats have stood up for social democratic values both in the opposition and in the coalition. Otherwise, the coalition agreement would not have been the first thing to improve the management of families with children. This priority is more than welcome to the Social Democrats. After all, children, families with children and poverty in families with children have been one of our greatest concerns and work topics. Child benefits continue to rise. Support for the first and second children, which rose from EUR 19 to EUR 45 at the beginning of last year, will increase to EUR 60 per month over four years. A child-rich family allowance of 200 euros per month will be paid to a family with three or more children. So far, a family of seven children has been considered to be a child - rich family. The idea of our so-called smart child's support will also come true. The Ministry of Culture has developed a system to support children's activities of interest and sport. Raising the living limit and the income tax-free minimum supporting poverty reduction also helps children above all, after all, families with children are at greater risk of poverty than others. In addition to supporting recreational education, there are plans to make a number of other family services more accessible. This is good because the experience of the rest of the world shows that services for families with children are profitable and effective. However, as far as the deposit guarantee fund is concerned, I have suffered and fought as if for my own child. In January of Tunamull, on behalf of the Social Democrats, I gave the draft for the creation of a support fund to the Riigikogu's proceedings. At the beginning of last year, I organised a public meeting of the Commission in the chair of the Social Affairs Committee, where we discussed a number of directly screaming needs for a system that would guarantee regular bread money to the child as an advance if one of the parents did not fulfil their maintenance obligations. The proposal to create the fund was then supported by the Riigikogu. A year later, our goal was written into a coalition treaty. The idea of politicians from more than a decade of political parties finally got rid of the stump, and today there is a draft law on family benefits, which also includes the regulation of maintenance assistance, before us. Let me remind you that maintenance is not a matter for parents. That's what international conventions say, maintenance is absolute. This is where the country has to be put on its shoulders. From the coming year, the state will pay an advance of EUR 100 per month to a child growing with one parent if the other parent avoids his or her duties. I can say that we have started from the right point of view, because a number of maintenance creditors started to take pressure measures earlier. The debtor cannot remain forever in debt and the child's maintenance assistance is recovered from the debtor by the State. World practice shows that the state is a better debt collector than a single parent spinning in a squirrel wheel. Now for a few more numbers. Half of the parents living in isolation have a child's livelihood and over 40% of the debtors are basically happy not to pay their child's livelihood. Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-04_U158	Thank you. Monika Haukanõm, the Estonian Free Party Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-04_U159	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-04_U160	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-04_U161	I would like to bring out a few thoughts that should definitely be taken into account here in the Riigikogu in shaping our entire policy. Firstly, provision should be made for all children to have access to and affordable early childhood education, which has also been briefly discussed here today. Today, kindergarten is unattainable to many because of kindergarten pay. Next: high-quality and equally high-quality education and recreational education everywhere in Estonia, higher education for capable young people, which does not always have to be free, as well as support for the livelihood of children and families, i.e. partial reimbursement of the costs of raising children, i.e. the purpose of today's draft. I support the approach that all children are equal in terms of family benefits and the allowance is paid for all children, because each child is at the price of gold. Since the third child, our subsidies will be exponentially rising next year so that these third, fourth, and seventh children will still be born. At the same time, I would like to point out that it is also important to support the birth of these first and other children, otherwise we will not be able to reach third parties. Therefore, the birth and growth of the first and second children must also be more valued over a longer period. Yes, at present, parental benefit is paid after the birth of the child until the child reaches the age of one and a half. This is certainly a commendable measure that families do not have to worry about their livelihood during this period. However, after the end of this period, families face considerable economic difficulties. The grant is only EUR 50, but there are significant expenditures in addition to childcare, for example. You know that the kindergarten tax is linked to the minimum wage. For example, in the city of Tartu it will rise to 64 euros this year, and next year it will rise to 70 euros. This means that we should also be ready to start a debate on what kind of parental benefit we need, because parental benefit is a very expensive family policy measure, and we need to discuss how to make it better and fairer in content. Every period the UN measures people's happiness. We have learned that the people of Estonia are at the so-called average level of Harju, about 72nd place. The happiest people live in Denmark, Norway, Switzerland and the Netherlands. We want to push for that, too. We want happy people to live in our country, too, because there are more children born in happy families. When preparing our human development report, people were asked what makes them happy and what dream they would want to come true. Sixty-eight percent said they wanted them not to be afraid of the future. Our task is to look beyond the height of the so-called helicopter, which makes our people happier, which gives our families a sense of security so that we have more children in Estonia. I wish everyone wisdom and statesmanship! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-04_U162	What do I want to say in conclusion? It's all good. It's all good. The creation of a living support fund is a beautiful example of the fact that, without asking the weather view, political parties can agree on the right thing, and also a warning example that it takes more than ten years for our tiny society to do the right thing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-04_U163	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-04_U164	This is an important measure to reduce wage poverty and the resulting emigration. The first payments under the new system will be made at the beginning of 2017, based on the income tax figures received in 2016. The amount of reimbursement will depend on the income earned, the number of months worked and the structure of the income. As a result, each person's refund may be different. The amount of reimbursement increases as income increases and is highest at the gross monthly wage of EUR 480. That's 708 euros a year. In the case of higher income than this, the amount of the refund begins to decrease and reaches zero at a gross monthly salary of EUR 649. The payback system increases the income of families and, on the other hand, makes it possible to improve the situation on the labour market and stimulate economic growth through increasing consumption, which is the basis for growth in our well-being. Of course, subsidies cannot improve everything. The government wants to contribute to increasing productivity and improving the skills of the workforce so that companies can work more and more expensively and thus pay higher wages. It also contributes to exporting companies that bring wealth to the country. The combination of all these steps will significantly reduce the number of people living in absolute poverty. While 10.1% of children were still living in absolute poverty in 2013, the combination of these steps could reduce this figure to 7%. However, this does not mean that work in this area will end. The objective is clear: that no Estonian child would live in poverty. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-04_U165	Thank you. The political groups have no further requests to speak. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 217. First reading is over. I will set the deadline for the 217 amendments. 17.15 p.m. on May 18th.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-04_U166	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen of the House! I, too, will start by saying that the new law on family benefits is certainly long awaited. We are in favour of this draft, but we also believe that further changes are needed. Oliver Wendell Holmes has said more than a hundred years ago that it is not where we are that matters in this world, it is where we are going. Today, the draft law on family benefits before us has been introduced for a long time, and so I am not going to highlight the strengths and weaknesses of the draft, which has already been done in a variety of ways. But it is important to understand that this is not just one of the hundreds of drafts that go through our desks and turn into a law. This bill is much more than that. This is a piece of the big and important goal that I would call the survival of Estonia and Estonians. We must put together our population policy in a very responsible manner and, in doing so, answer the question of which direction we want to move, which Estonia we want to bequeath to our children and grandchildren and why not grandchildren. In a hundred years' time, do we want to have our own nation state where Estonian and only Estonian are spoken, where our population is sustainable and sustainable? If we have reached a broad social agreement that our policy is neither hedonistic nor individualistic, based on the principle that after us or the Flood, but by looking far to support the survival of the nation state and nation, we have taken a major step forward. All our policies must be based on an agreement that we will not adopt any law that will have the opposite effect on population policy. We must avoid chasing short-term benefits and populism and put family policy and population policy measures above the interests of political parties and support ratings. This means that we need to bring our ambitious targets out of the electoral cycle. This means that the increase will not take place before the elections, but on the basis of a long-term schedule. I truly believe with all my heart that Estonia's greatest and only value is our people. I've said that many times before in this remote control that we're not rich enough to forget or throw away any people. We can't give up any children. We need a society that is open, diverse and balanced, where we value all people who are safe to have and raise children, and where long-term safety is guaranteed from the point of view of raising children. It is very important that more children will be born in Estonia in the future, so that we can get from the current birth rate of less than 1.6, for example, to 2.08 children per woman in the future. But you can't do it by order, saying, "Let's have a lot of us." There are, of course, many measures affecting the economic livelihood of families, and the draft before us today only lists some of them. All these measures vary from tax incentives to various grants, including financial direct payments, to cover the costs of children. Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-04_U167	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to start by saying that the Family Benefits Act is very comprehensive in its design. This is because it combines all the benefits associated with the birth and upbringing of the child, including maintenance support. Despite the fact that we are gradually moving forward by improving legislation, we have comments on the content of this bill. The creation of a support fund has been discussed for more than ten years. Now we are discussing the long-awaited draft on maintenance aid. However, when it becomes a reality, it may not be so expected. In early 2015 the Riigikogu approved a draft decision according to which the government had to set up a maintenance fund and implement it from 1 January 2016. It hasn't been done. In addition, there is another sad factor in this matter. The decision taken by the Riigikogu specifically provided for the payment of maintenance aid on the basis of the minimum maintenance allowance, i.e. EUR 215 in 2016, the current draft has become EUR 100 in 215. Indeed, there are over 10,000 children in Estonia who do not receive monthly support from one separate parent. For these children, the help of the state is essential. When the previous draft decision was approved in the Riigikogu, these children and their parents, who have had to raise their child alone for years, were given the hope that their financial situation would improve and, in addition, they could count on the amount of a minimum monthly subsistence allowance of 215 euros. The current amount of EUR 100 is better than nothing, but it is certainly not what single parents have been waiting for for years. Let me remind you here that single-parent families are among the most at risk of poverty in our society. 40% of them live in relative poverty and almost 16% in absolute poverty. Therefore, they are certainly a social group that the country must support to a greater extent. The calculation of the amount of family allowances is also a clear problem of the draft. If, under the law in force, the allowance is calculated on the basis of the amount of child benefit, the amount of the allowance is no longer linked to any rate. Fixed amounts of aid shall be fixed. In addition to the amount of maintenance allowance, the Act also includes child care allowance, single parent child allowance, support for the parent of a family of seven or more children and support for the recovery of the child. Such a move, as life has shown, can pour subsidies into concrete for several years, and their rise will depend in future on the political decisions of the government coalition. This may not provide people with security in the long term. In conclusion, I would like to emphasise that we are certainly not against this draft, but we believe that some changes need to be made. Therefore, the Centre Party Group will table amendments to the draft, which we will try to improve both the points concerning child support and family allowances. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-04_U168	Thank you. Please, Dmitri Dmitriev, on behalf of the Centre Party Group.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-04_U169	Ladies and gentlemen, Let's go to the last item on today's agenda. This is the first reading of Bill 222 of the Law on the Protection of Animals, Animal Disease Control and Trade in Animals and Animal Products, and Amending the Act on the Import and Export of Animals and Animal Products, initiated by the Government of the Republic. Urmas Kruuse, Minister of Rural Affairs of the Speaker's Board, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-04_U170	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! The draft amends the Law on the Protection of Animals, the Law on Disease Control and the Law on Trade in Animals and Animal Products, and on Import and Export of Animals and Animal Products. The drafts of these laws, prepared separately and agreed with the ministries, were merged during the procedure. The main objective of the amendment of the Animal Protection Act is to bring it into line with the Law on the General Part of the Code of Economic Activities. Under Council Regulation No 1/2005 on the protection of animals during transport, transporters of animals have been authorised since 2007. Certificates of competence have also been issued since 2007 for drivers and attendants of means of transport transporting animals under that Regulation. The draft regulation regulates the authorisation of the transport and long-term transport of animals and their entry in the register of farmed animals, specifying the procedure for issuing the certificate of competence required of the driver and consignee of the means of transport used for the transport of animals. The main objective of the amendment to the Law on the control of animal diseases is to increase the country's preparedness for disease control by providing additional tools for both the surveillance authority and keepers. The need to amend the Law on the control of animal diseases has arisen in the practical organisation of the control of African swine fever on the basis of concerns and problems encountered. The spread of African swine fever virus in the feral pig population has not stopped, so this year it is necessary to be prepared for new cases of disease among pigs kept on the farm. The plague is still diagnosed in tens of feral pigs hunted and found dead each week. The risk of reaching African swine fever farms is particularly high in the summer and autumn, when the increased movement of wild boars in the forest begins. People also move more in the forest during this period. The draft is therefore urgent changes should enter into force before the peak in the risk of spread of this summer's swine plague. The amendment clarifies the competence of the VTA in the event of suspicion and outbreak of an animal disease. The work of the National Disease Control Commission will involve the Environment Agency, complement the grounds for laying down safety requirements and add some grounds for refusing to grant disease-harm payments. Provision is also made for the possibility of laying down additional biosecurity requirements in the disease control code for both livestock farms, for example, the obligation to draw up a biosecurity plan and the control of disease in the wild animal population, as well as the basis for the introduction of laundry and, where appropriate, disinfection requirements for motor vehicles. The requirements necessary for the implementation of these measures shall be established in accordance with the rules for the control of animal diseases. As I have already pointed out, for prevention purposes, the grounds for refusing to grant aid for disease damage have also been included in the law. No compensation shall be granted to the keeper where he has already been paid disease control aid in connection with the outbreak of the same animal disease on the same farm and the farm is located in an area where the risk of disease still exists. Regulation on the non-commercial movement of pet animals, as stated so far in the Law on trade in animals and animal products and on their import and export, is included in the Animal Disease Control Act. The aim of the amendment is to consolidate the provisions governing the movement of all animals. This amendment does not impose any new requirements, but clarifies the technical conditions for issuing the pet passport. At the same time, the provisions on the movement of pet animals contained in the Law on the control of animal diseases will be repealed by the Law on trade in animals and animal products and their import and export. The law and the regulation established on the basis thereof will enter into force on 1 July 2016. Honourable Riigikogu, please stop reading the bill first and soon adopt it as a law! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-04_U171	Thank you, Minister. You have questions. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-04_U172	Good manager! Good minister! Recently, more is said about Turkey in the context of how it is illegal for people to invade the European Union. However, this law also concerns animals that are going from the European Union to Turkey, with two thirds of the studies illegally. The route of the Estonian cattle to Turkey is one of the longest in Europe - 4200 kilometres. How will this bill reduce the suffering of the Estonian flock headed to Turkey on a very long journey?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-04_U173	Honourable questioner! Additional conditions for the transport of animals are laid down for long journeys. For example, every eight hours animals must be fed, watered, and allowed to rest. In particular, this draft does not provide any additional conditions for improving animal welfare during a long journey. It is important that the requirements laid down are respected. If there's a signal coming from somewhere that they're being tampered with, it's definitely controlled.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-04_U174	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-04_U175	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. Since you said that the risk of plague is increasing again during the seasons, I am simply asking you, out of curiosity, how much of the population of wild boar has actually fallen recently.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-04_U176	While the honourable questioner had in mind a reduction in the population agreed with the hunters, the nominal hunting of previous years was about 25,000 boars, the latter being over 29,000 animals. The final goal for the 2017-2018 hunting season is to reach population density of about 1.5 individuals per 1000 hectares of hunting grounds. We hope that hunting will continue in the next hunting season so that this number of specimens per hectare will be achieved. In Finland, for example, the total number of feral pigs is less than 2000, but we hunt them 29,000. So things are very different.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-04_U177	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-04_U178	Thank you, good manager. Good minister! You also come up with the bill by giving pets ID cards. What's on that map? If I want to travel somewhere with my parrot, cat or guinea pig, what kind of map do I have to show?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-04_U179	In the case of the transport of pet animals, as stated in the draft law, the non-commercial movement of pet animals and the possible risk of disease related thereto shall be taken into account. The documents accompanying the owner in the case of travelling with animals shall provide a guarantee that all required procedures have been carried out and the animals have been inspected. The aim is to prevent possible diseases from spreading from one country to another.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-04_U180	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-04_U181	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, could you open up a little bit of this, did they also make important and interesting comments for you when discussing this draft with the stakeholders, or did the involvement of the interest groups rather result in nothing new coming from there?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-04_U182	It depended on what part of the bill we dealt with. When we were talking about the African swine fever, the sector came with positive assessments. There is satisfaction with the regulation on the implementation of the biosecurity plan. In fact, the companies acknowledged that this had helped them to assess the risks. The second part of the bill before you also reflects the alignment of our laws with the legislation in force in the European Union. The third part concerns the movement of pets, and indeed it did not make sense that pets were treated as trade objects. Therefore, these changes were considered rather positive.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-04_U183	Arno Bridge, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-04_U184	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. I would like to ask about the current situation in Latvia. After all, we are bordering Latvia long enough. Has there been a reduction in the risk of disease, or what about it?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-04_U185	I don't have the latest statistics available. At some point, it was heard that the number of these outbreaks was clearly higher than in Estonia. The size of these farms is different than ours. The people of VTA will certainly be in constant contact with their Latvian colleagues, but specifically as of today, I owe you an answer. But I'd be happy to specify it and send you an e-mail.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-04_U186	Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-04_U187	Thank you. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. I'm looking at the date of entry into force of the law, it's 1 July 2016. It's vacation time. I come back to the subject of my colleague Peter Ernits, he asked about the identification document. It's gonna take 40 or 45 days before we get this document out of this hall, and it's gonna be 1st of July. So how do you go on vacation with a pet, a dog or a parrot?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-04_U188	The holidays are of course different, part rests in winter, part rests in summer. I don't think that's a problem in itself. The chip of certain domestic animals has gone very well. This issue was not considered to be a problem during the draft procedure. In general, the rapid introduction of the law is more likely to result in the spread of African swine fever.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-04_U189	Thank you, Minister. No further questions for you. I would like to ask Lauri Luige, member of the Committee on Rural Affairs, to serve as a waitress.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-04_U190	Honourable fellows! I am pleased to present to you the debate at the meeting of the Committee on Rural Affairs on 19 April on draft 222. Pille Tammemägi, Deputy Head of the Food Safety Department of the Ministry of Rural Affairs, had also been invited to the meeting of the Commission to answer questions from the members of the committee. Since the Minister has given you a fairly thorough overview of the substance of the draft, I will no longer be able to make a separate point on it. However, I will give an overview of what took place in the Commission, what questions were asked and what answers were received. The members of the Commission examined whether the amendment of the law would lead to additional burdens and costs for carriers. Pille Tammemägi replied that there would be no change in the application for authorisation for the carrier, but the possibility of submitting the application electronically would be added. Authorisations issued so far, valid for a period of five years, shall be valid until their expiry date. The new provisions already apply for new authorisations. The Commission was also interested in what Mr Sild asked the Minister here earlier: what about the African swine fever in Latvia, Lithuania and Poland. According to Pille Tammemäe, the disease area in Poland has not expanded, but the disease in Latvia is quite widespread. Fortunately, however, it has stopped by the Daugava River. In Lithuania, the plague has spread, but it is fortunate that there has been an area where intensive pig farming is not carried out. In addition, it was asked whether the draft concerns the establishment of zones. Pille Tammemägi replied that the draft does not deal with zones. He also briefly explained how the establishment and abolition of zones would take place. It was examined how pig farmers have complied with the requirement to build fences and fences based on biosecurity requirements. Pille Tammemägi replied that this could be a problem for individual small pig farmers and it is very important to raise awareness of African swine fever. To this end, farms are visited on the ground and information campaigns are also carried out. Information on all this is very well available on the website of the Ministry of Rural Affairs. There was also an interest in whether the draft law would in any way increase the administrative burden. A representative of the Ministry replied that there would be a short increase in the workload of the PRIA, which would have to register animal transporters' licences, but the process of applying for them would be simplified by adding the possibility of submitting the application electronically. The pig farms themselves have drawn up the required biosecurity plans and the VTA on the pet identification document must conclude a civil contract with veterinarians. This is briefly all about what took place in the Commission. Four consensual decisions were adopted: firstly, to propose that 222 be placed on the plenary agenda by 4 May, secondly, to propose that the first reading of the draft 222 be closed, thirdly, to propose that the deadline for amendments to the draft be set at 5.15 p.m. on 11 May and fourth, to appoint Lauri Luik, member of the Committee on Rural Affairs, as rapporteur. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-04_U191	Thank you, good waitress. You have a question. Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-04_U192	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Commission waitress, That's the question I had right here. Since several changes are related to pet keepers, are pet keepers positive about the bill? Do you have any information on this?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-04_U193	Thank you, a legitimate question! We did not invite anyone but a representative of the ministry to the Commission's first debate. So it's hard for me to comment on what their exact positions are, but I think the Ministry was investigating this draft. I'm sure that's what we'll find out from the Ministry. If there are any issues that need to be clarified with the parties, we have the opportunity to resolve the problems within the Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-04_U194	Dear waitress, there are no further questions for you. Do the political groups want to open negotiations? There's no call. The commission has proposed that the first reading of draft 222 be completed. First reading is over. I shall set the deadline for submitting amendments to the draft, including 11 May at 5.15 p.m. Ladies and gentlemen, today's agenda has been exhausted. Thank you. The sitting is adjourned. See you tomorrow! Closure of the sitting at 4:42 p.m.
