ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U1	Good afternoon, good fellows, honourable Riigikogu. Let's start Riigikogu Question Time on 1 June. Please, let's do the presence check first! 49 members of the Riigikogu registered as present, 52 are missing. Good fellows! Evgeni Ossinovski, Minister of Health and Labour, who also serves as Prime Minister, Urmas Reinsalu, Minister of Justice and Marko Pomerants, Minister of the Environment, participate in today's Question Time. As eight questions have already been asked, as President, I would like to give you the opportunity to ask an additional question, as well as one on-the-spot question. This will allow us to go through as many questions as possible.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U2	The first question is from Kadri Samson, a member of the Riigikogu, and this is answered by a member of the government, Minister of Health and Labour Jevgeni Ossinovski, in the role of Prime Minister. The subject is excise policy. Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U3	Thank you. Minister Ossinovski, who is responsible for the Prime Minister's duties. My question concerns a decision years ago. In fact, a year ago, the current Prime Minister linked his vote of confidence to increasing excise duties on petrol and diesel fuels for three consecutive years. The first increase has taken place this year, with further increases in excise duty in 2017 and 2018. You weren't in the government at the time, but today you're in an important position. I therefore want to hear a two-minute motivational speech from you to Estonian entrepreneurs, why should they buy their fuel here in Estonia, where the price of a litre of diesel is 15 cents higher than in Latvia, pay their excise duties and VAT here and not do it where it gives a competitive advantage.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U4	Thank you. Dear Riigikogu, first of all, allow me, on behalf of the Government of the Republic, to welcome you to Child Protection Day! In recent years, in cooperation with you, we have done important things to protect children and improve their well-being. I hope that we will continue this good cooperation. Secondly, before I answer the question, I have to say that the health minister is a bit infirm today, which is why I would like to apologise in advance if I do not get some sentences right. Now I'm gonna answer the question. The issue of raising excise duties on fuel has been dealt with very carefully both in the public and in this Chamber. Of course, I will not repeat the entire history of this decision; there is no need for it to be meaningful. In general, however, this direction has been taken, and it is the right direction to tax more consumption of health-damaging products, such as tobacco and alcohol, and, on the other hand, to contribute to the environment. Increased excise duties on fuel will certainly contribute to the environment. Of course, increasing excise duties on fuel has a clear economic impact, which is why these different things need to be thoroughly considered. The government has taken the view that the fuel excise duty that remained unchanged since 2009 should be increased for three consecutive years. As you know, we have canceled the last year's rise. It is clear that we are affected both by the world oil market, which has an impact on fuel prices, and by the excise policy of our neighbours. Under the direction of the Ministry of Finance, we are constantly and very closely monitoring that our excise policy does not jeopardise economic growth and, on the other hand, we are, of course, also monitoring the delivery of neighbours in this area.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U5	First supplementary question, Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U6	Thank you, Minister. The infirmary's health is certainly not a good platform for giving motivational speech. But we are in a situation where the increased excise duty has led most of the transport companies operating in Estonia to refuel to Latvia, Lithuania or Poland, where the price is just so much more competitive. This means that not only excise duty, but also VAT, has been lost. It is true that private consumers still have to refuel here and pay higher taxes. Do you not think that if we have reached a situation where 49% of transport operators already say that they are filling elsewhere, then the excise increases for the next year and the following year should be reviewed? They do not generate the profit that Excel's table promised to expect.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U7	Thank you. Firstly, for the first four months of excise duties, we can say that excise duties on fuel have been received by 25.8% more than a year earlier. It is true, which the public has also pointed out, that in April excise duty was collected less than a year ago. But that is what the government has basically taken into account in its forecasts. One reason here is that stocks have been increased before the increase in excise duty from 1 February, which is why there have been fewer receipts in the coming months. We have seen that there is, in principle, a certain risk of excise breach, the same signals that transport companies have started to refuel to some extent in Latvia. Of course, it should be noted that most of the fuel is still purchased in Estonia. To fear that most of our fuel consumption will go to another country is certainly not necessary. On the other hand, it is clear that we must constantly compare prices between us and Latvia, and we must certainly analyse the extent to which such cross-border movements exist. The Ministry of Finance, which is responsible for this area, has said that by the time of the process of preparing the state budget for next year, i.e. August-September, they have carried out an initial proper analysis of the impact of this increase in excise duty on the budget and other behaviour. In this context, the Ministry of Finance can come up with concrete proposals on whether or not there are any changes to the laws already adopted. The current assessment of the Ministry of Finance is that there is no reason to sound the alarm.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U8	One issue registered on the spot. Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U9	Thank you, manager. Minister, thank you very much. I'm not asking for a country's economic perspective. Inequal competition for the economy and reducing the competitiveness of Estonian companies is certainly disastrous, as fuel is an input tax. I'm asking for the state budget. You raised the excise duty, first and foremost, to get extra money for social benefits. In the last two months, the revenue from excise duties on fuel is less than EUR 20 million compared to 2015. That should make the government flash a light by now. It took the Lithuanian State four months to review the excise policy and to come back to the previous rate of excise duty. How much time does it take for the Estonian state to understand the mistake that has been made? After all, there will be further increases in excise duty, 10% in 2017 and 10% in 2018.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U10	Thank you. Fuel excise duty and alcohol duty together account for 8.3% of the revenue from the state budget and the revenue from the state budget as a whole has been received as planned. Some excise duties have been overcharged, others have had a bit of a downfall. It is true that there have been some changes in behaviour compared to the forecasts made at the beginning of the year and the resulting downfall has been noticeable in some months. But I can say that these changes have already been taken into account in the country's budgetary strategy approved in spring, which means that there is no question in terms of public expenditure coverage. There have also been changes to the forecasts concerning the collection of excise duties on fuel. But, as I said, the Ministry of Finance, which is responsible for the country's excise policy, will carry out a more in-depth analysis by autumn of how raising excise duties on fuel has affected people's behaviour. Then we can also talk more about this problem. And if, on the basis of an analysis, we have reason to believe that cross-border consumption has somehow become massive and, therefore, more generally, a threat to the revenue from the state budget, then certain changes in the legal order may be considered.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U11	Thank you! I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U12	Let us move on to the second question asked by Riigikogu member Martin Helme. This is answered by Evgeni Ossinovski, a member of the government, Minister of Health and Labour, who is in charge of the Prime Minister's duties today. The subject is the Minister's attitude towards the Preamble of the Constitution. Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U13	Thank you, Mr. Vice Speaker. Minister, thank you very much. I'm not going to quote our Constitutional Preamble to you, I hope it's in your head. You have been performing in recent times with very sharp estophobic views towards the Estonian nation state, you have stated that the Estonian nation state is dangerous and is dystopia. I do remind you, however, of the Minister's oath. In this you say that you solemnly promise to remain faithful to the constitutional order of the Republic of Estonia and to devote your strength to securing the well-being and future of the Estonian people. If you now devote your strength to the dismantling and demonization of the nation state, do you not think that you are violating your oath of office, undermining constitutional order and really should resign?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U14	Thank you. The preservation and development of the Estonian language and culture mentioned in the Preamble is, of course, a constitutional imperative. That is what we must bear in mind in all our decisions, both in the government and in the Riigikogu. On the government side, I can tell you we've done it. At the same time, the development of Estonian language and culture does not mean, of course, that we reject a large part of our compatriots with primitive biological arguments away from our society. After all, you have come so far in one of your speeches that the Estonians could be measured by the activity of skin pigment cells. It is, in my opinion, prohibited under the Constitution, morally disgusting and simply inhumane. § 10 of the Constitution says that one of the fundamental principles of Estonian society is social rule of law and human dignity, and § 12 says that our society treats all people equally. I believe that all the people living in Estonia are Estonian people, they are their own, they contribute to this society every day, this country is their own, and so they are part of the Estonian people for the purposes of the Constitution. I am convinced that when speaking to the Estonian people, it is foolish to look for a definition by genetic analysis or by assessing the appearance of a person. Certainly, then, there will be all sorts of interesting facts that have nothing to do with the Constitution. This, of course, is not only foolish and scientifically inadequate, but also deeply dangerous. So, in any case, I attach great importance to the implementation of the Estonian Constitution and I call on you to do the same.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U15	The first point to be specified. Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U16	Mr. Minister! It is dangerous for government ministers to think that opposition speeches are dangerous. This is the first step in establishing autocracy. When you talk about the fact that a large part of Estonian society is idiotic or idiots, you are dealing with hate speech against Estonian society and, above all, against the Estonian people. I have not spoken of any skin pigment anywhere, it is purely your rhetoric, the sowing of anger in society, it is lying and the sowing of anger in society. If the Soviets go on and complain about the fact that the political debate in Estonia has become very acute, then primarily the blame is borne by the Soviets themselves, who walk and lie, sow anger and put down the constitutional order of Estonia. You misquoted the Preamble of the Estonian Constitution; it says that our task is to ensure the preservation of Estonian nation and culture throughout the ages. That doesn't mean there can't be other people here. It tells us what the task of the Estonian state is.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U17	Please ask me a question!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U18	I ask again: why are you giving an angry speech against the Estonian people?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U19	Thank you. You forgot to preserve the Estonian language by quoting the Preamble of the Constitution. Of course, the idea of the Estonian state is to develop Estonian language and culture. The question is simply which criteria will be used to assess who has the right to belong to Estonian society. I, on the basis of the meaning of the Constitution, believe that it is unacceptable to classify people on the basis of various non-dependent characteristics. You and some of your party mates have considered this a good idea and have said so publicly, speaking of the color of the skin. I have to say that classifying people on the basis of biological traits is a phase in history. Alfred Rosenberg, the most famous alumni of the Tallinn Real School, did this quite a bit, but later he was hanged in Nuremberg. Before that, however, with the help of his pseudoscientific theories, he was able to do a great deal of evil; millions died. I don't think you should flirt with thoughts like that either. It hurts a lot of people, threatens Estonia's internal peace and external security, and actually threatens Estonian language and culture.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U20	One issue registered on the spot. Please, Mart Helme!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U21	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. Your story is an incredibly fruitful fantasy, which I would conclude by saying that according to your philosophy and ideology, categorizing people on the basis of worldview is okay. And you put words in our mouths that we haven't used. We have not classified anyone by skin color or by biological origin. All that you're probably referring to in connection with the Ruuben Kaalepi American race is the result of the definition of a left-wing think tank, according to which it was a racist assembly. Was it? Were you there? Do you know what they said? Have you read these reports? It's not, but you'll get your mouth full. Don't take it! My question is very simple. You are now in the position of minister because the Estonian people are very tolerant, very embracing, and have given you, who are not of origin, an opportunity to lead the Estonian state. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U22	Good questioner, your time!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U23	I ask: do you accept that the Estonian people are tolerant?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U24	Thank you. The Constitution of the Republic of Estonia has two fundamental principles. Firstly, as has already been said, the preservation and development of the Estonian language and culture. Secondly, we treat all Estonian people equally, that our country is based on human dignity, democracy, the rule of law and equal treatment. This constitution has been adopted by the people of Estonia in a referendum. They have done so consciously, realizing that it is only by these principles that a nation state today can be built up. In this sense, of course, the people of Estonia have been on the right track. And the majority of Estonian people are good people and continue to be on the right track. However, I have noticed that because of the search for certain political points or other magnifications, we have also created individuals here in the Riigikogu who have called into question the fundamental concepts and thoughts of the Estonian Constitution. I think that's unfortunate. Of course, every person has the right to have an opinion, but just as everyone else has the right not to accept this anti-constitutional rhetoric. It's that simple in the end. Once again, discrimination against people, classifying them according to sex, colour of skin or any other belief, keeping them as members of a less fully-fledged society on the basis of this is unconstitutional and is also inhumane. Once again, I urge you to refrain from such slogans.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U25	Thank you! I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U26	Let us move to the third question posed by the member of the Riigikogu, Artur Talvik. This is answered by a member of the government, Mr Pomerants, Minister for the Environment, and the subject is the use of glyphosates. Arthur Talvik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U27	Good manager! Good minister! In the world, and especially in Europe, opposition to herbicides, which contain satanic substances such as glyphosate and other binders, is spreading. Scientific studies have increasingly proven that this substance is harmful to human health, causes cancer, is harmful to bees and is certainly harmful in terms of biodiversity. A number of European countries, such as France, have already banned this in private use. The Netherlands and Finland use it significantly less than Estonia. This is not the area of the Ministry of the Environment, but the area of the Ministry of Rural Affairs, but what is the position of the Ministry of the Environment regarding the use of glyphosates in Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U28	Thanks! With your permission, I will first reflect on the previous debate. I am pleased that the people of Estonia have been so tolerant that Viktoria Ladynskaya has also been elected to the Riigikogu. But as far as genetic research is concerned, it is also topical in our field. We are currently doing genetic research on flying squirrels to see if Finnish and Estonian flying squirrels have similar genes. But now to the question. Indeed, the subject is on the agenda of the European Commission and therefore topical in Estonia as well. As regards the effects of glyphosates on human health, according to the International Agency for Cancer Research, these compounds are likely to have carcinogenic effects. As regards the Estonian debate on the use of glyphosates outside agriculture in particular, according to recent data, the Ministry of Rural Affairs has called to the round table by 8 June, which is about to happen, including both glyphosate users and people who have different feelings about use, in order to decide what uses might be available outside the agricultural sector in Estonia. It must be said here that the main use is, in fact, still in agriculture. There were also about 270 tonnes of pesticides in Estonia last year, the active substance of which was glyphosates. So hopefully we'll have the understanding that we're moving towards less use. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U29	The first point to be specified. Arthur Talvik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U30	Thank you! Minister, the point of my question was a little different. I will clarify my question: what is the position of the Ministry of the Environment on this issue? I would particularly like to point out that about a quarter of the 270 tonnes mentioned are used outside agriculture, the use of glyphosates is restricted in agriculture. What is your view about the fact that the Road Administration, which does not want to mow the lawn, is simply sowing poison by the highways? It's exactly the same with the railroads. What is your position on the use of glyphosates in the private sector or in the personal gardening of people?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U31	Thanks! I'll start at the end. As far as gardening is concerned, maybe the quantities aren't that big. The main problem is that people are not as educated or wise in their daily use of plant protection products and can harm themselves. That is why I think it makes sense to have less and less use of glyphosate in gardening. If the positions of the Ministry of the Environment are taken, they are very specific in terms of natural diversity. And if we have poison versus mowing as alternatives to biodiversity, then our position is that definitely mowing. If we are talking about the water-protection aspect of agricultural use, because the findings are probably linked primarily to agricultural use, then we must get to the fact that the use of glyphosates has quantities and practices such that findings are not detected during the monitoring process. Fortunately, there are few findings in our groundwater.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U32	Now, one issue registered on the spot. Arno Bridge, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U33	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. I have a question to clarify on the question of Artur Talvik. Wouldn't it be right to take this road right now to prohibit their introduction and sale, especially to private individuals? As you yourself pointed out, private individuals may not always use them so correctly and correctly. Can't we stop the use of glyphosates?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U34	Mr Bridge, you may not like this, but we are in the European Union. And what concerns laws and opportunities for use is certainly the result of a common policy of the European Union. However, this does not mean that we cannot reach recommendations in our country, any behavioural alternatives. But I don't think we're at that stage where we can stop civilians from using glyphosates. This cannot be guaranteed, I think it is a fundamental problem. It can be declared, but what is the real-life mode of action?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U35	Thank you! I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U36	Let us move on to the fourth question asked by Ms Tuus-Laul, Member of the Riigikogu. This is answered by Evgeni Ossinovski, a member of the government, Minister of Health and Labour, who is also in charge of the Prime Minister today. The subject is health policy. Marika Tuus-Laul, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U37	Thank you. Good minister! We just finished a meeting 20 minutes ago with the leader and board of the Alliance of Pensioners. One of the many issues, of course, was access to medical care in rural areas. We know that many small hospitals are currently in the process of shrinking disciplines, reducing receptions. Several specialties are transferred to large centres, Tallinn, Tartu, Pärnu, Ida-Virumaa. The main issue was still the one who will pay for transport in the future. Very often, the recipient's old man, who still needs an escort, loses his working day, etc. There's been months of waiting before we get to the doctor. Doesn't the country really come here to help? What do you say?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U38	First of all, thank you for this question. Undoubtedly, regional access to health services is an extremely important issue that affects a large number of Estonian people directly and therefore certainly requires meaningful public discussion. I must apologise in advance for the fact that, unfortunately, in two or six minutes, it will not be possible to give a comprehensive answer here, but I will answer one question on the same subject next Monday. Then we can discuss this in greater depth. As far as I am aware, the Committee on Social Affairs intends to hold a debate on this issue on 14 June, where we can introduce our plans a little more fully or, let us say, more fully. But if you try to say something briefly on this subject, we have, of course, for a long time, followed a course that is broadly understandable to people and is only possible in health policy, that more complex procedures and more complex disciplines are concentrated in larger centres in Estonia, the so-called centres of competence. In particular, these are the University of Tartu Hospital in South-Estonia's view and the North-Estonia Regional Hospital in North-Estonia's view. On the other hand, it is clear that local health care must be available in the counties. We are now thinking of a model that would enable the patient to be given the most effective service there. This requires better interaction between different levels of health care and specialised medical care at county hospitals. Social services would also come into it. In the process of preparing the development plan for the hospital network, we also approach every county hospital individually, and we really look at how to provide the best treatment for every county resident. So we understand the concern, we understand it, and hopefully we will come together to a solution.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U39	Mr. Minister, your time! The first point to be specified. Marika Tuus-Laul, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U40	Thank you. Good minister! The amount of money that a person has to pay for the service himself is still a very dangerous tendency. However, medical care is not available to people. We know what's really going on: people come in a live order on Monday morning at 7:00 a.m. to get the number at 7:15 p.m. And then only a few people get it. Several tens of thousands of people are calling, they can't get in touch, and they can't get to a doctor. So if some people can get in touch, it turns out that many disciplines still have several months to wait. At the same time, we know that the number of healthy years is constantly decreasing. It's pretty serious. You have said that you made some suggestions to the government to improve funding. The negotiations must have been in May.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U41	Please ask me a question!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U42	Did they lead to results? So, what do you say to people today?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U43	Firstly, I apologise for not answering the question of patient transport. The issue of patient transport is also on the table in the context of the development plan for the new hospital network. If we consider that some of the more complex disciplines go to county centres, then we really need to solve the patient's transport problem. This solution must be understandable and convenient for the patient. We also know that hospitals, such as the North Estonian Regional Hospital, are not always close to transport nodes. When a person comes from the county with a public car in Tallinn, he must move separately to Mustamäe, but it is certainly difficult and time-consuming. So the issue of patient transport is very much under discussion. As far as the queues are concerned, there are two important aspects. Firstly, of course, that the patient must receive the necessary medical care, treatment at the right time and on the right level. We have a little of the problem that people want to go to a specialist with every less concern, even though basically the family doctor would be able to solve a large number of their problems himself. As a result, in the coming years, we will strengthen the primary level of general medical care, the level of family doctor, in order to extend the spec of services as close as possible to a person's home. The other party concerns the registration of the order. The situation is not normal, I agree with that. This is partly not normal because the registration systems in each hospital are on their own and the hospitals themselves decide when they open them, how many times they offer them, etc. That is why we are currently creating a nationwide single registration system, which hopefully will be completed by next year, where a person can write his or her medical appointment to any hospital, either online or over the phone, so that he or she does not have to be on the phone for half a day. This solution is working.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U44	Now, one issue registered on the spot. Monika Haukanõmm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U45	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. When we talk about the rare occurrence of something, it is generally considered to be very good. However, if a person suffers from a disease that is rare and is called "rare disease' in Estonia, there are about 6 to 8% of the population, it is no longer very nice. It is often not diagnosed, cannot be treated, and treatment is very, very expensive. In 2014, the Health Department of the Ministry of Social Affairs prepared a development plan for rare diseases. According to this, one very important activity is the creation of an appropriate competence centre that can help family members, sick people and doctors. We know that the implementation of this development plan has slowed down and this competence centre has not been established. When do you plan to complete this recently completed development plan and set up a competence centre? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U46	Thank you for this question. This is a very specific issue to which I have unfortunately not prepared a separate response. This is how I can tell from memory that steps are being taken in this direction. But since I am not sure, I am not going to give you an exact answer in this format, just in case, and I will be happy to answer you in writing.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U47	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U48	Let us move on to the fifth question put by Riigikogu member Jaak Madison. This is answered by Evgeni Ossinovski, a member of the government, Minister of Health and Labour, who is in charge of the Prime Minister's duties today. The subject is the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia and its implementation. Jaak Madison, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U49	Thank you, Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu. Dear Minister, I am going back to the same subject as the second question. I recall the quote from the Chairman of the Social Democratic Party and a member of the Cabinet: 'The Ethnic nation state is not Utopia, but dangerous and inhuman dystopia. ' I am really very embarrassed to hear a sentence that calls for the dismantling of the nation state, takes the example of Swedish multi-turalism and goes unequivocally against the Preamble of the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia, which provides for the survival of the Estonian nation and the nation state. I'm really sorry to hear that. If you like to quote Alfred Rosenberg from history and anyone else, excuse me, but this is a genuine, deeply Soviet speech calling for the destruction of the Estonian nation state. Here's the question. Why do you come up with a statement that divides Estonian society and calls for the 'crashing' of the nation state?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U50	Thank you very much for your excellent question. This quote did not really comment on the reply to Mr Helme's question. Please try to think exactly what this sentence has been trying to say, so the emphasis is on the word 'ethnic'. Ethnic nationhood is indeed a dangerous dystopia. The nation state is, completely understandable, the universal European norm that has lasted several centuries, and in this respect, of course, Estonia is a nation state. However, the concept of a nation state can be broadly interpreted in two ways. It can be interpreted ethnically. If we think about it ethnically, we will inevitably come to all kinds of biological and other pseudo-scientific approaches and from there to essentially genocide, to which I have already referred in my answer to the first question. Another way to make this sense, as all Western European countries have done in their constitutions and other international approaches, is to make sense of a nation state based on the principles of human dignity, human rights and equal treatment. Thus, of course, Estonia is a nation state, is a nation state whose task is to develop Estonian language and culture. But that does not mean that we say with some pseudoscientific and primitive arguments that tens or hundreds of thousands of Estonian people are not full members of this society. This is not acceptable and is not in line with the spirit of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U51	The first point to be specified. Jaak Madison, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U52	Thank you, Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu. Good minister! The end of your answer was a bit of a lie, because we have never claimed that hundreds of thousands of people are not full members of Estonian society. But when we talk about ethnicity, even the hundreds of thousands of people who do not speak Estonian as their mother tongue are ethnically the same as native Estonians. So ethnic origin is also very important in nation states. I ask you this: do you dare the same thing, that keeping an ethnic nation state is dystopia, inhumane, to claim also to the Minister for Social Protection in Israel or Japan, where, I cannot imagine, an Arab being able to become Jewish, and where very many traditions, history and nation state are being held? If you are talking about Western European countries, I think it is a very specific lie. These are nation states. Do you dare say the same thing to the Japanese and the Jews?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U53	Thank you. The organisation of the Japanese state and society is very, very different from that of European countries. You can read for yourself about how Japan has dealt with minorities. I do not think that we should follow this example in Estonia. When we look at the functioning of the state of Israel, we are talking about the harmonious development and inner peace of this society, I think, not worth it. So in this context, I do not think these examples are quite relevant. As far as ethnicity is concerned, you will no longer listen, but I will say, however, the definition of ethnicity is, say, very difficult in theory. And to claim that the only measure of ethnicity is language, certainly cannot. There are ethnic groups in the world who consider themselves to be a separate group, but who have no such language at all. So I call once again, however, for a thorough understanding of the meaning of the Estonian Constitution. The idea of the Estonian Constitution is that all people living in Estonia are full members of Estonian society; they must not be discriminated against on the basis of any characteristics. On the other hand, as a state and society as a whole, we must do everything we can to develop the Estonian language and culture, and we must do it in a human way, not in the way that I have heard you speak a lot lately.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U54	And now there's a matter registered on the spot. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U55	Good manager! Good minister! Glad to hear you remember Alfred Rosenberg, a man in Tallinn. You didn't mention Vladimir Lenin, who was also involved with the Sexes. Here's my question. Your new deputy Rainer Vakra has recently said that the eKreites are a threat and are an axe above Estonia's independence. Explain how they threaten Estonia's independence. Do you and Vakra agree?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U56	Absolutely. If hundreds of thousands of Estonian people are branded as belonging to this society less than some others, who have been so embellished by some strange definition, this is a threat to Estonia's inner peace, and given our geopolitical situation, it is a threat to Estonia's security.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U57	Thank you! I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U58	Let us move on to the sixth question posed by Andres Herkel, a member of the Riigikogu. This is answered by Evgeni Ossinovski, a member of the government, Minister of Health and Labour, who is in charge of the Prime Minister's duties today. The question is this: does the Government consider the National Audit Office to be 'cawning'? Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U59	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, We have noted that in addition to the fact that one party has begun to untie itself from the Estonian legal system, the party of the Prime Minister, the Reform Party, is increasingly disengaging itself from the National Audit Office. Not only do I mean the announcement of one member of the Riigikogu, but Minister Ligi has also used very embellished expressions here in earlier times. Ex Prime Minister Ansip also said something about the National Audit Office's audit of the development of aviation companies being a cheap yellow conflict. Therefore, I ask you, this is not the view of the government as such. How do you view the work of the National Audit Office, specifically this audit, in your Prime Minister's duties? In the light of these statements, how do you describe the attitude of the government office and the cooperation with the National Audit Office?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U60	Thank you. I respect the work of the National Audit Office. It is a constitutional institution that works according to the law. One part of the work of the National Audit Office is to be critical of government decisions, to carry out analyses and suggestions on how to do things better next time. As a member of the Cabinet and head of the Ministry, I have, of course, had differences of opinion with the Auditor General of the State, who has found that the Ministry has not done its job best on any matter, and we have objected to this. I think such a discussion is reasonable in itself, but such verbal labelling is not appropriate.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U61	Now the first point to be clarified. Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U62	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, In addition to this audit, there are a number of specific recommendations, such as the Minister for Economic Affairs and Infrastructure, to draw up a document of the owners' expectations on the management of the Nordic Aviation Group and Transport Assets, the Council to approve business plans, the Minister of Finance to design a competence centre for state aid issues. There are quite a few suggestions. Please explain to us what the government is going to change in the light of this audit.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U63	Thank you. As far as public undertakings or public undertakings in general are concerned and their management is concerned, the problems are obvious. This is not just about Estonian Air and the new airlines, but actually it is about the whole system. This has also been discussed extensively in the Riigikogu over the last six months. Under the direction of the Ministry of Finance, a White Paper on State Participation Policy is under preparation. The government will discuss this in the near future in order to draw conclusions from errors concerning both the quality of governance and the dissipation of responsibility, which we often see in companies. I believe that it is possible to make decisions on the basis of this document on how to avoid mistakes in the future. Of course, as Jürgen Ligi said, I can only agree that the National Audit Office usually makes recommendations afterwards. The government has to make decisions that are ex post or incorrect, and therefore there is always a risk that things will go wrong in these decisions. It is natural that from time to time things go wrong in one matter or another. It is worth recognising this and drawing conclusions so that the future does not go wrong again. This certainly concerns State aid issues where, in my opinion, there was not enough preparatory work to avoid risk. I hope that in subsequent decisions we will be better.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U64	One issue registered on the spot. Jaak Madison, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U65	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! It was interesting to hear that you agree with the opinion of Rainer Vakra, Vice-Chairman of the Social Democratic Party that the Conservative People's Party is a threat to Estonia's independence. This reminds us of 1934 when one of your party's predecessors, the well-known Social Democrat August Rei, was one of the overthrowers of constitutional order, the creators of dictatorship and the banners of one of the Alliance of Democrats. That sounds exactly the same. Do you really see that the smallest opposition party is a threat to Estonia's independence, and is that your contribution to open Estonia, maintaining independence and developing democracy? Doesn't that sound a little weird and two-faced? How do you comment on that?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U66	Thank you. You were talking about your vows earlier. At this point, I think you also remember your oath of office. Of course, on many issues different political parties may and will have different views. There is nothing wrong with that in itself, on the contrary, it is positive. However, if these differing opinions conflict in principle with the principles and values of the Constitution, if realising these views in practical politics would mean mutilating human dignity, categorizing people on the basis of their sex, skin colour or other characteristics, then yes, I think it is dangerous to the constitutional structure of Estonia, the valuable foundation of Estonian society.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U67	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U68	Let us move on to the seventh question put by Riigikogu member Raivo Põldaru. This is answered by Evgeni Ossinovski, a member of the government, Minister of Health and Labour, who is in charge of the Prime Minister's duties today. The issue is the financing of health care. Raivo Põldaru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U69	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. This week, funding for health care has risen again, which has also been reflected in the media. Doctors organise their events and think about wage increases, while they talk about how the treatment of cancer patients and heart patients, for example, is financed. We're still talking about the lack of money. Health care money has increased, but at the same time services have increased. The number of people who come to the emergency department is increasing and this pushes planned sick people's receptions even further in time and prolongs queues. What kind of exit do you see? How can we maintain the current health situation so that it does not deteriorate, not to mention that people can get to the doctor more easily?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U70	Thank you. In broad terms, your problem description was correct, except for one thing over the past two years, most of the additional funds received by the Health Insurance Fund as a result of the increase in taxes have been directed towards the salaries of health care workers. The last and still valid collective agreement for the previous year and this year raises the minimum wage of all medical staff by more than 10%, two years in total by nearly a quarter, which is one of the largest wage increases in Estonia during this period. This has certainly reduced the ability of the Health Insurance Fund to make other choices, such as increasing treatment volumes and expanding the range of services. Overall, the wage increase of health workers is, of course, a priority, necessary to ensure the sustainability of the system in the long term, but it has now come at the cost of expanding service volumes. After all, everyone has a common understanding of the nature of the problem. Given our demographic situation, the income base of the Health Insurance Fund, which consists of only a part of social tax insurance, will become insufficient in the coming years. Therefore, the financing of health care needs to be changed, and this is what the Government of the Republic is planning. Over the past six months, the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Social Affairs, our domestic partners and the World Health Organisation have carried out a thorough analysis of health funding opportunities and the Government of the Republic will discuss this in the near future. Finally, next Monday, I will be able to open this issue in much more depth.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U71	Now the first point to be clarified. Raivo Põldaru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U72	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. Given the end of your answer, perhaps my question is no longer relevant. But since I had already pressed the button, I'm still gonna ask. At present, the money allocated to our health care accounts for about 6 to 7% of GDP. In the European Union, this amount of money is much larger. Is there any chance we're gonna make it to the neighborhood?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U73	Thank you. It is true that Estonia's health care expenditure is among the lowest in Europe. Of course, it has to be said that this is not just bad news. This also means that the Estonian health care system has been built up very effectively; international recognition of this system has been universal. It is clear, however, that in addition to the effectiveness of the organisation of the system, the whole point is that all Estonian people must receive high-quality healthcare where they need it and when they need it. After all, the changes caused by the ageing population create additional tensions on the budget of the Health Insurance Fund. That is why we definitely need to change the system of financing health care. This essentially means that we have to allocate additional resources to the sickness fund from other revenue from the state budget. But, as I said, the Government of the Republic will discuss the proposals made in the coming months at the cabinet meeting and then we can talk more about these decisions. Next Monday, I will also be able to talk about the proposals that are included in the analysis.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U74	And now there's a matter registered on the spot. Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U75	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good minister! You claimed that EKRE poses a threat to Estonia's independence. In 2012, your party joined the Russian Party in Estonia, the leaders of which declared that a moratorium on the occupation of Estonia by Russia should be established, because the occupation fact is only a matter of faith. The Kapo Yearbook states that the Russian Party in Estonia poses a threat to Estonia's security and describes how they have used vile techniques and provocations to discredit Estonia. The Chairman of the Russian Party, Cherepanov, who has been suspected in the media of being an FSB agent, you rewarded the position of Vice-Chairman of the Social Democratic Party. Therefore, you will not be disturbed by Russianism, Estonian hostility. The mixer said at the time of the merger...
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U76	Please ask me a question!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U77	... that worldviews and goals overlap. They'll probably match the Kremlin's interests. I ask you whose interests are represented in Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U78	I ask you to answer this question on the basis of the issue, i.e. the financing of health care, if possible.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U79	Thank you. I am afraid that is not possible, Mr President of the sitting. But briefly, I can say that you quoted a regrettable sentence that came into the media at the time. The party has taken a clear position in this regard and has been distanced from this statement. The Social Democratic Party is based on the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia and the national interests of Estonia in each of its works and policies.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U80	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U81	Let us move on to the eighth question posed by the member of the Riigikogu, Monika Haukamm. This is answered by Evgeni Ossinovski, a member of the Government of the Republic, Minister of Health and Labour, who is today acting as Prime Minister. The subject is the impact of the labour capacity reform on economic growth. Monika Haukanõmm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U82	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! Work capacity reform is one of the reforms undertaken by the government. This is undoubtedly a structural reform and it is expected to contribute to economic development. We have about 100,000 disability pensions, with an employment rate of nearly 46%, which is, of course, lower than the average for the Estonian population. At the same time, about 20% of them are still in retirement, which we cannot expect to make an active contribution to working life. The same subject was raised by our Minister of Finance in response to inquiries on Monday. He argued that the economic impact assessment had been carried out on this reform, but he could not specify the impact in figures. I will now ask you, as the responsible minister, the same thing: what is the impact of the labour capacity reform on growth?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U83	Thank you. In the long term, the impact of the labour capacity reform on economic growth will certainly be positive, as its main objective is to help people with reduced working capacity to participate in the labour market. It is socially right and responsible so that people can contribute more to social life, which is undoubtedly working life, according to their abilities. On the other hand, it increases the volume of the Estonian labour market, i.e. workers come to the labour market and, of course, tax receipts increase. This is indeed a major reform, the success of which is essentially a prerequisite for changing people's attitudes in Estonian society. This concerns both employers and other people. We really need to look for ways to be more flexible in the organisation of work so that people with reduced working capacity can work in the collective. Various analyses have been carried out, as this is a major reform. Its full details have been agreed today, the reform has partially entered into force since 1 January and the second part will enter into force from 1 July. At the same time, it is clear that since this is such a major reform, we cannot predict all the effects to the end. It has been predicted that unemployment will increase in the first few years because of this, because people will then come looking for work according to a new scheme. Since attitudes may not be immediately followed by changes, unemployment will increase in the short term, but in the longer term we will see that, together with changes in attitudes, the contribution of the labour capacity reform to employment growth is clearly positive. The analysis has been carried out by both Eesti Pank and the ministries. I wouldn't be running a lot of numbers here because...
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U84	Minister, your time is up. The first point to be specified. Monika Haukanõmm, please be as brief as possible!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U85	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. This is, without doubt, a very important and necessary reform, of which we have no doubt at all. In 2014, the coalition, responding to the questions of people with disabilities, where jobs come from, made a promise that 1 000 disabled people would be employed in the public sector. It's been two years now. Can you tell us what progress has been made on this road?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U86	Thank you for that question. According to the law, the Ministry of Social Affairs has also informed other public authorities about the aim of employing 1000 people with reduced capacity to work in the public sector by 2020. On this, we have also made the first mapping of the current state of the public sector, and this is surprisingly positive for some. The public sector in Estonia already employs a very large number of people with reduced capacity to work. Perhaps the fact that it cannot be done, that it is very complicated and requires restructuring, etc. is not really true. In any case, we are moving towards this goal. In the coming months, we will be in contact with the human resource managers of other ministries and agencies to take this issue seriously. On the side of the unemployment fund, we have also agreed on information activities for employers. I hope that together, there will also be an increase in awareness, and this will enable people with reduced working capacity to work more both in the public sector and in the private sector.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U87	Thank you! I will conclude on this issue. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your response. Dear colleagues, thank you for asking. Question Time is over.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U88	Good fellows, good afternoon. Dear Riigikogu, we will begin the 16th working week session of the third session of the Riigikogu plenary session on Wednesday. First of all, I would like to ask those members of the Riigikogu who wish to hand over the drafts or inquiries to the Riigikogu. I ask for the Riigikogu's speech chair Dmitri Dmitriyev!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U89	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I have an inquiry from the Group of the Estonian Centre Party to the Minister of Health and Labour about insurance for accidents at work and occupational diseases. In the early years of health and safety at work, it was said and hoped that the Government of the Republic would develop the Act on Insurance for Accidents at Work and Occupational Diseases. The most important objective of FACTON is the prevention of accidents at work and occupational diseases. Another important objective is to compensate victims of accidents at work and occupational diseases as quickly and fully as possible and to restore a situation which is as close as possible to the pre-insurance situation. Estonia is one of the few countries in the European Union where there is no separate insurance for accidents at work and occupational diseases, which would motivate employers to improve the working environment. The costs of accidents at work and occupational diseases are currently primarily borne by the State through a solidarity-based pension and health insurance system. According to official statistics, about 3000 accidents at work are recorded in Estonia per year, of which, unfortunately, 20 Occupational diseases are diagnosed around 70. Estonia's peculiarity is also that compared to the number of fatal accidents at work, there are relatively few registrations of minor and serious accidents at work. This is not because of a better working environment than the European average, but because of the failure to report an accident. The 2007 proposals for the National Audit Office's audit also highlight the need to implement TÕKS. The 2010 ex-post audit states that nothing has been done in this area. The action plan endorsed by the current government coalition in spring has once again allowed the development of a TRUTH. In this context, we have a number of questions for the Minister for Health and Labour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U90	Dear colleagues, on behalf of the Board of the Riigikogu, I have adopted one inquiry, and according to our Home and Rules of Procedure Act, the Management Board of the Riigikogu will decide on its further proceedings. Now, let's do the presence check. 80 members of the Riigikogu registered as present; no 21.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U91	We will go to the first item on the agenda, which is the first reading of the 210 draft law amending the Law on Legal Assistance initiated by the Estonian Centre Party Group. I ask you to answer the questions of the Chair of the Riigikogu Member Dmitri Dmitriyev! Please, Kadri Simson!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U92	Thank you. Dear waitress, Yesterday, when you gave a thorough overview of this bill, there were very few members of the Riigikogu in the Chamber. More specifically, there were three social democrats on the government side and four reform parties in the Chamber, with somewhat more opposition ambassadors. Now I see...
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U93	Good questioner, I apologize to you and to the performer! Can't hear the question. I ask you to leave this noise and honor the waitress and those who want to listen and who want to ask! Please give the questioner another minute! Let's start over.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U94	Thank you. Dear waitress, There are quite a number of coalition ambassadors in this Chamber who are probably waiting for the possibility of voting out of the procedure of another draft law proposed by the opposition. Before they do, please give them an overview of what this bill is about and why it is necessary!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U95	Good waitress, I ask you to wait, and I also expect the talks to be held in the hall, so I will not interfere with my procedural speeches, and you will not interfere with your reply here with the members of the Riigikogu. Thank you! Good waitress, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U96	Thank you. Good colleague! I will then try to highlight, as briefly as possible, all the objectives set out in the draft amendment to the law that has been initiated. The draft law amending the State Legal Aid Act deprives the court of the possibility of automatically returning applications for legal aid submitted in another language. In addition, the State Legal Aid Act is supplemented in such a way that, if the application or documents attached to the application are still submitted in a language other than Estonian or English, the person handling the application will arrange for the documents to be translated. These amendments ensure fair justice for all, bring the State Legal Aid Act into line with § 15 of the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia, Article 6 of the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms and the case law of the European Court of Human Rights. We were based on the fact that already in spring 2015, the previous Chancellor of Justice drew attention to this problem. He mentioned that the automatic failure of the court to examine a request for state legal aid in a foreign language cannot be in line with the Convention and the case law of the Court of Justice. In the same vein, the current Chancellor of Justice, who, in responding to our referral, stressed that guaranteeing the right of access to the Court of First Instance is an absolute fundamental right which is only allowed to be restricted for very important reasons. The Estonian Bar Association has also said, for example, that non-compliance with the language requirement in a state legal aid application cannot be more important than ensuring access to justice. If we look at point 2 of the draft, there is the second amendment that I was talking about. The State Legal Aid Act provided for the same possibility until the end of 2005. The amendment provides that where the application or documents attached to the application have been submitted to the court in a language other than Estonian, the applicant shall arrange for the documents to be translated. At the same time, it should also be borne in mind that, in the event of the application for legal aid being rejected, the costs of translating documents will still be borne by the applicant. I must obviously stress that these amendments do not change the language of the case, but, if necessary, provide people with a translation. This, of course, creates an additional burden on the courts. Since the number of court interpreters has now been reduced to a minimum, this change would require at least one interpreter in larger courts, such as Harju, Tartu and Viru County Court and Tallinn District Court. This would be accompanied by a one-off job creation cost. I think that's all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U97	Kristjan Kõljalg, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U98	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! If we look at an application for legal aid as a document, many will probably have the impression that it is not easy for people who speak Estonian as their mother tongue to fill it out. Is it not rather a problem that access to legal aid is a bit modest at all? We know that the Ministry of Justice has quite positive plans to increase the possibility of receiving this aid. Should we not rather increase access to legal aid rather than bring one more language to the procedure? What do you think?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U99	Thank you, my good colleague. Good question. I largely agree with you. The draft we have tabled will deal with this problem a little more narrowly than you are proposing on your own question. Why did we present it now? The current version, which provides that applications for legal aid submitted in another language are rejected, leads both us and the Bar Association and the Chancellor of Justice to a situation where there is an imperative rule that does not provide for discretion. However, according to the procedural laws, the courts have a small margin of discretion which allows for a time limit to remedy the deficiencies. At the moment, we are simply in a situation where a person may be deprived of legal aid only because he or she is unable to apply in the national language. In the spirit of your question, the problem should be resolved even more broadly. I fully support the idea that the state should increase access to legal aid, but at least for the time being it would solve this narrow problem, which is actually due to the law.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U100	Kristjan Kõljalg, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U101	Thank you. The second point to be clarified. As you said yourself, it is actually a relatively big challenge to understand what you will eventually have to include in this legal aid application. For some reason, I think that if we now add one language to the application options, nothing really adds. That's why I'm asking you if you have any concrete examples. As far as I know, it doesn't quite make them reject a dull-faced request. I know there are no statistics, but do you have any concrete example that the application for legal aid has been rejected because of non-compliance with the language requirement?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U102	Thank you. Unfortunately, there are really no statistics that I could use here right now. We rely on the appeals sent to the Chancellor of Justice. The Chancellor of Justice also points out in his reply to us that in recent years several people have turned to him with the concern that they do not have access to the court because the application for state legal aid has not been drafted in Estonian. You said that adding one language doesn't produce any results, but we're not really talking about one particular language. We also looked at the case law of the European Court of Human Rights, which must take account of the fact that it could be any language in the world. The European Court of Human Rights states that if a person is unable to file an application for legal aid in the national language, he or she must be assisted and, if necessary, translated into his or her native language.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U103	Thank you. No further questions. Please present the Chair of the Riigikogu to the Chairman of the Legal Affairs Committee Heljo Pikhof!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U104	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! The Legal Affairs Committee prepared a draft law amending the State Legal Aid Act, initiated by the Estonian Centre Party Group on 6 April 2016, for the first reading at the meeting of 17 May 2016. In addition to the problem raised in the draft, we discussed issues of access to public legal assistance in a wider context. At the meeting of the Commission, Mr Urmas Reinsalu, Minister of Justice, Mr Gunnar Vaikmaa, Head of the Department of Freedoms at the Justice Administration Department of the Ministry of Justice, Mr Kristel Voltenberg, Chancellor of the Bar Association, Mr Meelis Pirn, acting President of the Lawyer's Association, and Mr Krista Paal, Director, participated. Mr Dmitri Dmitrijev, a colleague of the initiator's representative, explained the purpose of the draft, that the language requirement laid down in the current State Legal Aid Act in the case of an application for state legal aid prevents people from going to court. If the draft law were to come into force, the initiators felt that all people would have equal access to justice in the event of violation of their rights and freedoms. The draft seeks to eliminate the possibility of returning the application for legal aid automatically if it is not submitted in Estonian or English. It is foreseen that if the application or accompanying documents are submitted in another language, i.e. not in Estonian or English, the applicant will arrange for the document to be translated. The cost of translation shall be calculated from the applicant in accordance with the draft if the application is rejected. According to the initiators, the amendments proposed by the draft State Legal Aid Act are brought into line with the objectives of Article 6 of the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms and with the case-law of the European Court of Human Rights. The position of the Government of the Republic on the draft was not supportive, as Minister Reinsalu said that a more comprehensive change of the state legal aid system is currently planned and will probably reach the Riigikogu this autumn. Minister Reinsalu pointed out that the problem was wider from the Ministry's point of view and explained that it was not a question of language requirements, because for this reason, applications have not been rejected, but rather about the general capacity of individuals to organise their legal affairs. The problem is not language barriers, but general legal awareness. That's what the Minister said. The Minister added that the Ministry of Finance has accepted an additional reform of the legal aid system for the allocation of around EUR 700000, which will also increase the volume of primary legal aid. At present, this amount is approximately 600,000 per year. The committee also heard the views of the Estonian Lawyers' Association and the Estonian Bar Association on the availability of state legal aid. Meelis Pirn, the CEO of the Estonian Lawyers' Association, found that the language in which the application for legal aid was submitted is not the most important problem. The applicant must also have some legal knowledge. He found that not everyone could answer questions such as whether legal aid was needed in criminal, misdemeanour, civil or administrative proceedings, or whether the recipient would benefit from a debt contract. People often do not know how to answer these questions in their own language, but often need the help of a legal counsellor. It is therefore necessary to establish a national network of professional legal advisers. Meelis Pirn confirmed that the Association of Lawyers across Estonia would be able to provide first-level legal assistance if the state guaranteed more funding. The attorney-at-law Kristel Voltenberg stated that he was sympathetic with the idea of the draft under discussion, as he also believes that it should be possible to submit the application for qualified legal aid in the language in which the person possesses it. It also accepted the draft provision describing the recovery of costs from the applicant. According to him, this means that the draft does not impose too much burden on the state budget. He also noted that the Bar Association has also repeatedly pointed out the fact that it is too difficult for the majority of the people who speak Estonian to fill in the legal aid application and that the Minister could simplify this situation by means of a regulation. Kristel Voltenberg also explained that although there are no data on how many applications have been rejected, the Bar Association has data on the legal aid applications of four States in the judicial area between 1 January and 13 September last year. They show that only the Viru County Court has no applications been made, which means that people may not even know about this possibility. There was a lively debate within the Commission on the issue of state legal aid, which is well seen in the minutes of the sitting. Valdo Randpere pointed out that according to the current text of the bill, the application for legal aid could not continue to be filed in Russian, but still only in Estonian or English. On the basis of the draft, it can also be said that, if the application is submitted in English, the task of organising the translation is to be assumed by the processor. The representative of the initiator of the draft act admitted that the text of the draft text is flawed and needs to be corrected, but this can be done before the second reading is completed. As a result of the debate, the initiators' proposal to close the first reading of the draft was put to the vote. The votes were divided as follows: for 3, against 5, with 2 abstentions. As the initiators' proposal was not supported, the Commission is proposing to the Assembly to reject the draft at first reading. It was decided by consensus that the first reading would take place today, 31 May and that the Commission's rapporteur would be Heljo Pikhof.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U105	Thank you. Good waitress, there are some questions for you. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U106	Good manager! Good waitress! As I understand it, they are basically in favour of this draft, but now they have voted it out of the procedure. My question, however, is specific. Please name the Members of the Commission who decided to send this bill to the trash can.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U107	I'll have to find the protocol, then I can tell you. As I said, this is a flawed bill, and that was the main reason why many said that he did not support this bill. I have also told Dmitri Dmitriyev a few times that if this bill were made correct, there would certainly be more supporters. The votes against were voted against by Mr Pikhof, Mr Randpere, Mr Aeg, Mr Kõljalg and Ms Sooäär, and with the abstentions by Külmiki Kübarsepp and Mr Mark Soosaar. Vladimir Velman, Toomas Vitsut and Uno Kaskpeit voted in favour.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U108	Aadu Black, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U109	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! An amazingly similar subject was discussed in this very house 99 years ago when this problem was raised by Commissioner Jaan Poska, who stressed that legal aid must be available in all the languages of the people here. His performance was characterised by another interesting thing. He said that a good precedent was not enough, but that it had to be fixed in the law so that a good principle would not be lost if good people retired. In other words, we need law. This was the principled words of one of the founders of the Estonian state. There was another difference: at the time, at least Poska had a respectful and very polite relationship with his partners, unlike what we saw yesterday, i.e. a deviation from parliamentary culture. How do you assess the approach to the subject at all and the deterioration of this approach over 99 years?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U110	Thank you for your question. First of all, I would like to make it clear that both the social partners and, I believe, everyone else in this Chamber is waiting for the proposals of the Minister of Justice. He has promised to come here in the autumn with concrete proposals on improving access to legal aid, as well as this second-language issue for non-Estonian-speaking people. We're all looking forward to them. I totally agree with you on that. But as far as parliamentary culture is concerned, we ourselves are shaping this culture in this Chamber. Well, that depends on each and every one of us what this culture will be like.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U111	Thomas Vitsu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U112	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Chairwoman of the Good Committee on Legal Affairs! I will ask you the same question I asked the Minister of Justice at the committee meeting. The debate at the Commission meeting was scattered and focused mainly on what had taken place in practice. But I want to know from you whether the Estonian laws must meet the requirements of the fundamental rights of people, the European Court of Human Rights judgments. In this case, it is the Estonian laws that do not comply with them.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U113	Thank you very much for your question. In the Committee on Legal Affairs, we discussed these issues this time and we will certainly discuss them more widely in the future. It was very necessary that representatives of both the association of lawyers and the barrister's office were present at the meeting of the Commission and that they were able to express their opinion on the current availability of legal aid that they have done to ensure that legal aid was available. It was also a question of whether they would translate into Russian. An example was provided of the queues when Tallinn City Government, in cooperation with the Association of Lawyers, organises first-level legal advice. There are usually 300 people in line. We received an answer from the Minister to the question of how much money will come in the future to make first-level legal aid more accessible to people and also what it is planning. He hasn't gotten to the plans yet. That's sad. But the laws of Estonia must, of course, comply with the laws of the European Union.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U114	Good waitress, one more question for you. Vladimir Velman, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U115	Thank you very much, Mr President. President-in-Office of the Commission. It's not news that sometimes the bill comes to the hall not quite correct. Sometimes there are some fingertips and other bugs in it, but nevertheless, the Commission decides that we will still finish our first reading and that we will introduce corrections between the first and second readings. Why don't we do the same with the bill issued by Dmitri Dmitriev?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U116	Thank you for your question. This draft consists of two points, one paragraph is amended and one paragraph is added. And already in this short text there are such mistakes! Lawyers read the text, no one will read the future after the explanatory memorandum. Actually, it's a bad legal practice. I also asked Dmitri to come to the hall with the correct bill. But, of course, it is also an opportunity that if the hall decides to finish its first reading today and the amendments come, the text of the draft will be correct. The explanatory memorandum is entirely correct, there is nothing to say about it.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U117	Good waitress, thank you! No further questions. Do the representatives of the political groups wish to open negotiations? No calls, no negotiations. Please, Dmitri Dmitriev! Please, let's go faster! I'm opening negotiations. Please ask Dmitri Dmitriyev, representative of the Group of the Estonian Central Party, to the Riigikogu's Chair of Speech!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U118	I'm sorry I wasn't fast enough! Ladies and gentlemen, In this composition, we are already debating for the second time a draft amendment to the State Legal Aid Act, with which the Central Party Group wishes to bring the law into line with the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia, the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, as well as the case law of the European Court of Human Rights. In our opinion, it is important to provide legal aid to anyone who is entitled to it, whether or not the person in need is able to complete the application and its appendix in Estonian. The Estonian Bar Association and the Chancellor of Justice have taken the same position alongside the Group of the Centre Party. Unfortunately, some colleagues in the Reform Party still find that we do not have any problems in this area. That sounded through the questions they asked, both in the autumn and yesterday, when we started with this item on the agenda. At the same time, the coalition partner Social Democratic Party recognises the existence of a problem, but does not know how they vote. Legal aid must generally be given to vulnerable groups and people who, because of personal circumstances, are unable to defend themselves or take a representative. At the same time, the European Court of Human Rights has found that state legal aid should also be granted to persons who have linguistic difficulties. The Chancellor of Justice stressed that the right of access to the Court of First Instance constituted an absolute fundamental right which could only be restricted for very important reasons. We must admit that there are currently plenty of people living on the territory of Estonia who, unfortunately, do not speak the official language enough to be able to apply for state legal aid and all its annexes in Estonian. It should also be noted that it may be difficult to provide all the data even in a mother tongue if a person does not have special preparation, not to mention a situation where such data must be provided in a foreign language, although it is a national language. Article 6 of the Constitution has also been mentioned in this Chamber, which says that the Estonian official language is Estonian. It's not a bill anyone's gonna question. The official language of Estonia is Estonian and the language of legal proceedings remains Estonian. However, it cannot be assumed that fulfilling the requirement of the national language is more important than ensuring that people have access to justice. When talking about ensuring access to justice, it makes me think about statistics that say that, for example, no state legal aid applications have been submitted to the Viru County Court between 1 January 2015 and 13 September 2015. At the same time, Harju, Pärnu and Tartu County Courts have received them. Do the people of Virumaa really not need this help, or do people remain in a region where national minorities prevail, problems with the knowledge of the national language and less awareness of the possibilities of legal assistance, simply without state legal aid? If we want to be a European state and rely on European values, then the situation in which the court leaves the application for state legal aid automatically open only because of the non-compliance with the language requirement must be terminated, because such an approach is not compatible with the Constitution or with European Union law; it does not protect the constitutional rights of the people of the Estonian state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U119	Thank you. No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. The Steering Committee has proposed to reject the draft at first reading. Let's start preparing the vote. Dear colleagues, I am voting to reject the draft proposal by the commission at first reading. Please take a stand and vote. With the result of 42 votes against 26 and 3 abstentions, 210 have been rejected at first reading and are excluded from the procedure. The first item is addressed.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U120	Let us move on to the second item, which is the first reading of the draft law amending the Income Tax Act, initiated by the Estonian Free Party Group. I ask for a presentation of Riigikogu Chair Member of the Riigikogu Andres Ammas! Quiet in the hall, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U121	Honorable President! Respectable members of the Riigikogu! I am pleased to introduce you to this draft initiated by the Free Party Group. Behind the title is actually a simple idea, which I have already introduced once before from this remote control: to raise the income tax-free minimum to 400 euros in three years and the income tax rate to 24% to cover it. Moreover, according to our idea, the same amount of income tax-free minimum could be deducted for every child up to 17 years of age from the second child. Compared to the previous approach, the current draft has been supplemented, specifying the subject of the tax amendment. We are grateful to colleagues who pointed out the need to amend the text last time. This bill only deals with wage income. Why are we bringing this bill before you twice? According to the initiators of the draft act, there is an urgent need to make the Estonian tax system fairer. Paraphrasing: The tax system that has brought us here will not take us any further. In our opinion, it is time to break free from this dogma that happiness comes to our yard when we simply constantly reduce the tax rate. We all remember that it has been reduced from 26% to 20% as offered by several of the last governments. For many politicians, this has been a good trump in the electoral struggle, a skilful political technique that is very easy to explain to the electorate before the elections, which is easy to understand. Life has shown that it has been realised that it has been much easier to understand than the idea of eggs presented before the last elections. I do not believe that this has actually been someone's goal, but life has shown that in fact, Estonian society has become increasingly stratified. The reduced personal income tax rate so far has only improved the livelihoods of the top deciles on the pay scale, of those who receive more wages. The vast majority of wage earners have not really felt this reduction in income tax. According to experts, the tax burden in Estonia is strongly lower than the average wage earners' income tax and consumption taxes compared to the average in the Member States of the European Union. Consumption taxes, such as VAT and excise duties, have been steadily increasing since we joined the European Union and now account for nearly 42% of the country's total tax revenue. Estonia has become one of the countries with the highest consumption tax burden in the European Union at all, with an EU average of 28%, and we have 42%. It should be taken into account that the low-wage earners consume all their income. So, in our opinion, Estonia's current tax regime ignores the problem of low-paid people and does not take into account the relative poverty of Estonian society. The Government of the Republic actually agrees. With regard to the draft under consideration in its statement, the government has admitted that wage growth in the higher wage bill has significantly exceeded the wage growth of the lower deciles, i.e. in the language of the people, the rich have become richer and the poor have become poorer. Therefore, according to the initiators of the proposed draft, the proposed proposal actually serves a number of purposes. This takes into account the recommendations of international experts, the OECD and the declared objective of reducing wage poverty in Estonia by both the government coalition and opposition parties. Rulers usually love to point to average wages in their speeches because these figures are more effective. In fact, when analysing the situation of workers, more should be said about median wages. Let us think for a moment that half of Estonian workers receive a salary below the median wage, which was 767 euros a month at the end of last year, but at the same time, we have, for example, very strongly approached food prices in rich European countries. As a result, there can be no news to anyone that half of Estonian workers live in very narrow economic conditions. Understandably, it has its own impact on productivity, quality of life, health, children's prospects, and it is also likely to encourage people aged in family creation to leave Estonia. In the opinion of the initiators of the draft act, it is a major problem that people who receive an honest income on a full-time basis do not earn enough to improve their living environment or use basic services as a minimum. I have already said that the main objective of the draft is to introduce a fairer tax system. According to our calculations, such a legislative amendment would in total increase the income of about 80% of the earners. That's a lot of people. Those who are concerned about the implementation of the state budget do not have to be nervous about this draft either, as the amendment to the budget does not create a hole. This is also acknowledged in the Government of the Republic's opinion on the draft. Moreover, such a legislative amendment would increase the purchasing power of workers earning the average wage and, above all, would simply bring more money into circulation through increased consumption of essential goods, food and domestic services. Companies offering food and essential goods and services would be better, the economy would recover, employment would increase and the need for income support would be reduced. The Government of the Republic has considered that raising the tax rate at the rate proposed by the initiators of the draft is too burdensome for a high-income population in the short term. Well, excuse me, but that makes me laugh. In fact, the changes do not significantly worsen the situation of high-wage earners. Natural wage increases are going to take place anyway, just higher earners' incomes will not grow as much as they would, yes, under the current law. If you hypothetically imagine that, for some reason, wages do not increase at all "naturally', employees would lose 0.2% to 3% in three higher wage decibels. There's no way we can think of this as a significant loss. But in most wage deals, lower then, people's standard of living would rise, and this increase is more than repeated than the relative decline in the upper wage deals. So the money available to the low wage earners is remarkably higher, while for a small proportion of the higher wage earners, the loss of their income is virtually unnoticed. The authors of the draft have also been accused of wanting to increase the tax burden on the employer. Well, it's not like that. This draft does not increase or alter the gross wage of any employee currently described in the contract of employment, which means that it does not in any way increase the employer's tax burden. In our view, another important aspect is that it is in these lower wage deals that there is more shortage of labour. This increase in the tax-free minimum would significantly reduce the tax wedge between the employer's view of labour costs and the employee's view of net wages. Future low-paid jobs could be more easily created, and it could be for young people without work experience or pre-pensioners in the labour market, why not also for many of today's social support survivors to have more jobs. So more income tax will be collected and the need for social support will be reduced. In our opinion, this is also important when we think about people's motivation; it is a question of lifestyle, whether to rely more on subsidies or to get more money for honest work. The annexes to the explanatory memorandum to the draft law provide various calculations. It may be important to note one figure here to prevent issues. This is also highlighted by the Government of the Republic in its commentary. This so-called break point, from which the net wage of the recipient will be less than before, will be EUR 1085 per individual person. However, when it comes to the household of children, this is, of course, a breaking point much higher, according to our calculations, even at the EUR 1850 border. The Government of the Republic has not supported our draft for another reason, namely by claiming that a similar measure in the form of a tax refund for the low-income population will apply anyway. However, as initiators of the bill, we believe that what we are proposing is clearer, simpler and more reliable. At a meeting of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, Mr Helm, Head of the Tax and Customs Board, expressed his reservations that under no circumstances would the Tax Administration be able to check whether those who rely on tax refunds were actually entitled to do so. Economic journalists and entrepreneurs have also referred to the possibility of fraud. So perhaps one thought and one initiative should not be rejected simply because it has come from the opposition. It is in no way humiliating or unworthy to adopt a better measure than it exists. The Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance have already come from this very remote area to label the draft we are discussing left and pour out crocodile tears to see how the centre-right Free Party could come up with something like this at all. You know, in our opinion, increasing the sense of justice in Estonian society and alleviating poverty are more important goals than some clichés from the political science textbook. That's a good bill. If, for some reason that we do not understand, we do not find majority support today, we will come back to that again and again. I am pretty sure that there will be a coalition here in Estonia that will implement a legislative amendment with either such an idea or a similar one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U122	Good waitress, thank you very much. You have questions too. Siim Kisler, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U123	Thank you. Good waitress! You have struck a good balance in the draft, on the basis of the current state of play, with an increase in the tax-free minimum and an increase in the tax rate, one reducing revenue and the other increasing revenue. But we understand that over the years, average wages and median wages are increasing, which means that the situation is starting to get more and more out of balance. As a result, the breaking point you were talking about and the number of people falling below the breaking point will decrease every year. Another factor is that the number of wage earners in Estonia is expected to clearly decrease in the coming years. And this, in turn, will have the effect that the negative share of the budget will start to decrease, which, overall, will lead to a clear increase in income tax revenue, or tax burden, as a result of this draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U124	Good questioner, your time is up! Please answer the question!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U125	Thank you. This is what I actually replied to in the report and, by saying that the tax burden is beginning to increase, I do not agree in any way. If low-wage earners are even somewhat reduced, it is only good. I don't see why I'm worried. The Ministry of Finance has verified our calculations as to whether or not the budget will suffer damage and has found that it will not suffer. I don't see why I shouldn't believe the Finance Department's calculations.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U126	Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U127	Thank you. Dear waitress, Ten months ago, we witnessed the Social Democrats wanting to open a coalition agreement, and among other proposals they wanted to raise the tax-free minimum to EUR 400. The reason was that the state must not take income tax from those who live below the minimum maintenance allowance and must also allow a dignified life for those who earn little. Under the proposal, the tax-free minimum would have been raised to EUR 400 in order not to play with some percentage points of social tax, but to reduce labour costs in essence. Are you defending this bill, which also raises the tax-free minimum to EUR 400, you have seen support from the Social Democrats?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U128	Thank you. At the meeting of the Committee on Finance, where the draft was discussed, I looked closely, but I did not see the support of the Socialists. But it is probably appropriate, in the course of today's draft procedure, that the Social Democrats themselves explain their starting points.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U129	Terje Trei, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U130	Thank you! Good waitress! I listened to you with quite an interest, but there were a number of contradictions and many questions. Now, if you use your own words that the bill promotes the creation of low-paid jobs, this bill can also be called the draft for the creation of low-paid jobs. But let me ask you a question. If you say that the measure planned by the government promotes fraud and yours does not seem to favour it, would you explain how this measure currently proposed promotes fraud and your draft rules out any fraud.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U131	Thank you. Not all fraud is likely to be ruled out in tax matters. But to be exact, in my report, I brokered the suspicions of several entrepreneurs, several journalists. In particular, I have read in the newspaper Äripäev, and I am sure that writings on this subject have also been published elsewhere, that there is a high likelihood that the employer and the employee may disagree maliciously with the low-paid draft tax refund, which has been approved by the coalition. If that happens, you and I don't know. I didn't say this was gonna happen. I said that there was a reference to the possibility of increased tax fraud.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U132	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U133	Thank you, manager. Good waitress! As we know, there are very many people living in deep poverty in Estonia; families are in a very difficult situation. Politicians try to alleviate the situation by sharing money, i.e. collecting money into the state budget, then heroically handing it over to people, and being able to report that they have done a great deal of good. Would it not be wiser to help these people cope on their own? I think that this measure will, above all, allow people to have more money directly in their hands and politicians, the state will not have to share this circle. Do you share this view?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U134	Thank you. It is wiser, and it is exactly what you have just said that we are pursuing. Thank you for helping with the precise wording of your question to understand the draft in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U135	Siim Kisler, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U136	Thank you. I'm sorry, I didn't finish my last question nicely. Let me ask you this: do you agree that if the average wage and median wage increase in the coming years, this bill will result in a faster increase in income from personal income tax, not in a hole, but on the contrary, the income will start to grow even faster and the tax burden will be even more inclined towards personal income tax? You write in the explanatory memorandum that you see this as a problem, but when this bill results in an increase in the average wage, the tax burden is even more inclined towards personal income tax. The second effect is that the tax burden is beginning to increase in Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U137	Our draft will cover the next three years. We do not exclude at all that, once this draft has been implemented as a law, an adequate assessment of the situation must be made and whether further measures are needed, whether any further draft is needed. This bill is not something that would anchor Estonia's tax policy for 10, 15 or 20 years. If your prediction is true, adjustments must be made. Our current calculations do not confirm this.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U138	Remo Holsmer, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U139	Thank you. Dear waitress, You consistently claim that people will have more money with this bill, yet this bill envisages an increase in the income tax rate of 4%, from 20% to 24%. You also claim that the tax burden on businesses will not increase with this bill, even though income tax will rise by 4%. Who do you think is paying for this 4%? Is it an employee or an employer? That 4% has to be paid to the state budget. Who pays, is the entrepreneur or contractor?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U140	Thank you. It's not who's paying, it's what. It is paid for by an increase in the tax-free minimum.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U141	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U142	Good manager! Good waitress! It's nice to hear about such an initiative. However, yesterday we discussed a welfare development plan, according to which by 2023 the number of people living in absolute poverty should decrease by 2.2% and the proportion of those living in relative poverty by 7%. How could your proposal affect the implementation of the welfare development plan discussed yesterday?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U143	Thank you. Once again, according to our calculations, if this draft is implemented, the welfare of some 80% of the contractors will be improved. So it should be fully consistent and balanced with the development plan discussed yesterday, at least with the big ideas of this development plan.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U144	Remo Holsmer, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U145	Thank you. I will repeat my question. At present, income tax is 20%, social tax is 33% and unemployment insurance is 2.4%. These are labour taxes, all three taxes you have to pay on your salary to the state. With this bill, 20% will turn to 24%. Will this 4% be paid by the contractor or deducted from the employees' salary? Which way do you see it, how is it compensated for the state? Your previous answer that this comes from an increase in the tax-free minimum is not the correct answer.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U146	Thank you. I will stick to what was described in the previous reply and I think it was a perfectly accurate and correct answer.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U147	Good waitress, thank you! No further questions. I would now like to ask the Chair of the Riigikogu, Chairman of the Monetary Commission, Remo Holsmer.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U148	Good chairman of the sitting! Ladies and gentlemen, The Finance Committee discussed the draft law amending the Income Tax Act initiated by the Group of the Estonian Free Party. 17 May 2010 at the meeting. At the meeting of the Commission, Mr Andres Ammas presented the draft as representative of the initiators. As he mentioned here, the main objective of the draft is to improve the economic situation of low-paid people. The draft aims to increase the tax-free minimum to EUR 400, while raising the tax rate to 24% as a source of cover. The third proposal is to decouple the additional tax-free income rate of two or more children from the increase in the tax-free minimum. At its meeting on 12 May, the Government of the Republic decided not to support this draft, which was also referred to by the previous speaker in his presentation. I will give an overview of the debate in the Commission, which in many ways consisted in justifying the position of the government. We also had a representative of the Ministry of Finance on the Commission, who described the position of the government. The reasons why the draft was not supported are as follows: The government will already increase the tax-free minimum to EUR 205 per month in the next three years, without raising the tax rate. And as Mr Ammas rightly mentioned earlier, I would remind you that, according to the initiator, the purpose of this draft is to improve the economic situation of the low-wage earners, the Riigikogu has adopted a law which, from this year on, introduces a system of refunding money to the low-wage earners. This concerns people whose monthly salary is less than EUR 651. Now the comment that this bill concerns. The calculations of the Ministry of Finance show that an average earner, according to Statistics Estonia, a person earning 1105 euros in the fourth quarter of last year would not win anything as a result of the amendments proposed in the bill. So the breaking point that Mr Ammas referred to earlier is at the gross wage of EUR 1085. As a source of cover, which has been discussed here, the Free Party proposes an increase in the rate of income tax. Although the employer formally retains the income tax, it is part of the company's labour costs. I didn't get an answer to my question, but in the end, it's still an employer's expense. I don't think the Free Party thinks the employer goes to the contractor and says, "Hey, I'm gonna stick to your salary 4% more now, just accept it." This draft certainly foresees an increase in the employer's tax burden and labour costs. As regards the right to deduct additional tax-free income related to child maintenance and its link to the increase in the general income tax rate, the government has increased child benefits as a much more targeted and targeted measure this year and will do so in the following year. Children's benefits rise to 60 euros and families with three or more children receive a one-off supplement of 200 euros per family. These measures are very specifically targeted at families of many children whose economic situation requires state support. The Commission raised questions from the initiator of the draft report that the share of consumption taxes is too high. We discussed that all business organisations that have been in the Committee on Monetary Affairs in the first half of this year have claimed that labour taxes are too high in Estonia, no one has talked about consumption taxes. The draft under discussion therefore contradicts what business organisations have told the Committee on Monetary Affairs of the Riigikogu. Next year, the government will reduce social tax. Once again, the government will raise the tax-free minimum to 205 euros in total over the next three years. So this draft goes against the proposals made by the Chamber of Commerce, the Confederation of Employers and all the other major umbrella organisations to the Committee on Monetary Affairs. Labour taxes, job creation is the problem that businesses face. In summary, the Committee on Monetary Affairs decided to propose that the draft be rejected. There were five against two members of the Commission, with no abstentions. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U149	Thank you, good waitress. You have at least one question. Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U150	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! I would ask you to comment on one of the statements contained in the position of the Government of the Republic. In fact, recent increases in wages in higher income sectors are significantly above those in lower incomes. Where do we end up when this salmon gets bigger and bigger?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U151	Thank you. The government's positions can certainly be best commented on by the representatives of the Government of the Republic itself. That is what we did in the Commission. I don't think it's worth confronting low-income people and high-paid people here. After all, the goal is for Estonia as a whole to do better. The more and faster the low wages and the higher wages are going to rise, the better. I believe that neither the Free Party nor the Reform Party will strongly oppose this. There's no point in creating any artificial confrontation here.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U152	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U153	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! Mr Ammas referred here to a meeting of the Committee on Monetary Affairs where Mr Helm, Head of the Tax and Customs Board, was present. Did you attend the hearing? How do you comment on his claims that payments to low-wage earners could be difficult?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U154	Thank you. I was in charge of this trial, so there was no way I could have missed it. Yes, it is true that in implementing the refund, the tax administration is working hard, which is good. As regards the implementation of the Act, the first repayments will take place in 2017 in accordance with the 2016 salary income. I believe this preparation period is enough for the IRS. The risk of someone using the system badly somewhere is always there. Let us remember that when we created the employee register last year, it brought 14,000 people out of the floor in the first month. Once again, one step in which Estonia gained a fairer tax environment. If there are any doubts about the refund, or if there are some places where the law needs to be corrected or some holes repaired, then for God's sakes, we're all ready to do it right now. I'm sure you can't say that right now. The IRS has also confirmed that they are doing everything they can to minimise fraud.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U155	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U156	Good manager! Good waitress! The government promises to raise the tax-free minimum to 205 euros, the Free Party will talk about 250 euros from next year. So the difference is 45 euros that you can't get over. Were there any other sources of cover discussed in the Commission when raising the rate of income tax is not appropriate in any way? How, then, can this be done?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U157	Thank you. Yes, it is important to stress that the government raises the tax-free minimum without raising labour taxes, but rather by reducing labour taxes. As a reminder, social tax will fall by 1% next year, which means approximately EUR 90 million in the budget. This bill, on the contrary, increases tax-free income on the one hand, but on the other, increases income tax by 4%. No other sources of cover were proposed by any political group or any member of the Committee on Monetary Affairs. We remained within the framework of this draft and the Commission did not talk about other sources of cover.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U158	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U159	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! You said earlier that the Tax and Customs Board is working hard at the moment to implement a low-paid refund system so that there are no frauds so that they can be minimised. It is good in itself if the Tax and Customs Board is working hard. But does it make sense to artificially roll the charms on the way to the official body? Why do you stubbornly prefer a complex solution to the simplest offered by the Free Party?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U160	Mr President! Honourable representatives of the people! I'll start with where Remo Holsmer ended up answering questions. He concluded by saying that there are always more suspects than the providers of solutions. Let me resolutely refute this argument, like many other claims made by Remo Holsmer. I think that on this subject, which the Free Party has set up, there are basically more providers of solutions in this Chamber than suspects who belong to the Reform Party camp. Among these suspects, as we understand it, we must, of course, exclude Mr Sõerd and probably several other members of the Reform Party, because we know quite well how people talk to each other about the functioning of the Estonian tax system and what the pre-election positions were. This panorama opens in this hall so that the IRL talked about some eggs, which was quite difficult to understand what they were talking about, but basically the tax relief for low-paid people was definitely mentioned. And this is the same thing that we are now offering in a simpler and clearer form. As I understand it, the EKRE has also agreed in principle to such a solution. As far as the left side of the hall is concerned, the Centre Party has spoken of progressive income tax, but I think the solution we have proposed is the church in the middle of the village. As we have heard, they are prepared to support our solution in principle. The Social Democratic Party defended very clearly last autumn, I think that Kalvi Ring will come and say the exact same principle that we are now presenting. The fact that you wanted to open a coalition agreement here, and it did not work out very well, is a question of its own. Solution providers have been held hostage in this Chamber of Riigikogu as a hostage of doubters who are clearly outnumbered, Mr Holsmer, and this is certainly not good for our development. Our solution still has many important advantages that could be discussed. As has been said, this solution is better for the low-paid, and not just for these people. This is also better for the IRS, which would probably be better able to manage the system. This will boost domestic consumption, as the low-wage earners will probably take the money that they have in their hands more into consumption, and it will boost our economy and our lives in the first place. The employer's tax burden will not increase. Yes, the difference may be whether they are employers with more low-wage earners or those with more high-wage earners. There may be a difference, of course, that we admit, but the sum of the sum is a zero sum game. I think that, in the case of this draft, if you follow the explanatory statement, another aspect should be highlighted. This is that the Free Party has started to speak very clearly about the median wage instead of the average wage, which is significantly lower in Estonia than the average wage. Somehow put an end to this illusion of average pay! In fact, the vast majority of those who work receive much lower incomes than what we are described as average wages. So, in the face of the truth, it is more appropriate to address such issues and also to estimate people's incomes on the basis of median wages. But the solution has been proposed, and it is accepted, as I still see it, by the majority of the hall. Let us not leave ourselves hostage, but let us also support this solution in the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U161	Thank you. I now ask for the speech chair of the Riigikogu, representative of the Social Democratic Party Group Kalvi Tõud!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U162	Thank you. There's hardly anyone who's going to throw the department on purpose, and the IRS is going to do it. The government is actually doing two things at once: firstly, raising the tax-free minimum to 205 euros, which is the simple solution in your design, and secondly, introducing a very precisely targeted refund to improve the economic situation of people with lower incomes. Once again: if you, the Free Party Group, or any other group, have proposals on how to minimise potential fraud, if any, we will be open to proposals. At the moment, there is no reason to suspect that anyone is abusing the system in any way. But I guess we'll see it all more closely next year.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U163	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U164	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! Unfortunately, there are a number of contradictions in your answers and comments. I am very concerned that the coalition has taken a very rigid position. Our economic space is changing, needs and circumstances are changing or have already changed. Any open discussion of the various solutions is necessary, especially in our generation, I mean myself and you. So please come to the younger generation! My question is this: what was the positive assessment of the government coalition that you can state well on this draft of the Free Party Group?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U165	Thank you. First of all, I don't think we have any kind of rigid position. The debate on the draft is going on, it was going to the Commission and it is still going on. Your assessment may not be the most appropriate one. As far as the positive side is concerned, the increase in the tax-free minimum is not disputed. It is clearly aimed at improving the situation of people with lower incomes. This step that the Free Party has planned, i.e. to raise this minimum from the current 170 euros in three years to 400 euros per month, will no doubt require additional sources of cover, as you yourself have proposed. Just organic growth, better tax receipts, both in terms of VAT and social tax, is unlikely to be enough to cover this bill financially. After all, the government does not only raise the tax-free minimum; the government has many other goals: to keep defence costs at the current level, to increase pensions and child benefits. The government is still looking at the budget as a whole, it is not the case that the tax-free minimum should be raised to four, all the rest can remain the same. The trend towards raising the tax-free minimum is correct. If you're looking for a positive note, that note is definitely there, but somewhere there are budgetary opportunities and an overall picture. The state budget has been adopted for this year. If there seems to be some kind of wrong emphasis, then in the autumn of next year's budget, we can change these priorities.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U166	Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U167	Thank you, dear waitress. Am I right to remember that, apart from the representative of the initiator, at least one member of the Coalition's Committee on Monetary Affairs expressed doubts as to whether the exemption of low-wage earners in the form it has now been adopted could work well? Do I remember correctly that it was?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U168	I can't ask you any more anonymously. Maybe you'll specify what kind of coalition ambassador you're thinking, because I really can't remember if any vigilante expressed any doubt about the implementation of the refund. Please specify that!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U169	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U170	Thank you, manager. Mr President of the Commission. The coalition has decided to increase the tax-free minimum within four years. How much money does that actually leave every citizen in his pocket every month?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U171	There is a website such as www.kalkulator.ee, where every national ambassador and every other person can enter their income and then count income tax, social tax and tax-free income. The most accurate one, you'll get an answer from there. Very simple, I've tried. I know what you're referring to. The ten euros increase in the tax-free minimum really means two euros to the person. If you wanted to overconfirm it, I can say yes, that's right, and that's confirmed by www.calculator.ee. You can check it out right there.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U172	Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U173	Thank you. Of course, I have no objection whatsoever to congratulating and congratulating the honourable colleague Aivar Sõer for his honest conduct at the meeting of the Committee on Monetary Affairs and to thank him for his honest assessment. Do you remember this episode?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U174	After all, Mr Herkel was also talking about doubts or the risk assessment. Such doubts may equally be expressed by all 101 members of the Riigikogu. After all, the refund of low-wage earners is a new measure in the tax system of the Republic of Estonia and there are relatively few risk-free activities in the case of laws at all. If anything is regulated, there is still a risk that there will be over-regulation or that there will be too little regulation anywhere. There are always more doubters than those who want to find solutions. It is much easier to express doubts too. To raise questions, to leave in the air doubts about how everything is horribly bad, it's easier to repeat than to try to solve things. We'll see. However, our common goal should be to ensure that this system is implemented as well as possible next year.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U175	Good waitress, thank you! No further questions. I'm opening negotiations. Please ask Kadri Simson, representative of the Estonian Central Party Group, to the Riigikogu Chair of Speech! Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U176	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! I am pleased that there are more and more courageous politicians and political parties as a whole who say that this is not the way to go and that there is a need to get rid of taxogmas. The day will probably come when the more sensible part of the Reform Party will understand. So let us take it as our mission in this Chamber to have this debate and to provide knowledge. Let's start from the beginning. The first argument by which the Reform Party tends to dampen any tax debate is that raising direct taxes will always reduce economic growth, while raising their own indirect taxes will not do so. I have not heard any factual evidence so far. A study was carried out at the Institute of Economic Research in Slovenia a few years ago to find out how the transition to the Slovenian economy would have an impact on a consistent income tax from the current graduated income tax. The study modelled a wide range of tax systems. The simulation showed that the impact of changes in the tax system on gross domestic product is not significant. The baseline scenario envisaged that, if progressive income tax would continue to be used, Slovenia's economic growth could be 25,19% by 2025. In an alternative scenario, if it were to shift to a uniform income tax of 22%, the growth differential would be 0.1%. So it is not the case that the increase in the tax rate will collapse, investment will disappear and economic growth will fall. But changing the tax system will certainly affect the issue of taxable equality. The second favorite argument I have heard constantly speaks of how people do not want to pay more taxes, and the worst effect of progressive income tax is that they are terribly unfair to those earning high wages. In America, where you know there's progressive income tax, you've also studied how people feel about it. For example, it has been studied how attitudes will change after the target audience has listened to tax lectures. In a study carried out at Austin University, the pilot group's support for a uniform income tax, initially 44%, fell to 33% after listening to thorough lectures. So tax training is still useful, and this must also be done in the Chamber of the Riigikogu for the Reform Party, whose representatives have now only two left in the Chamber. In addition, the Estonian tax system as a whole must be taken into account from the point of view of fairness. High consumption taxes in Estonia have created a situation where people with lower incomes pay most of their income in the form of indirect taxes, as this is a regressive tax, and people with higher incomes save most of their income. The principle of solvency also supports the progressive development of the tax system. On this basis, the higher tax burden should fall on those who are in a better economic situation than on those who bear the higher tax burden. And this ability to bear a higher tax burden or to make a greater tax sacrifice must be assessed by the government. Presently, tax gifts have been made to people who could contribute more to the state budget of Estonia. So giving up one euro is certainly a much smaller concession for a family enjoying economic well-being than for a poor family. The Free Party initiative is certainly commendable, although a number of important issues remain unresolved in the draft, starting with the corporate tax rate and the corporate tax at all, which appears to have been deliberately neglected in this draft, as well as consistency with the low-paid tax refund system. The Centre Party Group will certainly have an interest in proposing amendments to the draft, thereby further developing the discussion on tax issues. We are therefore clearly opposed to the rejection of the draft at first reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U177	Thank you. I now ask for the speech chair of the Riigikogu to be represented by Andres Herkel, the Group of the Estonian Free Party.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U178	Good Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, The Social Democratic Party has stood and will continue to advocate reducing poverty and improving the livelihood of families, especially families with children. This bill bears these values indisputably, and we are very pleased that the Free Party has read our program beautifully, as if it was working for us and that this bill was put into Riigikogu proceedings. At the same time, as experienced politicians, we all know that fortunately there have been coalition governments in Estonia through the ages, the charm and price of which is that agreements must be made and political parties cannot do all the things they have written. We have significantly increased child support, we have moved the income tax free minimum to 205 euros and we are doing a programme to support recreational education. I hope that, if the Free Party increases one number in the next election, 8.9%, that was the percentage of their support in the previous elections by half or three times, then we will also do what you have now formulated in your draft. Today, unfortunately, however, we cannot support this draft at the cost of these things fought out in the coalition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U179	Thank you. Speaking in a position, Aivar Sõerd, because your name was mentioned in the negotiations. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U180	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Since only the representatives of the political groups can speak at first reading, I will comment on the subject. Besides, I was mentioned twice by name. First of all, in order to alleviate the tax burden on low-paid people, the most appropriate instrument is indeed a general increase in the tax-free minimum. However, I have certainly not said that this draft is a solution that should be supported. No, this bill is certainly not the best solution. However, in the Committee on Monetary Affairs, the matter was discussed comprehensively, including the low-paid tax refund system. And as one of the results of a shadow economy study published today says, tax refunds may be the reason why they prefer envelope wages. It is very relevant that we discussed all of this in the Committee on Monetary Affairs, but what is proposed in this draft is certainly not the right solution. That's my comment.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U181	Thank you. Now all the political groups that have wished to have the floor, and those who have been mentioned, have been able to take the floor. I'm closing the negotiations. The Steering Committee has proposed to reject the draft 218 at first reading. Let us begin with the preparation of the vote on this proposal. Dear colleagues, I would like to put to the vote the draft proposal of the lead committee to reject it at first reading. Please take a stand and vote. With the result of 45 votes for, 27 against and 1 abstention, 218 proposals have been rejected at first reading and fall out of the procedure. The second item is addressed.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U182	We move on to the third item, which is the first reading of draft 216 of the Riigikogu's decision 'Proposal to the Government of the Republic regarding the field of state means of payment' submitted by the Group of the Estonian Free Party. I ask for a presentation of Riigikogu Chair Member of the Riigikogu Andres Ammas! Quiet in the hall, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U183	Honourable President! Honourable colleagues! Once again, it is my pleasure to introduce you to the bill. To quote a literary classic, in order to be honest about the draft that was initiated, it is necessary to go back to the episode when the Estonian public, including us members of the Riigikogu, was shocked and shocked by the way the Director General of the Police and Border Guard Board used the credit card. Still the famous shopping story for boots and headphones. For Elmar Vaher, the story ended at the time with a so-called yellow card and a little later with a higher rank in terms of comfort for survival and spiritual suffering. But the members of the Free Party Group began to wonder how the use of credit cards is regulated in the Estonian authorities at all. The first surprise was that in addition to credit cards, a number of debit cards have been used, the existence of which we did not even suspect. So today we are talking about means of payment in a nutshell. On behalf of the group, we sent enquiries to the ministries, received a number of correct, comprehensive answers, summarised them and analysed the information received. The total number of credit cards in the course of the course of a business is just over 170, each of you can think of as a memory game. Already, this figure makes us suspect that perhaps these cards have been handed out with a little too light hands. It turned out that the issue and use of payment instruments are regulated in very different ways in ministries' administrations, with very different internal rules and decrees. The top level was in the Ministry of Rural Affairs, whose administration was governed by six documents. We found that, in our opinion, when issuing payment instruments, too much depends on the perception of the head of the agency, so as not to say simply that it does not matter. If the manager applies for cards from the Ministry of Finance, it is not clear whether or not the Ministry of Finance will in any way filter these applications. The various internal audits, checks and inventories in this area are very rare. Almost all ministries hinted in their replies that the National Audit Office already exercises control every year and that this should be enough. However, given the great burden and very few resources of the National Audit Office, we do not believe that such a general inspection by the National Audit Office is sufficient. Most ministries claimed in their reply that checks are carried out on a risk-based basis. This risk-based audit procedure has generally resulted in most ministries not auditing credit cards in their area of administration or in very rare cases. True, these audits and controls, according to the ministries, have so far found little significant irregularities. These are only a few cases that have emerged, such as the same case referred to above, violations identified by the former Ministry of Agriculture in Vireen AS and minor violations identified by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in two foreign representations. However, it can also be assumed that, with more effective and continuous control and clearer rules, auditors would have more observations. It turned out that several ministries had such credit cards that could be questioned or the need for which could not be understood from a side-by-side perspective. For example, you may ask why the county manager of Pärnu, Harju and Saare has a credit card and others do not. And why does a county governor necessarily have to have a state credit card? You may ask why Sillamäe Vocational School, Haapsalu Vocational Education Centre, Järvamaa Vocational Education Centre and Viljandi Vocational Training Centre have a credit card for the director or other official and why other large educational institutions do not have one. Why do the managers of the sub-museums of the Estonian Art Museum and, for example, the director of the Saaremaa Museum have this credit card and others do not? There were plenty of anomalies like this. If the number of these credit cards were to be reduced, we clearly believe that risks would also decrease and overall financial discipline would be strengthened. At least using debit cards is beautifully incomprehensible to us. Why do public authorities need them? The replies referred quite a bit to the fact that the share of expenditure on these means of payment in the budget of the institution is small and therefore the overall risk is low. In this case, however, it is probably much more important that, when some officials have done false transactions, this has a very negative impact on the image of public authorities and seriously undermines the overall trust between the citizen and the public authorities. So it's more of a fundamental question. In our opinion, the credit card system in Estonia as a whole could be reviewed. Credit card users must understand their responsibilities, understand and accept operating rules. All regulations and control mechanisms must be generally understood by everyone, equally clear and effective, so that no damage to the state or to a specific body occurs. And in order not only to remain a critic, the initiators of the draft have also proposed one possible solution. It's borrowed from Europe, which way we're looking. The European Commission's corporate credit card model could be used. Such a card is linked to the user's personal salary account; the institution only provides a credit limit. So you can pay for different purchases, from personal to professional, but if you want the cost of the purchase to be reimbursed, you have to submit an application to the institution afterwards. If anyone in particular is interested in this system, the explanatory memorandum has further dissected it. As a result of the previous talk, the Free Party Group has proposed to the Riigikogu to propose to the Government of the Republic an analysis and audit of the field of payment instruments of state institutions to identify problems in the provision and use of these means of payment, the need and purpose of existing means of payment, as well as the misuse and abuse of payment instruments under the administration of the Ministry, and to identify problems in the ongoing control and auditing of the use of payment instruments. For example, another problem came to mind: the independence of ongoing controls and coordination is currently not guaranteed. The official who has the right to vote may be affected, as his or her job may depend on the person whose expenses he or she visits. We propose the development of a single system for the granting, management and control of public payment instruments which are mandatory for all public authorities. The decision whether or not the majority of the Riigikogu sees a problem in this area is in your hands, ladies and gentlemen! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U184	Good waitress, thank you! You have questions too. Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U185	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! You have studied the area of use of payment instruments thoroughly. Now, in order for colleagues to understand the nature of the big problem outlined in the draft decision, could you describe some major cases, whether or not a few, which have been the case since the purchase of the boots and headphones of the head of the police department that took place a long time ago? How many violations have there been since then, I wouldn't even call them abuse? Would you describe a couple of major cases so we can understand what a big problem this is?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U186	Thank you. I think I have just explained how such violations can occur and that under the current poor supervision, very many infringements may not be detected. Our small group is good and hard-working, but we cannot replace research bodies. We do not have the capacity to be everywhere, and we certainly do not have the slightest right to carry out any studies and audits ourselves. There were no references to recent violations in the replies sent to us from the ministries, and I do not remember whether or not any such violations have been revealed in the media over the last few months.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U187	Siim Kisler, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U188	Thank you. Good waitress! It's hard to understand where you can see such a difference as whether headphones are bought for cash or by bank transfer or by credit card. It's hard to understand, but that's why. After all, there are many other means of payment, there are mobile payments and all kinds of modern online payment options. As an example, maybe you have a cab card in your pocket right now for a state institution. Why have you brought here a bill where you do not consider it necessary to audit these other means of payment in any way? For example, perhaps taxicab cards or other important means of payment should be audited by the Chancellery of the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U189	Thank you. If it is found that there are shortcomings in this system now and there are still studies to be carried out, then we are only happy if the IRL Group supports us in this regard and even examines the same so-called taxi cards. But I would like to point out here that, of course, one or the other payment instrument is not in itself responsible for any kind of trouble. It cannot be said that one or the other payment instrument in itself would in any way be deplorable or bad; it is still a question of the users of these payment instruments. As I said at the beginning of my presentation, our interest was based on a particular embarrassing incident that came out of the open. This led us to wonder whether this is a regrettable case in which the public did not understand why these purchases had to be made in this way or whether there are still such violations, but they are unknown to us. A more systematic approach by the state could in future be more consistent and possible infringements can be avoided in the bud.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U190	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U191	Good manager! Good waitress! Reminds me how the kidnapping of Eston's briefcase opened our eyes to the actual situation of the eastern border. It seems to me that the chief's boots and headphones are now opening a picture of the jungle that rules in the distribution of credit cards. Has this picture developed in such a way that the more active head of the institution gives them away, and others who are inactive do not? How has this landscape developed in the first place?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U192	Thank you. You used an exceptionally striking comparison of this landscape, that it was not such a peaceful meadow or meadow, it was a jungle. There are so many strange, so many anomalies. I've already given some examples here. I can also add that the cost of transactions with a payment instrument is sometimes incomprehensible. In the Ministry of Defence administration, for example, the amount is particularly often 3.20. I really can't tell you why this is happening again. It did not make sense why it was necessary to pay a continuous sum of 3.20 cards. I believe that the more you dig into all this and delve into it, the more complicated the picture becomes, the more anomalies and weirdness will come out. Why are we proposing to the Government of the Republic to investigate this? Because the opportunities of one small group and even the entire Riigikogu are, in our opinion, scarce.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U193	Siim Kisler, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U194	Thank you. Good waitress! You said that no means of payment is bad in itself, and I agree with that position 100%. But why do the initiators point out in the draft explanatory memorandum that debit cards should be abolished at all? You also mentioned in your speech that debit cards should be abolished. As I understand it, the attitude was rather to reduce the number of credit cards, while leaving out incomprehensiblely the taxi cards I mentioned here, for example, and other such means of payment. If you are of the opinion that no payment instrument in itself is bad, but it is a question of use, why make this kind of proposal?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U195	Thank you. You're now thinking about a proposal for debit cards. If the credit card is used to pay for large-scale purchases in a specific situation, for example in Estonian foreign offices, you can understand that there is a need for credit. However, paying for small daily expenses and even some lunches with a debit card is simply incomprehensible to us. This is incomprehensible to us! If I was so understood, as if the debit card itself was guilty of anything, I didn't mean to say that. I'm sorry I didn't make myself clear enough. Of course, a debit card is in itself no less a means of payment than some others, but in this context, as the employees of a public institution, their function and idea, their need, remained incomprehensible to us.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U196	Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U197	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable waitress! I have a general question. I don't know why you chose the draft decision form to solve this. Besides, we don't know what the vote is. It is impossible to predict the outcome of the vote, all the more so as the adoption of such a draft decision requires a majority of the votes in its composition. These regulations are the rules of cash execution, the general rules of state accounting, the internal audit system of public authorities are within the sphere of government of the Minister of Finance. If you really want to address the substance of this issue, why should you not have invited the Minister of Finance to the Committee on Monetary Affairs, to discuss the subject and to give the Minister of Finance the Commission's guidelines? Why did you choose this form?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U198	If you have listened to my report and have also examined the explanatory statement, you can make sure that we have really dealt with this matter thoroughly and effectively. And if anyone is interested in the answer of one ministry or another, or in what amounts have been operated in one ministry or another, then we have the material for that too. We can share it with the interested parties. So there is absolutely no reason to question the seriousness of our intentions. And personally, it is precisely because of this seriousness that I think that it is appropriate to discuss the subject in this large Chamber with the participation of only a few parliamentarians. It is important that this issue is brought to the attention of the government authorities so that it also receives public attention. I am afraid that simply discussing at the meeting of the Committee on Monetary Affairs and getting confirmation from the Minister about how everything is best as always is not enough. It would dampen and drown the problem rather than give him serious weight. That's why we chose this opportunity. It is wise and practical to ask this hall whether the system needs to be cleared up or not. And if the Government of the Republic requires the Ministry of Finance to review any legislative acts or to introduce additional arrangements, then it is excellent. Let us now be reasonable and honest, one group cannot do the work of many civil servants; we simply do not have the strength and opportunity to do this.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U199	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U200	Good manager! Good waitress, good luck mapping the jungle! But I've heard an interesting fact. Can you tell me what the DOD guys do with that credit card $320 every day? Does that mean two beers or a steak? Do you have some kind of hypothesis behind this 3.20?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U201	The honest answer is, yes, we have hypotheses, but until these hypotheses are proven, it is not appropriate to transmit them from this dignified speaker of the Riigikogu. We leave it to every vigilante's fantasy of what he gets for 3.20 and why he has to pay for this goods or service with a national credit card.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U202	Good waitress, thank you! No further questions. I now ask for a presentation of Aivar Sõerdi, member of the Finance Committee of the Riigikogu Chair.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U203	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Committee on Finance of the Riigikogu discussed the draft at its meeting on 17 May and, as representative of the initiator, Mr Andres Ammas, member of the Free Party Group, presented the draft. Katrin Rasmann, Head of the Treasury Department of the Ministry of Finance, participated in the meeting. I'm not going to go over it again. No amendments to the draft decision were received by the deadline of 26 April at 5.15 p.m. I will give an overview of the issues dealt with and the questions raised in the Committee on Monetary Affairs. The Treasury, which is part of the Ministry of Finance, acts as the guardian of the technical process of managing payment cards. Due to the fact that public money is managed on a consolidated basis and public authorities do not have bank accounts, payment cards are managed by the Treasury. Katrin Rasmann, Head of the Treasury Department, explained this to us. He also brought some figures so that everyone would understand. I'm going to go over it so everyone can understand the volume of these transactions and the amount of money. The volume of purchases made with debit and credit cards was 2.1 million euros in 2015. By comparison, the total economic costs of all public authorities amount to EUR 582.5 million. If calculated quickly, this volume represents 0.36% of all costs. The Head of the Treasury Department explained that the bank card is issued at the request of the head of the institution. The Head of the Agency shall be responsible for card transactions carried out by its officials and staff and shall ensure that funds are available to meet bank requirements. The Treasury itself has no competence and ability to assess the validity of the opening of bank cards and the legality and justification of transactions with cards. The Statute, which is the basis for the activity of the Treasury, does not provide for financial control over the transactions of institutions that are customers of the Treasury as a liability of the Treasury. The regulations provide that the Treasury keeps a consolidated account of transactions carried out through the e-Governance Fund, administers financial transactions and contracts relating to the Department, executes settlements, keeps accounts and prepares reports. The Head of the Treasury also stressed that the general responsibility for the State Accountants is a regulation called the General Accounting Code of the State. § 12 of this rule provides for the organisation of the state's accounts in a decentralised manner, on the basis of the state accounts and lays down the responsibility for the accounting of the state accountant to the Head of the State Accountant. The responsibility for the day-to-day activities of the person liable to state accounts, including the organisation of accounts, rests with the executive director. Consequently, the head of the public authority is responsible for the legality and justification of all economic transactions carried out by public authorities, including bank cards. The responsibility of the head of a public authority and the ability to establish an effective internal control system are prerequisites for the realisation of this responsibility. The Head of the Treasury also explained that in order to obtain or close a debit and credit card, the institution will submit an application signed by the Head of the Treasury Institution or his authorised person. At the request of the Treasury, the bank will issue or close the relevant card to the institution. In the event of theft or loss of a bank card, the institution shall immediately inform the credit institution issuing the card and the Treasury thereof. The head of the institution shall be fully responsible for the card transactions carried out. Members of the Commission had questions for both the initiator and the representative of the Ministry of Finance. First of all, the question was that the card is a method of payment, but the revision of the costs should be the personal responsibility of the institution's internal control system and the head of the institution. One Member of the Commission expressed the opinion that the card was not guilty, that the card was a tool, and that, if there are problems, it was necessary, in particular, to supplement the regulations. Members of the Commission also had a question as to whether the Government of the Republic is at the right level, as this whole area is to regulate the Ministry of Finance. The initiator thought it best for the government to pass on the task to the Ministry of Finance that the government might be more competent to draft draft such drafts. The initiator of the draft act also stressed that the practice of ministries is different. In the Ministry of Rural Affairs, there are, for example, six documents that govern this area. The originator stressed that the focus on this area was gratifying. The Commission also discussed the corporate credit card system used by the European Commission in relation to the bank accounts of officials. In this respect, the explanation of the representative of the Ministry of Finance was that Estonian banks do not offer such a service. The Ministry of Finance, in fact the representative of the Treasury, stressed that cooperation with banks is still ongoing and that the Ministry is working on improvements in bank card reports. The general understanding was that the harmonisation of reporting helps a great deal and that it is up to the Ministry of Finance to organise this area. The Commission took the following decision: to propose a draft on the agenda for Tuesday, 31 May, from which it came today. That was the Commission's decision and proposal for a large hall. Thank you for your attention and I am ready to answer the questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U204	Thank you. Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U205	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! 2.1 million is a very large amount of money, 39% of the political party's state budget support. If you think this is marginal, I see no reason why the coalition does not want to reduce the funding of political parties. I think it is very clear that the government is responsible for the use of the state's, or taxpayer's, money; the government must bear that responsibility. Did the Commission analyse or could the representative of the Ministry of Finance say how much compliance with the Public Procurement Act has been circumvented due to the use of credit and debit cards? In fact, unfortunately or fortunately, our institutions are not so flexible in terms of their spending, the case of the PBA has also shown that compliance with the Public Procurement Act has been ignored.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U206	At the committee meeting, we did not go to details such as the funding of political parties, which link you have pointed out. We did not go that far with our debate and we did not get to public procurement. Again, the heads of state institutions are responsible for both compliance with accounting rules and compliance with the Public Procurement Act. The link between the use of credit cards and public procurement may, of course, be the subject of a debate, but in the area of public procurement we did not, as I recall, arrive at our discussion.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U207	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U208	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Mr. Sõerd! I come back to the question of the practice of using credit cards in the European Commission. There is a card linked to the user's personal bank account. You said that this topic was up in the Commission and that Estonian banks did not offer such a service. Can you answer why you're not offering? Perhaps it would simply be that if the government demanded that officials use such other types of cards instead of current credit cards, this service would immediately be created. What is responsible for the absence of such a service?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U209	Thank you. I can only answer this question by saying that if our commercial banks do not provide such a service, then there is therefore not enough demand for this service. And I think that these 171 state institutions' credit cards are hardly creating this kind of demand. But once again: the Treasury is a very large customer for commercial banks, and if a large customer negotiates with commercial banks and requests such a service, then banks may make some kind of offer, even if only to public authorities, if the private sector does not need such a service. At the same time, however, employees of private institutions also use credit and debit cards to buy things for their own business, so that demand can also arise from them. However, since banks do not currently offer such cards, there has been no private demand so far.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U210	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U211	Hello, Mr. Chairman, and thank you. Honourable waitress! At the beginning of your presentation, you made a very interesting comparison that public authorities are only conducting economic transactions with debit cards and credit cards to the extent of 0.38%, that the rest is still a Treasury-based service. Did you want to show me that dealing with such credit and debit cards isn't really relevant, or was it just a background statement?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U212	Thank you for your question. My task is to give a comprehensive, complete and detailed overview of the debate in the Commission. Such a number had been given to us by the Treasury, and I also thought it my duty to pass it on to my colleagues so that you could understand the nature of the issue. It is not up to me, of course, to add any estimates of my own. This is for general information and a comprehensive understanding of the matter.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U213	Thank you, Aivar Sõerd! No further questions. I'm opening negotiations. Artur Talvik on behalf of the Free Party Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U214	Good Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, In the nineties, when Estonia became self-sufficient, one of the characteristics of a hard man was how hard a credit card you had and whether you even got a credit card. I remember from my own hands how a friend of mine had gotten an American Express credit card and how he always asked at a place of payment with a loud voice about whether American Express could be paid. Of course he couldn't, but he could show me how tough he was. Then the banks started to look at it as a nice thing and pushed the bar down. He got a gold card for a few bucks, and he got a pretty ordinary person. Then, of course, everything stood in order, with the card in its hand, so that this golden card would shine far away. Fortunately, the situation has changed and the credit card has become a normal payment instrument. When I was an entrepreneur, of course we had a corporate credit card, and from time to time things got mixed up in that wallet. Well, speaking from this polite remote, I bought milk with this map. You can change some letters here and come to the conclusion that I bought something else. But at the end of the month or next month, it was very difficult to explain to the accountant why I bought this milk and why my company needed the milk I bought with a credit card. What do I mean by that? The Free Party has not raised a problem that would be like marginal to 170 cards and, I don't know, just two million things done to them. In fact, it's the slot where the personal and public wallet or the personal and company wallet starts to get messed up. This is the first step in which this confusion begins, and in that sense it is very characteristic. We also know about Estonia's history of all kinds of examples of how such things have been done. From our point of view, this first step will develop into far worse steps that we will not reach today. When we examined these credit cards, our attention was also paid to what you are looking at in these credit cards, instead go and see how the ministries and their agencies are compensating for the costs, that there is much more of this crap. Well, our group is not one of the investigative bodies that should do this. But we very much hope that the same draft will also give more attention to this, that is to say, the larger part and the next part, the use of funds by ministries and their agencies. What we are calling for is a 'positive programme' and a 'discipline programme'. It's not just whining that, oh-oh, stupid things, credit cards. Clearly, these credit cards are even badly needed in some places, although today, in general, there are fewer and fewer. In other words, if the card is linked to your personal account and you are compensated for precisely the part that really is the cost of your work, it is reasonable. I very much hope that you will support our draft and that this whole picture will be analysed. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U215	There is no further wish for negotiations. No amendments to draft 216 have been tabled. So we can go to the final vote. Andres Herkel, procedural question!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U216	Thank you, Mr President. Maybe you can help us. I'm worried about the members of the Reform Party getting to the hall. This bill needs 51 votes. Maybe the manager could take a break and wait a little while longer, but they'll come quietly.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U217	Thank you for the proposal. The manager does not take this into account at the moment. I hope that the Free Party Group will not be very upset about this, because a procedural proposal could still be made. Igor Gräzin, procedural question.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U218	I just wanted to say that there are free people in the Reform Party: they want, they come, they want, they go. [[In the Laughing Hall.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U219	I would like to draw attention to the fact that there was no question to the members of the freely coming and going group. Honourable Riigikogu, since draft 216 requires a majority of the Riigikogu's membership for adoption, we will carry out a verification of the presence. There are 44 members of the Riigikogu, no 57. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the Riigikogu decision "Proposal to the Government of the Republic regarding the field of state means of payment" submitted by the Group of the Estonian Free Party 216. Please take a stand and vote. There are 23 members of the Riigikogu in favour of adopting the decision, 8 against, no abstentions. The decision will not be taken.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U220	Our next item is the political statement by Minister for Justice, Urmas Reinsalu, on the implementation of the legislative reduction plan. Honourable Riigikogu, since there may be some differences in procedural practice in political statements, I would like to draw your attention to the following. First of all, the Minister of Justice, Urmas Reinsalu, has a political statement for up to 30 minutes. A member of the Riigikogu may ask an oral question to the rapporteur. After that, there will be negotiations where representatives of the political groups can take the floor. Minister of Justice Urmas Reinsalu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U221	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, The Riigikogu exercises legislative power. In the autumn of last year, while taking stock of Estonia's legal policy objectives, I also presented to the Riigikogu a legislative reduction plan developed by the government. The guiding principle of this programme is that legislation, the preparation of legislation by the government must be systematic, based on the ultima ratio principle. Overregulation must be avoided, i.e. there is no need for further legal regulation, legislation must be predictable and impact assessments must be carried out before and after adoption. In order for Parliament to have an overview of the legal policy plan proposed by the Government of the Republic, the roadmap, I promised last autumn that I would present to Parliament the legislative plans of the ministries. The Ministry of Justice has put together a review of the legislative plans of the ministries, and it has now also been made available to all parliamentary committees. In fact, there are two central resources in the rule of law that the legislator uses to implement its policy choices. The first is the state budget to be transferred in the autumn, which determines the financial choices, and the second is legislation. For the legislator to have a better overview of legislation, it makes sense to draw up such a summary plan and put it at the disposal of Parliament. The fact is that the central problem or task of reducing the volume of Estonian legislation and lowering the pace of creating laws on a mass scale is now just as topical as it was in autumn last year. The overview of the legislative plans of the ministries drawn up by the Government of the Republic contains a total of 220 legislative initiatives, which are either individual ideas in the form of a specific legislative novel to regulate a narrow problem or intended to regulate a broad area of legislation. I would like to stress that the legislative plan clearly sets out three criteria which should normally be guided. These are the drafting of the draft legislation's intention to develop, impact analysis and, in the most important cases, a follow-up analysis. Looking at the legislative dynamics, in 2014 there was a change from 398 in force at the time, 319 in 2015, there was a change from 380 in 247. This was certainly because there were elections and the elections were followed by the'start-up' cycle of Parliament. This year's dynamics are such that 170 new versions of the 380 law in force on 1 January have already been published. This means that the law has not been rewritten in its entirety, but there has been a change in one word. I would like to point out that, for me, a good legislative basis is the intention to develop prior to the initiation of the law. This is the so-called birth permit of the law, which makes it possible to make a choice as to whether there is still a need to regulate a matter legally or whether there are other, softer methods in society. Secondly, it must also show the real impact on society in terms of costs or administrative burdens. It can be said that this trend, when compared to 2014, has progressed in a positive direction, i.e. the number of plans for development has doubled: in 2014, there were 22 plans for development, last year 41. There is also, without a doubt, a catalogue of laws in which there is no plan for development and where it is objectively justified. With regard to the drafts of the parties, the failure to draw up the intention of drawing up the draft was due to the fact that it was a transposition of European Union law or a law on the ratification of the foreign treaty. In relation to the latter, it is indeed the case that, if a country has decided to join a political agreement, it is actually a take-or-leave case. However, apart from the objective exceptions, I must admit to Parliament that the lack of drafting plans is a real problem. Consequently, in the second half of last year, since the start of the legislative plan to reduce the volume of legislation, I have considered it necessary to leave the seven draft laws uncoordinated, i.e. 30%, in cases where the draft was not preceded by a plan for development. I specifically mention these draft laws: amendments to the Private School Act, changes to the Spatial Data Act and the Commercial Code, changes to the Population Register Act and the State Fees Act, amendments to the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act, amendments to the VAT Act, amendments to the Building Code and the State Fees Act, amendments to the Alcohol Act and the Advertising Act. For most of the uncoordinated drafts, ministries justified the lack of intention to develop on grounds of urgency. Here I must objectively admit that, in all cases, there was certainly no urgency due, for example, to the acute crisis of state life and where the departure from the cycle of good regulation would have been objectively justified. In reality, urgency can still be said when unforeseen, unpredictable events occur, whether it is a swine plague or a sudden change in the economic environment. Urgentness is not really a justification in situations where the problem has been known for some time, but because of poor planning of the work, it is going to be quick at some point, because deadlines have not been met in the normal cycle. I would like to stress that the intention to develop a draft law is not a bureaucratic instrument in which the draft law is essentially already in the closet and, figuratively speaking, a long explanatory statement is drawn up. No, it must be a substantive assessment of what is going to be done and what are real alternatives. I would also like to call on Parliament's permanent committees to assess, first of all, when the draft has reached the Commission's procedure, the legislative plan of the ministries in its area of competence, to hold a debate with the members of the government, and certainly to take an interest in the depth of the impact analysis and the reasons or considerations for abandoning the intention to develop. I would stress that, at the beginning of this year, we have simplified the format of the intention to develop in order to remove the so-called bureaucratic tension or stress. In the intention to develop, especially when we are talking about the burden on the economic environment, it is important to point out evidence-based arguments as to why the same objective cannot be achieved through different solutions. Regulation of the matter by law must be the last way or the way in which it is done, and there must be an overwhelming argument as to why it will not be possible to achieve the desired objective in any other way, i.e. to achieve the same objective at lower cost. I have to admit that, in the case of the intention to develop, a parallel phenomenon is real inclusion. Let's say, if there is an idea on the table, there are alternatives that have been attempted as substantive alternatives, then in this case it is also possible to hold a debate in the process of inclusion. We have seen in recent years that in the parliamentary process, whether it is funding private schools, where there was no plan for development, and when we put pressure on the argument of urgency, we wanted to withdraw from the overall cycle or to cancel the previous substantive justification, these problems simply come to us later, they cannot be ignored. I would like to stress that a substantive impact analysis is, above all, essential for the design of the intention as a legislative policy and for the preparation of laws. I consider the measurement of administrative burdens to be the most central here. In most Member States of the European Union, the aim is to reduce the administrative burden on businesses at government level. In this way, the government has started to draw up a zero bureaucracy project in Estonia, coordinated by four ministries. Looking at the legislative process, I have to admit that it is not possible to see a general trend towards reducing administrative burdens on the basis of the drafts submitted to coordination. The information on the administrative burden involved is also uneven and often presented in a descriptive way, so it is ultimately impossible to state clearly in numerical terms how much the administrative burden will increase and how much the new regulation will cost. Unfortunately, there is a danger or trend that this burden will grow, grow, grow without really having a real view of it. Evidence is no better if, in fact, a positive step is taken towards reducing the burden. Take, for example, the draft law amending the Packaging Act, which was presented as the best law candidate in the competition last year. The desire was to ease the demands. This certainly led to a reduction in the administrative burden on businesses, but the draft was also not objectively stated to what extent the administrative burden on packaging companies and recycling organisations will decrease. Looking around the world, it is clear that countries with high economic performance and ample innovative solutions have a profound impact, in particular analysis of the impact of the economic environment and evidence-based experimentation with policy options normality. I am here to name the Netherlands, Great Britain and Denmark. It is logical that, if there is an analysis on which to rely and solutions have been tested before their introduction, they are more likely to produce the positive effects that have been requested and also mitigate the risk of undesirable effects. Last year Finland set up a quality control body for impact analyses by a separate and independent government. I also call on you to increase the capacity and capacity of Parliament as legislator to assess the impact of draft laws, to answer the question of whether the impact analysis carried out by the government is sufficient and impeccablely structured. It is also necessary to analyse the spill-over effects of certain laws. A draft law on development monitoring is currently under parliamentary procedure, the content of which is to form a separate unit to Parliament on the basis of the analytical part or competence of the Development Fund. I call for serious consideration to be given to the fact that, in addition to dealing with more general development issues, this unit must have a very clear competence. The resource that will be available to the unit as a result of the development plan is quite decent to allow for impact analyses that can be used by political forces and sectoral committees. Certainly, then, the legislator will have better opportunities to hold a scientific debate, for example in the case of very technological choices, if it has an alternative opinion in its pocket. A secondary opinion must and must be a real opportunity for the legislator to obtain it. I see that this unit could be one of the practical ways to introduce greater legislative power for the legislator. The second issue, as I emphasised, is the ex-post evaluation of the effects of laws. This is just as important as adoption. In addition to legislative initiatives, the new work plan of the European Commission has the task of carrying out an ex-post evaluation of 50% of the law in force. The European Commission considers it appropriate to carry out a follow-up analysis of 50% of existing legislation as to whether it has achieved its objective. According to the review of the legislative work plans, we still have a low proportion of ex-post evaluation. This year it is planned to carry out an ex-post evaluation of only three draft laws, one of which can be described as the law on administrative reform. Here I want to put Parliament's permanent committees to heart that, if the Commission considers it necessary to require the Ministry, which has prepared the law, to carry out an ex-post evaluation by a specific date, for example, the new text of the Planning Act agreed that an ex-post evaluation will be carried out next year, then the Commission's decision may not have a formal legal weight, but the weight of political culture must be such that government agencies and ministries really take this decision into account. I would like to point out here more boldly the path that we are at the beginning of, but which is once again one of the elements of a legislative culture that we must not consider to be a side effect. It is an alternative to legislation, or formal legislation. The low use of non-regulatory options is a serious general problem. This is also clear from the plans to be developed. On the one hand, it makes sense that we have plans to develop, where the possibility of alternatives has been created, but the problem is that in many cases the intention to develop is to say that the solution is either to amend the law or to do nothing. If you put such a dualistic choice before the decision-makers, then obviously option A will always be the winner.This is absolutely inevitable for such a linear choice. In other words, there must also be real and usable alternatives in the plans to be developed, and this is what the Ministry of Justice has in mind when coordinating draft laws. The fact is that only a mindset focused on legal solutions will produce new and new drafts. Secondly, as a positive point, I would like to stress that the Ministry of Justice has failed, in the course of the review of plans to be drawn up in recent months, to give coordination to proposals for legislative amendments only in order to change the structure of the law or to refine the wording. We have also pointed out that the addition of the law to 'clarifying' rules can simply lead to new needs for change or be absolutely unnecessary in terms of legal clarity or uniform applicability. In the case of non-regulatory solutions, the OECD has also highlighted the increased use of "pulling" techniques, which in reality means that instead of regulatory guidelines, solutions are sought cheaper and more efficiently by directing different, softer practices towards people, businesses, society as a whole. It is also important to take into account that we do not regulate ourselves, especially when looking at the development of the economic environment, and that a good, innovative solution would not result in a huge patchwork of legal obstacles. This is very much related to our competitiveness. One of the priorities of the current Dutch Presidency of the Council of the European Union is precisely innovation-friendly and future-proof regulation. This means, among other things, creating opportunities for testing innovative solutions. One example here is the so-called regulatory sandboxes, or the creation of sandboxes. For example, in the financial sector in Great Britain, some services are allowed to be tested by being excluded from the current legal framework. This has been established in such a way that the rules in force for this single unit of testing do not apply, and if you can see how it works in practice, the necessary changes will be made to the legal environment. I call on Parliament to assess how regulation has worked in practice, and I have proposed in writing to the Auditor General and the Chancellor of Justice that the Auditor General also evaluate it in his annual report and be prepared to provide Parliament with an impact analysis as an external auditor. I call on the committees to turn to the Chancellor of Justice to ask whether any case needs to be regulated by law or whether internal restructuring of the organisation is sufficient, particularly in matters of public authority and administration. Maintaining one law unchanged for a long time may not in itself be an indicator of the weakness of the law. On the contrary, in particular in the economic environment, this is a value in itself in terms of predictability of relations. This is also the reason why the Ministry of Justice gave up the new code of the previously planned business code or the complete text. There are things that need to be improved, but this has to be done with concrete improvements that have a clear objective. To rewrite the law as a complete text only for legitimate reasons is clearly not practical and not necessary for Estonian society. With regard to the implementation of European Union legislation, I would also like to emphasise and put my heart to it that we do not implement European Union law but use the so-called Cold Plating. In the case of a directive, the explanatory memorandum to the draft law must clearly state which rules are directly related to the transposition of the directive, and which is some other regulation, due to the state's own need, which is being sought in the context of the transposition of European Union law. The fact is that a third of our legislation is purely a incorporation of European Union law. This is my review of the implementation of the legislative reduction plan. The trend has been positive, as far as the justification is concerned, but this trend is certainly not one that would allow us to say that the situation is in line with the objectives we have had in mind in the case of good lawmaking. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U222	Questions for the Minister of Justice. Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U223	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. First of all, thank you very much for your overview and presentation of your views. Otherwise, it is not said that simplicity is the greatest complexity. Such a fight against bureaucracy is universally recognised and commendable. And it seems to me that the Ministry of Justice has started to combat it so seriously that a lot of drafts and a number of other things that have not been received from the Ministry of Justice by the deadline are probably why they are standing. However, I have a different question. The question is that the Riigikogu has a population support group and many laws have a very large impact on the population. This effect can be either positive or negative if the law is adopted. When coordinating as Minister of Justice, do you also look at whether an analysis that has specifically examined the impact on the population and our future has been prepared or is not being monitored by the side?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U224	Thank you. This is, in itself, one element that the drafters need to bear in mind in their impact analyses. The theoretical model of the effects on the economic environment, the human environment, as well as the demographic situation, has been rewritten. But I want to talk not only about the negative here, but on the contrary, I would like to say that in many cases the trend is positive, very thoroughly, intelligently, rationally there are reasonable alternatives. All you can say about that is praise. There is certainly room for improvement here in order to clarify the methodology, to formulate a comparable basis by which we can measure population or demographic trends in our legislation. This measurement must not simply become such a bureaucratic glass pearl game in some respects, but we must understand the real influences. I think that, in addition to such a declaratory call to examine the effects, a serious debate is needed between Parliament's permanent committees and political groups in order to determine Parliament's expectations of the government's drafts of what is the rational academic level that must be met by a substantive, important draft coming from the government. Everything can, of course, be turned into grotesque. It can be said that there is little justification, more justification and more justification. But here I would like to encourage, specifically, to think about the added value of this development monitoring unit, which the draft is intended to be brought before Parliament. I looked at the so-called generalisation power that the bill assigns to this unit. I call for the draft to be drafted in such a way that the impact analysis has also been set out on whether it can be ordered by the political groups, how this ordering takes place, in which case, in which case, there would be a mechanism for routine. Otherwise, there is a risk that the development monitoring unit will in some ways come up with its own work. In that case, it does not fulfil the objective that Parliament is essentially the master of political choices and that the effects of these choices are assessed both ex post and ex ante.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U225	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U226	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. Reasonable talk about over-regulation and over-production of laws. But two things you said made me squeal. One is the low use of non-regulatory solutions, that the law will always be amended. The second was the British Sandbox theme. Can you give me, as a non-legalist and others, a specific example where we could use these non-regulatory solutions? Is there anything that might ring your mind right now?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U227	In some ways, we have a situation that concerns, for example, the issues of the collaborative economy. There is a situation in the sandbox where we try to put the law into place. It is our logic that we must respect the principle of equal treatment here are taxi companies and are the actors of the collaborative economy. In fact, we could say that this sandbox situation, this gendbox, is already in the cars that go around using apps.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U228	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U229	Thank you, good Chairman. Good minister! You've devoted a great deal to impact analysis. When will the impact of regional policy be analysed for each law? Our peripheralisation and other such problems are quite serious, they are not recognised, and the law on administrative reform does not solve them in any way. Impacts can be analysed when different stakeholders are involved and taken into account. Stakeholders say that involvement has been achieved, but not counting. What has been your message to the ministries and government? What is your ministry's practice of real accounting? You have noted the role of Parliament that there is a major debate here. It was made clear to me a year ago that the initiator was not Parliament, but the government.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U230	When you start at the end, it is true that in today's democratic systems it is a general rule that, when you look at proportion, the lion's majority of laws, especially those with more technological character, come from government. It is clear that the role of Parliament, above all of the opposition, in proposing its alternative, is to do so through a different legislative path. I think there are a number of cases, such as this proposal to a government where the opposition is not required to draw up an impeccable draft of the same size and technical standards, if it is capable of being done by the bureaucratic apparatus of the government. These systems obviously always remain unbalanced in terms of proportion. In European parliamentary practice, legislative initiatives or proposals are indeed common, with a brief description of what issue the government should regulate. In Estonia, this is a proposal to the government, which I think we have little practice on the subject of political debate, but perhaps it will change in a positive direction. Now the issue of inclusion. I remain of the opinion that yes, will be included. There is a formal inclusion logic. But I come back to the fact that inclusion is only real when there are alternative ideas on the table. Let's imagine that you're about to get a ready car in front of you, and I've given you this example before, it's Škoda Octavia or something, and then it's said to criticize this car, which is supposed to be different. So you're already inevitably in the paradigm of this bill, you're saying that this paragraph is wrong or that paragraph is wrong. But the source of inclusion, especially in the case of the economic environment, is the question of whether there is any need to do anything at all. Is it reasonable that you shouldn't do it in this form, or is there an alternative? It will then be possible to hold an engagement debate and then the specific ministry, the government authority, will have a much greater burden of proof. If a powerful product has already been obtained, in a luxury format by law, it is either to criticize it or to go back to the beginning and ask why it is needed at all, psychologically much more complicated. That's a fact. Is inclusion always good? There are good examples, and there may be worse examples. There is certainly such a trend, which has also been in Parliament in recent years, that in this case the output of interest organisations must reach Parliament. I think that's a very reasonable direction. It would be reasonable, however, if, apart from the draft law, there were also plans to be drawn up on the board of committees, which were made a year or a year and a half ago. And if you compare these effects, you can certainly see that there are also differences. There are objective reasons for this and there are also political considerations. Political choices are always different, one party says one, the other has a different view. It is important, however, that the "evidence-based threshold" or the argument chain that has been used be accessible to all decision-makers and can be debated from its surface. Which way is the decision being made, it's already the prerogative of the people's representation.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U231	George Adams, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U232	Mr Minister, my question is about impact analysis. I have seen in the explanatory notes of our drafts a mandatory part that should, like, include it. I don't think I've ever seen an analysis there, but usually it says the wishes and dreams of the drafters. I do not recall that I have ever seen such a text in this regard, for example, that this amendment entails such and such negative effects or new risks. My personal opinion is that such a legislative amendment, which has only one result and certainly no negative effect, is not possible. I am of the opinion that preventing negative consequences is an issue in itself. How do we go from here?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U233	Thank you. As I said, the theoretical model has been drawn up and should be applicable in itself. It could be pursued that national, central government law-makers also form, in this sense, a whole "one legislative culture." That is why the Ministry of Justice summed up the legislative lawyers of all ministries last autumn in order to highlight the values of legislative policy that all ministries should be guided by. As far as the criticism of the impact assessment is concerned, I agree that for several laws it is quite clearly the case that this part has been fulfilled, the text is there, the words are there, but there is no point. Or maybe the idea is elliptic, arguing with itself. If, figuratively speaking, the explanatory memorandum simply describes the law in a smooth essayist style, then of course it is not an impact analysis. The Ministry of Justice has sought to draw attention to the requirement of a substantive impact analysis using the instrument at its disposal, which is the non-coordination of the draft law. That will be followed by a political debate. What is important, however, is that without Parliament, it will not be possible to change the legislative culture, which is my primary point of view. In the case of a change in the logic and quality of legislation, I would like to emphasise precisely that it could be such a common thing for Parliament, a matter of Parliament's identity to be dealt with. One day, there will be some in the coalition and others in the opposition, etc. This whole thing is who it is now, day by day has evolved and in a positive direction it has so-called technical capacity to draft laws. However, when it comes to expectations of the substance of the case, above all this is the starting point, the Ministry of Justice fulfils its role by the government, but I also call on Parliament to hold a separate debate on the expectations of the quality of legislation. We want us to be able to debate the substance. For example, in the case of excise duties on fuel, this is also the question of what is the dynamics of the effects, when we can say that there are also negative effects that need to be taken into account, and whether or not the target pursued can be fully achieved. There are many other examples of this in the socio-economic field.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U234	Andres Anvelt, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U235	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Good colleague! You're saying, and quite rightly, that these VTCs should be done more thoroughly and with more and more drafts. But can't there be such seeming action here that we are making more bureaucracy with it? In the Ministry, a number of officials work hard, sweat and prepare the VTK. It gets to the Ministry of Justice, who doesn't coordinate it, then he goes back to the Ministry, and there's going to be corrections. Have you not thought that if we wanted to reduce excessive legal production, the Ministry of Justice could come out of its silo, go to another silo and take part in the development of the VTK from the very beginning? There would be no duplication of work and activities.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U236	Thank you. I think it's the right thing to do. In the same way, however, it could be said in a simplified way that only good laws should be made, done quickly, not staggeringly, because good laws bring positive results. The question is how to achieve this. I would like to say that if the work that officials do to this end, by spending a mechanical resource, results in the conclusion that some laws are not needed, it is not lost money for society. In reality, it is a worse option than a poor, skewed or excessive regulation takes place without barriers. In this sense, a certain debate room in these matters makes perfect sense. How could it be in the future when it comes to small government administration in Estonia and such closer cooperation between them? In Britain, in a large country, there is such a trend that there is a government legislative service. Ministries have the knowledge that this is not some kind of political instrument, the leader of which acquires superpower over all ministers, but one service serving all institutions. I think that the first thing we want to do is to test this form of closer cooperation when the joint building of ministries is completed, where the four ministries end up side by side in a spatial sense. I also believe that if, according to the logic of the substantive work, many letters are sent to each other within the government, then in reality, there should be a search for you where this is not done. There is a political debate between members of the government, which is held in another format. However, with regard to academic demandingness, justification and legal formalities, there is no room for political debate. This is where the government doesn't lower the bar. That's my logic. When compared to public procurement, it cannot be that some procurement is subject to political concessions. The requirements must be applied uniformly to all.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U237	Andrei Novikov, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U238	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, The practice of reducing legislation over the last few years is primarily linked to package laws for most people, both bureaucratically and in general terms. Can we expect this practice to change?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U239	This has also been criticised by the Head of State as a proclaimer of laws. Parliament has established its own rules on this matter, that there is a certain limit, that in certain cases it should not be accepted. It is perfectly normal to change a number of laws if one legal relationship is to be changed. I myself was a little bit of awkward that the number of individual novel laws in the legislative process would increase by doing these things separately, and a small paradox might arise. But in the Ministry of Justice, we still chose this direction, that if there is one particular legal relationship, we will make a separate bill. As a result, no offense, there are, for example, three or four separate amendments to the Penal Code, even though they could have taken them all in one clamp. Or perhaps the changes that arise from several European directives in relation to stock market fraud and counterfeit money. However, we still chose the path to ensure that it would be intimidating for Parliament, so that it would not be piled up with such a mutimullah dunno. The logic could be pervasive, that there would be no production of mutimullah. Particular vigilance must also be exercised when trying to make complete texts. In the same way, it would not be a cluster law if the whole area was written out in its entirety. But there are such controversial questions and the question of whether there is any point in regulating things, the easiest thing to hide. Speaking of the fact that the codification and the new whole text from there must be viewed with special vigilance, I think that a specific legal relationship, some sort of thing that is regulated, is the most natural legislative thing in a 'normal' legal environment. I am not talking about closing the parliament in Estonia as a legislator, and that is not my point. The situation and dynamics in society change, there are different concepts and also political choices, but it is important that a certain logic is followed. And most importantly, the legislator must be able to observe the substance and get an overview of what is real will or what is sought, what is the real impact of the bill.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U240	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U241	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, For years, Estonian scientific community has been complaining that the Estonian legislative and executive authorities involve too little of the competence of Estonian scientists in the process of preparing laws. Let's take an analysis of the same effects. Why is the Estonian scientific community not involved here? Now, in preparation for your political statement today, did you interpret and analyse this problem as well, or do you have any plans for the future here?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U242	Thank you. The Ministry of Justice has gone on this path, and I do not think that this is a bad road, that if there are bigger blocks, there will also be a procurement to prepare for their handling, for example, the reform of criminal proceedings, where the groups of legal scientists participate and where matters are essentially considered. I think that not all draft laws need to be born on the table of legislative lawyers, but both for the drafting of the law itself and for the initial analysis of its impact, procurement will be organised and further conclusions will be drawn from it. In my opinion, this would be a very sensible course, and in various areas, also in the light of the requirements for increasing the administrative capacity of the European Union, it must generally continue. So the question is not that we lack intellectual competence. We have independent analytical centres, we have academic institutions, we have people with a sufficient range of knowledge in any area in which we have a population. The question is not that we cannot or that we do not have the power or the ability to analyse any effects in depth. The reasons why we face such a challenge lie first and foremost in changing administrative culture. And that is why I have an appeal to Parliament. We have laid down certain rules and we are trying to be guided by them, but since ultimately the legislative material of the government is still a semi-faculty which must be assessed by Parliament and which Parliament will be able to bring about these changes, first and foremost in the light of Parliament's attitude.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U243	Monika Haukanõmm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U244	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! Implementing acts, such as ministerial regulations, are often needed to implement one law successfully. We have often come across here that when we process the draft legislation, it is assumed that draft implementing legislation will also exist. Sometimes there are their titles, sometimes there aren't. These acts have often not been sent to the coordination circle, which leads to the entry into force of the law, but there are no implementing acts and they are still very, very long. Take, for example, the Construction Code, which entered into force on 1 January s. A peak saturated power output greater than 20 W (47 dBm) at any frequency exceeding 2,7 GHz up to and including 3,7 GHz; The Minister has not issued a regulation here concerning the requirements for access to buildings and facilities. They are essential for people with disabilities to be able to participate equally with other people in society. Do you have a plan to remove such a bottleneck that the regulations will not be so long?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U245	Thank you. Above all, this extensive need for implementing legislation arises when a new codification or complete act is made. So there's, I imagine, some kind of field issue. In this codification of social law, I think, there may be dozens of regulations that are made at government and ministerial level. Therefore, the starting point should be such that these codifications themselves must be treated with great caution. After all, we see that their application actually brings about significant changes in life, which may not be of value in itself. However, as far as the need for implementing acts is concerned, there is a nominal requirement. There have also been cases in previous years where, as an implementing act, it is simply stated that a ministerial regulation in this area and point, the content has not been opened. The Ministry of Justice in its coordination certainly takes into account that one thing is administrative implementing legislation, where bureaucracy is capable of resolving issues, but the other is implementing acts that have an impact on society at large, on businesses, on people with special needs, etc. Where the addressee of an implementing act is the whole of society, the proposed content of the implementing act should certainly be reflected in the explanatory memorandum to the draft law.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U246	Thank you, Minister of Justice Urmas Reinsalu! The members of the Riigikogu have no further questions. I'm opening negotiations. On behalf of the Group of the Central Party of Toomas Vitsut, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U247	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, If the massive legislation so far could be justified by the restoration of the Estonian state or membership of the European Union, then now there is no reason for it to be very quick. However, the biggest problem with the current legislation is the constant amendment of the law. There is still no case law from the law that has entered into force when the law is being amended. So we are still changing almost all the laws in force in one year, and some of them are in a permanenced process. This is often due to the fact that laws regulate what should not be regulated at all by laws. In this way, the plan to reduce the volume of legislation also says that the need for each piece of legislation needs to be critically assessed, with a strong focus on compliance with the legislative process and on the quality of the legislation. In order to ensure the necessity of legislation, a code of good lawmaking and regulation has been adopted in 2011. According to the rule, the draft law initiated by the Government of the Republic must be preceded by an intention to develop. It is precisely with the development plan that it becomes clear whether a legislative amendment is essential to address a particular problem or whether the problem can be solved at the level of a regulation or by informing the public. The plan stipulates that the involvement of stakeholders should be increased as early as possible in the policy-making phase. The involvement of stakeholders in the legislative process is essential and necessary. However, the involvement of stakeholders alone is not enough. In this way, we are witnessing the fact that the Minister for Public Administration has raised public awareness of the content of the draft administrative reform, but at the same time the amendments tabled by stakeholders to this draft have not been fully taken into account. Involvement should not only be about listening to the people, but should also mean taking into account the people's proposals. Government policy-making and transposition of European Union law must be guided by the principle of improving the quality and volume of legislation. The aim is for Estonia not to impose stricter rules when transposing European Union law than the European Union legislation provides. The introduction of stricter rules is not prohibited, but in this case the effects of the draft explanatory memorandum must be explained as to why stricter rules are justified. This is the case only recently in the Committee on Legal Affairs and in the House, with a draft establishing common requirements for the single European currency, the euro. If amendments to the Penal Code could be accepted, the amendment to the Code of Criminal Procedure was significantly stricter than the one provided for in the Directive. The Directive considered it necessary for Member States to take measures to ensure that persons, entities or services subject to investigation or prosecution of the offence concerned... Please, can I have some more time?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U248	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U249	... available effective investigative tools, such as those used for organised crime or other serious crime. The authors of the draft act considered it necessary to allow for a surveillance operation, which was a seriously damaging investigation of a person's fundamental rights. The directive could have been transposed without changing the Code of Criminal Procedure, as there are already opportunities to combat organised crime. Nor was it sufficiently justified to impose stricter requirements in the impact assessment. In general, it is obvious that if something is taken over, the inclusion of rights in law enforcement agencies will try to achieve the maximum, but the protection of fundamental human rights is often not even taken into account in the minimum requirements. In my opinion, such a tendency needs to be changed. The position of the Estonian Centre Party Group is that the volume of legislation needs to be reduced. Each new piece of legislation must be sufficiently well prepared and stable so that it does not need to be changed in due course. Before we introduce or amend the law, we should look at whether the problem that has arisen can be regulated at the level of the regulation or whether it is enough to inform the public. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U250	Raivo Time on behalf of the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U251	Honourable Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, As the previous speaker has already mentioned, the late decade of the last century was indeed a period of extensive legislative drafting and very numerous legislative changes. After all, it is clear that, as social formation changes, a new society needs to be built and a legislative framework put in place so that life can move forward according to new values. But this, in turn, also caused this style, and in the legislation of the virvard, each new amendment led to the adoption of the following amendments, as there were many contradictions and all of them had to be phased out. We have also witnessed that the legislative initiative has consistently moved from ministerial agencies, government agencies to ministries as policy makers, which is certainly to be welcomed. As a result, the objective is coordinated, uniform lawmaking in at least one ministry's domain. One quite important step in preventing the proliferation of legislation is, in my view, also to consider that there are procedures in place for ministries to draw up a legislative plan and that a general legislative plan or plan for the whole country will be completed when the plans of the ministries are consolidated. This necessarily forces ministries and even the initiators of the drafts to thoroughly consider whether or not a particular draft has a perspective and to plan their activities much longer, to think for at least a year or a little longer. There has also been talk about HÕNTE, which is a code of good regulation and regulation. Of course, our aim is to ensure that HAPPE is fully implemented. This would help to suppress this massive legislative process, monitor very clearly the development plan, assess impacts and spillovers, etc. It also gives the official body more work than just drafting and compiling new draft laws, especially assessing their impact. Surely it must always be borne in mind that laws are for people, on the one hand they give people rights and, on the other hand, they defend these rights in any area of life he takes place in. Of course, there are areas that are so specific that it is difficult for ordinary people to orient themselves in the laws, to judge laws, or to set their own behaviors and attitudes, and to make decisions. They're clear to the details only to lawyers. However, there are still many areas in Estonia where ordinary people should be able to orient themselves within the legislative framework. Unfortunately, he doesn't often do that today. Often, a person has to ask for help from a lawyer in order to understand how he should act on one occasion or another. At the same time, we are saying that the state is struggling to provide legal assistance to the population, especially to the vulnerable. Such a process actually generates additional costs for the country itself in order to treat its citizens equally. I'm asking for more time!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U252	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U253	Perhaps it has already been referred to here, but I see, indeed, one problem that we are trying to write too many details of everyday life into the law. Otherwise, it'd be good, you'd take the law, you'd read all the regulation, and you'd know exactly how to sit, how to step, how to live. But now, if any fact, the operation should change, in order to bring the framework of the law into line with real life, a thorough process of amending the law must be carried out. This process could at times certainly be much faster and more effective if additional powers were given to the executive and either the government or the respective ministry would introduce changes to the regulation. A good example is the recent African swine fever, where a major problem was the amendment of the hunting law. The problem was upstairs, but the solution was delayed and delayed for several months, because it took time to adjust some of the individual pieces of law to bring it into line with real life. However, this could have been a matter of the administration of the Ministry of the Environment and the problem could have been solved much more quickly. It's not like the future is black. If we take account of and pay attention to all these factors here too in our esteemed collection, we will be able, together, to suppress this massive invasion of legislation and thus make life easier for the citizens of our own country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U254	Jüri Adams on behalf of the Estonian Free Party Group, please! Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U255	Inerts is not just a concept of physics. Inerts also exist in social life, thinking and, no doubt, in the work of the state. The Estonian saying that you can't get lucky in the beginning and you can't stop afterwards, isn't it? In the area of legislation, there is a situation where you cannot keep well. In this sense, the subject proposed by the Minister for Justice is, in the view of the Free Party Group, correct and necessary. The fact is that we cannot assess whether the concrete solutions proposed by the Minister are those that would lead to the achievement of the objective pursued. But you can see it. About 15 years ago, when the Law of Obligations Act was adopted, it was supposed to be either 2000 or 2001, I had the opportunity to make a political statement as chairman of the Legal Affairs Committee from this very speaker's office that, in a sense, Estonia's new legislation was ready. I mean, there were no more gaps that needed to be filled quickly. I also said then that there is now a question of how we can keep the law-making work. Experience showed that he couldn't stop. The various follow-up processes of the previous decade's major work continued for years, including the ex post drafting of such drafts, which had proved to be unnecessary or non-quality. After that, Estonia became a member of the European Union. Then there were years of massive work to harmonise Estonian laws with European law. There is still no clear end to this work, because the directives of the European Union, which we have to deal with, come and come like Vändra to the lumberboards. Whether there will ever be political progress that could slow it down is something I cannot foresee. I do not see a clear solution to the problem under discussion at all. The Minister of Justice assessed that about one third of Estonia's legislative activities are harmonisation with European Union law. It is very difficult to measure and evaluate. I have been a member of the Riigikogu for a year now. If I look at the annual work experience of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and try to assess how big and important the draft laws have been, I would say that, in terms of volume and the cost of mental energy, about 2/3 of this year's work has been linked to the adoption of the Euro Directives. The most massive was the new version of the law on granting international protection to foreigners. There were others, too, up to such cases, that we have approved drafts based on directives, which I did not think were necessary in Estonia, because Estonian legislation was much more fundamental and progressive in this area than the directive. We must probably start to think together and together with the other European countries what will happen next. At this rate, this process should not continue. The second group of drafts that we are dealing with in Parliament are draft laws that are relatively short and detailed. I have previously expressed the opinion that it might have been more reasonable if things had gone differently in Estonia from the beginning, i.e. that more details would be decided by government or ministerial regulation or in any other way, so that they would not be in the basic text of the laws. I could come back to that. I'm not sure how much this volume is now, but we're probably doing this kind of law a hundred times a year. The last group of draft laws are various opposition initiatives. They have more or less one destiny. It's like rejecting a fly in an experience where there are no modern flies traps or poisons against them. Flies will then be struck with a flyback and beaten to death if they become too annoying. A couple of initiatives by the Free Party got their death match this way today. But, well, we're living in a time when bugs like this are coming up again and again. So it's probably not gonna change. The Minister here used, in my opinion, not a very substantive expression that Parliament must give its opinion on the drafts. You see, in essence, it is not that Parliament gives. There is a majority of the government coalition in Parliament and then there are opposition groups. One of the main problems of Estonian parliamentarianism, which came about around 1999, is a certain automation: if the bill comes from our government and ministries, it must be defeated with a rubber stamp 'dobro'. If the bill comes from somewhere else, it's gonna have to be flattened like a rejecting fly. We had some experience here recently with the administrative reform law. What is Parliament's assessment on this? Parliament's assessment was that the government coalition decided to wash its hands and automatically approve as a rubber stamp everything that was included in that draft. I would very much like the Estonian Parliament to enter into force some other time, so that Members of Parliament would also feel personally responsible for what they react to as a rubber stamp. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U256	On behalf of the Group of the Igor Gräzin Reform Party, please! Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U257	Mr. Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen! Now this is a case where I agree with everything that was said above, and I have to improvise. Let's see what comes out. First, fact No. 1. One of the biggest disasters in the United States was the Japanese attack on Pearl Harbor. Why didn't the Americans see this disaster coming? Because the collection of intelligence was so massive, they just couldn't find the right information. That's not what I'm saying, that's what Norbert Wiener said. In other words, if there are too many things, you can't find the right paper. Second. My friend Talvik is not here. I wanted to quote in another context, but all right. The famous film director Eldar Rjazanov has said: 'Bardak is not a mess, a bardak is a procedure. The transition is undetectable. ' In short, I would like to say this: if we have something very, very much, such as laws, there will be a critical limit somewhere. We add one more law, we add one more page, and that compromises all the previous ones. We think we're going to regulate more, but actually, we're going to leave it out of regulation, or we're going to pull off what was before. I'm more ambitious than Mr. Minister. I mean, the question isn't that we're pulling down one law, putting on another, etc. I would say that we have a number of laws that regulate entire areas that should not be regulated separately. For example, we have a sports law that is nothing more than a regular locatio conductio actiones, it is a common way of providing a service. We have a law for every university. We have a packaging law, which is actually a pawn and a down payment between things, long known as Roman law, but we have a separate law. I don't know if this is the case, I just couldn't get a look, but we have a statute for Estonian Philharmonic Chamber Choir approved by law. Now, if the chamber choir gets horns, is this statute valid or not? And frankly, what's our business is to deal with things like this. In other words, we need to take out the entire branches to which we have so-called quietly crawled. We are surprised that this is the European Union. Of course, the European Union will look horrible. Why? Just because one thing is regulated by the Economic Commissioner, then by the Competition Authority and the Transport Commissioner, whoever. Everyone pulls in the direction, and you down here, look where that next bang comes from, and then they wonder why we can't coordinate. You're going to coordinate with each other! Is that what we want to be? Thank you! Now that we've calmed down, I don't want to. Therefore, let us learn from the European Union, not by repeating it, but by avoiding its mistakes. If I ever started law schooling in the United States for the first year, my professor colleague said that now here in America is different right, but before you go teaching kids, tell me what lawyers need most. I said good brains. No, it's not. Dexterity? No, it's not. A proper education? No, it's not. Nice look? No, it's not. Then what does a lawyer need in America? Right, wide ass. Because whoever reads the highest number of precedents wins. Computers these days will smooth this thing out a little bit, but we've all seen what's behind a lawyer in America when he's performing. The bookshelf. In fact, they're all the same ropes. And I'm saying there are no bottles in them, there are texts. And now the question is who has the most free trainees and who finds the place that comes as a surprise to both the judge and the opposite party. So, what does a client or a normal person do in this situation? You don't know what's gonna come out of there. Do we want to go that way? Luckily, we're not going, we have Roman law behind us. I am saying: we must not improve and we must not improve one, two, three, four laws, but we must ask ourselves a question and think, as my colleague has already said, whether we have anything to do with all the areas we have climbed into. Really, there is a principle that may be sympathetic from the point of view of the bar Association, but it may not be from the point of view of the citizens. I mean, if there are too many laws, the principle applies: we do our thing, and if we get caught, we hire a lawyer. This is what has actually started to work in Estonia. And since my colleague pointed out that inertia is not just a concept of physics, I remembered a place in school physics. That should make the point of me and my party very, very clear. There is such a thing as water at +0 degrees and there is water at -0 degrees. And that difference is called the special heat of a substance. This is the amount of energy that just changes the total state. We have it and we have it. Now, we're close to the special legal heat. I mean, another one, and it's a great pleasure for the bar Association, whose interests I represented yesterday. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U258	Andres Anvelt on behalf of the Social Democratic Party Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U259	Ladies and gentlemen, After the previous speeches, it feels like a village band is coming here after Queen's concert. [[In the Laughing Hall.]] But I'm still trying, and I'm also taking advantage of the possibility that the minister isn't here, so he can still be a coalition partner. But I warned him and told him to read after the verbatim or listen to the recording, whatever. In itself, what the minister spoke about and reported to us is right about God. As former Minister of Justice, I also know that the suspension of this legislative machina is just as unappreciative as putting on a rolling roller seems to be doing something, but in fact, this road roller is still bigger than you. But you gotta do it. The minister spoke about the VTKs, or plans to develop. These are such clever and interesting things that came into our legislation and ministries not very long ago. As is often the case, they are being used a little rehepatically. That's why I asked the Minister if he felt that there might be a situation where a number of officials, sweat bulls on their foreheads, VTKs, are turning to the Ministry of Justice, where there are a number of officials who are turning an objection to the VTK. Officials have done a lot of working hours, but it's not going anywhere, it's not going back or forward, it's still the same. It's a big risk. I think this is how this bureaucratic machine only expands and expands and gets its justification. The positive side of the CPC should be that before legislative changes begin, everything will be thoroughly thought through. However, this instrument often fails to achieve the objective pursued by policy makers, for example, to implement what was agreed in the coalition agreement. That's one side of it. The other part of the case, as I said, is that the VTKs may start to be used in a rehepapatical, 'unhappily' way, i.e. in favors are granted. Let's see some recent history. For some reason, there is no Waste Act, one part of which is the transposition of the European Union Directive; the rest is the draft legislation of Estonia itself, the amendment of the Water Act, the draft Gambling Tax Act. There hasn't been a V.T.K. for any reason. Now put these drafts together with the ministries where they come from, and you will see that they are united by some kind of organization. Or if we take, for example, the same unfortunate law of increasing the fines that we were arguing about here, there was no VTK either, even though it came from the Ministry of Justice itself. At the same time, when we talk about the work plan of our party's ministers, in the case of the Alcohol Act, which has also caused a great deal of steam here, the main problem now is that there is no VTK, although the Green Paper is ready and the law follows the Green Paper. That's where I get the question. Our ministries, the government are working hard, a white and green paper is being drawn up to justify the development of all policies, and then we come back to the VTK again. Sounds like it's justified by someone's work. I think that this same good legislative practice should also be reviewed very critically in the current situation. At the same time, I assure you that one of the major shortcomings is precisely the supervision of the laws that have already come into force. We're taking law enforcement. It never came into force when he went uppercuit, you remember, drinking alcohol in a public place. Not a day is going to go by if I don't have to advise anyone, either in a local government or in an organisation, how to look at the law of law and interpret it. This law, in fact, long ago requires a monitoring mechanism and an ex-post evaluation, a review on the ground of practice. Can I have a minute?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U260	One minute more time.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U261	Finally, a little more criticism, which may not be the custom of doing for a good coalition partner. Many deadlines have shifted in this terrible unemployment, the fight against bureaucracy and the fight against rights. We have agreed here, for example, that before we go to make decisions on the side of coalition and power parties, we would like to see a good analysis from the Ministry of Justice. Let us take, for example, the legal aid of the same country that we voted on today and the analysis of which was to be prepared, or the subject of fines where the first analysis was to be completed by December, but we will come back to this in essence in a year's time. So there's a lot to think about, not only from a big, global and historical perspective, but also from looking around the Ministry of Justice's own field. But now the village band stops. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U262	There is no further wish for negotiations. This item has run out.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U263	We will begin the third reading of the draft law 199 on the amendment of the State Pension Insurance Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and the related amendment of other laws. I'm opening negotiations. There's no call. The Governing Commission's proposal is for a final vote. Honourable Riigikogu, since Bill 199 requires a majority of the Riigikogu's membership for adoption, we will carry out a verification of the presence. 73 members of the Riigikogu are present, 28. I am voting on the draft Act 199 on the amendment of the State Pension Insurance Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and on the amendment of other laws in connection with it. Please take a stand and vote. 74 members of the Riigikogu were in favour of adopting the draft, and there were no respondents or abstentions. The Act amending the State Pension Insurance Act and related amendments to other laws has been adopted.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U264	We begin the third reading of the draft law amending the Food Act and the Food Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic. I'm opening negotiations. There is no wish for negotiation. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the draft law amending the Food Act and the Food Act Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic, 198. Please take a stand and vote. There were 71 members of the Riigikogu in favour, no respondents or abstentions. The Law amending the Food Act and the Food Act has been adopted.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U265	The next item is the second reading of the draft law amending the Private School Act, the Youth Work Act and the Basic School and Upper Secondary Schools Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic. Waitress Kalle Muuli of the Committee on Culture, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U266	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Isn't it kind of symbolic and meaningful that we are discussing bill 142 today, child protection day? The draft law, which is entitled the Act amending the Private School Act, the Youth Work Act and the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act, relates not only to the protection of private school pupils, but in fact to the protection of the rights of all children and the rights of their parents, because it deals with the financing of private schools, i.e. how much the state supports private schools. The higher the public support for private schools, the lower the tuition fee in private schools and the lower the threshold for private schools for all children, especially for poorer children, and vice versa. The lower the amount of public support, the higher the tuition fees in private schools, and the fewer children who have access to private schools as educational institutions. The Government submitted the draft law to the Riigikogu in autumn of last year. Its aim is to take away the obligation on the municipality to support the operating costs of private schools and to retain it as voluntary as it was before 2011. The motive for the draft was the decision of the Supreme Court, which said that if the Riigikogu imposes an obligation on the local government to pay the operating costs of private schools, it is a state task and the state must give separate money to do so. The first reading of the draft was on 8 and 9 December last year. After the first reading, amendments were tabled by the Group of the Isamaa and Res Publica Union, the Group of the Centre Party and the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia. The Committee on Culture discussed this draft for almost six months, with a total of eight sittings. More than a dozen organisations and bodies presented their views on the draft. In addition, the citizen movement submitted a public address from Education to the Riigikogu, in which he asked for the draft law to be suspended until the draft had been discussed with all parties and examined the effects of its introduction. Legally, however, the Committee on Culture did not have the possibility to suspend the proceedings. In view of this approach, we took some time to study thoroughly and to examine all the details. At the request of the members of the Committee on Culture, officials of the Committee carried out almost sociological research work, interviewing private schools and identifying the impact of one or the other decision. As a result, a summary of the reasons for starting private schools was prepared of why parents put their children in a school where they have to pay for their education, although education could also be obtained free of charge. If you look at the explanatory memorandum to this bill, you will see that it is not an easy explanatory memorandum, but an annex has been made to it, which summarises the Commission's own findings, which I have just noted. The title of the Annex is 'Summary of responses from private schools to the Committee on Culture'. If anyone is a little bit more interested in the soul life of private schools than average, I suggest you take this very well prepared review and read it even after today's debate. You will find a slightly different picture of the Estonian educational landscape than when reading newspapers. As a result of the discussions, the Committee on Culture will now present 20 amendments to this draft to the Riigikogu, and I will introduce you to the most important of them. First of all, the central question: should the local government or the state provide compulsory funding for private schools, as it has been before, or could it be voluntary, as it was voluntary until 2011? The Commission did not accept either of these solutions, but developed its own compromise, which could be called a church in the middle of a village, the content of which is set out in Amendment 13. In principle, the Committee on Culture proposes a transitional period for supporting the operational costs of private schools from 1 January 2017 to 31 December 2019. In three years, the state would allocate operating costs to private schools, but not to the extent that it has so far done so, i.e. according to the national average, which is currently EUR 87 per six students. The calculation shall be based on the average operating cost contribution of each municipality paid by the municipality to its schools. The state reimburses the private school 75%, or three quarters, of the grant received by municipal schools of a specific municipality. This support also has an upper limit, which is 87 euros per month, the average for the country. No more than this is paid if this 75% of the local government's average subsidy is higher. A total of 13.64 million euros would be spent on the state for three years. The exception has been made for private schools for children with special educational needs, which there are six in Estonia. For them, the original draft submitted by the Ministry of Education and the Government already provided for an exemption until 2020 to continue to compensate for the current operating costs. However, the Committee on Culture proposes in its Amendment 14 to extend this period until the end of 2023. This transitional period has been justified by the fact that the Ministry of Education intends to develop a separate system and arrangements for the training and financing of children with special educational needs. However, the Committee on Culture thought that schools for children with special educational needs could have greater confidence and for a longer period of time knowledge that they would continue to be financed. A number of amendments relate to the central problem that we proposed a transitional period to solve. One question is that so far private schools have been able to raise their tuition fees by a maximum of 10% per year. Amendment 15 of the Committee on Culture is to eliminate this ceiling. Firstly, private schools may need more money, and if basically parents are willing to pay that money, then we will not see, during the transitional period and after that, a reason to prevent it from being paid, and maybe to question even maintaining a school just to keep the tuition as low as possible. The Committee on Culture considered it necessary to increase the role and influence of local government in directing the activities of private schools. When the law currently in force was adopted in 2010, local authorities essentially lost the opportunity to influence the establishment of private schools. So far, they had been able to either support or not to support the payment of operating costs, but now that payment has become mandatory, the local government has virtually no opportunity to make any contribution to which private schools operate on its territory. The Ministry of Education is the one who issues the training permit if the required conditions are met. On this basis, the Committee on Culture considered it necessary to make Amendment 2 mandatory, before granting a training permit, to ask for the opinion of the local government and the rural municipality regarding the establishment of a private school. This opinion should not be binding, but it should certainly be viewed in a coherent package with other documents and there should be a way for the Ministry of Education to make the right decision. Another important solution, which should bring the local government closer to private schools or private schools, is that for the first time we want to define private schools as part of the school network in law. This is Amendment 16. At the top, this may not be very meaningful, but rather a declarative provision, but it points out that private schools, which have so far existed, but which the state and local government have often tended to treat as some kind of business industry or phenomenon outside the education system, are exactly the same part of the school network as all municipal schools or public schools. It should be clearly fixed so that the number or list of schools on the school network does not depend on their ownership. This is basically the fruitage of this six - year - old work. On 16 May 2016, the Committee on Culture adopted two procedural decisions. First, to submit the draft 142 for second reading on the agenda of the plenary session of the Riigikogu by 1 June, and second, to propose that the second reading be terminated. There were seven members of the Committee on Culture in favour of this proposal, and no one opposed it, despite the fact that the discussions were very heated for a long time. Three members of the Committee on Culture abstained. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U267	Questions for the waitress. Priit Onion, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U268	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Dear waitress, I have a question about the line to the EHIS, which is the basis for calculating this 75%. Did the Commission mention how this line of EHIS is formed and whether it is equally understandable for everyone what these numbers contain in the EHIS line? And are all schools the same data?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U269	Thank you. It was mentioned in the Commission. I would like to add to the hall that the average cost of local government is taken from the Estonian Education Information System (EHIS) and what we heard in the committee was not the most pleasant. If this number starts to affect the financing of private schools, its impact will be much greater than before. It used to be a national average, and when the cost number of one municipal school or another was written slightly wrong there, the big picture was not affected very much. Now it can have a huge impact on some of the smaller municipalities. A representative of the Ministry of Education explained that at least this part of the EHIS, which reflects the operating costs of municipal schools, is relatively out of order. The data is carried by the schools themselves. Private schools don't see these numbers, private schools can only enter their own number. What could the Commission do? We put the Ministry of Education to heart, and the Ministry of Education promised that before 10 November, the first time these numbers were taken from the EHIS, the EHIS would be done. The data will be checked and will be given more attention in the future than has been the case so far. At the level of the legislator, this may be too much, but at least in the Committee on Culture we should come back to this issue sometime and see if all the promises that were given to us in the Commission will also be fulfilled. However, the volume of funding for private schools depends directly on it.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U270	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U271	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Ladies and gentlemen, This is another coalition road roller trying to push the bill through. In the process, interest groups, private schoolers, parents, the public and the opposition have been ignored. The Conservative People's Party made a number of substantial proposals for improvements, which the Commission has all rejected. Do you consider it normal to ignore this opposition and for what reason were our proposals rejected?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U272	Thank you. As regards ignoring or taking into account the interests of interest groups, I believe that the Committee on Culture met at least half of the representatives of private schools during the proceedings. We met two, three or more times with representatives of the most important umbrella organisations representing private schools, and we became almost a friend to you. I absolutely do not agree that interest groups were not heard or taken into account. This bill changed a lot during the process. Speaking only in the language of money, a bill from the government provided compulsory funding of zero euros for private schools. The proposal that the Committee on Culture is currently coming to you is EUR 13.5 million. I am not talking about the substance of the matter, which may be harder to perceive than it has been for six or seven months. But I think this bill has really changed. When we are talking about the most important compromise, i.e. how private schools will be financed over the next three years and even in the next few years, and operating aid will be provided, I say that no member of the Commission opposed the opposition or any member of the government opposed this proposal. There were 7 votes in favour and 3 abstentions. You say that the government is going over the opposition with a roll of road, but that is not the opposition's case. It was quite possible to vote 'no', but it was not given. Now the second part of the question, which concerned the EKRE proposals. I think there were two excuses, if I remember wrong. This proposal, which came to the vote in the committee, was the proposal to introduce a procedure in private schools, according to which religious teaching can only be given in Estonian. Currently, private schools have a private school that chooses its own language of study, but it must follow the Estonian curriculum. And if the language of instruction is not Estonian, in a certain part of the school, the Estonian language must be taught in such a way that it meets the requirements of the law and the student gets such a good language skills that he can continue studying in Estonian educational institutions after graduation. The Commission, firstly, considered that this proposal had nothing to do with the main issue of the draft, which is the financing of private schools. Secondly, we had serious doubts that this proposal was also highly questionable from a constitutional point of view: is it right to restrict the language of children's teaching in such a way as to begin writing the language of one subject. THE reason why EKRE should do this was that through religious teaching, children can design a wrong or unfamiliar world approach to our culture. But it can be done in any subject's classes. In Soviet times, we were taught in physics that the Russians have invented almost all the things that exist in the world. So from this point of view, we should introduce the idea of compulsory Estonian language and private schools in all subjects to absurdity at all. For this reason, the Committee on Culture voted down this proposal and it did not find much support. Nor did it have any opposition support to speak of a government roller coaster here.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U273	Lauri Luik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U274	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! I am pleased that we have finally reached a certain compromise with the private school law. This compromise, true, is somewhat similar to where we arrived a little more than a year ago in the previous Riigikogu when we tried to solve this problem in cooperation with the Ministry of Education and Research in the Committee on Culture. It is important that private schoolers have been given a transitional period, and it is very important, in my opinion, that these private schools, where children with special needs are taught, continue to be supported. I very much hope that local authorities and private schools will in future be able to find compromises and reach reasonable agreements on the conditions of settlement. From the beginning, I have been disturbed by statements, as if the settlement of local governments with private schools was a worse solution than the settlement of local governments with municipal schools, as if it were a crack decision of its own time or an embarrassing situation. I dare defend the Ministry's amendment at the time, because in my opinion, it was a logical change. I have always been of the opinion that in essence there is no difference as to who is the schoolkeeper.. either the state, the local government or the private owner. The main thing is to ensure that the requirements and quality set out in the national curriculum are guaranteed. The fact that school funding systems have been complex and constantly changed and that they have developed different types of ownership is the subject of a completely different dispute. I fully agree that these differences need to be levelled out as a matter of urgency. The modernisation of the financing model for general education is, as we know, still ahead of us, so that we can also deal with this in greater depth in this Chamber. Of course, it is not normal for the state to pay private schools more per student than for municipal schools, but that does not mean that private schools are evil. Nor does it mean that settling private schools is wrong in any way. On the contrary, as I said, it makes perfect sense to me. The logic of settling with private schools is that, if two municipalities settle with each other, for example Ridala and Haapsalu, so that Ridala Municipality pays the city of Haapsalu for its residents' pupils who attend a school in Haapsalu, then settlement on the same basis should also take place between the municipality and private schools. If two comprehensive schools are operating side by side on the territory of the municipality, let's assume that one is a municipal school and the other is a private school, then it makes sense that they should be treated on equal terms. The current system is a little skewed in this sense that a private school may charge tuition fees, a municipal school officially not, although we know that in fact some parents also pay some money for teaching their children at municipal school, for example by making donations to an NGO established at the school. It may not be entirely wrong either, as the school often offers something additional to the curriculum for this money, such as additional lessons in the theatre circle or in English, etc. The free-of-charge education provided by law is also guaranteed. I believe that similar restrictions can also be imposed on private schools. There is another hypothetical danger point for the current system, which has been highlighted by the critics of settling with private schools. For example, this is the situation. Let's say the local government expects 100 children living in their municipality to have a place in school, and it does, but 60 students decide to go to a private school at one point. Now it is as if the local government has to pay for two schools. Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U275	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U276	This means that the local government is ready to build a school for 100 children, but it is also necessary to pay the costs of 60 children who have decided to go to private school in addition to the costs of municipal school. I agree that this may cause financial problems for local authorities, but this argument cannot be linked to the context of private schools alone. The same hypothetical risk may exist when students move between municipalities while going to school. I will give you the example of Ridala and Haapsalu: if 60 students in Ridala municipality decide to go to Haapsalu school one day, then Ridala municipality will have to pay Haapsalu for these 60 students, but also maintain a school house where 60 children will now be less educated. I don't see the perfect solution right now, and it's hard to find. In any case, the local government must provide for the amount needed to train its children in its budget, although the child can change schools at any time. Allowing a child to move to another municipal school but denying him or her access to a private school would be an inequality. However, in some respects and under certain conditions, local authorities could have the right to say whether or not a new private school is needed in their area. This would prevent the creation of excessive private schools. At the same time, the state is in charge of this, as the Ministry of Education and Research issues training permits. In summary, the amendments made in the ministry run by Minister Lukas to settle private schools in their own time were absolutely correct and were based on the logic that pupils from private and municipal schools should not be distinguished. Both types of school education must be contributed equally. Yes, the Ministry could not at that time develop an adequate financing model that treated children of private and municipal schools equally, but that does not mean that private schools are worse in nature or that settling them is somehow unnatural. In my opinion, the settlement of local governments with private schools makes perfect sense, as I have already said. I very much hope that local authorities and private schools will be able to enter into reasonable agreements with each other even if we withdraw this commitment from the law. However, it is of course necessary to level out the amounts of support so that all children are treated equally. In the case of today's Child Welfare Day, I think it is particularly appropriate to emphasise this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U277	Thank you. Honourable Riigikogu, I have the feeling that I may be setting a precedent right now, but since the first participant in the negotiations was guilty of certain accusations, I think the Committee on Culture has the right to be heard on the basis of § 70 of the Rules of Procedure and Home Affairs Act. I hope you agree with me that this would be logical and polite. Laine Randjärv, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U278	Thank you very much, Mr President, for this opportunity. Indeed, in the interests of the verbatim report, I would like to respond to the critic. The private school law was discussed for a very long time and most of that time, however, the representative of EKRE was present. At the time of the presentation of the amendments, the present member of the EHRE was able to present all of his amendments. The vote on the proposals was in several stages and the EKRE amendments were also voted when an EKRE person was present. So the accusation, as if no one had been summoned, is unfounded. They simply did not receive more than one vote in the Commission and are therefore not being voted in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U279	Let's continue the negotiations. Mailis Reps, please! Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U280	Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, If you will allow me, I will go back more than 20 years ago and I will remember this very beginning when Estonia made very big changes in its education system. Then there were pleasant private initiatives such as night universities, forest universities, and other adult education centres under all kinds of names. At the time, we soon noticed that various private schools began to emerge from the ground of these initiatives. At the Ministry of Education, which was then the Ministry of Culture and Education, it was necessary to discuss how to deal with the growing private schools in Estonia. This debate wasn't much easier then than it is now. Finally, it was decided that schools would be financed on an equal footing. From there, the now quite rooted principle developed that teachers' salaries and the money for workbooks and everything else that goes under the education provision is paid by the state on an equal basis by the number of children to both private schools and municipal schools. Why do I remind you of that? Because this debate around private education, which we have seen in recent months, has become much more controversial and the debate much more primitive than the framework of today's draft. In fact, it has been argued that private schools have, in their struggle or in explaining their positions, made it seem as if municipal and public schools were unable to provide good education. Municipal education has its own shortcomings, for which people have become increasingly interested in private education. What is important, however, is that whatever we finally propose and whether the compromise of the Committee on Culture is appropriate or not, we must be able to remain solid and give an unambiguous message: private education has played its part in Estonia and will continue to do so. I'm coming up with more money now. Indeed, years ago, I was very opposed to the change that local authorities were suddenly placed with this kind of thing, which seems to be becoming a tradition in the middle of a school year, to be obliged to start financing private schools on their territory. I opposed it, and so was our whole group. We have formulated such an opinion for two reasons. The first reason was that this amendment had not been negotiated. Although we had discussed the basic school and upper secondary school law for a long time, the cause and effect had not been analysed. The main argument with which the local government went to court was the city of Tallinn, who was granted the right in the Supreme Court, was that the local government could not foresee such costs in the middle of the school year and in the middle of the financial year. It was not a question of whether private education should be supported or not supported. The point was that, in the middle of the financial year, such a change would not be possible. If the State gives such a commitment, it must also allocate funds to implement it. The multi-annual dispute around this issue ended with a solution. The state was told that such an obligation could not be imposed on the local government without allocating money and that the municipal authority could not be obliged to support private education in this way. The next question, which has actually remained in the air until today, is how we will resolve the situation that previous speaker Lauri Luik has set out here as an example. If there is a private school next to a municipal school in a very small municipality, how will the local government resolve the situation? Does the municipality and the community have the right to intervene in any way? Or if the local government closes the school network in the process of cleaning up and the need to save money from one of its municipal schools and instead of a private school, how will the situation be resolved? It is as if the municipality has to finance this private school, and this is not the way the desired change will happen on the school network. It is precisely because there has been no in-depth analysis of all of this that we opposed the amendments before. The situation has now changed greatly. There have been legitimate expectations, a whole series, or most private schools, born after this legislative amendment was made. Most private institutions of education have a completely different focus than in the past. We are pleased to note that most private schools provide the same education as we see in the Nordic countries and in many other European countries that set an example for us. They're a little different from regular schools for some reason. Whether they have a different pedagogical approach, such as applying Montessor's or Waldorf's pedagogy, are they inclined in one way or the other, they are Christian schools or schools representing other confessions. So the debate around private education has become much wider, as the whole landscape has become much wider. In summary, however, I can say that the way we have reached today's draft has been a very sad process. Should have come through without such great contradictions and accusations, no one needs them. At the same time, it has been a pleasure to see civil society triumph. After all, this is what a clear initiative of parents to pay attention to the interests of their children really means. The whole solution is, of course, political compromises, political negotiations. At this point, I bow to the Fatherland and Res Publica Union, which stood firm to their principles. A very strong civil society is behind this too. I believe that the greatest lesson we have all learned here is that we have actually changed. As politicians, we have started to listen more to lobby groups, because indeed, parents and civil society as a whole have decided to intervene forcefully in politics. That is something I very much welcome as a member of the Committee on Culture. If, in future, teachers and, for example, parents who stand up for the interests of children in their kindergarten or university, we will certainly reach more consensual decisions as a result of much deeper discussions on the drafts. So much power for us!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U281	Liina Kersna, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U282	Good President! Ladies and gentlemen, In 10 Waldorf schools in Estonia, 850 children are studying and the number of students is growing strongly every year. The Waldorf schools operate on the basis of a licence approved by the Ministry of Education and Research, but their curriculum is divided into different cycles. One subject is dealt with for three to four weeks in a row. For many children, it is a pedagogical system that is especially popular in Germany, the Netherlands, Sweden and the United States that is suitable for education. This pedagogy developed by Rudolf Steiner is the basis of the current largest worldwide movement of independent schools. About 1000 Waldorf schools operate in 65 countries in Europe and elsewhere, with over 200,000 students. In Estonia, children can be put into Waldorf School in Tallinn, Tartu, Viljandi, Keilas, Pärnu, Rakvere, Aruküla and Põlva County in Rosmal. In addition, there are nine kindergartens and one therapeutic school and kindergarten. Rosmal, the only Waldorf School in Southeast Estonia, which has been active for more than 25 years, studies nearly 90 children and these children are attended by 16 municipalities from Põlva, Võru, Tartu and Valgamaa. Within a year, this school has grown by about 20 children. There are parents who don't think it's too much to drive their children to that school from 50 kilometers away. On the one hand, this school keeps active young people in Põlva County, on the other hand, when several families move to the country, one of the most important arguments has been the possibility of putting children into this school. The Rosma School is clearly one of the development engines of the region, for which the local government could take a strong stand. The Waldorf Schools Association asked its schools to do the calculations that the agreement to be concluded today means for their Union Schools. Tallinn Free Waldorf School is in a very difficult position, as its operating support decreases by half. Tallinn's assistant mayor has said that the city supports only Christian private schools. Thus, at least Tallinn City Government is not expected to provide additional support. However, what about Rosmal, we do not know yet, because there has not been a meeting with the local government. Herbert Hahn Kool in Pärnu is also in a difficult economic situation because of this agreement. The extent to which and whether Pärnu decides to support this Waldorf school is unclear at first. I very much hope that local authorities will understand the importance of the diversity of the local educational landscape and will decide, together with the country, to support alternative pedagogical private schools. Furthermore, I hope that one day our discussions on education will become child- and educational-centred and less financial policy. Obviously, we have something to discuss. But, finally, I would like to thank the Committee on Education very much for the huge work that has been done over the year to bring about this compromise. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U283	Priit Onion, please! Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U284	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, If someone had told me a year ago that in the private education finance debate, I met most opposition from the Reform Party, I would have just laughed him out. This would not have seemed real, because the right-wing party in economic policy would rather be expected to favour private initiative and private education. Unfortunately, life has surprises to offer. Today we have a compromise before us, which has been reached after half a year of debate. The initial proposal by the Ministry of Education to abolish the state operating grant paid to private schools was rejected by active parents and the IRL. The three-year compromise agreement will allow us to have further discussion in order to develop a system in which all schools are part of the school network and the funding of students from taxpayers' funds will take place on the same basis, regardless of ownership. What went wrong with this debate, so there was a lot of fat blood and confrontation? The debate revealed a large number of myths and lies, until I had to prove to one of our colleagues that my five children did not attend Waldorf School. Let it be said that I have three children, and only one of them is a school-aged student, true, in a Christian private school. However, I come back to what still led to the debate on private education. First, the reason for this was the systematic attempt by one party to oppose private schools to municipal schools. I have to admit, at times it worked. I can confirm from the debate that these opponents have not been parents of private schools. Secondly, as regards the financing of private schools, there is a widespread view that they receive 1.6 or 1.8 from the state and, in the meantime, it was said that even twice as much money as public or municipal schools. That, of course, is not true. Firstly, the state does not finance schools directly, but allocates funds to the local government. That's the way it's always been. Secondly, the costs of schools are very different, and the budgets of schools that are very similar in size may vary up to twice. During the first reading of this bill, I gave an example of two small primary schools, Himmaste Primary School in Põlva municipality and Unipiha Primary School in Kambja municipality. Eighteen students both studied, both were in the old tree building, but the school budget difference was exactly half because one had composite classes. And this Unipiha school still exists today, the Himmasian school is closed in the meantime. There are certainly private schools that are more expensive than municipal schools, and there are also private schools that are more sustainable. In this respect, they do not stand out from so-called regular schools. That is why it was written in the draft that instead of the average operating subsidy limit of the country that was the basis for the calculation so far, the calculation is based on the average of the local government, although the current law speaks of covering the actual costs. The average of the municipality comes from the Estonian Education Information System, which makes sense. We have a central information base that should make it possible to assess, among other things, expenditure on education. When we look at the Tallinn city lines in this information system, it turns out that the cheapest study place in the capital is in Tallinn's English College. A little suspicious. The average of Tallinn schools, which is 60.83 euros per student per month, becomes even more suspicious. The operating costs of all schools are quite the same, remaining close to or below the average. This is unlikely given the huge difference between schools. A school manager in Tallinn has admitted that this number is entered into the EHIS, which the city government is telling you to do. The result is invalid information, which the Ministry of Education and Research also uses to calculate the numbers in this draft. If, now, on the basis of this knowledge, the honourable Minister's figures are very different, then it is understandable why he seems strange. If my mother were to rely on the same misguided input as the EHIS cost information in the food business, she'd probably go bankrupt quickly. The question now arises as to whether only Tallinn's data is invalid. The ministry flourishes well, and the minister can accuse the opponents of lying. The truth doesn't know the end, but no one knows the local government accountants. In this sense, the Minister is somewhat right. We should not, above all, look at which budget line the funds will reach the school, but ensure that each student receives the same taxpayer's contribution regardless of the school's ownership. In the meantime, allow me to thank the presidents of the Committee on Culture and the committees of the Riigikogu, because it is precisely on the basis of the will of the Parliament that these sections are polished into such a way. This was the case in 2010 when, under the leadership of Lauri Luige, these ideas were legalised, private schools became part of the education system and the foundations of equal funding were created. This is also the case now, under the leadership of the Commission, the Ministry's draft was substantially improved. In the field of education, despite constant changes, substantive reform has not been carried out and we are already facing this inevitability in the coming years. The key question of the reform will be how to involve children, parents, leaders of education and local authorities in order to get the best education system in terms of content and the education network appropriate to our abilities. The agreement reached to finance private education provides an opportunity to take time off for a thorough and substantive discussion and a long-term solution. I very much hope that the solution will be brought by the new Education Act, the preparation of which will perhaps also find a suitable place for private schools on our school network and put in place the arrangements for financing them. The most obvious solution would be if all the money needed to provide basic education, including education support, i.e. teachers' salaries and school operating costs, could be converted into the so-called "packing allowance" that goes with the child. The school in which he is studying also receives his pension allowance, regardless of whether he is a municipal or private school. Then the current rather complex and confusing regime, in which part of the money is paid by the state, would be abolished by a part of the local government. Whether this so-called 'coastal support' would move through municipalities or would come directly from the state budget is already the subject of discussion. Good examples can be found in the nearest neighbours and elsewhere in Europe for both solutions. I would like to wish us all a substantive and passionate debate on education issues for the future. I hope that we will be both substantive and constructive and passionate about this.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U285	Mailis Reps, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U286	Priit Onion, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U287	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Dear waitress, My question may be a little out of the question of the draft, but it is still about the debate that took place in the Commission. Did you also mention what should really happen after 1 January 2020? Did you also discuss what could happen next, and if you did not discuss it, when would you have this debate?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U288	Thank you. I think that when the Riigikogu passed the law currently in force in 2010, obviously no one anticipated that in 2016 Kalle Muuli would be standing here in the remote control and how this law could be changed. It is also true that if we want to be honest with ourselves and as precise as possible, we should say that we can discuss it, but we do not know what will happen after 1 January 2020. We don't even know what's gonna happen tomorrow. However, I know what will happen before 1 January 2020. Prior to this, there will be an administrative reform that is likely to redefine or at least review the responsibilities of local authorities, including schooling. Secondly, before 1 January 2020, there is probably a new educational law on the Riigikogu's desk. The Ministry of Education is working on it. One of the reasons why this transitional period is needed is that we could immediately have developed very thorough and good plans for how to finance private schools and schools at all, but we did not want to leave them in the dark by then. The transitional period allows the Ministry of Education, the Committee on Culture and the Riigikogu to develop a new financing model, to consider private schools as part of the school network, and to develop a final and beautiful funding scheme. My own favourite is definitely the old-fashioned grant: a certain amount of money would accompany the child regardless of what school he goes to. He'll take that money with him to a private school, municipal school, public school, anywhere. In this case, a parent could also influence the school network with his school choice and maybe create competition there and thus contribute to the improvement of our education system.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U289	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good waitress! The subject around whom all the action is made is the child, and the child is the most important thing. You yourself, Kalle, said before that it was crucial to respect the principle of equal treatment. At the moment, however, the principle of equal treatment is a matter of urgency. One thing has money and the other one doesn't. One side we're looking at, one side we're not looking at. Does this require, like, educational stratification and attention to one sector, but does the other sector lose attention?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U290	Thank you. When discussing educational stratification in this context, how much does the existence of private schools produce or encourage it, what is it that causes this stratification? I think it's just, or basically, one thing. It's money, or tuition. If there is a high tuition fee in a private school, certain children will not be able to study there, and if there is a low tuition fee or no tuition fee at all, just as there is a private school in Rakvere, because it is supported by the local government, then basically all children would be able to study there if they could fit in there. In this sense, support from the state or local government is necessary and the higher it is, the lower it makes the threshold for private schools, and the less stratification it is. But this sword, of course, has another blade, and I understand that the questioner meant more of that. If the taxpayer pockets a private school and municipal school is equally funded and the private school can also charge tuition fees which the municipal school cannot take, then it is certainly possible for the private school to create conditions that are not fair from the point of view of competition. That is why I believe that state funding and private school tuition must be viewed in conjunction. Perhaps we should reach a system where state or local government support depends on the amount of tuition fees in private schools. In many countries this is the case that if a school has higher tuition fees, it receives less support from the state, and if the school has lower tuition fees, it receives more support from the state. Basically, we could have a lot of private schools where there is no tuition at all, and where all the funding comes from the state, because I have said it from this remote control once at first reading, not from private business, but from private initiative. Our private schools don't dream of high tuition fees. They dream of stability and more of state support. They have nothing to do with the money they make, but spend it on school and education. They do not take it out as dividends or in any other way, because most of them are foundations or non-profit organisations. In my opinion, a fair Estonian private schooling could be that it has relatively decent local government and state funding, which would come by the way that each student would have his or her own money to pay from school to school. After all, students do not change schools but go to their old school once in their lives on 1 September. At the same time, tuition fees in private schools would be as low as possible. There could be many schools in Estonia where the children of poorer people could also be visited, thanks to the support of the state. But I admit that if a private school has exactly the same amount of state or taxpayer support as a municipal school and, in addition, a tuition fee of unlimited size, it is not an entirely honest system.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U291	Thank you, Kalle Muuli! There are no further questions for the rapporteur of the Committee on Culture. I'm opening negotiations. Martin Helme, please! Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U292	Dear Speaker! Ladies and gentlemen, Indeed, much has been said both in the Committee on Culture and in this Chamber. Let us recall, for example, the Question Time questions and enquiries that have been submitted to ministers. I am not as optimistic as Mr Muuli, who said that the parties have been heard and taken into account. Yes, it is a compromise, but we think it is a poor compromise. This compromise largely conceals the fact that the IRL was, however, forced to capitulate against the pressure of coalition partners. What do we think are the two most serious shortcomings of this legislative amendment? The first is that local governments and rural governments are given not a full right, but a certain right to restrict the establishment of schools. It's not right, it's not good. After all, it is clear that if municipalities organise the school network themselves, they are not interested in competition, and if we provide additional opportunities to place barriers to the provision of school services, then undoubtedly school holders are already inclined, by their very nature, to not want new schools. This, in my opinion, is a very bad thing that pushes us towards 'cunftisation', or the circular defence of national or public school education. In fact, since the beginning of this whole bill, it has been aimed at inhibiting the development of private schools, inhibiting the formation of private schools, or even killing them out. The second drawback: this whole financing model is a compromise and it is also a bad compromise, because it simply postpones the problem. Until 2019 there will be 75% funding, but no one will know what happens after that. And where's that 75% rate taken from? It's taken so that there's just some kind of decision made. Kalle Muuli told me about the ranch money. In fact, we are talking about the bounty allowance for education accompanying the student, which should not depend on the form of ownership of the school. It should be completely equal to everyone, regardless of the school ownership. In this sense, however, a hat was just put on the private schools. The story that you can charge 75% of the tuition fee is, well, I'm sorry, it's not an equal use of tax money in the financing model. These are two very important shortcomings which have not been taken into account and which make the situation of private schools worse and reduce the diversity and competition of the education market there. It is not clear to us what will happen in 2020, which will be due after the next Riigikogu elections. We can only hope that by then it will be a heated election topic and that political parties will take more account of the arguments that civil society and private schools have now put forward. One problem on which I am making a very serious remark to the Committee on Culture is that we do not have a representative in the Committee on Culture due to the small size of the group. The practice so far has been that when our group's amendments come to the debate in committee, the representative of the group will be invited to defend them. This was not the case with the Committee on Culture, and our proposals were not even put to the vote. I don't think it's proper behavior. We cannot now put these proposals to the vote in the Chamber either. Against this background, our group proposes that the reading be interrupted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U293	Let's start preparing the vote. I shall put to the vote the ninth amendment tabled by the Group of the Estonian Centre Party. Please take a stand and vote. With the result of 13 votes against 44 and 4 abstentions, the proposal was not supported. The 10th amendment is tabled by the Group of the Estonian Centre Party. The position of the lead committee: not to be taken into account. Mailis Reps, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U294	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! Indeed, what is happening around the private school law has been discussed here today, but certainly a much more serious debate has been in the whole of society over the last few months. It is often speculated what happened years ago when the private school law was adopted in this form. Maybe you'll help me refresh my memory. Are you also convinced that this was actually justified by the need to continue settlement between municipalities at the time and by the view that settlement between local government and private school would be perfectly fair? Consequently, the Committee on Culture decided at the time. What has changed in this concept in the meantime?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U295	Thank you. This was certainly one of the main arguments that if a child goes from one municipal school to another municipal school, they will settle between themselves. In this respect, the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act were, if I am not mistaken, provided for in § 83 (3) and (4) of the Finance Schemes. And, of course, the question arose: if a child goes to the private school of a neighbouring municipality instead of the municipal school, or also to the private school of his municipality, why, figuratively speaking, is he not given the money. That, in my opinion, does not make sense, was and still is. It was not wrong to impose an obligation on local authorities to reimburse these costs when adopting the 2010 Act. This was, in my view, absolutely fair, and as a representative of the Group of the Pro Patria and Res Publica Union, I say that the group as a whole has requested that the current arrangements continue. But the problem with the regime so far has not been that money has been paid on a compulsory basis, but that the local government has lost the opportunity to establish and regulate private schools in its territory. It just got forgotten. At that time, the amendment of the basic school and upper secondary school law was probably made with its 300 proposals and it was probably not possible to examine the whole package in detail. In fact, I believe that the principle that the operating costs of municipal schools and private schools must be covered equally by taxpayers' money is absolutely right. The compromise was such that we had three years to come up with a financing scheme for 75% of the operating costs, which, on the one hand, would give private schools the assurance that their operating support will not be shaken or withdrawn, that it would not be granted according to the political power that is currently in the local council or the relationship between the school and the local government, whether the school likes or does not like it. On the one hand. On the other hand, if a municipality pays operating aid to a private school, it must have some rights to decide on the matters of a private school. Of course, a private school can be like a private company: doesn't want anything from the state, doesn't want anything from the local government. Then we don't have any extra duties in front of the school. However, if the municipality pays operating aid to a private school, it should be entitled to consider this school as part of its school network and take into account that there are certain school places there and that it does not have to run empty places for the children of a private school, just in case it does not have to run empty places for the children of a private school, then suddenly the private school stops or sends some children to the door, eliminates some classes. The proposals of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union, which we withdrew after the compromise was reached, and which may not therefore be very polite to recall, were also taken into account in the other side, namely the rights of local authorities.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U296	Mailis Reps, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U297	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress, thank you for your comprehensive answer. Indeed, if we recall these years of debate, the aim was still to have all children treated equally, in private school, municipal school or public school. But let's get to the future plans. You are the rapporteur responsible for the Committee on Culture. Can you confirm in this Chamber today that the Committee on Culture will not finish this issue? Take, for example, the fact that many private schools have more children with special needs. Could more and fairer funding for children with special needs, in principle, be one of the instruments for helping to achieve a compromise? Could this be one of the options discussed further by the Committee on Culture?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U298	Thank you. It is not a question directly to the Committee on Culture and its chairman, but I would at least think about keeping children with special educational needs and financing private schools separate. After all, financing children with special educational needs is also important from the perspective of municipal school. It should certainly be dealt with in a comprehensive and separate way, even from the fact that we currently have separate funding arrangements specifically for those schools where only or predominantly HEV children are present. But children with special educational needs also go to regular schools. After all, the general trend is that, wherever possible, children with less special educational needs go to regular schools so that they can have the experience of communicating with so-called ordinary children and of having a normal school. In terms of funding, children in ordinary schools with special educational needs should also be treated separately, as they also inevitably need greater care in mainstream schools. That's one thing. The financing of private schools needs to be dealt with separately, regardless of whether a child with special educational needs attends one school or another. I think three years is long enough not only to come back to it once, but several times. I am absolutely convinced that the issue of financing private schools must continue to be discussed. During this transitional period, we will give private schools, for the duration of their future discussions, the assurance that they will receive funding to the extent that is currently provided for in the law.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U299	March Sults, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U300	Thank you, good Chairman. Good waitress! You've already touched a little bit of general school. There are different funding systems: public school funding, municipal school funding, and now private school funding. To what extent were the proposed amendments to the Private Schools Act concerned learning in municipal schools, the additional funding of these teachers, the creation of small classes and the simplification of all this procedure for children with a small educational need? Municipal schools can do all this quality and well, and many children with special educational needs go to municipal schools. At the same time, the main argument in private schools is that they have more attention for children with special needs, smaller classes, better curricula. How can this conflict be resolved?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U301	Thank you. We addressed the principles of financing private schools within the framework of this draft. This question, which has now been asked, arose at numerous meetings with representatives of schools for children with special educational needs, but since it is still a private school funding law, not a municipal school funding law, there is no such proposal among the amendments that concerns the teaching of HEV children or the financing of their teaching in municipal schools. To this end, a separate system of funding for teaching HEV children still needs to be developed. This is not the subject of this bill, but it is an important issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U302	March Sults, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U303	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U304	Mr President! Honourable representatives of the people! We have had a very long and meaningful day today. Today, we have thought about who is keeping and protecting Estonian culture, what kind of person it is, about whom it can be said that he really keeps our culture and our people. Today, we have been thinking about what our society needs, how this person who works eight hours a day can't manage his life normally with what he deserves. And now we are in education, but we must not forget that we are only touching a small part of education today. This journey, which we have gone through when working together in the Committee on Culture, has been a very long one, working together, in one mind, not as opposition and coalition. It started in the fall, and now it's late spring. And the end of this journey is a compromise. It is a compromise, but we have to ask whether this compromise is good, it is necessary and, if so, for whom it is necessary. My colleague Martin said very firmly that this is a poor compromise and we have nothing to do with it, because it is like cheating on private schools. First of all, I would say that maybe the term 'private school' is a little confusing at all. Most of these schools have come under the influence of civil society or even private initiatives. These schools all have their own clear vision, and the most beautiful of these visions is the contribution of parents themselves. What do all these schools show us? That Estonian society has matured, that we have people who dare to express their opinions and wishes, who dare and want to contribute both their money and their time. And we have to be grateful for that. I dare say that this compromise is a good compromise, because it gives peace at the moment under these conditions, which provides an opportunity to look for all the answers to a whole range of questions in the field of education that are not there at the moment. One big question is rethinking the whole education in the 21st century, where we are now living. After all, we do not negotiate it at the level of different types of schools and levels of education, without going through it. We have a lot of questions to resolve. We have no solution to how to restore the teacher's authority and reputation. The teacher is the most important person in the school system and in society at all, and the teacher must be able to be satisfied and confident. Then our children will also be satisfied, happy, and confident at school. These issues need to be discussed, and it is no easier to discuss these issues, I dare say that this is much more difficult than discussing the financing of private schools. The born compromise gives us the opportunity to work. It also gives municipalities the opportunity to think about private schools as their own schools, participate in their school network. And this is the conceptual breakthrough that we have achieved thanks to the involvement that has taken place, the meetings that have taken place, thanks to the many meetings where we felt that part of society really cares about education and wants to contribute to making it better. Therefore, the Group of the Estonian Free Party fully agrees that this is a compromise that cannot be fully satisfied with, but let's move on from here. We have every chance to keep working and get smarter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U305	Thank you. No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. Now, good colleagues, we are going to examine the amendments. The first amendment is from the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union, the position of the commission: to consider the substance. The second amendment is from the Committee on Culture, the proposal: take full account. The third amendment is from the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union, the proposal of the commission: to consider the substance. The fourth amendment is from the Group of the Estonian Centre Party; the proposal of the commission is to take this into account in substance. Mailis Reps, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U306	Thank you, Mr President. When I caught up with you in time, I would ask you to vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U307	Yes, on the fourth amendment, you have arrived nicely at me, so let us start preparing this vote. Dear colleagues, I am voting on the fourth amendment tabled by the Group of the Estonian Central Party. The Governing Commission's proposal is to take this into account in substance. Please take a stand and vote. 18 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, 43 against and no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. The fifth amendment has been tabled by the lead committee, the proposal: take full account. The sixth amendment has been tabled by the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia, the proposal of the commission: disregard. The seventh amendment has been tabled by the lead committee. The eighth amendment has been tabled by the Group of the Estonian Centre Party, the proposal of the commission: disregard. Mailis Reps, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U308	Thank you, Mr President. I ask for the eighth amendment to be voted on.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U309	Let's begin preparation. I shall put to the vote the eighth amendment tabled by the Group of the Estonian Centre Party. The Governing Commission's proposal is to disregard this. Please take a stand and vote. With the result of 15 votes against 43 and 2 abstentions, the proposal was not supported. The ninth amendment is the position put forward by the Estonian Centre Party Group, which is the position of the commission: not to be taken into account. Mailis Reps, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U310	Thank you. I also ask for the ninth amendment to be voted on.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U311	Let's start preparing it. I shall put to the vote the tenth amendment tabled by the Group of the Estonian Centre Party. Please take a stand and vote. With the result of 15 votes against 42 and 2 abstentions, the proposal was not supported. The 11th amendment of the draft is the position of the group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia, which is proposed by the commission: not to be taken into account. Amendment 12 is tabled by the commission, as well as amendments 13 and 14. Amendments 15 and 16 have also been tabled by the Committee on Culture, which is the lead committee. Amendment 17 is the position put forward by the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union, the lead committee: consider the substance. Amendment 18 is the position expressed by the Estonian Centre Party Group, which is the position of the commission: not to be taken into account. Mailis Reps, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U312	Thank you, Mr President. I would also like to ask for the tenth amendment to be voted on.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U313	I ask for the 18th amendment to be voted on.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U314	Let's start preparing the vote. I shall put to the vote the 18th amendment tabled by the Group of the Estonian Centre Party. Please take a stand and vote. With the result of 12 votes against 43 and 2 abstentions, the proposal was not supported. The 19th amendment has been tabled by the commission, the 20th amendment has been tabled by the Group of the Estonian Conservative People's Party, the position of the commission: not to be taken into account. Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U315	Thank you. Conservative People's Party is asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U316	Let's start preparing the vote. I shall put to the vote the 20th amendment tabled by the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia. Please take a stand and vote. With the result of 14 votes against 43 and 3 abstentions, the proposal was not supported. Dear colleagues, we have examined the amendments. The position of the commission is that the second reading must be completed. But a second proposal has also come to the Riigikogu Board. The Group of the Estonian Conservative People's Party proposes to interrupt the second reading of the draft 142. Let us begin the preparation of this vote. I am voting on the proposal of the Group of the Estonian Conservative People's Party to interrupt the second reading of bill 142. Please take a stand and vote. With the result of 13 votes to 48, the proposal was not supported by any abstentions. Second reading is over.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U317	We will move on to the eighth item on the agenda, which is the second reading of the Law on the Protection of Animals, Animal Disease Control and Trade in Animals and Animal Products, as initiated by the Government of the Republic, and the draft Act amending the Act on the Import and Export of Animals and Animal Products, 222. I ask the Riigikogu for a speech chair presentation... Please listen! Lauri Luik, member of the Rural Affairs Committee, will be in the Riigikogu Chair immediately. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U318	Thank you for a beautiful introduction, good Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! I will give you an overview of the draft law 222 and the debate that took place in the Committee on Rural Affairs in the intervening period on this subject. The Government of the Republic initiated this draft on 18 April this year and the first reading took place on 4 May. By the deadline for submitting amendments, which was 11 May, the Group of the Estonian Conservative People's Party tabled two essentially related amendments, which are included in the list of amendments as a single proposal. The Committee on Rural Affairs discussed the preparation of the second reading at its meeting on 16 May. Representatives of the Ministry of Rural Affairs also participated in the meeting. In addition to the proposals put forward by the EKRE Group, five other proposals from the Committee on Rural Affairs had been prepared in cooperation with the Ministry of Rural Affairs, which were mainly specific, linguistic and conventional. The following laconically on these amendments. Amendment 1 brings together all the clarifications of the text of § 1. Firstly, they concern authorisations. According to the new text of the provision, the transporter of animals and the transporter of animals carrying out long journeys must be authorised in accordance with the Council Regulation. Secondly, it is specified that the application for authorisation shall include the certificates of competence of the road transport vehicle driver and the consignor. The third clarification is linguistic and technical. The first amendment was accepted by consensus by the Commission. Amendment 2 brings together, as has been pointed out, two proposals from the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia. These concern the deletion of the regulation of religious slaughter from the law. This proposal triggered a rather lively debate within the Commission on whaling and kosher killing. The current regulation dates from 2013 when the EU regulation on the slaughter of animals entered into force. The regulation in law has been a compromise between the various parties as a result of the debate. These killings can only be carried out in an approved and recognised slaughterhouse and the kosher method of slaughter is only allowed in Estonia by killing animals for its own community. No slaughterhouse in Estonia has so far applied for this authorisation, and in the last five years, there has been no official use of halal or kosher slaughter in Estonia. The Commission also noted that the price of halal and kosher meat is considerably higher and that marketing such meat could be an additional opportunity for our meat producers in the future, alongside trade in live animals. The amendment was voted for by 1 and against by 7 members of the Commission. Amendment 3 clarifies the wording of section 2 (3) of the draft act § 132 of the Law on the control of animal diseases. This is once again a technical amendment to the norm, which was fully supported by the Commission. Amendment 4 clarifies § 2 (9) of the draft. It is specified that the obligation to clean the motor vehicle and its trailer before entering the disease-free zone and, where appropriate, to disinfect the disinfectant mentioned in the list published on the website of the Food and Veterinary Office shall be regarded as a restriction on the movement of vehicles. The Commission has decided to fully support this proposal. Amendment 5 is technical and supported by consensus by the Commission. Amendment 6 postpones the entry into force of § 1 of the draft, as it requires the development of a register of farm animals, which takes a little longer than planned. Therefore, it is proposed that § 1 be put into effect on 1 September 2016 instead of 1 July. Minor linguistic and technical changes have also been made to the text of the draft act. Finally, procedural decisions. The Committee on Rural Affairs decided to submit the draft for second reading on the agenda of the plenary session of the Riigikogu on 1 June and to propose that the second reading be closed. These decisions have been taken by consensus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U319	Good waitress, I don't see any questions, so thank you! I'm opening negotiations. Riigikogu speech chair Ivari Padari, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U320	Ladies and gentlemen, Veterinary diseases have plagued Estonia in different ways. In the near future, we have had foot-and-mouth disease, mad cow disease and avian influenza. I remember that at the beginning of this century, when we were at risk of foot-and-mouth disease and when there were a large number of farmers among the members of the Riigikogu and otherwise of the population members involved in herds, we had a plan here at the cafe level to put a desomat before the Riigikogu. As far as African swine fever is concerned, the new ordeal that has come into our yard, we have never had to deal with it before. This is indeed a very dangerous disease, the rapid spread of which we have seen last year. We've all heard of these risks. However, it is clear that there is currently no cure for this disease in the world. What can we do? We can do this by making our laws better and better, so that supervision can be better and better controlled. There are two ways in which it can still be countered: on the one hand, a reduction in the number of feral pigs and, on the other hand, all biosecurity measures and other precautionary measures concerning farms. As for African swine fever, it has to be said that it has spread very quickly, as in fashion today. People are moving quickly from one place to another, too, and it has come to us with people. According to studies, this plague reached Georgia in about 2008. During the Georgian war, it moved to Russia, from there to Belarus. In Belarus, mass killings were carried out in the forests and pigs were intimidated along with this disease in the Baltic States. Estonia was able to last the year so that the pigs died only in the forest, the plague did not reach the stables during the year, but last year it reached the stables, and everything involved is already known to you. Now the amendments tabled by colleagues from the EKRE concerning the prohibition of ritual slaughter. Lauri Luik has already said that it is very clear in Estonia that animals must not be killed in a painful way. Both in Estonia and elsewhere in Europe, killing is permitted by veterinary rules and there is no mention of animal torture. On the other hand, the markets for halal or kosher meat are extremely important markets for us, and we must, on the contrary, act to take on better positions in these markets. I would remind you that, for example, the production of meat cattle, which is an alternative to dairy farming, goes about 80% for export. Of this 80%, the absolute majority goes to Turkey. That's right. We are also talking about other areas of agriculture. In 2015, we exported about one million tonnes of grain out of Estonia. Half that million tons, maybe half a million tons, will go where? Goes to Arab countries, including North Africa. For us, the markets in the region are still extremely important markets. Therefore, we do not need to develop any simple ban here, which fears may have to do with the refugee crisis in particular. We need to think very wisely about how to promote our agricultural policy so that the debate on agricultural policy is not limited to how to get more money from the state budget. Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U321	Three minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U322	The state budget money is one side of the business, but the other side is markets, reasonable to run all these things. A new summer is coming, people, including members of the Riigikogu, tend to forest mushrooms and berries. Last year's experiences have certainly been learned. Yesterday, I spoke to the people of the Ministry of the Interior about what the Ministry of the Interior considers the ability to regulate this crisis and whether the Food and Veterinary Office is working with the county authorities. This cooperation has been very refined. The new head of the Food and Veterinary Office will come to the Committee on Rural Affairs on 7 June to discuss all this. But nothing but a suggestion: if this year there is a matter for the berries and mushrooms of the forest, then be good, don't go to the pig farm immediately after that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U323	Thank you. Speaking in a position. Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U324	Thank you. I would like to make it clear that the EKRE proposed a ban on whaling to prevent the torture of animals. The Commission does not seem to be aware of the meaning of "halal-killing." The speaker said that this would be done by using stunning. Yes, normal killings are done this way, but there is an exception to religious killings. If you describe this process, there's no stunning in halal-killing. They just cut through a blood vessel, and the animal suffers until it dies. So, unfortunately, I have to admit that, although it is claimed that this issue has been discussed for a very long time, the Commission is still not familiar. I'd say it's very disappointing. The aim should still be not to allow animals to be tortured in Estonia, no matter what the excuse. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U325	Thank you. Ivar Padar, do you have a procedural question? Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U326	I will tell my colleague, Mrs Põllea, that I have visited the kosherthamaja in England and I know exactly how this works today. Mr. Pierce isn't telling the truth.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U327	You can't call that a procedural question. But all right. Any more calls? There's a round of negotiations. During the second reading, as you know, according to our Home and Working Procedures Act, all members of the Riigikogu can speak both in the Chair and on the ground. There will be no further speeches. I'm closing the negotiations. Let us now begin the examination of the amendments. Six of them have been received. The first amendment is tabled by the commission. The second amendment is tabled by the Group of the Estonian Conservative People's Party; the position of the commission is to disregard it. The third amendment is from the lead committee, as well as the fourth, fifth and sixth proposals. We have examined the amendments. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the second reading. Second reading is over.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U328	We will move on to the ninth item on the agenda, which is the second reading of draft law amending the tobacco law initiated by the Government of the Republic. Aivar Koka, member of the Social Affairs Committee of the Riigikogu Chair, will be asked to give a presentation!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U329	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, The Social Affairs Committee of the Riigikogu discussed this draft and its first reading was completed on 20 April. The deadline for submitting amendments was 28 April 2016. By this time, a member of the Riigikogu, Vilja Toomas, submitted amendments, one proposal was submitted by the Ministry of Social Affairs. An association of e-cigarette vendors and users and one citizen gave their views. The proposals of the Social Affairs Committee were prepared in cooperation with the Ministry of Social Affairs. The Committee on Social Affairs discussed the preparation of the draft second reading at four sittings, which was on 3, 16, 17 and 30 May. a. On 3 May, Ingmar Kurg, Chairman of the Board of e-cigarette Sellers and Users' Association, Elgery Group OÜ board member, Oliver Lehtsaar, Senior Consultant of Meta Advisory Henri Arras, Attorney-at-Law of LEXTAL, Ants Karu, Chairman of the Estonian Association of Tobacco Producers, Taavi Salumets, Head of Public Health Department of the Ministry of Social Affairs, Katrin Karolin, Head of the same department, Kärt Sõber, and Legal Adviser of the Ministry, Kersti Berendsen-Koržets. The association of e-cigarette vendors and users stated in its referral that the explanation in the draft explanatory memorandum for subsection 1 (9) that nicotine should be distributed evenly between inhaled doses in the product is quite sufficient and that the assessment of the concept of dose by the Agency is not necessary. The representative of the Ministry of Social Affairs explained that the assessment of the Agency was requested due to a lack of more precise guidance, but the content of the "dose" is further described in the relevant guidance material prepared by the European Commission. One citizen who has sent us a proposal believes that the use of an electronic cigarette should also be prohibited in the store and travelling store sales hall and in the apartment hall corridor, in the stairwell and in other public spaces of the apartment building. Since the purpose of this draft is to transpose the requirements of a specific European Union directive, it was decided to discuss this proposal in the course of the procedure of the next draft law amending the Tobacco Act, which the government will submit to the Riigikogu proceedings in the autumn. The amendments were discussed at the Commission meeting on 16 May. This session was attended by Evgeni Ossinovski, Minister of Health and Labour, Katrin Karolin, Head of Public Health Department of the Ministry of Social Affairs, and Kärt Sõber, Head Specialist of the same department, and Silver Sära, Adviser to the Legal and Analytical Department of the Chancellery of the Riigikogu. The Minister of Health and Labour noted that the Government of the Republic has approved the principles and measures of the Green Paper on Tobacco Policy to reduce tobacco use. The Ministry of Social Affairs was tasked with taking the necessary measures and resources to comply with the principles set out in the Green Paper on the implementation plan for the People's Health Development Plan 2009 to 2020 and to initiate the amendment of the Tobacco Act on the basis of the principles of the Green Paper. In preparing the draft, the Ministry of Social Affairs has based itself on the principles of the Green Paper. At the meeting of the Commission on 17 May, the amendments were continued to be discussed. Katrin Karolin, Head of Public Health Department of the Ministry of Social Affairs, Kärt Sõber, Head Specialist of the same department, and Jaanus Põldmaa, Legal Adviser of the Ministry, LEXTAL attorney-at-law Margus Reiland, Senior Consultant of Meta Advisory Henri Arras and Adviser of the Legal and Analytical Department of the Chancellery of the Riigikogu Silver Sära participated in the meeting. At the Commission meeting on 30 May, the debate on the amendments was resumed. Kärt Sõber, Head Specialist of the Public Health Department of the Ministry of Social Affairs and Kersti Berendsen-Koržets, Legal Adviser, participated in this session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U330	Dear colleagues, do you have any questions for the waitress?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U331	Of course, I did not say that the Committee on Social Affairs decided to put the draft for second reading on the plenary agenda by 1 June 2016 and to propose that the second reading be closed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U332	I was just wondering what we had to do. Got it! Good colleagues, any questions? There are no questions. I thank the waitress! Do you want to open negotiations? There's no call. We will begin the examination of the 206 amendments to the draft. The first is from the lead committee, the second is from the lead committee, the third is from the lead committee. The fourth is the amendment tabled by Vilja Toomast, member of the Riigikogu, the position of the commission: consider the substance. The fifth amendment is from the lead committee. The sixth amendment is tabled by Vilja Toomasti, member of the Riigikogu, and the position of the commission is not taken into account and is not to be voted in accordance with our Home and Working Procedures Act. The seventh amendment has also been tabled by Mr Toomast, the position of the commission: to be disregarded. This, too, is not subject to the vote in accordance with our Home and Working Procedures Act. The eighth amendment is also presented by Vilja Toomasti, a member of the Riigikogu, and the position of the commission is not taken into account. According to § 106 (2) of the Rules of Procedure and Homes Act of the Riigikogu, it is not to be voted on. The ninth and tenth amendments have also been tabled by Mr Toomas, the position of the commission: do not take them into account. According to our Home and Working Procedures Act, they are not to be voted on. Amendment 11 of the draft is from the lead committee, as well as amendments 12 and 13. We have examined the amendments. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the second reading. Second reading is over.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U333	Let's move on to the tenth item on the agenda. This is the second reading of the 169 draft radiation laws initiated by the Government of the Republic. Member of the Environment Committee, Meelis Mälberg, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U334	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Government of the Republic initiated a draft radiation law on 18 January including. The draft has been drawn up in the framework of a codification of environmental law. The purpose of this codification is to correct the existing law and to make the law more understandable to readers. The content of the regulation remains largely unchanged compared to the law in force. The first reading of the draft radiation law took place in this Chamber on 17 February this year. During the period between first and second readings, the draft has been dealt with three times at the Commission meeting: 21 March, 9 May and 16 May. The representatives of the Ministry of the Environment have participated in all these meetings, and the representative of AS Tallinna Vesi also attended the meeting on 21 March, who explained his views. No amendments were tabled by the deadline of 1 March at 4 p.m., members of the Riigikogu, political groups or other committees. The Environment Committee itself finalised 21 amendments as a result of the discussions. They are mostly of a technical nature and designed to improve the structure of the draft, the definition of terms and references, and to ensure that the content of the structural units is consistent with the title. The clinical audit of medical radiology processes addressed in § 43 of the draft law in the Commission gave rise to a longer discussion. The members of the Commission had many questions: why such an audit is needed, what it looks like in practice, who can do it and how much it costs the customer. The representatives of the Ministry of the Environment explained that the purpose of the clinical audit is to assess these procedures on the basis of standard requirements. This audit shall be carried out once a year within the institution by any person authorised to perform medical radiological procedures, including dentists. Once every five years, persons with relevant competences outside the institution shall be involved. As a result of these discussions, proposals Nos 6 and 7 were finalised to amend the draft law. Another issue that led to a very in-depth discussion was that of the NORM waste generated by the water treatment of drinking water operators. NORM waste is waste containing or contaminated by radioactive substances resulting from an activity. As we know, in the groundwater of Estonia, especially in Northern Estonia, there are quite a lot of radionuclides in the water grip of the vendetta and when this drinking water is treated, the main problem is the NORM waste generated during this cleaning process, which stores filter material. Now we don't have any good technology to get these radionuclides out of that filter material, how to wash it out, how to disperse it back into nature. This is how it gathers at the storage sites of water companies, and these companies have a problem with how to get rid of this filter material. There is no separate NORM waste storage facility in Estonia and it is not economically feasible to establish it either. The representatives of the Ministry explained that the Ministry of the Environment is ready to assist water companies in their further activities. Above all, the situation can be resolved by applying the law in practice, not by amending it. The members of the Commission agreed with these positions and found that we would come back to these issues in the autumn and then look at what has happened in the meantime. Rein Ratas, a Member of the Commission, disagreed, who considered that the procedure for the draft could only proceed after the problem had been resolved. In addition to these two issues which led to a thorough debate in the Commission, it should be noted that a further amendment has been made on the proposal of the Ministry of the Environment, on the basis of which the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications would organise the disposal of radioactive waste in addition to the intermediate disposal of radioactive waste. In order to ensure long-term safety and meet international requirements, it is necessary to establish a clear responsibility in Estonia for the final management of radioactive waste and to establish a site for the final disposal of radioactive waste. It should be noted here that the Government of the Republic decided at its Cabinet meeting on 28 April to support the Ministry of the Environment's proposal to establish a final settlement site. The total cost of work is currently estimated to be close to EUR 90 million until 2050. Opportunities for funding work are sought from the European Union and other international funds. At its meeting on 16 May, the Committee on the Environment made the following procedural decisions: to propose that the second reading of the draft 169 be placed on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu by 1 June 2016 (by 6 members, against 1) to propose that the second reading of the draft 169 be terminated (by 6, against 1) when the second reading is closed, to propose that the third reading of the draft 169 be placed on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu by 8 June (consensus) and put to the final vote on the draft (also by consensus). Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U335	Good colleagues, do you have any questions? There are no questions. I thank the waitress! Do you want to open negotiations? You don't want to open negotiations. Let us begin the examination of the amendments. A total of 21 amendments to bill 169 have been tabled, all from the lead committee. They are therefore fully taken into account. Proposals Nos 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20 and 21. We have examined the amendments. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the second reading. Second reading is over.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U336	We will move on to the 11th item, which is the second reading of the draft law amending the Law on Courts initiated by the Government of the Republic and, in connection with it, the amendment of other laws. Please report to Andres Anvelt, Member of the Constitutional Committee of the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U337	Thank you to the Head of the Riigikogu. Ladies and gentlemen, The Constitutional Commission discussed the draft law amending the Law on the Courts and related amendments to other laws at three sessions: 9 May, 16 May and 17 May. A very large group of specialists, experts and other interested parties took part in these discussions. The Minister of Justice and other officials of the Ministry of Justice were present, headed by the Deputy Chancellor, as well as Priit Pikamäe, President of the Supreme Court, Virgo Saarmets, Chairman of the Board of the Association of Estonian Judges, and Hannes Vallikivi, Chairman of the Estonian Bar Association. Kaidi Meristo, adviser to the Public Administration and Civil Service Department of the Ministry of Finance, also attended the second and third sessions. I will no longer introduce this draft in detail to you; it has already been done in the first reading. However, the general objective is to facilitate the recruitment of judges, as few people have unfortunately taken part in recent court competitions. The judiciary is starting to grow old, and this is a serious problem. In addition to the points in the original draft, a number of amendments were received and I will also give you a quick overview of the course of discussion. First of all, the President of the Supreme Court came with his amendments concerning the retirement leave of judges. In fact, his initial proposal was to make the work of the courts cycled, but in the course of further discussions a compromise was reached that a better solution would be to restore the days of additional leave depending on the status of the judges. But I'll get to that. An amendment by the chairman of the committee, Kalle Laanet, was also discussed, according to which the presidents of the courts of first and second instance would be appointed not for five years but for seven years, only once. The point is that, if you can name these agencies several times now, it will be once in the future, but for a longer period. The reasoning was very pragmatic: the President of the Court should not be affected by such multiple appointments to make so-called pleasant decisions. He'd be more independent. The Commission discussed this and the Minister of Justice and other ministerial officials also found that this problem existed. The Commission decided to support this amendment. Seven people voted in favour, four abstentions, no one opposed. I now come back to the changes proposed by the President of the Supreme Court. The cyclicality of the work was also discussed for a very long time and in several sessions. It was realised that there were many different risks. For example, it was thought that the whole system of justice, which has so far worked well, could be a bit confused and that it would be better to solve this problem by giving judges extra days of leave depending on their seniority. The President of the Supreme Court and the Association of Judges did not oppose this either. Both also confirmed that, in the case of this amendment, i.e. additional leave days, the procedures would not be extended and that things could be dealt with without further queues. There was also a discussion on what questions might be related, for example, to the election of the vice-chairman of the county court and the head of the courthouse. There was also an interest in how many of these people could be. According to the current bill, the court has one vice-chairman. The head of the Supreme Court came up with a proposal that there might be more of them. There was a compromise that one vice-chairman would be in case there were at least 30 judges working in the courthouse, and if there were more than 60, there could be two vice-chairmen. One of the topics was the length of service of a person appointed judge of a county or administrative court. A compromise was reached that this person must have at least five years' professional experience in a professional or workplace for which the qualification referred to in subsection 7 (1) (1) of this Act is required or have worked as an adviser or Advocate General for at least three years. This point is important in order to motivate the Advocates-General and the Counsellors to pursue their careers in such a way that, after a certain period of service, they are already employed as a judge by taking the necessary exam. Such a change would motivate people to take a more active judicial exam. This amendment was supported by consensus. The question was raised concerning the provision on the law on the barrister's expulsion from the barrister's barrister's barrister's barrister's bar. It was noted that the Bar would like to discuss this issue separately. The Minister of Justice asked that the points relating to the amendment of the Bar Act be deleted from the draft. The presence of the officials of the Ministry of Finance was also needed to discuss one issue. This concerned the appointment of a court adviser for the post. Judicial advisers work under the Civil Service Act, but unlike the normal civil service regime, it is proposed that the adviser be appointed for a term of office of three years and may be renewed by agreement between the parties. One very important change concerns the temporary transfer of court advisers to another, such as a law enforcement agency located in the territory of another local authority. In this case, the Supreme Court reimburses his travel and accommodation expenses to the extent and in accordance with the procedures laid down by the Chairman of the Supreme Court. This amendment was also supported by consensus by the Commission. The Ministry of Justice requested that the points relating to the amendment of the State Legal Aid Act be included in the preliminary draft. One of the judgments of the Supreme Court in April this year was cited as a justification. The Supreme Court discussed the own-initiative change made by the Bar Association in the procedure of financing state legal aid. The Minister of Justice and the Ministry of Justice have been in court with the barrister for two years, claiming that changing such a procedure cannot be within the competence of the barrister's office, it can be done by the Ministry of Justice, because it is a procedure for paying the state budget. The Commission supported the amendment by consensus, and in the future the Minister of Justice will be able to change the basis for calculating the remuneration for state legal aid during the financial year, the procedures and rates of payment, and the scope and manner of reimbursement of expenses by means of its legislation. After these lengthy and meaningful discussions, procedural decisions were also reached: to propose a second reading of the draft on the agenda of today's plenary session on 1 June, to propose that the second reading be closed and that the draft be sent to third reading when the second one is closed, by 7 June, and then a final vote. All decisions were taken by consensus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U338	Thank you. You have at least one question. Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U339	Thank you, Mr President. The rapporteur from the Commission. The idea of this draft is to make the system for finding judges more flexible. Can you predict how much horizontal movement between regulated legal areas that this bill will allow will be used? Will these necessary judges be found more easily in the future?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U340	Yes, we also discussed this issue, especially in preparation for the first reading of the draft. The additional leave provided under the amendment for up to seven days depends on the length of the stay However, the movement between different legal areas is certainly an incentive for people to move from the bar to the judicial system, for example, because a certain risk falls away. I don't remember whether I gave such an example at first reading that if a respected lawyer, known as a good legal specialist, should fail at a judge's exam for some reason, it could give his lawyer a little bit of a shot. And so he doesn't go to the exam. It's humanely understandable. However, the proposed system is used quite widely elsewhere, even allowing for these movements between more categories. If I am not mistaken, it is very common in Sweden for judges to take up their duties as ambassador, for example. I would also like to point out that an amendment which facilitates the movement of Advocates-General to the post of Judge should ensure the best follow-up to the judiciary.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U341	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U342	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good speaker! Of course, the work of the judge is very important and there is a need to motivate the judges. But all the workers need to be motivated. It was only recently that the salaries of judges were increased and that the bill also provides for an increase in the number of days of leave. Do you not think that this is perhaps not fair to other civil servants who do not have such motivational support?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U343	Your information is a little misguided. Indeed, the judge's salary rose two or three years ago, but at the same time the special pensions of the judges were withdrawn. At the same time, it should be taken into account that the salaries of judges are related to the salaries of senior civil servants and, by the way, the salaries of senior civil servants depend on the salary of a member of the Riigikogu. In fact, it does not depend on the salary of a member of the Riigikogu, but changes according to the same principles as the salary of a member of the Riigikogu. Perhaps when we members of the Riigikogu were reduced by a couple of thirty euros according to the current system, the judges also lost their salary. The Union of Judges has raised this problem on several occasions and has suggested that their salaries should be decoupled from it. While the wages of other civil servants have increased by a few percentage points in terms of inflation and budgetary resources, unfortunately, the salaries of judges have not increased in recent years.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U344	Good waitress, thank you! No further questions. Do you want to open negotiations? No, I don't. Let us begin the examination of the amendments. The first amendment has been tabled by Riigikogu member Kalle Laanet, the position of the commission: to take part in this. The second to eighth amendments are all tabled by the commission: the second, the third, the fourth, the fifth, the sixth, the seventh, the eighth. We have examined the amendments. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the second reading of draft 203. The second reading is closed and the 12th item is also closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U345	Let's move on to agenda item 12. This is the second reading of § 13 of the Act amending § 209 of the National Defence Act initiated by the National Defence Committee. I ask Johannes Kerdi, Member of the National Defence Commission, to speak at the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U346	Mr President of the sitting of the Riigikogu. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. This draft has been initiated by the National Defence Committee on the basis of a consensual decision on 5 April and. The first reading of the draft was closed on 18 May, with no amendments tabled by the deadline of 24 May at 5.15 p.m. The purpose of the draft is to supplement § 13 (2) of the National Defence Act with the obligation of the Government of the Republic to inform the Supreme Head of National Defence, the President of the Republic, in addition to the Riigikogu, of the decision to increase defence readiness. The National Defence Committee discussed the draft before the second reading at its meeting on 30 May and approved by consensus the text of the second reading and the explanatory memorandum. The National Defence Committee decided earlier, at its meeting on 2 May, that, when the first reading of the draft was closed, the Riigikogu Board would be invited to include the draft for the second reading on the agenda of the plenary session of the Riigikogu on 1 June. At the meeting on 30 May, the National Defence Committee decided by consensus to propose to the Riigikogu to stop the second reading of the draft. That's all I'm gonna do. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U347	Good waitress, thank you! There are no questions. Do you want to open negotiations? No, I don't. No amendments to draft 209 have been received. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the second reading of draft 209. Second reading is over.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U348	We will move on to item 13, which is the second reading of the Defence Union Act initiated by the Government of the Republic, the Defence Forces Service Act and the Draft Act amending the State Defence Penalty Act 212. I ask Johannes Kerdi, Member of the National Defence Commission, to speak at the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U349	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. For bill 212, I have the following to report. The draft was initiated by the Government of the Republic on 11 April 2016. The first reading was completed on 4 May. No proposals were tabled by the deadline of 3 May at 3 p.m. The text of the second reading of the draft has made some linguistic and regulatory improvements that have been underlined. The initiator of the draft act supports these improvements. The draft is directly related to the law amending the Labour Capacity Support Act and the Social Welfare Act, the Labour Market Services and Benefits Act, adopted by the Riigikogu on 19 November 2014, as well as other laws, whose commission was the Social Affairs Committee. On 18 April, therefore, the Committee on National Defence requested the opinion of the Committee on Social Affairs as a committee in the field. The Committee on Social Affairs discussed the draft at its meeting on 3 May and decided to support it. According to the draft, changes in the area of administration of the Ministry of Defence are also taking place in connection with the work capacity reform. The Defence Union Act, the Defence Forces Service Act and the National Defence Force Penalty Act will be brought into line with the Employment Capacity Support Act, which will enter into force on 1 July this year, while maintaining the social guarantees provided to the Defence Forces in its current form. At present, the number of persons receiving the disability allowance is 76, including persons injured in the military service, including in mission areas and exercises of the Defence League. The National Defence Committee discussed the draft before submitting it to second reading at its meeting on 17 May, where Deputy Secretary General Meelis Oidsalu represented the Ministry of Defence's defence planning. At this meeting, the National Defence Committee unanimously approved the draft text and explanatory memorandum at second reading. At its meeting, the Commission also decided by consensus to propose to the Riigikogu Board that the draft be included on the agenda for the plenary session of the Riigikogu for the second reading by 1 June. The National Defence Committee also decided by consensus to propose that the Riigikogu conclude the second reading of the draft. That's all I'm gonna do. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U350	Good waitress, thank you! There are no questions. Do you want to open negotiations? You don't want to open negotiations. No amendments to the draft were received. The position of the commission is that the second reading of draft 212 should be completed. The second reading is closed and the 13th item is also closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U351	Let's move on to item 14. This is the first reading of Inherent Resolve's Bill 244 of the Riigikogu decision submitted by the Government of the Republic 'Use of the Defence Forces in fulfilling the international obligations of the Estonian State in the international military operation. I ask the Minister of Defence, Hannes Hanso, to present the speech chair of the Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U352	Happy Members of the Riigikogu! This draft decision of the Riigikogu allows up to ten Estonian active troops to participate in the international military operation against ISIL, or Daesh, led by the US. I'll say a few words about this operation and our contribution to it. Inherent Resolve started on 15 June 2014, i.e. almost two years ago. The purpose of this operation is direct and supportive military action against ISIL, in particular in Iraq and Syria. At the same time, it is important to note that the elements and staff of the operation are also located in many other countries in the region, such as Bahrain, Cyprus, Egypt, Israel, Jordan, Kuwait, Lebanon, Qatar, Turkey and Saudi Arabia. The Iraqi security forces are being trained on the ground by a number of our most important allies, such as the United States, the United Kingdom, France, Germany, Latvia and a few others. In total, there are 66 countries in this coalition that play different roles. Initially, our plan is to send six infantry instructors to Iraq to train Iraqi security forces fighting against ISIL, in cooperation with the defence forces of Denmark, the United States, Australia and Latvia. This is not a military mission, it is a training mission. Estonian active troops would not participate in battle activities either as a separate unit or as part of the units of Iraq or other countries. The position of infantry instructors to be sent to Iraq would be a military base in the westernmost province of Iraq, Anbar Province. The province is bordered by Jordan and Syria. On the same base are our allies, i.e. the US, Denmark, Australia and Latvia. It is important to note that Estonian active troops do not participate in military operations on the territory of Syria. To Syria, they have no business whatsoever or otherwise within the framework of this mission. However, for logistical or other reasons, they may also be located in the territory of other Member States where the elements and staff leading and supporting the operation are located, for example, for logistical reasons. Given the priority of the fight against ISIL, Estonia is ready to contribute further to this, if necessary and possible, and I will ask for a mandate. For now, however, we plan to send six instructors. The number of additional active troops to be contributed would remain within the limit set out in the draft decision. We are now asking for a mandate until the end of this year and normally, but it is very likely that Daesh, or ISIL, will not be completely eradicated by the end of the year either from Syria or from the territory of Iraq. If that happens, we will normally ask for a mandate to continue this operation next year and, if necessary, thereafter. The whole logical explanation why we are applying for this mandate is, of course, that we cannot be a country that only consumes security. We have to bet if we have to. We know that the Warsaw Summit, which is five or six weeks away, should bring about very important changes for our region in the form of a very significant increase in the presence of our allies. We need to appreciate what the allies are doing here and recognise that we are dealing with problems elsewhere. Our biggest foreign mission ♪ just today I put medals on the men's chest ♪ is in South Lebanon, after that in Mali. We are now applying for a mandate to go to Iraq, we are active in the Mediterranean, our people are present in Afghanistan. So this is such a broader political context. There will be no separate application, on the basis of this mandate, we will have EUR 120000 from the Defence Forces budget planned to cover the relevant costs. That's all I'm doing right now. If I have to, I'll answer all your questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U353	Thank you. There's a question. Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U354	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good minister! The mission will certainly also have a goal of what its results could be. On what basis could our representatives on the mission assess its effectiveness? What kind of requests do you want to go on a mission?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U355	Thank you. A good question, and that means that it is also a very difficult one. We know that the situation in Iraq is still very complicated and tense. The government, when it can be called a state government, is in a very difficult situation. There are many conflicts on religious soil as well as between ethnic groups. Our desire, of course, is to be able to help combat this extremely awful cancer called Daesh, which affects life not only in the Middle East, but also very strongly in Europe. I mean both the wave of refugees and the terrorist attacks. Daesh's influence must be reduced. This impact has started to decrease, the organisation has lost members, support and quite considerable territories. But I certainly can't promise right now in this remote control that by the end of the year, we'll be finished and Daesh will be completely eradicated. We must be prepared to contribute over a longer period of time. Success can be measured by whether the security forces of Iraq and the Iraqi Government are capable of dealing with this issue themselves, so that our involvement in this key is no longer necessary.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U356	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U357	Thank you. The question to be specified is what is your information about the wider security situation there? I understand that the aim of foreign bases is to help locals build their own security structures, but this work is obstructed. What factors are responsible for this? Is it corruption, lack of education or something else? As I understand it, there is a know-how of foreign missions, but some factors are preventing the mission successfully through the latter.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U358	Thank you. You have dealt with many of the right issues in your question, and it is precisely those bottlenecks that have prevented Iraq as a whole from getting out of the crisis at all. There's a conflict between Shiite and Sunni. There was, as we know, a period in which the coercive minority was in power and unjustly ruled over the Shitian majority. The opposite has now arisen. We also know that there are de facto areas in Iraq that are essentially not subordinate to the central authority, the 'Bardad Government'. These are the Kurdistan people in northern Iraq, as well as the regions where, regrettably, they have a leading role or the same ISIL and Daesh people, in short, a terrorist organisation. The fall in oil prices is playing a role, which is certainly a very painful problem for Iraq, because the country's main income comes from oil. All of this has hindered the construction of a capable defence force or security force and will certainly prevent the future. The Iraqi Government itself has invited us there, it is not an outside intervention. They have called on the UN to increase international participation. Their State Department has invited us there. Visas were issued to our people from the Helsinki Mission in Iraq today or yesterday. So we're not gonna go out there and force something on them the way I say, from the outside. We are there on the basis of their invitation; they consider it necessary to train their security forces as capable and strong as possible so that they can better deal with their own problems. But I certainly can't allow this to be a short and quick venture. On the contrary.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U359	Minister, thank you. No further questions. I now ask Marianne Mikko, Member of the National Defence Committee for the speech chair of the Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U360	Mr President of the sitting of the Riigikogu. Ladies and gentlemen, The National Defence Committee discussed the draft before presenting it to first reading at its meeting on 19 May, where Minister of Defence Hannes Hanso, officials of the Ministry of Defence and Colonel Aron Kalmus, Head of the Operational Department of the General Staff of the Defence Forces, took part as the representative of the draft. In addition, an overview of developments in international mission areas with the involvement of the Defence Forces and an appropriate level of review of Operation Inherent Resolve was received at this meeting under a separate item on the agenda. On the basis of the draft, the participation of up to ten Estonian active troops in the international military operation against ISIL or Daesh and led by the US is decided by Inherent Resolve. The US-led operation was launched, as the Minister said, a few years ago, on 15 June 2014. 21 countries are currently participating: United Arab Emirates, Australia, Bahrain, Belgium, Spain, the Netherlands, Italy, Jordan, Canada, Latvia, Norway, Portugal, France, Saudi Arabia, Germany, Finland, Denmark, Turkey, Hungary, New Zealand and the United Kingdom. Daesh, a terrorist organisation mainly active in Syria and Iraq, represents a serious threat to global security, including a real threat to Europe's internal security. Daesh's activities in Syria and Iraq have a direct impact on the number of people in need of international protection in the region, and thus on the European refugee crisis. Daesh recruits, as we know, European fighters who, after fighting and training in the Middle East, may also threaten security in Europe if they return. The attacks in Paris and Brussels were carried out on behalf of Daesh and carried out by European terrorists. Estonia has previously provided financial assistance to help Iraqi war refugees and donated arms and ammunition to Iraqi security forces. The purpose of this operation is direct and supportive military action against Daesh, in particular in Iraq and Syria, but the elements and staff leading and supporting the operation are also located in Bahrain, Cyprus, Egypt, Israel, Jordan, Kuwait, Lebanon, Qatar, Turkey and Saudi Arabia. The training of Iraqi security forces is an important task of the operation. Estonia is initially planning to contribute, as the Minister's presentation was heard, with up to six infantry instructors sent to Iraq, where, in cooperation with the Danish, US and Latvian Defence Forces, they would train Iraqi security forces units. Thus, on the basis of the mandate of the Estonian Riigikogu, the Estonian Defence Forces are primarily involved with staff officers, while the Estonian Defence Forces are located in the same area where the NTM-I was held until the end of 2011 as part of the NATO Training Mission in Iraq mission. Iraq's consent is the legal basis for action in Iraq under the Daesh Coalition. Two things prove that. First, the Iraqi Permanent Representative to the United Nations sent a letter to the UN Secretary-General on 25 June 2014 and, second, the Iraqi Ministry of Foreign Affairs sent a letter to the Chairman of the United Nations Security Council on 20 September 2014 inviting countries to participate in the fight against Daesh. The National Defence Committee gave a speech that the title and text of the draft do not mention Iraq and other countries where Estonian active troops can operate. As I mentioned in my report, Operation Inherent Resolve covers the territories of 12 countries, which have the elements and staff in charge and support of the operation. There is no need to mention these countries individually, which would make the title and text of the decision lengthy and difficult to monitor. The legal practice of the Riigikogu supports such a solution. For example, the Riigikogu's decision on the European Union anti-piracy operation was also limited to the designation of Operation Atalanta, as it covered the territorial waters of several countries. At the same time, it should be borne in mind that the Estonian active troops do not participate in activities taking place within the framework of Operation Inherent Resolve on the territory of Syria. The Secretary of Defense spoke more about this. At its meeting on 19 May, the National Defence Committee decided, with the agreement of the submitter, by consensus to present the draft as amended at first reading. The amendment to the Riigikogu's Home and Working Procedures Act entered into force on 13 May this year and pursuant to § 1121 of the Act, the decision of the Riigikogu will enter into force when it is signed, of course, unless the decision sets another date. Therefore, point 2 has been deleted from the draft in order to avoid any conflict with the law. Therefore, the text of the draft proposed by the Government of the Republic has been amended for the first reading and paragraph 2 has been deleted. The Code of Conduct for the Prosecution of the Bill provides for a downline of the revised part of the draft text to be submitted to the first reading in the amended form. Point 2 excluded from this draft is identifiable in such a way that the point in the draft is numbered 1. In the course of further processing of the draft proposal, the commission also deletes number 1 as a technical amendment to the draft text, since it will be a one-point decision that will not be numbered. At its meeting on 19 May, the National Defence Committee decided by consensus to propose to the Board of the Riigikogu that the draft under discussion be included on the agenda for the first reading of the session of the Riigikogu on 1 June and the rapporteur was appointed here. In addition, the National Defence Committee, by consensus, proposes that the first reading of the draft be completed and that the deadline for submitting amendments be set at 14 a.m. on 10 June. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U361	Good waitress, thank you. There are no questions. Do the representatives of the political groups wish to open negotiations? You don't want to open negotiations. The position of the commission is that the first reading should be completed. I will set the deadline for submitting 244 amendments, including 10 June at 14 p.m. The first reading is closed and the 14th item is also dealt with.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U362	Let us move on to agenda item 15. I would like to ask for a first-reading presentation by the Minister of Social Protection Margus Tsahkna of the Act amending the Victim Assistance Act initiated by the Government of the Republic of Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U363	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good Riigikogu! We are moving forward at a speedy pace with important issues. You have before you, at first reading, a draft law on victim assistance. I will give an overview of this important issue, and I promise to do so constructively. It's an important law. First of all, about what we're going to solve. The figures in the Yearbook Crime in Estonia 2015 are as follows: 2997 crimes of domestic violence were recorded in 2015, a tenth more than in 2014. Of the victims of domestic violence, 82% were women and 16% were men. 88% were men, 11% were women, and 1% were both women and men. In addition, one in ten children in Estonia has suffered sexual violence or abuse. This morning we read an appalling story about Postimees that a woman was being enslaved in Tartu for years. Perhaps this was not a direct case of domestic violence, but this story proves that we actually have these problems in society. It is very important that we deal with helping victims and the whole issue systematically. That is why the draft amendment to the Victim Assistance Act has been brought before you. Preventing, preventing and helping the victims of violence is of paramount importance in Estonia. That being said, I rely on these numbers, but also very much on the knowledge that such stories are still hidden and that very many have not come out in the open. In the strategy for the prevention of state violence for the years 2015 to 2020 we have formulated clear objectives: Estonian society does not tolerate violence, violence is detected and intervened, victims of violence are protected and receive all-round professional help. We have joined several conventions to prevent trafficking in human beings and we are preparing to ratify the Convention on the Prevention and Prevention of Violence against Women and Domestic Violence, the so-called Istanbul Convention, has been discussed lately, in my view, by completely misusing it, as well as the Convention on the Protection of Children against Sexual Exploitation and Sexual Abuse, the so-called Lanzarote Convention. Estonia is preparing to accede to both conventions. The above-mentioned objectives and the actions that follow from them have now led us to notice and respond much more to violence than in the past. A few years ago, domestic violence was considered a family matter and was not encouraged to talk about it. However, according to the recent survey "Awareness of the Estonian population in the field of gender-based violence and human trafficking," half of the Estonian population have either heard, seen or suspected a case of domestic violence, and 67% of them have responded to it. Today's Postman story reveals that the story of this poor woman really knew quite a lot of people, but it was not told, it was not responded, and it was hidden for years. Man, however, was in great trouble. There are many such cases, especially when they are confined to a family circle, but they are not spoken of. It's not like a thing that a lot of people think to talk about in public. However, attitudes have changed over the last few years and we must be grateful, in particular, for the many non-profit organisations that have carried out a reduction in violence against women and the creation of support centres for women in 13 years. Victims' awareness has also increased. While in 2011 the average number of cases of domestic violence to the police was 19 times a day, in 2015 there were on average 35 times a day. That's a pretty big number. A specific investigation was initiated in almost 3,000 cases. We notice, respond, assist and dare to ask for help, but help needs to become even more accessible and more aware. The Victim Assistance Act is part of measures to prevent and combat violence, providing guidance and opportunities for helping victims. The amendment of this law has four objectives. Firstly, to ensure better access to services for victims of trafficking in human beings. The current Victim Assistance Act provides for the possibility of receiving assistance only when a criminal report has been submitted. Following the notification of a crime, the Social Insurance Board will be able to direct the victim to the service. If it's decided not to start criminal proceedings, there's no right to receive services. This means that some actual victims of human trafficking may be left without assistance, either because they do not agree to report a crime or only receive the necessary services for 10 days, which is not enough to deal with their problem. Between 2009 and 2012, about 60 victims were identified and assisted in Estonia per year. In 2013, the right to identify victims was granted to the investigating authority or the prosecutor's office and the obligation to report a crime was imposed, making it much more difficult for victims of trafficking in human beings to obtain assistance than in other countries of the European Union. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Only 17 There is therefore a desire to amend the law so that services can be obtained for up to 60 days without a crime report. This is when the organisation assisting the victims of human trafficking in Estonia has identified the victim and informed the Social Insurance Board about him. These organisations are entirely present in Estonia, for example NGO Eluline and NGO Living for Tomorrow. Services can be obtained for up to 60 days even if there is a notice of non-initiation of criminal proceedings. The lack of evidence must not be the reason for refusing aid, as victims are mostly in a very difficult situation and need urgent assistance. This aid will be more available than before. An important nuance is that the Victim Support Act includes the concept of the presumed victim. Officially, victims are those who have been the subject of criminal proceedings. Expected victims are those who in Estonia are suspected of being harassed by an organisation assisting victims, or who have been notified to the Social Insurance Board by the competent authority of a foreign country, including the investigating authority or the prosecutor's office. At this point, I would like to say that we are not going to help the citizens of other countries; this message must concern our own citizens who are entitled to these services. If they have been subjected to violence, we will also help these people here if they are committed outside the territory of the Republic of Estonia. Another aim of the amendment of the Victim Assistance Act is to ensure that sexually abused minors can benefit more easily. The regulation of assistance to them is currently the same as for victims of trafficking in human beings. They will receive services if a crime report is submitted. Following the notification of a crime, the Social Insurance Board will be able to direct the victim to the service, but if it is decided not to start criminal proceedings, the right to assistance will be lost. This means that a minor who has been sexually abused may be left without assistance because he or she does not agree to submit a report of a crime, in particular concerning children aged 12 to 17 who have been subjected to a second-degree offence, where the provision of information on sexual offences is not mandatory or only ten days are provided to him or her, which is not sufficient to deal with his or her problems. They will also benefit from access to services for up to 60 days without criminal proceedings. The reason is the same as for victims of trafficking in human beings: victims must be given immediate assistance and failure to report a crime must not constitute an obstacle to accessing services. Many sexually abused teenagers do not immediately want to report a crime. Their support, however, needs to start as soon as an employee of the Social Insurance Board has had a suspicion that the crime has been committed. For both victims of human trafficking and sexually abused minors, the list of services remains the same as in the current law: safe accommodation, catering, certain material assistance, psychological assistance, health care services, translation where necessary. The third amendment to the Victim Assistance Act aims to provide a service at law level for victims of violence against women. In particular, the inclusion of the services of women's support centres in the Victim Assistance Act is important. According to the law, the Women's Support Centre service is a composite service that includes safe accommodation, initial crisis counselling, legal and psychological counselling, if necessary, or psychotherapy, for all women who have been victims of violence. With women, their children can also come to the support center. Women's support centres have assisted victims of violence against women in Estonia since 2002. Initially, the state supported the centres through the Gambling Tax Council, and for the last three years the Ministry of Social Affairs has provided support. The development of the service in the form of increasing the competence of employees has taken place in recent years thanks to the strong support of Estonia and the Norwegian state. The problem has been that funding has been "annualised" and unsustainable. This has created uncertainty for the providers of these services. The purpose of the new law is also to give certainty to those who provide this service. Despite the active cooperation between the state and the support centres, the activities of the women's support centres have been project-based, but support centres need clarity and a solid basis for providing sustainable and high-quality assistance. The law currently lacks the requirements for the description of the service, as well as the basis for funding the reference centres, but for such a vulnerable target group, it is important that the assisting associations meet certain requirements and that their funding is on a firm footing. The amendment of the law ensures the necessary public funding and supervision of services which are also necessary for their development. It will continue to help all women who are victims of violence and their children free of charge in the future, and reception to a secure temporary refuge, where they will also receive initial advice, will remain open 24 hours a day. Although the service for victims of violence against women will be organised by the Social Insurance Board following the changes, it is important to stress that experienced professionals and associations still remain in this work. If this law is adopted, the Social Insurance Board will organise public procurement at the end of 2016 and conclude contracts with service providers for several years. The plan is to conclude contracts for a maximum period of three years, which gives certainty to service providers. At the same time, the system is not closed to the end: if anyone can provide a better service, they will also be able to enter the market. The fourth amendment to the Victim Assistance Act aims to ensure compensation for victims of violent crime, but it is rather a technical change in terms of the entry into force of labour capacity reform laws. This concerns those who are "victims" and who, under this new law, need a more precise legal rule in order to obtain the necessary compensation. In total, about 1800 women use the services of the Women's Support Centre a year, and gradually this number is on the rise. This does not lead to the conclusion that violence against women is also on the rise in our society. Rather, it is that society is better aware of this issue and that women dare to speak more about it and ask for help. Finally, I would like to say that it is a big deal if we adopt this law and implement it. This is a major step forward, as it is mainly thanks to the very same non-profit organisations that have been doing this hard work for 13 years on a more exciting basis, that the attitude of society, as well as the attitude of the state, has changed. We attach great importance to this issue, we take the responsibility of this country, and we will continue to provide this assistance in cooperation with the third sector. This law is planned, if the Riigikogu so decides, to enter into force on 1 January 2017. I can also say that funding for these services is also planned in the negotiations on the country's budgetary strategy. Funding could always be higher, but this base has grown every year and hopefully we will be able to ensure that this assistance is available throughout Estonia through the work of 16 women's support centres. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U364	Dear Minister for Social Protection, thank you very much. If you don't mind, I'll ask you a few questions. Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U365	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, On page 4 of the explanatory memorandum, it is clear that this draft was preceded by an intention to develop, but some amendments were not specifically designed. Can you briefly explain the changes to which the planned development did not expand?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U366	Thank you. The drafters are most likely to have in mind that the dispute, which should be specific requirements for service providers, is still ongoing. In fact, the Estonian Women's Shadows Association has also made further proposals. We discussed in the Committee on Social Affairs that we were not in a hurry to process this draft, because some proposals were tabled only one day before the government decided to send this draft to Parliament. We simply could no longer discuss these proposals in this process in the government, and now there is an agreement with the Social Affairs Committee that in August all the proposing and amending organisations and all the parties will be called together, the Social Affairs Committee of the Riigikogu. The Ministry will certainly participate and help to justify and analyse the proposals. If possible, we want to take them into account. So this process has been relatively rapid, but we have tried to take the proposed proposals into account as much as possible. Above all, it is important that we ensure that this aid is available and that we are able to announce the procurement at the end of the year so that, from 1 January 2017, we can already provide this service in accordance with a new law and a specific financing model, which is known in advance for several years.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U367	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U368	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good minister! Somehow a few weeks ago, the Committee on Legal Affairs had a public hearing on this subject. There were quite a few good points left in the ear. I'm asking you where it's come from for 60 days. It turned out at the hearing that you could report this crime, but the victim's psychological condition is very fragile and he can't defend himself. Second, how can this law protect the victim? Thirdly, there is certainly already a shortage of psychologists and psychiatrists. How much does this law now add to this work, and how can we solve this problem?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U369	Thank you. Indeed, it has been a question of why 60 days, why not 90 days. The current situation is that these services can be obtained ten days after the decision has been taken in connection with the opening of criminal proceedings. There are 10 days left for a decision to initiate criminal proceedings, but within 10 days no contact with a person can be obtained in such a way that it can be adequately helped or understood at all. We are actually extending this period and we are no longer making access to aid conditional on whether or not criminal proceedings are brought. Current practice suggests that 60 days could be right. But this can be discussed in the Committee on Social Affairs as to whether so many days are appropriate or whether this number should be higher or lower. As far as the availability of competent people is concerned, we would not, in fact, change the service provided by the new law. It has been rather a question of financial opportunities, whether we can provide aid to even more people. So far, no convert has been left without help. So the problem is that the burden of this work is increasing due to the amendment of the law, I can't see. Rather, it may grow because not all these crimes are reported by all victims, but this trend may change and the state must be ready to provide assistance to all when it is decided to ask for more.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U370	The Hatter, please, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U371	Thank you. My point is how you will continue to work with this law. It is the psychologists who have stressed that the victim needs confidence that if he turns to something, he will be protected. An example was given of the restraining order: how can we prove that there has been an approach? Are you working with anyone to further develop this law in this sense? I understand that there is a question of constitutional incision here. Have you approached the Chancellor of Justice, and what do you even think about this?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U372	Thank you, good question! I now understand what the focus of your question was. With this law, we do not really regulate this subject, this subject is more about the side of the process, the side that has still been dealt with by the Ministry of Justice. This law specifically regulates the provision of services. You raised the burden of proof of breach of the protection order, but this is not regulated by the Act amending the Victim Assistance Act. But if we look at the plan that we have in connection with the approval of the Istanbul Convention, we will see that the Ministry of Justice has a plan to come to this Riigikogu quite quickly, in order to regulate it more precisely by the whole procedure for the protection of victims. So any other bill will be here soon.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U373	Minister for Social Protection, there are no further questions. Thank you! I ask Liina Kersna, member of the Social Affairs Committee, to present the speech chair of the Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U374	Good President! Ladies and gentlemen, The Social Affairs Committee discussed the draft law amending the Victim Assistance Act on 16 May. This was presented to us by Minister Margus Tsahkna, who had spoken earlier, and Kristiina Luht, adviser to the Department of Equality Policy at the Ministry of Social Affairs. In general, in the Committee on Social Affairs, this draft did not give rise to a lively discussion. I asked the introductions of the draft for comments on the proposals of the Association of Estonian Women's Shadows and received answers. For example, the Estonian Women's Shadows Association is not satisfied with the definition of the victim of violence against women in the draft. Their proposal is that this definition of the Istanbul Convention should be literally rewritten into the text of the law. However, the Ministry of Justice has confirmed that the current definition is sufficient. The draft defines the victim of violence against women, not the term 'anti-women violence'. The victim's definition is clearly based on the definition formulated in the Istanbul Convention. There has also been a dispute as to whether only non-profit organisations should be mentioned as service providers. According to the Minister, the law cannot impose such restrictions and nor does any legal form guarantee the quality of service provision; it is guaranteed by the requirements laid down in the law for the service provider. The Estonian Women's Shadows Association also proposed that the person directly providing the service should be female and that this should also be stated separately in the law. This proposal was partially taken into account by the Ministry of Social Affairs and, as a compromise, proposed that if the victim wishes and the support centre is able, then the immediate provider of the service is of the same sex as the victim. Clearly, most victims of violence against women want them to be counseled both psychologically and legally by female professionals. However, children often accompany women in the shelter, and if there is a puberty boy among children who would prefer to get advice from a man, the law also gives the opportunity to do so. The Director of the Support Centre has a decisive word. One of the biggest problems raised by the Women's Asylum Association in the public sector in connection with this draft is that current service providers should, like, undergo the new training that the Ministry of Social Affairs will offer to participate in the competition. That's completely wrong. The law explicitly states that all those who provide the service as of 1 January 2017 do not need to undergo new training. This requirement is only for those who have not provided such a service in the past, but would like to do so. This requirement will enter into force from 2019. So this fear is in vain. The Union also proposed that there should be a women's support centre in every county. The representative of the Ministry of Social Affairs stated that the regional principle of providing the service would remain in force, which would be more flexible and ensure adequate coverage. There is now a situation in Estonia where even Hiiumaa, where there are slightly more than 8 000 inhabitants, is a separate women's shelter, not to mention Saaremaa. This has been a clear national priority so that such aid can be made available in each region. The Sanctuary Union fears that only four regional asylums will be created. That's definitely not gonna happen. I also asked the Ministry what would be the optimal deadline for the adoption of the law. After all, the law will apply when the Riigikogu adopts it, from the beginning of 2017, but procurements will be needed this year. According to the Ministry, they will be able to make the necessary preparations when the Riigikogu adopts the law in September. We have decided in the Committee on Social Affairs that we will invite all stakeholders involved in this law to our meeting on 17 August to discuss the amendments received together. I believe that this bill will become a very good law, which will also make funding for women's asylums more transparent and fairer. Of course, we also made decisions in the Commission. They were all consensual. We proposed that the draft be placed on the agenda of the plenary session on 1 June and that the first reading be closed. The deadline for amendments could be 1 August at 4 p.m. and the Commission appointed me rapporteur. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U375	Thank you. You have questions too. Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U376	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Commission waitress, In presenting this draft, the Minister said these figures about the number of victims of violence against women, as well as the number of women who have been violent. That proportion is to the detriment of women. Now we are talking about helping these victims. My question is that people who make sacrifices usually have some pattern of behavior. Does this bill concern these people, too, so that they do not repeatedly engage in violence against anyone?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U377	Thank you for your question. No, this bill doesn't concern this subject. As a member of the group on prevention of close relationship violence and support for victims, I have been making a lot of presentations on this issue. There has not been a single meeting in which the first question did not specifically concern these perpetrators. These perpetrators are very difficult to help, as they do not want help most of the time. By the way, we also have an organisation that deals with men who are victims of close relationship violence. I hear there are not a lot of visitors to them, but obviously we should also deal with female perpetrators. In most cases, these problems come from childhood or simply from past life experience. But I would like to stress, and especially to point out, that we need to deal very carefully with children who have suffered from close-relationship violence, because this violence is like a cancer that is moving on.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U378	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U379	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! In its comments, the Estonian Women's Shadows Association has also raised attention to the problem of continuing education: the volume and content of these courses could be predetermined, etc. Obviously this is not a matter of law, but are you aware of the extent to which such continuing training is a problem? Or does this teaching go smoothly?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U380	Thank you. So far, it is the Union itself, and mostly in the financing of the Kingdom of Norway, that has been providing further training. Now, once the new law is in force, the Ministry of Social Affairs will take over this role. The volumes and more precise content of the training will be defined in a separate ministerial regulation, which will be prepared. I am sure that these new trainings will be professional in every way, as they will be training organised by the Union itself.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U381	Heimar Lenk, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U382	Thank you. Mr President, please say such a thing. I hear the training we're talking about here, and I hear the information about the development of shelters and so on. During the preparation of this draft, have you also examined the reasons why there is so much violence in our new free Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U383	Thank you. There is more violence in the new, free Estonia because people report more about it. This was not less in the past, but people have become more aware and are giving more notice, asking for help. It's a very good trend. When the Minister of Justice introduced the crime yearbook here, he predicted that there would be a strong increase in the number of reports of victims of close-relationship violence in the coming years.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U384	Good waitress, thank you! No further questions. Do the representatives of the political groups wish to open negotiations? I'm opening negotiations. Please, speaking from the representative of the Estonian Free Party Group. Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U385	Thank you. I would like to say that, as far as the public debate that took place a few weeks ago was concerned, perhaps I could not make it clear, when I asked my questions, that I believe that this draft offers a partial solution. I really appreciate the increase in the number of service days, but already the problem is that there are not enough psychologists. And the psychologists themselves would also need support, because the emotional support you have to provide for someone in need must somehow get food. Somehow, you should look at all this in its entirety. Now people are definitely being encouraged to report their problems, and I think we need to move in this direction, but at the same time the state must be able to give a person a guarantee that he will not be double-punished if he is in trouble.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U386	Thank you. There are no more requests for speech and no more requests to speak. I'm closing the negotiations. The position of the commission is that the first reading of draft 236 must be completed. I will set the deadline for submitting amendments, including 1 August at 4 p.m. The first reading is closed and the 15th item is also closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U387	Let's move on to item 16. The first reading of the Emergency Act 205 initiated by the Government of the Republic begins and I ask the Riigikogu to come to the speech chair at the Minister of the Interior Hanno Pevkur!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U388	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! It is my great pleasure to introduce to you the full text of the new Emergency Bill. The state's behaviour in crisis situations is known to be governed by several laws: the Emergency Act, the Emergency Act and also the National Defence Act. The National Defence Act regulates preparation for and response to military threats, the Emergency Act deals with threats to constitutional order, such as the attempted violent overthrow of state power, and the Emergency Act regulates the prevention, preparation and resolution of emergencies. Emergencies include natural disasters, epidemics, industrial accidents, etc. As in all other developed countries, Estonia's aim is to create a crisis management system that does not deal with events that take place every day, but focuses on events with major serious consequences, namely emergencies. The draft Emergency Act will provide clarity on who analyses the risks and how they anticipate emergencies. The draft also clarifies how we prepare for the worst, in other words, we inform our people, plan our abilities, carry out exercises and, if necessary, create supplies. The draft specifies the arrangements for dealing with the emergency and what is the continuity of vital services and how we ensure it. Four principles are important in Estonia's crisis management system. Firstly, the decentralisation whereby each area is responsible for preparing and resolving emergencies in its area of governance. Secondly, the inter-agency cooperation necessary to prepare for and resolve emergencies. Thirdly, the principle of continuity of tasks, which means that all institutions and persons perform their normal tasks in crisis situations, including during emergencies and martial law. Fourthly, subsidiarity, the principle of subsidiarity, according to which crises are resolved at the lowest possible level. In order to improve all our preparedness in this regard, the Government of the Republic submitted a draft Emergency Act to the Riigikogu, which resolves a number of issues arising from the application of the existing law in the area of crisis management. I will first name the changes to the circle of vital services. At present, services with very different impacts on society are considered vital. I undoubtedly agree that all of these are important to society in order to organise a normal way of life, but only a few of them form the basis for the functioning of all other services. In the light of the best experience of our allies and other partner countries, a great deal of work was done in cooperation with other ministries. We assessed all services one by one and the links between them and, above all, the impact on society. At this point, I would, of course, like to thank all the contributors for their great work and very good contributions, which are reflected, among other things, in the very, very comprehensive explanatory memorandum 150 pages of the law before you. According to this draft, the vital services we have brought to your tables in Estonia are 14. If anyone wants to take a closer look, they'll find them in § 36. These include, for example, supply of electricity and water, communications services and emergency medical care. If these 14 services are literally vital, it is likely that in an emergency, all other services essential to the state and society, and thus society as a whole, will be better able to function. That is why it is important to further regulate the provision of these services in order to make them work in all circumstances. The rest of the services provided by private companies are services of general interest and are governed by the Law on the General Part of the Code of Economic Activities, which sets out the legal bases necessary to ensure that the services are provided. For example, service providers may not leave the market until a substitute provider has been identified for them. The State may also, if necessary, expropriate the company's property in order to continue to provide the service. In order to ensure the functioning of critical services, the draft proposal considers the interruption of vital services to be an emergency and will be the subject of an emergency plan. The tasks of the institutions providing vital services, mostly ministries, are also specified. For example, they will continue to approve risk analyses and business continuity plans prepared by the vital service provider. They shall also advise, monitor and impose on the service provider the performance requirements. In order to improve emergency preparedness, the draft stipulates that in future the authorities will resolve emergencies on the basis of the same principles. This will increase the speed of emergency response, improve cooperation between institutions and ensure that all institutions that have to deal with emergencies are actually prepared for it. To this end, the Government shall establish a corresponding cooperation regulation. More detailed details will be agreed by the authorities on emergency plans that will become more precise and flexible according to the draft. The draft will also make it more flexible to build up stocks. In the future, the creation of stocks, such as food and medicines, will be more directly linked to time-changing risk assessments and emergency plans. In order to better prevent emergencies, the risk assessment process will be specified. Its aim is to obtain a more detailed scenario-based overview of the risks, their likelihood and possible consequences for Estonian people. Based on risk analyses, existing emergency plans will also be reviewed and made more concrete. Each authority in the area of governance is responsible for preventing, preparing and resolving emergencies within its area of responsibility; however, such a distribution of responsibility has not yet been quite clear. For each party to be aware of its role and to carry out its tasks, the draft clearly outlines the tasks of the authorities involved in the regulation of the crisis. Among other things, health management is being changed in the event of an emergency. For example, it clearly sets out the emergency management structure in the area of health and the tasks to be performed by healthcare providers in emergency situations. A number of activities and objectives relevant to the protection of the population, as specified in the draft Emergency Act, have also been included. One of the main activities is undoubtedly communication, in particular risk communication. It is the responsibility of emergency authorities to raise people's awareness of the risks that could lead to emergencies and to proactively share codes of conduct for dealing with emergency situations. Another important change is that the draft defines a large-scale evacuation authority and the tasks to be carried out in the event of an evacuation. The extensive evacuation is carried out by the Police and Border Guard Board, but local authorities contribute to the evacuation, accommodation and catering of people. The Emergency Act also assigns the obligation of the media holder and the electronic communications undertaking to publish or report on an emergency and its resolution. In this way, it will be possible to inform the population as soon as possible of everything necessary. The principle that the long-term or severe disruption of vital services is an emergency also serves the purpose of protecting the population and is being prepared in the same way as for other emergencies. The draft Emergency Act deals with the protection of the population in an emergency environment. In order to deal with the protection of the population as a whole, account must also be taken of the provisions of the Emergency Act, the National Defence Act and other laws. A task force for the protection of the population was established at the State Chancellery last year to analyse and shape the whole view of the population. To conclude, the aim of the draft is to improve the preparedness of institutions and the state for emergencies, thereby ensuring the safety and protection of life and health of the Estonian population. As the initiator of the draft, I naturally support the proposal of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs to conclude the first reading today and to adopt the draft as a law soon. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U389	Thank you. You have questions too. Mati Raidma, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U390	Thank you very much. Good minister! Good bill, let's hope the Riigikogu gets even better. My question is about the list of vital services, which are now much shorter than the Ministry of Home Affairs has moved away from its services. There's an ambulance in here. Personally, I would be happy to see that a rescue service that is similar in nature would be listed here. But the specific question is how an ambulance can ensure the continuity of its vital service if its first link is telephone 112 and the provision of emergency calls is not a vital service. If anything happens to the PSAP, the EMT and the Ministry of Social Affairs will have no chance of ensuring continuity of action. Is there anything that can be corrected about this in the process?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U391	Thank you. Of course, 112 performance is very important to us; there is no question here. We have therefore made a great deal of efforts to ensure that all emergency calls are received smoothly. In Estonia, we have, as one of the few countries, implemented national emergency calls, as well as an overflow, which means that if one of the four emergency centres should go down, the calls will automatically be redirected to the following. If, for any reason, all four centres should be down, it is possible to quickly organise a new emergency call reception system at the rescue college in Väike-Maarja. As far as the continuity of action is concerned, this must be ensured by the service provider. In other words, the ambulance must ensure its continuity. The way the signal gets to the ambulance is the next question. Once the ambulance's been able to keep it going, the D.A.'s mission is to get the signals to them.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U392	Raivo Põldaru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U393	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. Paragraph 36 (4) refers to a local government with up to 10000 inhabitants... Oh, I'm sorry! I read the text wrong. No question.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U394	Thank you. And it is very commendable that you have withdrawn a question that does not happen very often. Valdo Randpere, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U395	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good minister! That's my question. Today, we had a topic before the agenda on how to make the legislation a little thinner and whether we are suddenly not regulating too much. I'm looking at this emergency law and the emergency plan, which is filled with very detailed information on how we plan the plan and how we coordinate the plan. Is this emergency law really necessary, or is it such a small luxury, a sign of a welfare society?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U396	This law is essential because it also regulates the activities of private service providers. The updated Emergency Act will make our situation even clearer. It is clear that if we already have emergencies, we also need plans to resolve them. Anyone who deals with emergency response needs to know what they are responsible for and how to ensure that one emergency situation, if any, is resolved. So it's a necessary law.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U397	Mati Raidma, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U398	Thank you. However, I will return to the subject of my question. In the current law, the processing of emergency calls is a vital service; it is now off this list. That is why I ask whether it is theoretically possible that it should be put back on the list, or whether there are clear reasons why it was forced to remove it from the list of vital services.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U399	Thank you. If Parliament so wishes, any amendments to the draft law may be made. So it requires the consent of the large hall, and if the large hall so decides, then it will eventually become the text of the law. As far as the assessment of vital services is concerned, we have done a very, very big preparatory work in this regard. In fact, work on this draft was started in 2012 when possible amendments to the Emergency Act began to be considered. By 2014, it was concluded that the changes will not take us far forward and that we will not be able to sail on. In this way, all the vital services enshrined in the Emergency Act were analysed how we could better regulate it and what exists in the General Part of the Code of Economic Activities, which entered into force in the meantime. This led to a list of 14 services that are truly vital. The continuity of the emergency call system is undoubtedly important for people, but the current system is such that when all 112 falls down, it is possible to deliver emergency calls where necessary by means of communication. So, in fact, the emergency calls are still being received. In the course of the Commission's procedure, we can explain this further if necessary, but basically the preparatory work was long and thorough, and the Alert Centre responsible for emergency calls was our main partners in this work.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U400	Arno Bridge, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U401	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. I'm gonna try to ask the benchmate a little differently now. What is the structure of emergency aid in counties and municipalities: who is responsible and how? Are there certain standing committees or what it is meant to do?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U402	Thank you. Acting in response to an emergency. This is why emergency response plans are agreed on what level is being done. I will, for example, bring about a possible need for evacuation. As I said in the draft introduction, evacuation is the responsibility of the Police and Border Guard Board. But in order for an evacuation from one region or another to take place, the municipality will, of course, also contribute to this. The municipality can designate meeting places and places where people can be assigned if necessary. So the role of municipalities is undeniably present and there are small crisis committees in every municipality. We discussed this at a volunteer forum right here in the house. One rural municipality manager said that their crisis plan is actually very simple: there is an A4 page that lists resources. After all, municipalities operate differently, and when our municipalities become larger, they will certainly also have a change in their responsibilities. What I see is that a good and busy municipality is an essential partner to resolve emergencies.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U403	Valdo Randpere, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U404	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good minister! However, I will test a little bit more on the subject of my previous question how urgent this emergency law is. A few years ago, 2010 or 2011, we had an emergency in Padaoru near the turn of the year, or a crisis, or whatever it was. If at that time this law had been in force, with which bill you are in front of us, would the Padaoru case have gone missing or could it have been solved much better?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U405	Thank you. The Pada valley was not an emergency within the meaning of the law, it was an impenetrable passage and consequently people trapped there needed rescue services. If a good member of the Riigikogu opens the bill, he will see what we consider as an emergency. Above all, we consider this to be a natural disaster and indeed such a massive disruption of service. The Padaoru case was not a natural disaster. Yes, people needed help, and the rescue service also provided help, but the original reason for the whole case was that the roads in poor prevention were not maintained quickly enough. So this law does not regulate the resolution of cases such as Padaru.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U406	Arthur Talvik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U407	Good President! Good minister! The greatest problem with emergencies is usually that ministries and their subordinate agencies tend to be like little princesses who do not want to cooperate very much. After the law came out, will it be a miracle that ministries will cooperate with each other?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U408	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Constitutional Committee of the Riigikogu held a first-reading debate on the draft Emergency Act 205. Hanno Pevkur, Minister of the Interior, Hannes Kont, Deputy Secretary of the Rescue Policy of the Ministry of the Interior and Jaanis Otsla, Deputy Head of the Rescue and Crisis Management Policy Department, took part as invited persons. In the Commission, the Minister of the Interior also gave a comprehensive overview of the need for the new Emergency Act and the principles of the draft. The Deputy Secretary-General of the Rescue Policy of the Ministry of the Interior explained that the Emergency Act is part of a whole that should be viewed in conjunction with other important laws such as the Law on Law Enforcement, the National Defence Act and the Emergency Act. Events have the ability to escalate from critical incidents to emergencies, emergency situations, emergency situations, or even martial law. The key logic of the Emergency Act is precisely how we identify, what is the risk that could lead to an emergency, how we assess its likelihood and consequences, and how we prepare and resolve the situation if necessary. Members of the Commission asked questions and received answers. It was asked whether, during the exercises, the understanding of the Emergency Act has improved and whether, after lengthy coordination, it is clear to all partners what role they play in the implementation of this law. The Vice-Chancellor noted that, since this is a subject of longer talk, they can make a special briefing to our committee on the main conclusions of the exercises. We agreed. They asked whether the Emergency Act provided the basis for restricting people's rights and, if so, which ones, or whether it was necessary to declare the state of emergency. The answer to the Deputy Chancellor was that the current model is such that there are limited possibilities for this in the event of an emergency, and if the emergency situation cannot be resolved, it is possible to declare an emergency situation. In an emergency situation, the current law gives a very clear mandate to restrict the rights and freedoms of persons. At the same time, it is also possible to restrict fundamental rights of persons under the current Law Enforcement Act. It also asked what changes this law would bring to local governments. The current law already requires crisis management plans from local authorities. We have received the answer that this does not directly add much to the local authorities, but the law will include a concept of extensive evacuation. It is foreseen that the local authority will assist with the evacuation. In practice, this would mean that the local authority would provide the necessary information, not that the local authority would have to actively evacuate people on its own. Local government units organise their own vital services and this role has been slightly enhanced. For example, they must also draw up an emergency plan. Although this does not entail additional costs for local authorities, they will continue to fulfil their obligations under the law at present. There were also questions about the most realistic reasons why Estonia could declare an emergency situation, and how many special situations have been declared in the European Union. The Minister of the Interior replied that the Constitution made it possible to declare an emergency situation in order to prevent the spread of natural disasters, natural disasters or communicable diseases. In theory, we could declare an emergency situation when, for example, there is a very large flood that puts people's lives at risk. There has been no such situation in Estonia. It also asked whether the terms 'risk' and 'risk' used in the draft were considered synonymous or whether there was a difference. And when a risk assessment is carried out, what is being analysed. It was said that 'threat' is a more general concept used in this law rather than in the context of an emergency threat, 'risk' is a specific risk that can already be assessed. The chairman proposed to refer the draft to the first reading of 205 and the Commission adopted the following consensual decisions: firstly, to propose that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda by 1 June, and secondly, to propose that the first reading be closed. It was also proposed to set 1 June as the deadline for amendments and to appoint Andre Sepp, member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs as rapporteur. I would like the Committee on Constitutional Affairs to be open to debate on the amendments so that this long-prepared comprehensive law can be even better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U409	Thank you. I hope this miracle has long happened and the ministries are working. But if you answer a specific question, there were many ministries involved in the process of preparing this draft. If you open pages 12 and 13 of the explanatory memorandum, you will see it, and you will also see how different areas it is: Ministry of Social Affairs Administration, State Information Systems Authority... Of course, the Ministry of the Interior and the authorities in its area of government have major difficulties. In fact, the main message of the Ministry of the Interior to the other ministries involved was very simple: good friends, you are responsible for your field. This means that if there is a health issue, the Ministry of Social Affairs cannot tell the Ministry of the Interior to resolve it. No, they're gonna have to deal with it. This understanding has reached everyone in this process, which has now been going on for several years, in my opinion. All ministries understand what their role is and what the main responsibility lies with the authorities of the Ministry of Internal Affairs, i.e. the Rescue Board and the Police and Border Guard Board.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U410	Arthur Talvik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U411	The question to be specified: is this really the case? Perhaps you are rhetorically saying that everyone understands their tasks, but have you played something through, or have you just practiced on paper? In my experience, I can say that often such exercises show that on paper things are over-designed or over-complicated. Have a simple and clear chain of command and operational orders been thoroughly thought out?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U412	Thank you. We have repeatedly played through different crisis situations across the realms of governance. One of the major cross-cutting exercises in government was, for example, the CONEX exercise. So the exercises we've really done. But if there is a question of whether it is possible to do even better, then of course the answer is yes. The exercises have shown us some weaknesses. Well, the goal is to get stronger by using exercises, so that when the real need comes, everything works. I'll give you a little bit of an earlier example of cooperation between different areas of government. Remember when a Polish plane decided to test the ice in Lake Ülemiste? Then the co-operation between the various spheres of government went very well and eventually the Defensive crane pulled the plane out. It all worked out pretty quickly because of the good connection between the Defence Forces, the rescue area and the police.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U413	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U414	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. As we know, communication often plays a key role in difficult crisis situations so that information reaches the people needed. You said that each area is responsible for its own affairs. On this paper, it is said that this law provides for extensive risk communication. Would you explain in a few words how this cross-sectoral communication is ensured? This parallel is not good, but in Brussels, the possibility of a terrorist attack was known in advance, but the prevention of the incident was purely behind communication. Sorry about the parallel, it's not quite right here right now!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U415	Thank you. Major accidents and emergencies have quite severe consequences and are often learned from them. The role of communication, including precisely crisis communication, is undeniably crucial, and that is what I mentioned in my speech separately. We have also recently practiced quite a lot of communication during large-scale exercises, how the communication message gets to the right place and who is responsible for it. First of all, it is vital to know who is responsible for resolving the situation. The general principle that we have agreed is that who is responsible for resolving the situation is also the front line of communication. Of course, all areas of government can make an additional contribution, but if, for example, we have a health emergency, then the Ministry of Social Affairs responsible for health is also responsible for communicating messages. If there is a country-wide crisis, the responsibility will move into the hands of the government's communications office, and everyone else will contribute further. Liina Kersna, sitting two benches ahead, can certainly recall the time when the work began to improve at the government's communication office. At the time, communication meetings of the heads of communication from different ministries began, and I dare say today that the coordination of government communication is better. We're always studying. We have also learned from communicating the migration crisis who is carrying out what kind of communication. But the short answer is that whoever is responsible for resolving the situation is also responsible for the communication concerned.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U416	Raivo Põldaru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U417	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. The Act defines three vital services for local authorities with more than 10000 inhabitants. But we also have local governments with about 5,000 inhabitants, according to the administrative reform. What about them? Do these municipalities not need to organise vital services in their territory?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U418	Thank you. This was one of the most serious debates during the preparation of the draft, to draw this line: to draw it on 5,000, to draw it on 7,000, to put it on 25,000. In fact, at the level of the law, municipalities should receive a signal that you must at least review these things yourself. Ultimately, when discussing with experts, 10,000 people were set at the limit precisely because, if these services are not guaranteed or without plans to resolve an emergency, this is the greatest impact in a municipality of this size. If you are asking about smaller municipalities, of course a risk assessment must also be carried out in each of the smaller municipalities. Each municipality must assess its risks and be able either to prevent them or to provide solutions in case they materialise. This does not mean that smaller municipalities do not have to deal with these issues, they do. The question is, are we going to say something in advance at the level of the law? We say in advance to all the municipalities that will be larger than 10,000 inhabitants.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U419	Minister, thank you. No further questions. Please ask Andre Sepa, member of the Constitutional Committee of the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U420	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! Paragraph 10 refers to the state's operating resources. But the explanatory memorandum states that the operational reserve for an emergency will be prepared after the risk analysis and its plan have been completed. Who does this, and when will it be completed? Is that what the committee was talking about?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U421	Thank you. This was not specifically mentioned in the Commission. I will take your question with me and I will answer you later in detail how this process is going. As I understand from your question, you wonder whether there must be a margin of action before or after the plan. I'll give you that answer.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U422	Henn Põllamaas, please ask your question!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U423	Thank you. Mr Aru has taken the words out of my mouth, but if you are already looking at the answer to his question, why don't you also find out how big this supply is for one person and what it is?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U424	Thank you. I can give you the answer right now that the emergency law does not regulate the specific size of the reserve. But where it's all precisely determined and how it's calculated, I can answer that in the course of the procedure.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U425	Good waitress, thank you! No further questions. Do you want to open negotiations? There doesn't seem to be any requests. The position of the commission is that the first reading should be completed. I shall set the deadline for the submission of amendments to draft 205, including 10 June at 16 a.m. The first reading is closed and the 16th item is also closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U426	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U427	We will move on to item 17, which is the first reading of the draft Act amending the Environmental Charges Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic. Please present the speech chair of the Riigikogu, Minister of the Environment Marko Pomerants!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U428	Hello, Mr President-in-Office. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! I'll introduce you to the draft amendment to the Environmental Charges Act 233. The Environmental Charges Act sets out the activities remunerated at the price of the right to use the environment. Environmental charges aim to have an impact through economic costs so that pollution is reduced or avoided and natural resources are not used unsustainablely or irrationally. Environmental charges themselves are divided into fees and pollution charges for the right to use natural resources. The core of this draft is the fees for the right to use natural resources, in particular the basis for setting the rates for the right to extract mineral resources. According to the Constitution, Estonia's natural resources and natural resources are national wealth, which must be used sustainably. In return for their use, the State will charge income that will be invested in development. In addition, the remuneration is paid on the basis of the extent and the need for compensation of the disruption caused by the use of natural resources. When setting the rates, the current law takes into account the state of natural resources, location of use, quality, deficit, environmental risks of use and the need to protect other natural resources. In view of all these characteristics, the rate of remuneration is designed to be higher if the environmental degradation of mineral extraction is higher than the potential value generated by the paid mineral resource. The state income for the state's mineral assets has so far been and is a natural part of the remuneration imposed on the mining right. The draft stipulates more clearly that the rate of remuneration will also depend on the value created by natural resources. The reason for this is that for certain minerals, the revenue generated depends significantly on the variability of the sales price of the product that affects the income. Estonian energy resources are oil shale and well-degraded peat. While the market price and demand for the finished products of mineral development are primarily domestic in the case of constructional assets and are in line with long-term development plans, the value created by energy mineral resources has recently been very volatile. This is affected both by the opening of the electricity market and by the combination of international demand for fuel oils and environmental requirements. Since 2015, energy and fuel oil prices have fallen significantly and changed the level of values created in Estonia for the production of electricity and fuel oil. This price pressure is particularly characteristic of the energy sector. In the case of construction assets, everything depends to a large extent on national investments and the possibility of using the European Union's Structural Funds. It is appropriate to set the mining fee in advance, stable for ten years, for mineral resources which are mainly used in construction and of which the value created is stable. The value of the products created from these mineral resources moves in line with the construction price index and it is reasonable to set the price of construction in advance as stable and as long as possible for a long-term forecast to be made by the State. For energy resources, the market value affecting these products determines the profitability. That is why we have decided to treat energy mineral resources and the basis for their remuneration separately in order to better take account of market conditions and create a corresponding system for taking public revenue. While resource charges for all mineral resources are currently fixed in advance for ten years, the amendment allows the State to provide for an energy resource fee by government regulation in line with changes in the market price on a quarterly basis. On the basis of the draft, a regulation will be prepared which will have price ranges and on the basis of which market value-based rates will apply to oil shale and well-degraded peat each quarter. According to the Regulation, for oil shale, the rates depend on the average price of heavy fuel oil and, in the case of well-degraded peat, on the average price of wood chips in the last quarter. Price levels are made public by the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications. The draft regulation has been drawn up in cooperation with the ministries and you can see it already before the second reading of the draft. The value created by energy resources has been very volatile in recent years due to the significant fluctuations in the world market price for oil. As the price of heavy fuel oil fell sharply in mid-2015, the flexible remuneration model will be applied retroactively. For the current price levels, the change will have an estimated impact on the state budget of 38.6 million in 2016 and 26.7 million in 2017. Total resource charges are estimated to be 65 million fewer in the state budget until 2018. The increased impact on the 2016 budget is due to the retroactive application of the amendment from the time when major price changes in energy products took place. This is provided that energy market prices remain very low. The Environmental Investment Centre's budget will be reduced by 4 million in 2016 and by ca 8 million in 2017, to a total of 12 million until 2018. The examination of the draft has also raised the question of whether the restructuring of the mineral mining rights fee system could involve State aid. The current situation is based on the assumption that no State aid will be granted under the draft. Honourable members of the Riigikogu, support Bill 233! This will make the remuneration of energy resources dependent on the price of final products and will also have a significant impact on our economy in Ida-Viru County. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U429	Thank you. You have questions too. Arthur Talvik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U430	Good President! Good minister! It says here that no impact analysis has been carried out, as the law is treated as urgent. At the same time, you said that 65 million fewer will go to the state budget and the KIC budget will decrease. Will the income of the municipalities in whose territory the mines are located also decrease? At which oil price is this decrease taken into account?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U431	Thanks! In establishing this temporary system, it has been taken into account that the part of the remuneration provided to local authorities so far by law will be maintained, and that is where it will perhaps come to someone with a mysterious EUR 0.275, or 27.5 cents per tonne. It is what it is now, after the law enters into force. Just as a reminder that if this crisis did not exist, oil shale companies would pay EUR 1 and 58 cents at the price of a tonne of oil shale. I was talking about both energetic minerals, peat, too. In the case of peat, this impact is very small at all, about a few hundred thousand euros, and the income deficit is compensated to local authorities from the state budget. The purpose of this regulation, put together before the second reading of the draft, is to create a 'tax ladder' based on how the price of oil shale may rise on the world market. For example, if the current price of heavy fuel oil with a sulphur content of 1% is EUR 220 per tonne, this price would be EUR 1,58 per tonne. In this way, the charges will in future be subject to the actual market price. And, as I said, this draft regulation, rather a draft of its annexes, will be before you when the Commission is ready to discuss the second reading text and the amendments.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U432	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U433	Thank you, President-in-Office. Dear waitress, You said that the world market price for oil, which is low, would also be taken into account when calculating these charges. Low, extremely low he was, in fact, when this bill was being drafted. Then it must have been about $20 a barrel, now it's up to 50. To what extent does this increase change the calculations and make it necessary to make some adjustments and adjustments?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U434	I will reply by saying that the impact of this bill is retroactive. Indeed, it will take time to prepare each draft, but the time taken to support the oil shale sector will start last summer. In other words, if, in the meantime, there has been a payment of environmental charges, the State will set off. And that is also the time when the crisis actually started, not with the delay that, for example, on 1 July, we will be able to complete the law and then we will start to compensate.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U435	Arthur Talvik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U436	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good minister! You mentioned that the budget of the Environmental Investment Centre will be significantly reduced. Is it also known where it is going to decrease, or is there a specific crisis plan for the Environmental Investment Centre?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U437	Thanks! It is not so bad that a crisis plan is needed, but such a plan we have made that there will be no two calls for proposals in 2016 and 2017. To characterize this picture, the first round was about 66 million applications, and the money is distributed there in 30 million places. There is no point in calling on people to pursue and spend their energy on it when we know that there is no money. So the method is to manage one round of applications each year. Of course, if there are exceptional problems, the corresponding resources have been left there. We do not have to say that the money will come next year, but we will still be able to deal adequately with urgent matters.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U438	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U439	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you, Minister. You also mentioned the issue of State aid in your explanation. According to the explanatory memorandum, State aid may also be suspected to be appropriate according to at least two criteria. How well have you been able to control this state aid issue in an urgent bill?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U440	Thanks! At all, not wanting to get the matter off of me, I say that in the case of State aid, we have the principal expert, the Ministry of Finance. The three ministries have done this bill, be it the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, the Ministry of the Environment and the Ministry of Finance. And, as I said, the assumption really is that there will be no state aid under this draft. This regulation, which once again makes the sector pay higher fees when life improves, is a confirmation or proof. However, consultations between the European Commission and the Ministry of Finance are still ongoing. I think that by the time we are at the next stage of the procedure, our confidence will be greater.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U441	Minister, thank you. No further questions. I would now like to present the speech chair of the Riigikogu, member of the Environment Committee, Andres Metsoja!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U442	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! Good minister! The Environment Committee discussed a draft law amending the Environmental Charges Act 233 at its meeting on 16 May. It should be noted that this draft was initiated by the Government of the Republic on 2 May and the Riigikogu is indeed an urgent procedure. Marko Pomerants, Minister of the Environment, Aire Rihe, Adviser to the Environmental Management Department of the Ministry of the Environment, Viljar Kirikal, Chief Specialist of the Department of Customs and Excise Policy of the Ministry of Finance, Sulev Liivik, Head of the Department of Local Government Financial Management, and Timo Tatar, Head of the Department of Energy, Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, and Kalev Kallemets. Although this is an urgent draft, the debate in the Commission was very constructive and touched on a number of details. As many as eight A4 pages provide a summary of the consultation. More generally, as explained by the Minister for the Environment in the Commission, the main aim of the draft is to clarify the principles for the implementation of the fees for the right to use natural resources and to highlight more clearly the basis for establishing the remuneration based on the value of the state's natural resources. Following the presentation of the draft, there was a debate during which the members of the Commission raised a number of questions. As an initiative, the chairman of the committee, Mr Rainer Vakra, stated that point 3 of the draft amends Paragraph 4 (1) of the Environmental Charges Act and specifies, as regards the purpose of implementing the fees for the right of use of natural resources, that it is important, in addition to other grounds, to direct the use of natural resources more efficiently, but also to generate revenue for society by making use of them. He asked how the bill directed oil shale miners to use natural resources more efficiently. Kalev Kallemets explained that oil shale resources should not be viewed from one year's base of use, but should look at the entire resource we have on account as a reserve, both active and passive, and to see how we can really earn this resource. Aire Rihe added that if a tier was created in the decree of the Government of the Republic, which was annexed to the draft, with higher rates of state-owned energy mineral resources, electricity and oil would compete with each other, and if the price of oil increased, the increase in the rate would lead to more efficient use of oil shale. Timo Tatar further explained that the purpose of the draft is to restore the economic sustainability and investment capacity of businesses, which have led to flexibility in the same way and also to active action on this issue. All the investments made in the oil shale sector over the last ten years have led to a more efficient use of oil shale, so they are much more efficient than they have been, or more efficient means of producing oil shale. The discussion then moved to the premises of the Government of the Republic's decree in annex 2 to the draft, where there are now x's instead of numbers. They asked when and how these x's are going to get numbers. Minister Marko Pomerants replied that the x's will become numbers in cooperation with the three ministries, the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of the Environment and the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications. Aire Rike added that the table in Annex 2 is currently being adapted and business representatives are being negotiated under the direction of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications. In addition, it could also be mentioned that the members of the Commission, headed by Deniss Borodichi, were interested in why the State-owned energy mineral remuneration rates in Annex 2 to the draft were planned until 31 December 2017 as to why such a limit had been set. The Minister replied that at the end of 2016 or at the beginning of 2017, the government would examine whether the new system was ready or could return to the current environmental charging system. Mr Rein Ratas asked me to explain on the supply side how many tons of oil shale went directly to produce electricity last year and how much oil to produce. A total of 19 million tonnes were mined along with the losses. This means that it was estimated that there were 15 million tonnes of oil shale, of which Eesti Energia consumes an estimated 11 to 12 million tonnes. So it's going to be 80% to produce electricity. As the draft also concerns the extraction of peat stock and peat, there was an interest in the situation of peat, precisely in the key to energy production. It was examined whether the reduction of the mining right fee to 0,64 would create a competitive advantage for peat companies, perhaps in comparison with the timber sector. It was given a clear answer that the impact is very small and estimated, with no major competitive advantage deriving from this remuneration. The topic of the local government budget also ran through the debate. There was an interest in how the loss of income is compensated to the local government or how it is finally reflected in the budget. Mr Sulev Liivik said that according to the concept of local governments, the local government can receive this money to compensate for environmental disruption and that the money can be used for specific purposes. It was common ground that the purpose is often the choice of the local government itself, whether it is an investment in a schoolhouse or in dust prevention or improving roads. Mr Mälberg, in turn, raised the question that smaller municipalities have had cases where the resource charge is included in the budget and reduced to the fine-tuning fund next year. The Minister explained that this concern would be resolved by a draft law amending the Environmental Charges Act. This will remove the resource fee from the municipal income base's equalisation fund. At the meeting of the committee, it was decided to consensually propose that 233 of the draft be placed on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu today, that the first reading be closed and that the deadline for amendments to the draft be set at 14 p.m. on 3 June 2016. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U443	Thank you. Please don't leave yet! Any questions? I don't think so. Good representatives of the political groups, it is now possible to open negotiations. No, I don't. The lead committee has proposed to close the first reading of draft 233. I will set the deadline for the submission of 233 amendments, including 3 June at 14 p.m. The first reading is closed and the 17th item is on the agenda.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U444	We will move on to the 18th item, which is the first reading of the draft law amending the Water Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic, 243. Please present the speech chair of the Riigikogu, Minister of the Environment Marko Pomerants!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U445	Hello again for me! It's already become a good tradition to help you turn off the lights. That's what happened at the night hearing, and now it's coming again. Dear Riigikogu! You have received a draft law amending the Water Act prepared at the Ministry of the Environment. The draft law specifies the provision of information on groundwater bodies in the water management plans, lays down a mandate rule for the establishment of background levels for natural groundwater substances and a methodology for the determination of nitrites and total phosphorus threshold values. The development of the draft law amending the Water Act was due to the need to transpose the European Commission Directive 2014/80/EU of 20 June 2014 amending Annex II to Directive 2006/118/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council (the North Water Directive). The data on groundwater bodies provided by the Member States of the European Union in the first water management plan for 2009 was insufficient. In order to better achieve and compare the objectives of the water management plans, Annex II to the groundwater Directive has supplemented the information requirements of the water management plan. The water management plan shall further specify the extent of the groundwater body, the background levels of the chemical parameters, information on the exceedance of the threshold values for the pollutant content, the objectives and importance of the use of the groundwater pool and the environmental objectives of the areas causing the risk to the groundwater body. The additional information to be provided in the Water Management Plan will enable the results of the assessment of the status of groundwater bodies in all Member States to be compared and will contribute to the harmonisation of future methodologies for assessing the level of pollutants in groundwater bodies and their status. Annex II to the Groundwater Directive sets out, as amendments, the principles for determining background levels for naturally occurring groundwater collection substances and includes an obligation to consider the determination of the threshold values for nitrites and total phosphorus. The background level is the concentration of the substance or of the parameters in groundwater in which there is no or very little human effect. In order to determine the background level, groundwater monitoring wells with minimal anthropogenic effects shall be selected. Nitrogen and phosphorus in groundwater can lead to eutrophication of surface water bodies directly linked to groundwater bodies and the terrestrial ecosystem, therefore nitrites and total phosphorus should also be taken into account in the determination of groundwater threshold values in the future. Such a bill. Please support me!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U446	Thank you. There's a question for you too. Arno Bridge, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U447	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. This bill applies to groundwater bodies. As a young citizen of the state, I ask whether we also have common European standards for water and sea water analysis in inland waters or whether they will come to our tables later.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U448	Thanks! In the European Union, we have a common view for all.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U449	Arthur Talvik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U450	Good President! Good minister! Is there a change in the methodology used to measure or control drinking water taken from groundwater? Can it become more expensive for people who have to submit drinking water samples, for example, as a result of a change in methodology, or is it not relevant?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U451	Thanks! I've never read such a thing. The Chancellor of Justice said that if any bill touches even one person, the bill must be dealt with. This draft law specifically concerns five people, in the area of administration of the Ministry of the Environment, who have to put together the relevant environmental information in a slightly different form.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U452	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U453	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. You said that we have everything in common in Europe. How many other countries in the European Union have already approved this directive?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U454	This Directive should enter into force next month. If we assume that they are at least as good as the Estonian state, then we are still all in one group when we cross the finish line on time.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U455	Good waitress, thank you! No further questions. Please present the speech chair of the Riigikogu to Meelis Mälberg, member of the environmental committee.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U456	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Government of the Republic initiated a draft law amending the Water Act on 16 May 2016. At the meeting of the Committee on the Environment on 17 May, the Vice Chancellor of the Ministry of the Environment Harry Liiv, Head of the Water Department Karin Kroon, Specialists in the Water Department Kersti Türk and Enn Liive and Head of the Legal Department Eda Pärtel were invited to present the draft. Katrin Rannik, Head of the Office of the Agricultural Environment of the Ministry of Rural Affairs, Aldo Van, Airi Külvet, Enno Laanemets, and Kristjan Piirmäe, expert at the Estonian Wildlife Fund, also participated in the discussion. Ivari Padar, Chairman of the Committee on Rural Affairs, also took part in the debate on the draft. As Minister Pomerants said, the draft clarifies the provision of information on groundwater bodies in the water management plans and takes over the amendments to the groundwater directive of the European Union. Following the presentation of the bill, representatives of the Ministry of the Environment announced that they would propose to amend the Water Act during the procedure of the draft and to supplement it with § 291 and 292. These changes would enable animals to be herded along inland waters under certain conditions. The amendments are due to the need to address the issue raised by livestock farmers on the organisation of grazing in the water protection zone in coastal and coastal pastures. There was also a debate in the Commission. During the debate, we found that, although ministries have worked closely with stakeholders in drafting proposals, these proposals still need to be clarified. The Ministry of the Environment promised that, between first and second reading, the Commission's amendments would be sent, which I hope the Commission will then be able to translate into its amendments. At its meeting on 17 May, the Committee on the Environment decided to propose the adoption of a draft 243 Riigikogu on the day of its meeting on 1 June, to terminate the first reading of the draft and to set the deadline for the amendments at 12 noon on 3 June 2016. It was decided to appoint Meelis Mälberg, member of the Committee on the Environment, as rapporteur for Bill 243. All proposals were accepted by consensus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-01_U457	Dear colleagues, a member of the Committee on the Environment is here before us and is ready to answer questions. There are no questions. Good waitress, thank you! I hope that there is now a great desire to open negotiations. All the representatives of the political groups are welcome. There's no call either. The first reading of draft 243 must therefore be completed on the proposal of the lead committee. I will set the deadline for the submission of 243 amendments, including 3 June at 12 noon. The first reading is closed and the 18th item is on the agenda. Good fellows, our hearing today is over. I thank you and wish you the strength of our work! Closure of the sitting at 10.07 a.m.
