ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-03_U1	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Now is the opportunity to hand over drafts and enquiries. My colleague Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-03_U2	Honourable President! Respectable members of the Riigikogu! I am pleased and honoured to be asked on behalf of six members of the Free Party Group about the country's budgetary strategy.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-03_U3	I'm sorry! Colleagues, attention to the speaker. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-03_U4	Thank you! Unfortunately, we are not discussing the country's budgetary strategy in this large Chamber, but the Committee on Monetary Affairs is doing so today. This is an important document, and we think that the Minister of Finance will certainly want to introduce this document to us in greater detail in this large Chamber, and our enquiry will give him a good opportunity to do so. It seems to us that although this document follows quite precisely the coalition agreement, it does not take into account the real development needs of the Estonian state and is not sustainable enough. There are also some specific things that are unclear to us. For example, if the pay of teachers is increased by 2% per year, how can we reach 120% of the average wage promised by the end of this period? What internal resources could that be at the expense of? It will be confusing how the sustainability of healthcare funding is ensured. How is the municipal income base ensured? How much is planned to be invested in local roads along the Tartu highway? How will internal security be ensured if 400 million euros are missing in four years compared to the development plan? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-03_U5	Jaak Madison, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-03_U6	Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the members of the Conservative People's Party, I hand over the draft decision of the Riigikogu entitled 'Publication of the materials of the VEB Foundation'. On the basis of § 90 of the Riigikogu Rules of Procedure and Rules of Procedure Act, the draft provides for the decision to make public the documents of the Committee of Inquiry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-03_U7	There is no further request for referral of drafts or enquiries. On behalf of the Executive Board of the Riigikogu, I have adopted one draft and one inquiry. The Management Board of the Riigikogu processes them in accordance with the Home and Working Procedures Act. Ladies and gentlemen, presence check. 82 members of the Riigikogu registered as present, none 19.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-03_U8	Let's go to today's agenda. The first item is Eesti Pank's annual report for 2015. Before we go to this debate, I will briefly present the way in which this item is to be dealt with. First, the presentation by Ardo Hansson, Governor of Eesti Pank, is up to 20 minutes. Following questions to the rapporteur, each member of the Riigikogu has the right to ask one oral question. Then there are negotiations where only the representatives of the political groups can participate. Ladies and gentlemen, first item: Eesti Pank's 2015 annual report. The rapporteur is Ardo Hansson, Governor of Eesti Pank. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-03_U9	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! Today I present to you the Eesti Pank summary for 2015. I will give an overview of the euro area economy and monetary policy, and I will talk about the Estonian economy and the activities of the central bank last year. These same points are also set out in the preface to the annual report. I am glad to be able to talk to you about Eesti Pank today, when it is the 97th birthday of Eesti Pank. On 3 May 1919, the Bank's core capital was transferred from the Eesti Pank ledger to 10 million marks and the first amount was accepted into the current account, so Eesti Pank started operating. Before going to the review, however, I would like to thank you once again for granting permission to increase the reserve capital of Eesti Pank. As a result of the decision of the Riigikogu, the capital of the central bank is now on a stronger footing. However, I will start with the monetary policy and economy of the euro area, or rather the global economy. Both in Estonia and in the euro area, we do not get over or around the wider environment. The situation is not very good at the moment, the world economy is not having the best days. The IMF says that the global economy could grow by around 3.2% this year, which is historically rather low growth rates. Risks have increased, some risks have already materialised. We will only look at more marked examples, for example, of what has happened in Russia, Brazil, but also in China, where the risks are actually up and very much of the money on the loan. China is trying to change to a new growth model, but it is not without risks. Turkey, Indonesia and a number of other countries are not doing very well. One reason is the quite large drop in raw material prices. We are thinking most about oil or energy prices, but if we are thinking more broadly about raw materials, whether metals, foodstuffs or whatever, then we can say that in the last six months these commodity prices have fallen by about half. For some, it is a great blessing to think of those who consume such raw materials, but for those who produce it, it is unfortunate. Geopolitical risks have arisen in the world, both in Europe and near Europe: the rise of terrorism, the refugee crisis, etc. They may increase uncertainty and uncertainty and may tend to delay investments by prospective investors. The third global factor is the lack of reforms. I think that if the prices of raw materials were high, the money was cheap, then somehow it seemed that everything was going well without reforms. Now that these trends have changed, it has appeared that perhaps these reforms should have taken a little more action. But that's hindsight. Coming to the euro area could start with a positive one. That's quite a lot, I think. Unemployment, unemployment, is constantly decreasing. Banks are starting to borrow more. The economy is currently growing a little faster than one might expect. In the first quarter, we saw that the euro area economy grew by 0.6%, which was quite an unexpected rate of growth. Retail volumes are growing. Banks are on a stronger footing than they were a few years ago. Even if we look at the Greek crisis and the risk of infection last summer, which existed a few years ago, it seemed that if one country went badly, it could be transferred to other countries, then at least on the basis of previous summer's experience, it can be said that this risk of infection has been significantly reduced. When I come to the problems, I will only talk about two issues. The first is inflation. In fact, from the perspective of central bankers, the problem is both too high inflation and too low inflation. In many large countries, for one reason or another, central bankers have all come to the conclusion that inflation could be slightly below 2% in the medium term. At present, inflation in the euro area is 0%, and in the last month it was even ÂÂÂ Â 0.2%. As central bankers, we can see that inflation could be slightly higher now. We have, in fact, been given a mandate through the Treaties and should therefore make an effort to have this figure slightly higher. Very many factors, however, make this difficult. We see that commodity prices have fallen. In itself, we may be happy about it, but if it gets worse and we find ourselves in such a situation that prices continue to fall and then wages start to fall, it is not a trend that we would like to see. The European Central Bank has taken very many steps against this. Perhaps the most talk has been about asset purchase programmes: in two years the central banks will buy 1.7 trillion worth of bonds. Eesti Pank bought them for 1.2 billion last year, and this year a few billion more will be added. So monetary policy is very expansionary right now. Large-scale asset purchases keep interest rates low. We can see that interest rates in very many countries are already negative on government bonds, and in many countries interest rates are lower than in the United States, for example. They support the economy in the short term. This should stimulate someone somewhere: who would not have invested or consumed in the past will now do so. This should increase demand and raise inflation a little higher. I think these steps will also support the Estonian economy. Sometimes there's a problem that if we don't really buy our property, does that money get to us? I think that the European financial market operates on the principle of combined vessels. It's not like if money is spent in one place, it stays there, and if it's not spent there, it won't get there. The principle of connected vessels says that money is still looking for productivity and, for some reason, if we have to keep interest rates high, then somewhere the money is moving here. The second thing is that very many of our loans are linked to the Euribor, and if the euribor falls, it does not depend on what we are doing here, but on what is being done throughout Europe, we will win through it. If the combination of our monetary policy and the monetary policy of another region should somehow change the exchange rate, we will feel it. In this sense, it affects the euro area more broadly. I think there are no free lunches, which may stimulate the market for a short time, but in the long run, it could create risks of bubbling. When investors see that interest rates are very low, they start targeting, looking for returns and investing very riskyly. It could get revenge sooner or later. It is also a concern that if governments have made life very easy and money comes cheap, then perhaps they would have carried out some kind of reform in the past, but now there is no immediate need for it, and governments are pushing reforms forward. So central banks can stimulate the market in the short term, long-term stimulus needs growth, compliance with the European Union and its own rules, flexibility and more. As far as the Estonian economy is concerned, we probably think that the economy is somewhat at a crossroads. The indicators are very controversial. If we look at the main indicator of growth, it was 1.1% last year. It looks like a small number. In the light of the country's past experience, in the light of what we are used to, it seems small. The concern about the economy is therefore well-founded. We depend on the international economic space in our economy. If the euro area is not doing well, if Russia is not doing well, if the Finnish economy is not doing well, etc., it will affect us. Some sectors suffer when oil prices are low, at least our energy sector suffers. For example, transit and tourism are suffering as a result of Russia's sanctions. So everything that's happening around us is affecting our course of action. We do not control it, but certainly, if the Estonian economy is flexible, we will be able to find alternative markets and the labour market will work, so we can manage. At the same time, we are seeing alarming signals. At present, what works very well is connected with contractors and retailers, at least when we look at growth rates. Wages are growing, employment is high, unemployment is low, inflation is not, which means real wages are increasing. This is all reflected in the very rapid growth of retail sales. So this part of the economy is obviously progressing when you look around. However, the concern is that the picture of the factors that would move forward in the long term is not as positive as investment, profitability, export, productivity. And these factors are all related. One of the differences we highlight most is that wage growth and productivity growth are currently not balanced. We want wages to grow as quickly as possible, but at the same time we do not want them to grow as much faster than productivity. Sooner or later, profitability will decrease and if companies are no longer profitable, they will have no resources to invest. Banks will no longer grant them loans and therefore the longer-term growth potential will be lower. So if we look at our projections, we'd rather look at the future in a relatively optimistic way. It is possible to have such a soft landing that the wage growth rate, which is just over 6%, is decreasing. And while the global economy is doing better and our productivity is increasing, our nominal economic growth can pick up, the pre-defined imbalances will disappear, and we will be able to find a new balance point. However, we are relatively optimistic and think that we have this potential. Our productivity is currently around 65% of the European average. It can certainly be grown. In Estonian companies, the number of machines and equipment in euro per employee is 40% less than in Germany or Finland, for example. So we must have the potential to invest more. Finally, I come to public finances. Our assessment of this year is that the Estonian Government has acted commendably in keeping the budget balanced. We are not talking here about the total amount of expenditure and the total amount of revenue or any structure that money is being used correctly or incorrectly, either on this or on the other. We are only talking about a balance in the current situation where we can see that there are tensions in the labour market. We do not see why we are starting to stimulate the economy to a large extent. In circumstances where several companies are already on the verge of profitability and where wages start to grow much faster than productivity, companies may start to fail. There must always be an attempt to find this equilibrium point. So we see again that it is more necessary to focus on structural reforms that would give a strong foundation to faster wage growth. Finally, Eesti Pank's own activities. Our goal is to do our job well and to be effective in it. I think that efficiency is also part of our credibility, if we were not efficient, our legitimacy would suffer. There has been a lot of talk about state reform here, and we think that we have already dealt with it at Eesti Pank. For a long time, Eesti Pank has been the European Union's smallest central bank, at least in terms of its staff. We have about 230 employees. If we look at countries that are much smaller than us, such as Cyprus, Malta, Luxembourg, there are about 300 workers. Looking at the southern neighbours of Latvia and Lithuania, there are about 600 workers. You can always wonder if the others are working harder, but we are the least-staffed central bank in a competitive way, and in the last four years, our budget expenditure as a proportion of Estonia's GDP has decreased by about a sixth. A sixth of four years is not a revolution, but at the same time we have taken on new tasks and, in the case of growing tasks, to reduce our share of the Estonian economy by a sixth, I dare to assume that this is an achievement. But that has not been our main objective. The main objective is still monetary policy, especially the monetary policy of the euro area, which I have already talked about. The second thing I want to talk about is ensuring financial stability. Last year's main development was the creation of a toolbox for macro-financial supervision. A few years ago, you gave us this mandate that Eesti Pank is a so-called macro-prudential institution in Estonia. If you remember the previous boom, now we're going to dissect what happened. One thing definitely was that we didn't have enough instruments to resist a mad loan boom. This is not just our experience, it is the conclusion of a very number of countries from the crisis that additional instruments are needed. So over the last two years, we've created this toolbox. We have put in place four types of measures. One is the systemic risk buffer, the other is the countercyclical capital buffer, the third is the housing loan requirements, and the fourth, which we intend to introduce from 1 August, is the capital buffer of the so-called systemically important banks. We have defined that two banks in Estonia are systemically important: Swedbank and SEB. To these, we intend to impose slightly higher capital requirements than for smaller banks. I think that we have created these instruments in such a way that they are not, at the beginning, restrictive, we see no reason to oppose the loan boom at this point. We actually see that the banks behave quite as expected and as positive as possible, that they still grow their loan portfolio moderately. There hasn't been any loan boom yet. So credit growth is not too slow or too fast and there is no need to consider any countermeasures in this context at present. But if we see in a few years that there are risks that interest rates are low and wages are rising, sooner or later either the lender or a potential borrower will say that I will start borrowing. And when it gets massive, it's possible that we're going to have a new loan race, and that's what we'd like to be prepared to resist, based on recent experience, if that's what it takes. These things are already written that we have issued, and I think we will ensure that cash is properly available. We issued a new EUR 20 with better security features. In the area of settlements, we have taken the card payment system into our supervision and are trying to work to improve the speed of settlements in Estonia. We still continued to work on producing high-quality statistics, foreign reserves, investment and government advice. In the context of the monetary policy of the euro area, our balance sheet volumes are increasing and our risks are increasing, so we see that buffers and reserves need to be increased. And finally. Last year we made just over EUR 30 million in profits, of which the central bank gave about 7.5 million to the state budget last week. In total, 141 million euros have been transferred to the state budget during the period of independence. Last year we talked a lot about whether the current economic model works in Estonia and Europe. I am convinced that the fundamentals of the long-term prosperity of the economy are still the same. Our growth over the last 25 years has been quite impressive and we have caught up with some countries. I think that when we look at purchasing parities, our income is higher than in Greece and about the same size as in Portugal. So, however, the economic security of businesses and the state is guaranteed by sufficient prudence in financial matters, sound economic policy and willingness to undertake uncomfortable and necessary reforms. Thank you for your attention and I am happy to answer your questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-03_U10	Thank you. You have questions too. Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-03_U11	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Hansson, thank you for this review and congratulations on the bank's birthday. We have recently been surprised by the fact that the government comes either with the state budget or with the state budget strategy and that it is based on some kind of forecast. We are going to look at them and somehow appreciate them in such a way that these forecasts seem too optimistic. And then they say it's some kind of Heresia when these things are called into question at a political level. However, the reality is that forecasts have often been reduced downwards. That's my question. In the country's fiscal strategy, 3% is planned for real economic growth. What can be based on optimism that we grow faster than any other Europe around us? And do you share that?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-03_U12	Thank you for your question. I think the forecasts, whether we, the Ministry of Finance, the IMF or others, are broadly similar to the general trend: this year, growth could be close to 2% and a little faster in the future. In part, this may be because one factor in our recent low economic growth is certainly that we have had a neighbourhood that is worse than average. If we recall 2011 or 2012, for example, the main trading partners in our nearest neighbourhood were almost exclusively doing very well. Finland, Sweden, Latvia, Lithuania and Russia all did well and it passed on to us. Lately, at least Latvia, Lithuania and Sweden have done well, but Finland and Russia have not done well. We ourselves are not forecasting, but others are forecasting the course of these economies. It's not so bad, i.e. it's better than last year or this year. In this sense, we see that the external environment can improve. On the other hand, companies have often delayed their investments, but sooner or later, if they want to increase their production volume, they want to keep up with wage growth, they are forced to invest more. And we can already see, some signs are that investments can grow. I think this overall direction is very broad. Now you can ask whether the specific number could be 0.3% or 0.5% higher or less. That's what it's worth arguing about. We have not yet assessed this country's budgetary strategy as an institution. It didn't show up until last week. But the Fiscal Council, which is a body set up for us, but independent, has already made its assessment and it is on their website. That's the first fresh estimate. However, one question is that if we have constantly predicted an increase and this increase has not come, should we be more cautious in this context and create a little bit more buffers?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-03_U13	Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-03_U14	Thank you. Thank you also for your review and congratulations to Eesti Pank on its birthday! Here's what I want to ask you. If you yourself acknowledge that extensive intervention by the European Central Bank in the bond market could create risks and distortions, how far is the central bank prepared to go by creating such artificial distortions and new imbalances? Even now, these distortions can be seen when we look at national, government bonds. And that risk can be passed on to asset classes, stock prices and real estate. The Financial Supervision Authority will not continue to borrow the money they receive cheaply, but will use it to buy back their shares. We already have a lot of imbalances in the economy. How far are you prepared to go with the creation of these imbalances, and aren't those risks that such intervention could pose and logically pose?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-03_U15	Thank you for your question. How far we're willing to go will actually be decided by a larger group. Twenty-five people are at the table, and that's a collective decision. I think we have said that our mandate is very clear. Some central banks have broader mandates, the ECB's mandate is very simple: price stability must be ensured. If it's okay, you can deal with other things. And right now, when we see inflation being lower than the recommendation, I think that at least the central bank is justified in increasing inflation. If any side effects occur, you have to think about them when you think about new steps. It is possible, for example, to compensate for certain trends in these same macro-prudential measures. Like I said, no free lunches. We can see that these measures have certainly reduced interest rates. But there are side effects, and they need to be monitored. And more can be done if the need arises. But like I said, it's not free.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-03_U16	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-03_U17	Thank you, manager. Dear Governor of Eesti Pank, happy birthday! Here's what I'm gonna ask. Eesti Pank spends 3.1 billion euros on buying bonds. As you said, it will stimulate the economy of the European zone. Unfortunately, there is very little money coming into the Estonian economy, we do not have a bond market, we do not have what to buy. The only ones that Eesti Pank has bought are Elering's bonds, I think it was 50 or 70 million euros. I asked that in the committee yesterday, you promised to answer in front of the hall today. Why does Eesti Pank refuse to buy Eesti Energia bonds? What's the reason? Aren't these bonds valuable? Why is Eesti Pank still not contributing to the Estonian economy?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-03_U18	Thank you, very good question! As I said earlier, however, we are betting on the principle of connected vessels. All of our lending activities are related to Euribor and if Euribor falls, all borrowers will feel its positive effects. The other thing is, even if we buy Elering's bonds, they're issued by Elering, but we buy them from the aftermarket. So it may be very well that the owner of Elering's bond lives in London and at the same time some of the owners of the German state bond live in Estonia. So the Central Bank of Germany's money will support us, and we will support someone else again. But in the end, that money should move around. As far as Eesti Energia is concerned, this was also discussed in the press a few days ago. I think there were some misleading headlines that made it look like we'd missed an opportunity. A new programme for the purchase of corporate bonds is currently being created, which allows the purchase of Eesti Energia bonds, but since in this programme we share all the revenues and all the risks at the level of the system, it is not important whether Eesti Energia bonds are purchased by Eesti Pank or by anyone else. Specialization shall be used in the implementation of this programme. We have 20 central banks in the Eurosystem, but only six central banks will make these purchases. So I can say that as long as Eesti Energia is a so-called eligible bond, its rating will remain. And as long as his rating remains, somebody in the Eurosystem will start buying his bonds to some extent. It's not us, but it doesn't really matter if that money gets there from us or somewhere else. The effect is the same, and we are responsible in exactly the same way.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-03_U19	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-03_U20	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, In your introduction, you said about the European economy that low growth is primarily due to the lack of growth-enhancing reforms. Some of this has already been said here, but I ask again: how does an expansionary monetary policy affect the undertaking of reforms that contribute to growth? And out of curiosity, I ask: what year does the representative of Eesti Pank say about this remote control that economic growth is too fast, hold on?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-03_U21	Thank you. I will answer the last question that, once before, in 2005, 2006 or 2007, we probably said that. We have not yet reached this stage. Of course, very rapid economic growth is such a problem that many would like to address. It is possible that the economy will grow too slowly, and it is possible that it will grow too fast. It is possible that too little money flows into us, and it is possible that too much money flows in. When we think about the boom ten years ago, the problem was that there was an enormous amount of money flowing into Estonia, which reached the real estate market and created bubbles. You also asked about expansionary monetary policy and structural reforms. Some might say it works differently. This gives us a chance to take a breather, and when the situation is no longer so acute, reforms can be carried out in a calmer atmosphere. I myself believe that things are working in a different direction: reforms are still being carried out in the end when the situation demands it. Well, we're all people, if it's possible to put things a little bit off, the shoe won't squeeze, we'll do it. So there are different approaches. But I tend to think that in most countries, reforms may be delayed.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-03_U22	Rock Hard, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-03_U23	Thank you. Good bank manager! As we know, we really do have wages rising significantly faster than productivity. It has also often been said that suddenly the state is a pioneer here, the wages of people working in the state sector are rising very rapidly. How do you assess, in the context of the RES debate, that the salaries of cultural workers, internal security staff and teachers will rise by 2% next year? Is this 2% too much, or is it just right to keep the private sector at the same rate as productivity growth there?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-03_U24	Thank you for your question. I wouldn't be commenting on the wage growth of individual sectors and individual individuals, but, broadly speaking, we see that yes, right now this gap is. One way is for the country to go along with it. It cannot be said that the country must ignore this trend. Then it will not be possible to recruit good people anymore. So the state has to go along with it, and at the same time it can't even heat it up. It's a question of finding a balance. I have not examined in detail how much of this 2% increase in wages comes from the growth of the payroll and how much of any change in employment. But 2% doesn't seem to be the kind of change that heats up the process. Looking at recent official statistics, the fastest wage growth is at local government level. I think that this is very much because, recently, the wages of people who are paid from the local government budget have been raised prematurely. Maybe we'll make the necessary structural changes again. We see that there is an area where workers are underpaid and these salaries should grow a little faster, and in another area they could grow again more quietly. You always have to look behind the details, you don't have to approach mechanistically. However, it should be borne in mind that the state should not, by its own example, encourage the private sector to go along with the country's pay race.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-03_U25	Jaanus Marrand, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-03_U26	Thank you! Mr President, Estonia's economic growth, as we all know, has been too small lately. Everyone's looking forward to growing up. There is a very simple logic in private business: a loan taken in the right place at the right time will ensure growth. The issue of credit in Estonia is quite taboo, but there are quite a few who say that we should borrow and do something that would also generate economic growth. For example, there has been a recent talk about Tallinn-Tartu highway so that it should be invested quickly. Loan for infrastructure will bring back a few or three euros per euro when investing. Eesti Pank has always been very conservative on this issue. Why don't you tell me a little bit about what you think about loans like this? In fact, we also have a situation where the state company is planning to take more dividends than their profits are. It's the other way around.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-03_U27	Thank you, that is a very good question! I will start with the budgetary framework. If someone takes out a loan, there are two things that can be done: either to spend it, to increase the budget deficit or to put it on a bank account. We think that Estonia's national reserves are quite large and that it is probably not very meaningful to start borrowing money now to put it into an account with a negative interest rate. I think we're talking about borrowing money to start using it. The Estonian budget and I think that the basic logic of the European Union's budgetary framework is now such a keinist logic that in good years you put a little more aside, pull the brakes and create reserves in order that if there is a bad year, you will spend a little more. The question is whether there is currently a low in Estonia. If there was an obvious low level of living, this would be reflected in any indicator, such as high unemployment, low economic growth, then Estonia could freely borrow to spend more. The question is, what is the current state of play? As I have already noted, the figures are very controversial. Looking at the growth rate of GDP, it seems that it is rather small, it could be bigger. But let's look at the labour market! When you ask entrepreneurs where your shoe squeezes, it is almost always about the problems of the labour market. Wages are going up, but prices aren't going to go up so fast, you can't find good people or whatever. So the whole issue is falling into the labour market. The question is whether we would like to heat this slightly overheated labour market even more by borrowing. The question is, where are we in terms of the cycle? At the moment, I think that the state budget has been surprisingly strong in some respects, also because we have this structure of taxes. These tax bases, which are very large, have only grown rapidly, i.e. VAT and labour taxes. Wages are growing, and retail trade is growing. If we consider that euro money will be less in the future and the demographic situation is worse, then it is clear that the country needs to spend more on pensions and health care and has fewer working hands who pay taxes. If you look at it both in the short term and in the long term, we do not see now that this is the right time to start spending a lot more money. As for the highways, you can build them as an enclave project. You bring in some foreign brigades, as well as all the road construction materials, machinery and workers, and you build the road, but it doesn't have a wider impact. I am not sure whether we want something that leaves no trace of our economy at all. There's some cons in the game. It's a question of finding a balance. I think that the previous crisis and the subsequent recession or decline were so terrible that it is right to try to level the cycles.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-03_U28	Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-03_U29	Thank you. Dear Governor of Eesti Pank, After all, the difficult labour market situation you mentioned is largely due to the fact that when the Estonian economy really was in decline, this market was not revived and thousands of workers were allowed to go elsewhere. The improvement of the labour market can also consist of giving work to people who still earn a living in Finland, for example. But here's my question. You are currently buying bonds from the secondary market as a central bank, and among them there is a marginal share of Estonian-related bonds. I understand that this choice is very narrow, and you don't have much of a briefcase to take. But what should happen or how should the Estonian state act to ensure that, if the purchase of bonds continues, in 2017 or 2018 you will be able to buy Estonian state bonds from the secondary market? What is it technically supposed to look like, and is it even possible that in 2018, if you started now, there would be Estonian state bonds on the secondary market?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-03_U30	Thank you for your question. I think technically there is no problem here, in fact it is very simple. You can issue bonds, you can start selling them to market participants or the private sector, and then you start buying them on the secondary market. The question is once again the question of expediency. As I said in the previous reply, I think it would be contrary to our budgetary laws if we were to implement it extensively now. We can discuss whether our own budget laws are too strict or not, but in the end, Europe's limitations will still come up. These restrictions exist, and they have still emerged from some kind of understanding. It is not appropriate to allow the budget to be lost. It is beneficial for us to set some restrictions ourselves, so that in especially good times we gather supplies to spend them in worse times.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-03_U31	Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-03_U32	Thank you. Dear Governor of Eesti Pank, Two or three years of work to create a bank in Tallinn. I believe, Mr President, that you have information on what level this process is going on right now. Can you predict the future of this bank?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-03_U33	A bank in Tallinn? Do you mean the bank that the city of Tallinn is thinking of creating? Thank you for your question. In the old days, there was a bank like this, namely the Bank of Tallinn. But the next waitress is the head of the Financial Supervision Authority, I think the Financial Supervision Authority is dealing with this issue. Eesti Pank is not involved in licensing, so I think it is the most competent one to answer. I don't know the details, but the law stipulates which requirements must be met. I'm sure they're doing everything very correctly.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-03_U34	Liina Kersna, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-03_U35	Thank you, President-in-Office. Honourable Governor of Eesti Pank! You repeatedly spoke in your speech about the need for our economy to be as flexible as possible. Over the years, as a country, we have carried out a number of reforms that have made the economy more flexible. How do you now assess whether anything else needs to be done to make the Estonian economy sufficiently flexible?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-03_U36	Thanks for asking. I think there's definitely something else we can do. If you look at Estonia in an international context, your estimates of our flexibility are broadly positive. At the same time, it is possible, for example, to encourage part-time work in the labour market so that people can move from one job to another. I recently spoke to some entrepreneurs who complained about slow detailed plans, but they urgently need to start some kind of construction activity. So I think it's possible for a branch by branch, a field by sector to consider whether anything can be done. The World Economic Forum will present annual reports on the competitiveness of countries around the world, assessing the competitiveness of 140 countries. Estonia is now 30 out of 140 is not a mistake. But what is interesting is that there are about ten subscripts and in almost everything we are on the same level. We're not super ahead of any indicators or well behind. It is good, on the one hand, that we do not have major omissions, but, on the other hand, it is a challenge. But there is no such simple situation that there are one or two very important things that have not yet been done that could have a major impact. So, yes, there is a need to approach the sector by sector and make effective, often very small, changes.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-03_U37	Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-03_U38	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Mr President of Eesti Pank, thank you for your review. I want to ask your opinion on pension funds. It is often criticised and cited as an example that this money is invested in the recovery of foreign economies and other forms of enterprise. Do you think it would make sense, however, to start investing more in Estonia, whether or not we all know how much the price of the land has gone up or something else to boost the economy with this wealth?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-03_U39	Thank you for your question. We in Eesti Pank do not deal directly with the regulation of pension funds. This is not our responsibility. But I know it's upstairs. I wouldn't suggest any particular position, but I am referring to the dilemma we face when we deal with such a thing. On the one hand, as a pension fund owner or shareholder, we certainly want our assets to be preserved. On the one hand, we would like to diversify our investments well, place them in different places. And since the world is big and Estonia is small, if you want to diversify very extensively, it will probably lead to the withdrawal of money. The safest solution is not to put all the eggs in one basket. On the other hand, we want some of this money to stay here, so it may have a greater impact on our economy. Surely it is once again a matter of finding a balance. The more you force money to bring here and leave, the more it may stimulate something somewhere, but at the same time maybe the risks will increase again, and therefore the situation may be even worse from the perspective of the pensioner. One should wonder if there is a market failure that we want to eliminate. I have also worked in some countries where there is such a logic that 100% of the money has to be invested abroad, and the diversification of risks has been highlighted. But it is certainly possible to achieve some sort of balance point.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-03_U40	Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-03_U41	Thank you, Mr. Vice Speaker. Mr President, My colleague Aivar Sõerd has already touched on this subject. What are the techniques with which the central bank stimulates the economy? At present, negative interest rates have been set in motion, which is an unprecedented and, unfortunately, far-reaching experiment. True, the European Central Bank is not the first to start it. The most visible and most direct adverse effect of this is on savers. We know that Estonian people also have a lot of savings money in their accounts. On average, these savings may not be very high, but they are very important to people. What's your assessment of this negative interest experiment? How long can it last, and what advice do you give to people who have some money stashed aside? What is the best way for them to do in the light of this policy?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-03_U42	Thank you for a good question. We all understand that we are currently unprecedented timing as central bankers. We do things we haven't done before. As you mentioned, negative interest rates have been set in smaller regions, but Europe was the first major region to introduce it. Now Japan has also begun to do so. This whole thing is about the central bank's mandate being very specific. We have been given such a mandate that we do not have to stand up for creditors or debtors, for savers, for one group or another. We must ensure price stability and certain inflation and, as I said, it is rather low than high. If we were to act differently, we would go against our mandate. But yes, this expansional phase is now. The natural question is how far to go with it, whether these risks are worthwhile. The aim is, as in the case of the transmission mechanism, that when interest rates are low, someone who would otherwise have saved their money will either invest or consume it. We might ask if it's shortsighted. Perhaps it would be better to save more in the long run. But now, in order to increase inflation in the short term, it is more necessary that some decisions tend somewhere towards investment rather than saving.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-03_U43	Imre Sooäär, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-03_U44	Thank you. Although most Estonians have not held a euro 500 banknote in their hands, they still make up almost a third of all euro banknotes in circulation. Europol has proposed the abolition of EUR 500, and by 1 May a decision had to come. The question is, what will happen to these 500 euros and whether those who have them will have to change them around? And the other part of the question is that although the average income of Estonians in Europe is not the highest, their bank accounts currently have one of the largest amounts of money. If there were to be another financial crisis, for example, because of Greece's failure to make payments, this could also affect banking. What, then, should people do with their euro? Would it be necessary to create new instruments where to put money as an alternative and, in this case, could people also look more towards cash? However, fewer and fewer ATMs are available in rural areas, so the direction is like the use of electronic money. What is Eesti Pank's position in this regard?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-03_U45	Thanks for the questions. This last issue is what we have been talking about here in previous years. I don't see why one type of tax should in any way be excluded, preferred or whatever. At the moment, I think it is very good that we are able to use cash and that we are also able to make electronic payments. Sometimes you use one, sometimes you use another. I can't imagine a world without cash or electronic payment options. So that we have to decide whether one is better or the other, we wouldn't want to declare it. We can see that cash stays long. Currently, the demand for cash in Estonia is increasing rather than decreasing. Perhaps it is used less in trade, but it is certainly good if there is cash and if it is used. Your first question was about EUR 500. This has been discussed and will certainly be discussed in the coming weeks-months. In my opinion, the question is whether EUR 500 in any way contributes to crime and tax fraud, or whether it also plays an important role in the lives of some people who do not want to be very involved with banks. This subject is being discussed. I don't think there's any quick decision to make here, that's not gonna happen these days. People may feel confident because when some decisions come, it is announced for a very long time.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-03_U46	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-03_U47	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Governor of Eesti Pank, happy birthday to Eesti Pank! In 2015, Eesti Pank undertook a new major macro-financial supervision task to monitor the smooth functioning of card payments, the smooth functioning of the money circulation. You have a very good monitoring and analysis department at Eesti Pank. You've probably done some extensive analysis before you begin to appreciate this area. But what are the first impressions? Do you see any risks associated with the card payment system?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-03_U48	This is our new line of work. We decided to take Nets Estonia and the card payment system into our oversight. It is a common system such as Nets Estonia. Banks and the Financial Supervision Authority are involved, we are involved. The supervisor cannot directly prescribe, but he can make recommendations and evaluate according to different criteria. I owe you an answer right now. In general, we reviewed 16 areas. For some, the assessment was very good; for others, things were found that could be done better. We are in dialogue with Nets Estonia, the banks and the Financial Supervision Authority, and we are discussing how to move forward. These systems have functioned largely smoothly. There were a few major glitches in the last year, but we made that decision before that. It seems to me that the system has so far responded well to our recommendations and tried to address bottlenecks.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-03_U49	Aadu Black, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-03_U50	Thank you. Dear Governor of Eesti Pank, Five or six moves ago in this dialogue was an interesting moment when you described different times and also talked about the need to collect supplies in good times. Obviously, the forecast for the future was rather worrying, and I am thinking of the demographic situation and other things as well. Did I get it right that your assessment of the current state of the economy rather than stagnation is still good?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-03_U51	Thank you. In general, I said that economic growth is average. As I mentioned earlier, some indicators relating to profitability and exports are rather worrying, but some areas of trade, employment, etc. give cause for joy. The picture's a letter. From a purely budgetary point of view, however, these are better times. It is simply because the taxes that we collect the most are VAT and labour taxes, are well received. I would distinguish between an overall assessment of the economy and an assessment of the state budget.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-03_U52	Monika Haukanõmm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-03_U53	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable Governor of Eesti Pank! You started your review of global economic risks and identified three important risks. Two of them were very understandable and understandable, they are a fall in commodity prices and, on the other hand, crises that occurred in Europe last year. Third, you pointed out that the lack of growth-enhancing reforms is the main cause of low growth. Could you elaborate on the reforms you had in mind?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-03_U54	Thank you for your question. I think these reforms vary from country to country. If we think about the whole spectrum, we will certainly think about the product market and the labour market, in addition to pensions, the business environment, the legal framework for how the judicial system works. Things are very different from country to country. I think that in some countries the necessary reforms are very much linked to labour market issues, in others there is a question of whether I can trust my contracts, whether my property is secure or my bureaucracy is rampant in the country. In some countries, the public sector may simply have grown to such an extent that the total tax burden is so high that it needs to be reduced quietly. So generalising, you could say there's a lot of potential. The European Commission has recently also published a report on how its recommendations are being implemented. The picture wasn't very happy.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-03_U55	Maris Lauri, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-03_U56	Thank you, President of the sitting. Dear Governor of Eesti Pank, I have a question about monetary policy. The European Central Bank is working to create inflation. It didn't happen. I see that the reason is that there is extremely great uncertainty among companies, banks, households, especially in the major European countries. It can be said that it is very difficult for the European Central Bank to influence such a thing as uncertainty. You can lower interest rates no matter how much, but people and businesses will not spend unless they see the perspective. I believe that, above all, there is work to be done by governments that can launch structural reforms. This gives me the idea that perhaps the European Central Bank should not go looser in its policies, but should keep the current line and give the governments a stronger message that this is still more dependent on them. What do you think?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-03_U57	Thank you for your question. I fully agree with this message. We have also often stressed that everyone must work together: governments, European institutions, central bank, etc. The central bank is currently under a very heavy burden, as others have often not contributed. We do not have a mandate and we do not have a direct opportunity to start writing to someone else what they have to do. We can simply point out that we think that the situation would be better if others did more. And I also fully agree that if uncertainty persists, the effectiveness of these measures will be less. In fact, consumption has already increased and exports are increasing, but investment, which is particularly affected by uncertainty, is lower. The question is how to reduce this uncertainty and whether any further possible steps would start to increase or reduce it.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-03_U58	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to put the question in one minute. Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-03_U59	Thank you, Honourable Chairman. Respectable Governor of Eesti Pank! I'd like to look forward to five or six years with you. It is nice that the Eesti Pank report also contains a worrying statement that if European Union subsidies decrease in the next period, this will probably cause us problems. Would you describe how the Estonian economy could look beyond 2022?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-03_U60	Thank you for your question. Well, it's really hard. We see that the long-term growth potential of the Estonian economy is around 3% in current policies. We can extrapolate and multiply it by 1,03 for example. Technically, we think that the economy could be about 20% more prosperous than it is now, but we are also seeing two major trends. One is that if we get richer and hope that we get richer, we are now somewhere 75% of the European average standard of living, then, of course, EU subsidies will decrease. This transition will probably be smooth, that it is not the case that one year we will have a lot of euro money and there will be no next year at all. But we need to get used to the fact that there will be fewer of these benefits. The second trend is demographic. Looking at official statistics, the balance of migration seemed surprisingly small. These were preliminary data, and whether this trend persists or turns out to be a one-year exception, we do not know. But we have a weak spot, we have fewer hands, and therefore we do not need to create new jobs as much as simply try to make every job as productive as possible.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-03_U61	Ain Lutsepp, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-03_U62	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Honourable Governor of Eesti Pank! My question concerns the current situation in Europe and the world as a whole. According to Eesti Pank's assessment, the current security policy situation in Europe and the rest of the world affects the state of the economy and finances and everything in it?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-03_U63	Thank you for your question. I think it's very difficult to quantify. This situation is not conducive to consumption. If there are real risks to physical security, there are certainly people who are afraid to travel and consume at all. And the wider problem is that when so many geopolitical risks have arisen, confidence tends to suffer from the investor's point of view. Some people do not dare to invest because they do not know what the future holds. I think it would be strange to think that such uncertainty, instability, will benefit economic growth. Not really.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-03_U64	Thank you, dear waitress. No further questions for you. Ladies and gentlemen, I will open negotiations. Andres Ammas on behalf of the Estonian Free Party Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-03_U65	Honourable President! Respectable members of the Riigikogu! Respectable Governor of Eesti Pank! On behalf of the Free Party Group, I thank Mr Hansson for this good, clear, understandable view of the state of the world and of the Estonian economy. It was a calm, slightly positive, but certainly not too optimistic review. According to the speaker, the most important part of Eesti Pank's report is the one on economic growth that has been below the expectations of society for a long time. Who doesn't want to be an optimist? But we have experience from autumn last year that when the members of the Free Party Group drew attention to excessive optimism in the government's opinion, the issues on this issue were not taken very seriously. Time has shown that our concerns were valid. Eesti Pank's report shows nicely that the ability of central banks to promote economic growth is not very great. In the longer term, economic growth is not within the power of the central banks. The Bank's report states very well that long-term economic growth will continue to occur if opportunities are sought and found to increase the competitiveness of its products, new products are invented and investments are made to realise their ideas. I also find it delicately stated in the report that the picture of the state of the Estonian economy is contradictory and that the Estonian economy is at a crossroads. In our opinion, the Estonian economy is stagnation and the Estonian government lacks ideas. They weren't there a year ago, when we signed a government agreement. And since the newly adopted budget strategy is based on the coalition agreement at that time, stagnation will continue on the basis of this strategy until 2020. I guess this debate in our hall is a little traditional. The government argues that their fiscal policies stimulate economic growth. We see no proof of this claim in the country's budgetary strategy. Eesti Pank says that if the country does not make growth-enhancing reforms, we will be at a standstill. Yesterday, at the meeting of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, there was a little bit of a discussion about what these reforms could be. The President of Eesti Pank thought that the overall magic wand was not appropriate, so-called fine-tuning is more appropriate, and that there is a need to find a little resource from all sides, with some small reforms to increase economic growth by 0.1%. And as has been mentioned repeatedly in this Chamber today, the key word is the labour market: flexible labour market and entrepreneurial, educated people. How can people who are unable to work full-time for some reason be brought into the labour market? The Free Party has proposed one option here: it is an opportunity to abolish the minimum social tax. The Estonian Employers' Confederation has also wished to do the same, who recommends switching to hourly tax accounting. How would it be possible to attract top specialists to Estonia, who should be paid a high fee? Here is one possibility of a social tax cap, the so-called social tax ceiling, which the Free Party has also put into the procedure of the draft. Our third draft concerns an increase in the minimum income tax. In our opinion, this would reduce social injustice and increase the possibility that recipients of median wages would not leave Estonia so massively. That's what we've been talking about here today, too. If the measures we have proposed do not work, let the coalition do better. However, we do not see any serious measures in the country's budget strategy to improve the situation on the labour market that entrepreneurs expect, as the Governor of Eesti Pank pointed out. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-03_U66	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-03_U67	We have been talking for at least a few decades, as I recall, that too much of the middle school graduates continue in upper secondary school, too little in vocational training. But throughout this period, the Estonian state has actually done nothing to change this trend. The country's budgetary strategy is also not very ambitious in this respect. How to reduce the number of people without special and vocational education in Estonia? 26% is certainly not ambitious enough. We allow the vocal minority to frighten and confuse us, discussing what kind of preparation and education we expect in Estonia, and how we can convince foreign students who are studying here to stay in Estonia, instead of scaring them from here. There has been no answer to these important questions from the current government; rather, the strategy is a good example of how political technology prevails and the long-term development needs are not much considered. If you were picking on something, I dare say that we would have expected even more courage and courage from the Eesti Pank report to say more clearly what reforms Estonia needs. Eesti Pank has increased its visibility through various publications and mailing lists. But I think that Eesti Pank's influence in speaking about the Estonian economy could be much greater for the public. Then the Estonian public would also happily accept that the Bank of Estonia, the smallest European Central Bank, still employs 234 people. Finally, a little personal comment. I have been in politics for a long time, and I remember well how much Ardo Hansson's role was in building a re-independence Estonian state, how important his encouraging and wise advice to the Estonian governments at the time was. I would like the President of the Bank to give the same bold advice now and to be heard as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-03_U68	Thank you. Aivar Sõerd, Group of the Reform Party, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-03_U69	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Honourable Governor of Eesti Pank! Ladies and gentlemen, For my part, I would like to thank the Governor of Eesti Pank for a clear overview and for the in-depth discussion that preceded today's debate in the Committee on Monetary Affairs. As regards Eesti Pank's 2015 report, I will address three aspects that have an impact on the economy as a whole due to Eesti Pank's activities and monetary policy steps. Last March, the European Central Bank started supporting its usual monetary policy instruments through a comprehensive programme of public sector securities purchases. It aims to ensure that the impact of the measures is better achieved in the real economy. The volume of this measure has been known to increase this year, in essence to be an additional allocation of funds. The central bank has promised to continue this measure both this year and next year and, if necessary, to continue until inflation in the euro area reaches the reference level of 2%. However, it is difficult to predict the impact of the measure on the development of a balanced economy in the euro area as a whole. As a risk, this measure creates artificial price increases in certain asset classes. The main problems, both in the euro area and in other developed countries, of public debt or depopulation, will not be solved in any way. Experts also agree that large-scale intervention by central banks in the bond market will reduce the pressure on countries and governments in the financial markets in order to reduce the burden of public debt. Secondly, Eesti Pank has stressed for a long time and also pointed out in the annual report that there are inconsistencies in the Estonian economy, the gap between productivity growth and wage growth has been going on for several years. Wage growth is forecast to continue this year. The growth of wages must be financed mainly by companies at the expense of profits and the reduction in profits is estimated at 8% last year, whereas in the fourth quarter as much as 15%, the ability of companies to invest is limited in order to increase productivity and increase competitiveness in export markets. At the same time, the access of companies to the funding provided by banks is generally good and, due to the possibilities of external financing, investment should be possible. The main cause of low investment activity can still be considered to be global uncertainty in the economy and the resulting insufficient demand growth on foreign markets. Thirdly, in the context of the European Central Bank's low interest policy, more has been said that increasing the public debt burden could be a measure of economic recovery. At the same time, it cannot be overlooked that the Estonian economy is actually close to its potential development or potential growth. Bonds can be spoken of when we have a poor economy, economic growth is lower than potential, but unemployment is currently very low. As emphasised by the Governor of Eesti Pank, the state budget has good times. The emergence of artificial demand through the public sector in the current economic context may mean that the shortage of skilled labour and the increase in wages would increase even further in relation to productivity and, as a result, mismatches in the economy would also be amplified. However, it can never be certain that public sector loans will go to productivity-enhancing projects. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-03_U70	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-03_U71	The practice of European countries has shown the opposite: loans have rather financed the rising running costs of the country. When the debt burden increases to the critical limit, it is very difficult for countries to return debt to sustainable levels without external pressure. It cannot be overlooked, too, that countries with a significant debt burden must spend a large part of their budget revenue exclusively on the payment of loans and interest payments. We recently had a meeting with the Committee on Monetary Affairs of the French Senate. They said that they would spend the same amount on interest payments alone as they would be allocated to finance education. Indeed, countries with a low loan burden can use budget money in a much more efficient way. There is no need to pay interest on loans taken by previous governments. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-03_U72	Thank you. Kalvi as representative of the Group of the Hard Social Democratic Party, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-03_U73	Good Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Good Governor of Eesti Pank! Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the Group of the Social Democratic Party, I would also like to thank the Governor of Eesti Pank and Eesti Pank for an adequate and really comprehensive overview. The representatives of the political parties of the government coalition are also undoubtedly pleased to take a look at the state of affairs, to get an overview of parallels with other European countries and also to hear certain recommendations. Andres Ammas said that Eesti Pank could be a little more critical and raise more seriously the issues that should be addressed. We believe that this work has already been very thorough and the report draws attention to very important matters. Now some of the issues I would like to draw attention to. Of course, since the time has come for the government to have the RES and the RES approved, and today we are also discussing it with the Minister of Finance in the Committee on Monetary Affairs, the topics of the RES are also discussed in relation to the report by Eesti Pank. A little bit of prognosis. I think that no government has so far taken into account the so-called political coefficient when making this forecast. It has not been the case that specialists have made the forecast at the Ministry of Finance, and then the minister has come and said that listen, this forecast doesn't fit our wishes, let's multiply it by a small coefficient. The prognosis is what specialists do, and in my opinion there is no point in discussing it politically. The prognosis is whether it is done right or wrong, it is not a 'political discussion' issue. I'm talking about a prognosis made in the government. Now for economic growth. The RES consultation has revealed that the government will increase research funding by EUR 8 million in 2017 to boost growth. We think it's a lot of money. Of course, science is an area that must be a priority where more money must be put at all times, but in the 8 million in 2017 we believe that it will be a very big step towards making sure that our research receives adequate funding and that it will also generate tangible economic growth in the years to come. We must not forget that between 2014 and 2020 we will receive more than EUR 600 million from the European Union to boost economic development. Yes, we know that, at some point, European money will end, and we will work to use these sums so that when this money ends, effective economic growth will continue. This is what all the implementing units are thinking about, what many ministries are thinking about, and the measures they take are designed on the basis of this knowledge. Of course, reforms are needed in the country, and if we are asking whether the country is planning and undertaking enough reforms, then we know that there is administrative reform on our desks, in our drawers. According to the Socialists, 25 million local authorities have been added to the RES to ensure additional capacities after the reform, one of which is to support entrepreneurship, which is precisely what should drive growth strongly. Local government is increasingly contributing to and directing the development of entrepreneurship. However, we could discuss a number of reforms in this Chamber. A little extra time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-03_U74	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-03_U75	Administrative reform is certainly a reform that has been long awaited. The mismatches in the economy - low productivity and, at the same time, wage growth - have created scissors that have increased over the years. At the same time, we would like to see a higher wage increase in the public sector than has been agreed for the time being. The wage fund for teachers, cultural workers, internal security and social workers will increase by at least 2%. Of course, all ministries can increase these numbers at the expense of their internal reserves, but if we do so to a significant extent, the same economic mismatch will always knock us on the back of the head. The State may not be the carrier of a pay race. But the 2% average wage growth in the sectors that I mentioned is the minimum we can do now. Finally, thanks for the work done to Eesti Pank! Congratulations on your birthday and your strength to work! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-03_U76	Thank you. The political groups have no further requests to speak. Ladies and gentlemen, we have heard and discussed the 2015 Annual Report of Eesti Pank. Thank you very much to the Governor of Eesti Pank Ardo Hansson for his presentation and answers to questions!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-03_U77	We will go to today's second item, the 2015 Annual Report of the Financial Supervision Authority. The debate on this item will take place in the same way as the previous one. First, the presentation by Kilvar Kessler, Chairman of the Management Board of the Financial Supervision Authority, is up to 20 minutes. Every member of the Riigikogu has the right to ask the rapporteur one oral question and only the representatives of the political groups can speak in the negotiations. Therefore, the 2015 Annual Report of the Financial Supervision Authority. Please waitress Kilvar Kessler, Chairman of the Board of the Financial Supervision Authority!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-03_U78	Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable members of the Riigikogu! According to the Financial Supervision Authority Act, we submit the inspection's annual report to the Riigikogu. The annual report covers the most important events, trends and actions in the Estonian financial market and financial supervision in 2015. In the European Union as a whole, the perceived systemic risk of markets was low in 2015. The main risks consisted of sovereign indebtedness, low bank profitability, the heterogeneity of the credit market, rapidly rising house prices and the impact of low interest rates. In the Estonian dimension, the potential re-evaluation of the risks of the Nordic economy and banks by the financial markets had to be seen as a risk which, if realised, would have increased the financing and liquidity risks of the banks. Due to income growth and low interest rates, the risk remained that Estonia's real estate prices will increase faster. The impression left a strained foreign policy situation. The Estonian banking-driven financial market was still concentrated and the market share of the branches was high. In 2015, there was an increased desire to enter the regulated financial market in Estonia, either by applying for a licence, acquisition of a company or acquisition of a qualifying holding. Some financial intermediaries changed their strategy to operate on the Estonian market. The volume of loans granted by credit institutions increased and the quality of the loan portfolio remained at a good level. The volume of deposits increased. The share of non-resident clients in the total customer base moved towards a reduction. Investment funds grew mainly as a result of the growth of mandatory pension funds. The figures in the insurance sector were generally good. In summary, Estonia's financial sector was in good shape in 2015. People like money and like to talk about money. When we look at the cultural history of mankind, money, loans and debts, alongside love, birth, war and death, are one of the central themes of King Midas, whose touch turned everything into gold, the Roman emperor, who said that money does not stink, and Shakespeare's story of a Venetian merchant, where the banker could cut off half a kilo of meat from the guarantor. There are more stories like that. If you take it from Finland near here, "Kalevalas" is Sampo, who grinds the money. And we ourselves have examples. I have little kids, and lately I've had to watch the Nucker Man movie with the Money Song, which, as I've read, is the most popular among children. Thus, it seems that the issue of money really is eternal and evergreen. The myth of money is that it contains the sovereign's power to be a means of payment as well as a store of value. Only the sovereign has the right to regulate the price of money and thus the price of goods and services. Professionals in the money industry, money and risk intermediaries, placements can only work in an atmosphere of trust, involving public resources or risks and redeploying them where it is optimal from an economic point of view. Trust, however, is preserved by rules and compliance with them and by monitoring compliance with the rules. The Estonian Financial Supervision Authority is an independent financial supervisory and crisis resolution institution according to international standards. Our mission is to maintain confidence in the financial market by carrying out our statutory tasks in the public interest. This means that, thanks to the confidence that has been maintained, the regulated financial market functions legally and regularly. Only those who comply with the standards and are aware of their role can act on the market. Market participants are targeted and motivated to behave legally. Financial companies are run by suitable people, their organisations are structured in such a way that risks are taken knowingly and to an appropriate extent and are covered with sufficient capital. Consumers of the service shall be treated in a lawful manner. The activities of the Financial Supervision Authority are not financed from the state budget, but from supervisory fees paid by financial market participants according to the law. This has been resolved in many European countries, including the new banking supervision of the euro area. We are the smallest combined financial supervisory authority in the European Union in the number of employees. Given that the tasks of the financial supervisory authorities of all Member States are harmonised under European Union law, they all have the same number, it seems that we have found a pretty good balance between the size and complexity of the tasks and the number of staff and the budget. In managing the institution, we have a sense of reason and prudence that is close to our heart. Having worked in the private sector for a long time, as a partner in a law firm, I see little difference in attitudes towards my work, efficiency or working time compared to the Financial Supervision Authority. Since our "customers" - big and small financial intermediaries - are very strong partners and very good experts, we have responded to them at least equally. In addition, we are active in supervising auditors in the Board of Audit Supervision, helping partners in the Guarantee Fund as part of the financial market safety net, lectures in universities, working with law enforcement authorities, ministries and the central bank. We work hard and professionally. I can say here with absolute certainty that I am proud of the inspection staff. Financial market and financial supervision could be spoken of for a long time and from different perspectives. In the second half of today's presentation on the Estonian financial market, I would like to briefly address three questions: firstly, Estonia's financial stability as a model for new banking supervision in the euro area; secondly, a transparent and fair financial market as a condition of trust; thirdly, a competitive and modern legal framework. A single system of capital supervision of banks in the euro area over a year has led to the conclusion that there are still a number of steps to be taken to the single market. The banking markets of the euro area countries have different structures and banks differ in terms of strength, size and roles. Banking supervision in the euro area is a good start to the creation of a single market, as well as an appropriate instrument. The Centre is located in the European Central Bank and, in addition, the system includes the banking supervisory authorities of the euro area. Estonia has aspects here where to be a pioneer. There are three facts in favour of this. Firstly, Estonia's supervision has been relatively conservative in setting additional capital requirements for banks to cover risks. In addition to the automatic capital ratios, the supervision has allocated a total of EUR 132 million to large banks to cover risks and EUR 62 million to small banks. Thus, we have a few smaller banks that have survived the big risk in such a way that insolvency has been avoided. Estonian depositors do not remember the time when they would have lost their deposits due to the bankruptcy of a bank or the taxpayer's money would have been spent saving the banks. This situation has not arisen in itself, but as a result of market surveillance and a joint responsible contribution from the legislator. The other thing is that Estonia has generally tried to avoid exceptions when transposing the European Union acquis. Rather, we want to be open and exploit the potential of competition with uniform rules. Thirdly, the structure of our market is that the large banks that are systemically important here are a relatively small part of the non-euro area banking group. This means continuous and good dialogue with the supervisory authority of the parent bank, mutual respect and openness. We have done quite well so far with our Swedish partners. Our message in the banking supervision of the euro area has been: healthy prudence in dealing with risks, a uniform approach to similar situations and an open, respectful dialogue with the market and partners. I believe that Estonia's current financial stability is a good example for the new banking supervision of the euro area. The law applicable to the financial sector is always best tested in crisis situations. The meaning and importance of the rule crystallize in specific cases. International sanctions are increasing and the terrorist acts that are getting closer to us, as well as the Panama Paper Case, show how necessary it is for financial sector subjects to correctly apply the anti-money laundering and terrorist financing requirements. According to Estonian law, European Union legislation and international standards on which they are based, banks must understand the activities of their clients and monitor suspicious transactions. Through care measures, the legitimate functioning of the sector is ensured that the Estonian financial sector is not exploited for criminal purposes and its reputation is not damaged. In a tighter sense, it maintains regular relations between our banks in the international banking market. Sometimes it may be distant or abstract when it comes to the prevention of money laundering, but I will give a concrete example of how this daily life affects the everyday economy. Suppose we have a businessman or a businessman who buys goods for which he has to pay in dollars. In order to pay in dollars, he turns to his own bank, and the Estonian credit institution must have a corresponding relationship with a bank that is able to raise dollars, the so-called correspondent bank. If the correspondent bank operates in the jurisdiction of the dollar, it will also be subject to anti-money laundering requirements. If the correspondent bank of an Estonian credit institution now finds that the Estonian credit institution has behaved too risky or has not been careful enough to prevent money laundering and terrorist financing, or considers that the region is too risky in terms of money laundering, terrorist financing, then this correspondent bank may not be able to sell these dollars to our credit institution. The consequence is that our business can't be paid in dollars, and he has to either (a) stop this business or (b) find a place where dollar payments can be made. This is a perfectly practical and simple example of why it is very important to address, among other things, the prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing. The Financial Supervision Authority has decided to make the prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing one of its priorities. We have already significantly improved money laundering controls since the beginning of 2014 and explained our priorities to bank managers. This work will continue. The investment fund sector is transported by pension fund managers. The assets of the pension funds entrusted to them are close to EUR 3 billion, which is an important part of the property rights of consumers of this financial service. While the second pillar service initially started to be provided by six management companies, the pension funds are now managed by five management companies. In the near future, another management company has notified the exit from the pension fund market. Only three insurers provide the second pillar payout service. These facts indicate that competition in the sector is decreasing, although the latest news shows that there are also interested parties who want to enter the market at least with funds. The reduction in competition in the second pillar fund market is worrying, and in worse cases it has a negative impact on the price of the service. The Financial Supervision Authority welcomes the Ministry of Finance's initiative to assess the functioning of the second pillar, including the possibility of using new financial services suitable for collecting pensions, i.e. addressing barriers to entry into this market. This should have a positive impact on competition and increase it. The 14 years of the pension system may not be long enough to make changes to the foundations, but continuous monitoring and, where necessary, updating of the framework is a good thing. The European Union's initiatives to further regulate the financial sector following the previous financial crisis have been unprecedented and a major challenge for regulators, supervisors and market participants. On the one hand, it shows the European Union's ability to react quickly; on the other hand, the risk of overregulation cannot be underestimated. I believe that, in the light of the avalanche of regulations, Europe has a major challenge of maintaining the region's competitiveness, keeping the ground to the emergence of innovative solutions, avoiding that under new conditions only large market players can go along with regulation, which in turn can lead to concentration of risks. In the new strategy, the Financial Supervision Authority has committed itself to addressing issues related to financial innovation. We can do this on the basis of our competence. We are not innovators ourselves, but experts in risk and regulation in the financial sector. The key question is how to make sure that today's and future legal framework in Estonia, as well as in the European Union, does not become a brake that prevents market participants from using innovative technical solutions. At the same time, it must be taken into account that consumers must be able to make informed decisions. We've just started working here, and it's going on. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! The central task of the Financial Supervision Authority is to maintain financial stability, to ensure the integrity and transparency of financial markets as a whole. The "Annual Book of the Financial Supervision Authority 2015' made available to you describes the performance of these tasks during the 2015 accounting year, the 13th year of operation of the Financial Supervision Authority. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-03_U79	Thank you. Dear waitress, there are also questions for you. Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-03_U80	Thank you. As the Governor of Eesti Pank addressed my question to you, Chairman of the Management Board of the Honourable Financial Supervision Authority, I will ask you. What has been done in connection with the Estonian Cooperative Bank established under the leadership of the City of Tallinn, and what is your forecast for the future of this bank?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-03_U81	Thank you for your question. I will begin by explaining some legal facts and then we will also get answers. Firstly, there is a rule in the Financial Supervision Authority Act according to which our supervisory procedures are not public. Therefore, in the absence of the consent of the applicant concerned, I cannot dismantle one or another of the authorisation procedures in detail before the public, but I can briefly describe the rules of the law on the authorisation procedure for banks. The first rule concerning time is that it takes up to one year by law to process a bank's licence. Why is it so long? The point is that the business and organization of banks are usually very complex, and in order to let new players in the banking market, it must be understood that their organisation, managers, financing and business model are in order. These blocks, which I have now mentioned in terms of management, organisation, organisation, processes, systems, capitalisation, business model, are the issues that are being dealt with in each authorisation procedure for financial intermediaries, in particular in the banking licence procedure. A few more aspects. In the context of a single euro area banking supervision mechanism launched in November 2014, this same mechanism has the exclusive right to authorise and withdraw euro area banks. In practice, this means that the Estonian Financial Supervision Authority is the recipient and employee of the documents, but the process is carried out in cooperation with the European Central Bank and the final decision on the authorisation is made by SSM bodies (SSM is the abbreviation for the euro area banking supervision mechanism). It is not normally the task of financial supervision to predict to any financial intermediary its future life or its end. We always hope everything goes well, but we always prepare for the worst. If the financial intermediary operates according to the rules, we are very pleased.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-03_U82	Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-03_U83	Honourable President! Respectable waitress! Yesterday, when you spoke in the Committee on Monetary Affairs, I think you gave a quite comprehensive and exhaustive overview of how we have managed to participate in the single European supervisory system and what the disadvantages and benefits you think have been experienced so far. I have a request that you repeat the same answer today in a slightly improved form for the audience and for the verbatim.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-03_U84	Thank you! The content of the question was then summarised as to whether Estonia had benefited from a single mechanism for the supervision of the capital of banks in the euro area. For starters, what is this? I called it SSM once, which is short for the English words Single Supervisory Mechanism. It is a mechanism whose centre or decision-making bodies are located in Frankfurt within the European Central Bank. It is looking at whether the larger banks in the euro area Member States are complying with their prudential rules correctly. In cooperation with the banking supervision of the euro area Member States, the supervision of larger banks is carried out directly. In Estonia, two of our major banks, Swedbank and SEB, are directly supervised by SSM. For the supervision of these major banks, the relevant framework provides for the setting up of a single supervisory team composed of staff of the Financial Supervision Authority and staff of the European Central Bank. The head of the Financial Supervision Authority and the Governor of Eesti Pank participate in the decision-making bodies of the SSM. What are the advantages and disadvantages of SSM from the point of view of the Estonian Financial Supervision Authority? First of all, the SSM was not created because of Estonia; the reason for the creation was still such problem areas. One of the objectives of the SSM was to further separate financial sector supervision from political agents. Cinema from Estonia. Estonia is a very small country, jurisdiction is small, market participants are small, and our institution, as I mentioned, is among its kind one of the smallest, the smallest in the European Union. From our point of view, the disadvantages of SSM are, above all, those caused by joining a large organisation. This means that reporting within the organisation has become more complex, reporting chains and chain of command have been extended. This may have caused some distance from the market, from market participants. That's one. Secondly, on the minus side, since everything is good in the banking sector in Estonia and Scandinavia, compared to some other region of the euro area, such a cognitive perception that everything is good can take more of this point away from this region. It could also be one minus if you look at SSM from Estonia. Now the pros. I think you could name three pluses. The first is that monitoring is not only carried out according to the law, but also specifying methodologies. How to assess the adequacy of capital in relation to the risks taken, how to carry out on-the-spot checks, these are very detailed methodologies. Since we are a small institution, our methodologies have been based on this practice. The SSM is undoubtedly more powerful, I would say that, in some ways, even the scientific capacity to develop methodologies, and he has done so. We have sensed that this will help our work. The second plus: we have observed that there is a significant increase in the number of contacts and such joint dealings with colleagues from Latvia and Lithuania in the region, compared to the time before the creation of the SSM. The third point, which, fortunately, has not yet been tested, but which we see in some other euro area countries, is that if there is still a crisis situation, the support of the European Central Bank in resolving it will be significant. I believe that this would also be the case for Estonia. I hope that there will be no crisis, and the current images will not show it in any way, but if there is, it will certainly be additional support for us in the European Central Bank's picture as a country. That would be all for me.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-03_U85	Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-03_U86	President-in-Office of the Council. Mr President of the Board of the Financial Supervision Authority, thank you for your review. I'm still worried about pension funds. A few days ago, it was possible to read that a new player is coming to the landscape of the second pillar pension funds, a pension cooperative coming, who will probably present soon, if not already submitted, his documents in order to obtain authorisation. I understood that the Financial Supervision Authority broadly welcomes competition in the second pillar market. Can you tell me how many people already own the funds of the second pillar? What will this competition be like when one comes to us? Competition is certainly welcome, but what is the current situation?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-03_U87	Thank you! At present, there are two phases in the second pillar system: there is a collection phase that operates through investment funds, and then there is a payout phase that is mostly designed to operate through life insurance companies. If you look at the collection phase, there have been five management companies operating there so far. One has already left the market earlier, and now we have been informed that Danske is also going to leave the market, so there will be four more pension fund managers. As far as the payout phase is concerned, we know that three life insurance companies are involved in this issue. There is currently no particular interest for life insurance companies in dealing with this issue. The volumes are small, but they grow over time. This is also why we like competition in the financial market. This will have a positive impact on the price of financial services and the lower the price, the better the consumer, would say so. We therefore broadly welcome competition, especially where we see that there is no competition.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-03_U88	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-03_U89	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you, honourable waitress, for a meaningful review. I have sinned here in the meantime and read your yearbook. What a beautiful and proud yearbook you have never seen such a proud yearbook in a long time. As an old librarian, I began to explore who is the designer, where the ISSN number is printed. I'm looking, but there's nothing! Hey, what kind of publication is this? I'd put him in the library with these uncatalysed things. It's a beautiful book, but there's no information required.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-03_U90	Thank you! Interesting question and observation. Not at all in connection with this work, but my colleague and I have just examined the law on the coercion. It's a very interesting law for us too. According to the law of the compulsory copy, websites must also be notified. So your observation is certainly justified, especially in view of your background, as you yourself pointed out.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-03_U91	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-03_U92	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, I'm gonna grab your mouth and remember your sentence. You said that we hope that everything will go well, but we always prepare for the worst, with financial supervision in mind. The question is this: what risks, or perhaps even innovative, non-compliances, do you see as a financial supervisor, and which of them do you consider to be the biggest? I am not talking about the Estonian financial market, but about Europe in general.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-03_U93	Thank you! From the Estonian perspective, the risk of #1 is what is happening in Scandinavia or, more specifically, Sweden. In Sweden, household balance sheets, if you could say so, are quite large, quite amplified, household debt is quite high, real estate prices may be bubbling, especially in some metropolitan areas. And Swedish banks are financed by the market, they take money from the professional market and they borrow it further. If, now, these markets are to lose confidence in the success of the Swedish economy, the Swedish banks may face difficulties. According to the Swedish financial supervision itself, banks are so well capitalised in Sweden that it is currently estimated that this risk will not materialise in this way. Swedish banks also have sufficient buffers in Sweden. However, if the risk is realised by precisely how things will develop in the future, no one will be able to anticipate it, then it may happen that if Swedish parent banks experience difficulties, the difficulties will also be passed on to the subsidiaries. So the financial capacity of the subsidiaries is somehow being used to solve the problems of the parent banks. That is why we take the view and explain to our partners in Stockholm, and above all in Frankfurt, that Estonian banks, the daughters of Swedish banks, must keep enough buffers on the ground, so that if the risks materialise, the Estonian depositor should not suffer in any way. This is the first risk associated with the Nordic region or Sweden to mention. The second risk, which may not be such an immediate risk in Estonia, is such a general low interest rate environment. Some market participants have promised to pay higher interest rates to their customers through some financial services contracts, but as interest is low in the market, certain dissonance may arise between these two situations. But it's more of a life insurance problem. In Estonia, the share of life insurance in the total financial sector is currently very low, so it is more of a problem for larger countries in the euro area, such as Germany. We still have a quantitative risk of #1 when it comes to financial risk, what is happening in Sweden and around the parent banks there. The third thing that is not so much a financial risk, but can become one, is reputational issues. This is something I touched upon in my presentation on the same subject of the prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing. We must and will continue to maintain our good reputation in Estonia. We work consistently at the inspection, every day to keep them, say, non-financial risks at some reasonable level and also to reduce them. The share of non-residents' deposits is also measured as one element of the money laundering risk and statistics show a positive trend: the share of non-residents' deposits in all deposits has decreased in Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-03_U94	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-03_U95	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! You highlighted in your speech the flexibility of the European Union to do something about crises and to create new institutions if necessary. However, you also said that in such cases the risk of overregulation cannot be underestimated. This is such a claim that on the one hand and on the other. I'm more interested in the other side. I do not think this excellent publication will provide such a direct answer. It's about SSM, but you've already stopped on it. Several other financial supervisory authorities have also been discussed here, as well as the launch of the European Single Resolution Board. What exactly do you see as a threat?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-03_U96	Let us first recall the lesson of the financial crisis that has passed. The European Union introduced, one could say, kilos of new regulations and also created new institutions, institutions. And I think that, if you look at the euro area or the European Union as a whole, it has been positive. After all, we want the market to have uniform rules of the game and the judges to apply these rules in a uniform manner. On the other hand, it is also clear that when you look at Estonian financial intermediaries, they are all small and medium-sized enterprises in the euro area perspective. Looking at regulations, on the one hand, they ensure that consumers and the general public are protected from risks, on the other hand, compliance with and implementation of regulations is also a cost. And now that there are so many regulations and they are so complex that the costs of small businesses are going to be very high, given the size of the market and the possibility of earning money, it may be that a small business simply closes its shop. This, in turn, means that the market is concentrated, only very large ones remain. Risks are also concentrated. And then maybe we'll be back where the big ones are so big that nothing can happen to them. Although the European Union has now, at least, created a legal framework here, the same SRB that you mentioned, Single Resolution Board, a single reorganisation agency for the euro area. This should ensure that if it is not socially feasible to bankrupt the bank, the same SRB will heal the bank according to rules that are uniform across the euro area. It deals with banks in the euro area. So I guess these regulations, as you pointed out in the question, have their pluses or minuses. As far as the Financial Supervision Authority is concerned, we strongly believe that proportionality must be taken into account, which is not an unknown concept in the European Union either. Basically, this means that the rules are uniform, but they do not always have to be applied to very small businesses, say, in full detail. And the rules of proportionality, in turn, have been clarified by the European Union's authorities, which develop these uniform rules. In general, we in the European Union represent proportionality, i.e. consideration for small and medium-sized enterprises.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-03_U97	Raivo Põldaru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-03_U98	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear waitress, You can read in this book that when you supervise pension funds, you assessed the salaries of fund managers. What can you say about whether the fees and actual costs of managing the fund are in any way consistent or whether management fees are simply too high and, in reality, the costs are much lower?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-03_U99	Thank you! When it comes to the supervision of management companies and investment funds, what does the inspection do? Firstly, it grants licences to management companies, those companies that want to engage in this area. Whether the organisation complies with the requirements of the law, whether the managers comply with the requirements of the law, whether the capital requirements are met, etc. The terms and conditions of investment funds must be registered with us and we will also see whether these conditions comply with the requirements of the law. In the case of pension funds, the law provides for a ceiling for this remuneration. This is basically the only measure for financial supervision. If the remuneration rate laid down in the fund's terms does not exceed the statutory ceiling, this is not contrary to the law. These are the things we've been looking at when we checked in, of course. The question was whether these fees were too high. Here, of course, you can look at whether there is enough competition. If not enough, maybe the market is too small to act like this. So if you ask whether pension fund management fees are high or not, you should compare comparable things. In Estonia, it has sometimes happened that it compares to very large funds, where fees are, of course, relatively low in absolute figures. Our pension funds tend to be awfully small. This does not mean that the issue of remuneration should not be dealt with, and that is why I very much welcome the initiative of the Ministry of Finance. I also welcome the increase in competition in the pension fund market. These things in the collection should lead us to the fact that when pension funds generally grow, the fees will also come down.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-03_U100	Rock Hard, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-03_U101	Thank you. Head of the Board of the Good Financial Supervision Authority! Last year, a few days before the anniversary of the Republic, we passed the law on creditors and intermediaries here and gave you much more work. When the law was passed, at least in our group, the emphasis was on putting more heads on the providers of SMS loans so that our people could understand what they were taking, what they were taking with percentages, so that they could not get this loan very easily put on their heads. It's been a few weeks since you had to accept these requests. How do you comment on this law? Have the risks of borrowing the Estonian people decreased so that they can no longer be put in a bag?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-03_U102	Thank you! The central function of the Creditors and Credit Intermediaries Act, or KAVS, as we understand it, is to increase the ownership of the company, i.e. the professional lender and credit intermediary, the consumer credit provider and the intermediary, in implementing the principle of responsible lending. This means that those people who are already known in advance that they are unable to serve the loan will not receive the loan. How has this law increased the company's ownership? If until now it was not necessary to apply for a licence, the KAVS requires that each professional supplier and intermediary must obtain a licence from us. If he or she is not authorised and is active in this field, the Penal Code provides that he or she is a criminal offence. Such an increase in ownership is at least in the dialogue so far we have been in dialogue with the applicants for the licence to know. Communication has been such that ownership has increased. This law came fully into force only in March of this year. Let's see how he works, let's give him some time. In a year's time, I'll be back here and then I'll be happy to assess how this law is going to work, whether there are any bottlenecks and what they are.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-03_U103	Heimar Lenk, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-03_U104	Thank you, esteemed performer. I think that, as a senior executive, you cannot make important decisions without your personal attitude to the creation of a control or a financial institution. I therefore have a specific question about the cooperative bank in Tallinn. In recent decades we have not established such financial institutions, but there were many in the first Republic of Estonia and there are many in other European countries. How do you feel about creating such a bank? Will it enrich our banking market, is it a positive phenomenon? How would you describe this process that we haven't had in 25 years?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-03_U105	One of my colleagues loves to say that he lacks faith, hope, and love in his work, and that he is passionately based solely on the letter of the law. What can I say in that light? Yes, the Credit Institutions Act provides for the possibility that a cooperative bank, a completely legitimate form of business, can apply for a banking licence. That's one. The second thing I said earlier, although in the context of pension funds, is that we think competition as such is very positive. Thirdly, to come to a regulated financial market, these applicants still have to pass the test. In the law, these are, figuratively speaking, test questions, and the requirements of the law must be met. If the applicant complies with the requirements of the law, he/she is welcome to operate in a regulated financial market, either in the form of a cooperative or a public limited company, in the same way as the applicant has chosen a form of business. God with him.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-03_U106	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-03_U107	Thank you, manager. Mr President of the Financial Supervision Authority. Awakening Estonian citizens have found that a new pension fund is needed to bring down fund management fees. Can you tell us what could be fatal to those who take this optimistic step, or what is the obstacle? What is the biggest obstacle to creating this fund? Is this initial capital, or is there a risk that could hinder them?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-03_U108	These obstacles can be very rich, let's say so. Looking at purely financial supervision, I see only one obstacle. This obstacle is that the requirements of the law are not met if you come to apply for a licence. This is the only obstacle; there can be no more obstacles from our point of view, or from the point of view of the financial supervisor. But once again: if the market for our pension funds becomes more diverse and there is more competition, I believe and hope that, as a result, these fees may come down. We've also been able to read in the papers that the plan is to lower these fees.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-03_U109	Thank you, Chairman of the Board of the Financial Supervision Authority, Kilvar Kessler! The members of the Riigikogu have no further questions. I will open negotiations for representatives of the political groups. There is no wish to negotiate. This item is addressed.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-03_U110	Next on our agenda is the first reading of the draft law on supplementing party law initiated by the Group of the Estonian Conservative People's Party, the Group of the Estonian Reform Party, the Group of the Estonian Free Party, the Group of the Isamaa and Res Publica Union and the Group of the Social Democratic Party. In the name of the initiators, a presentation will be made by Kalvi Tough. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-03_U111	Good Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, I am here before you with a draft law supplementing the party law. I wouldn't say it's a very good bill, but it's definitely a very necessary bill. The purpose of this draft law is to ensure the overall credibility of the parties' funding monitoring committee. Members of a body entitled to check the legality of the funding of political parties shall not be penalised for a criminal offence committed intentionally or for an intentional offence against the State. Nor should there be people in the Commission who are forbidden to act in such an area. Consequently, the draft adds a new paragraph to the section on the supervision of the financing of political parties:' (21) The Political Financing Supervisory Committee may not belong to a person: 1) who has been punished for a criminal offence committed intentionally; 2) who has been punished for a intentional crime against the state, regardless of the deletion of the criminal record; 3) who has been deprived of the right to engage in a particular occupation or exercise in a particular occupation by a judgment. ' Often, I too have been asked when this law will be passed and how fast it will be. The proposal of the initiators of the draft act is that the law enters into force in general terms, and the procedure is likely to be the same as the Riigikogu's rules of procedure and rules of procedure. I call on all members of the Riigikogu and the political groups to support this draft. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-03_U112	Questions for the waitress. Valdo Randpere, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-03_U113	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good waitress! Basically, I do not like legislation that comes from one person who will then change the law. In the past, we know of some examples of such very personal laws, and they have never worked very well. I'm not saying it's jealous that Toobal will now have a law of his own name, and I don't. But basically, I see some shortcomings in this bill, and I wanted to ask you about them. The first question is, for example, this. It says here who has been punished for a deliberate crime against the state, regardless of the deletion of the criminal record. But why not, for example, for crimes against individuals? Some of them are very cool, anti-early, anti-human, etc. However, I have an even more interesting question. In addition to the punished former member of the Riigikogu, we also have a political party punished. Should not the people of this political party, who has been convicted of criminal offences, also be excluded from all supervisory, control and special committees?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-03_U114	Thank you, my good colleague. As we all know, draft laws are dealt with three times in this Chamber of the Riigikogu and the Commission is doing important work in the meantime. The five groups that have initiated this draft, of course, considered all the options, discussed the one way and the other way. But we certainly have very competent colleagues in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, of which you are not a member, and there are also very competent officials. If you put forward an amendment such as you said, our colleagues will analyse it and perhaps make a series of corrections on the basis of your proposals.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-03_U115	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-03_U116	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable waitress! Although there is also the signature of the Free Party Group here, I do not like dealing with this draft as much as I do. My question is this: how do you comment on the health of Estonian political culture in general? The case of Priit Toobal that we are dealing with here is a very clearly personalized matter. But let's look a little wider, for example, at the fact that today's media attention is not about Tallinn's Television just appeared on the balcony focusing more on this bill than on the crucial presentation by Eesti Pank and the presentation by the Financial Supervision Authority that we just had here.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-03_U117	Yes, dear colleague, of course this is not a draft of dreams to come forward here. An interview was also taken from me during the break, and I assumed that this was about the speech I made here after the bank representative's presentation, but they asked about the law on supplementing party law. So the focus is really like this. However, when we created this work five or six years ago as a separate institution of the Political Financing Supervisory Commission, the Riigikogu committee did it earlier, it was probably not possible to anticipate all the topics at first. Of course, we could have drawn attention to this earlier and analysed who might belong to it earlier, and we could have foreseen bottlenecks. We also know that the Commission for the Financing of Political Parties itself has tried, through its internal regulation, to prevent certain persons who hold a sentence from becoming a committee, but this decision has been brought before the Court. Since this has not been enough, we must do this work in this Chamber, perhaps we must amend the law. Of course, good proposals from all our colleagues are welcome, which will make this more complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-03_U118	Marika Tuus-Laul, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-03_U119	Thank you. Indeed, the laws of one person have been made here before, especially in the context of property reform, as I recall. Here is now the opposite example. So can we punish one person for one thing so many times? Isn't that judgment enough for him?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-03_U120	Thank you. Unlike you, I don't remember any of the drafts of one person involved in the property reform. I say, however, that if this bill is perhaps motivated by one person, then, in the end, we do not want the funding of our parties to be supervised by those who have been convicted of more or less of these very motives, whoever they are. However, we are amending the law precisely to ensure that the work of the Political Financing Monitoring Committee is credible.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-03_U121	Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-03_U122	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, I was asked the first two questions that were asked in this Chamber. One questioner was from the coalition, the other was from the opposition, but neither Randper nor Herkel likes the bill. Then why are we even doing this? The initiators don't like it, the individual people don't like it. Do you still feel like a tear in your eyes but should do it? Let's cry, but let's do it?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-03_U123	Good Mikhail! That Saturday, I did a job at home, pulled something with a rifle, and took it somewhere to the recycling plant. It's a bad job, but I had to do it.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-03_U124	Heimar Lenk, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-03_U125	The last answer was yes, I don't know who to say hello to the farmers. I wanted to ask you if we weren't creating a precedent. That if we cannot defeat one person, there is no way to prevent him from belonging to a committee, do we have to pass a law at the level of the Riigikogu, Parliament? Are we going to go on in the same way that if no one is wanted in a rural society, we will make a law so that this man can't go there? In the Republic of Estonia, is there no so-called smaller documents, something inferior to the law, to prevent one person from being part of a commission? I think it's a little ridiculous what we're doing here today.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-03_U126	Thank you. Certainly, different organisations and committees have their own regulations on how people are elected and why someone is excluded if there is such a need. But we are talking here today about the law on supplementing party law and the committee on the supervision of party funding, which is a committee made by law. It's not just a regular NGO, good Heimar.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-03_U127	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-03_U128	Thank you, manager. Dear waitress, Should this draft not be supplemented by a few very important points? In my opinion, this committee should not include, for example, people who are chronically indebted to tax, who are long-term and chronically indebted to the state. Secondly, could the Commission be a member of the people who deal with offshore companies? After all, this means that the Estonian state is not reliable, people go somewhere to optimize taxes. Do you think these two points could be added to this bill?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-03_U129	Thank you. Good Tarmo, after me, the remote colleague Martin Kukk will be here. Either at the beginning or at the end of his report, he says that the deadline for amendments is a certain date. By that date, it will be possible to table amendments and, if you submit them, the Commission will certainly analyse them. I'm not saying that this list is final and complete, but of course we can't write here either that if the suspicion comes from some newspaper column or that there's a rumor on the level. These amendments, which you may be making, are analysed and, as initiators, we do not rule out that the current list is not yet complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-03_U130	Jaanus Karilaid, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-03_U131	Thank you to the manager. Good waitress! I think it is very positive that you are so committed to ethical and moral issues. Only recently did the Social Democrat Ivari Padar get one decision at the administrative court, which was negative for him. Are you familiar with this judgment and should Ivari Padari also be subject to some sort of separate sanctions or rules? The decision concerned the return of the land of Tartu Agro.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-03_U132	Thanks! In general, I do not know all the judgments handed down against one or another of our colleagues when they have applied to court, but I know very precisely the sentence of my good neighbour, Ivari Padar. I can tell you, then, that Ivar Padar went to court and filed an appeal that certain individuals constantly insult him in public. He wanted to control the level of insulting you, Jaanus, for example, and when it would become illegal. The Court of First Instance said that, since a person has been a minister, has taken any decisions, the limit of how much he may be offended cannot be measured. Figuratively speaking, ordinary citizens, or anyone, may offend any politician as much as they deem appropriate. I think Ivari Padar tested the limit to where a politician might be offended. Now we know that you, good Jaanus, can be insulted as much as the heart calls. But this does not concern the draft we are discussing.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-03_U133	March Sults, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-03_U134	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Good waitress! Knowing this trial and the case of the citizen to whom the bill applies, I have such a question. Could the initiation of this bill and the sending of the draft to first reading be the result of the fact that, since this whole court case seemed to be invented, the other parties involved in it fear that the Commission would come to the vigilante and find out all the places where others have been wrong? Is this not because of fear and the suppression of free democracy?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-03_U135	No, I'm not sharing this conspiracy theory with you, and the initiators have certainly not submitted a draft as a result.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-03_U136	Heimar Lenk, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-03_U137	I would remind you that the law on the basis of property reform, which has been in this hall, I don't know, maybe three or fourty times, has been corrected all the time, because greedy former owners can't get their appetites up. Indeed, there was a law in this regard called the cow's baby law. Thus, some meadow could be returned to distant relatives. Otherwise, they couldn't get it, and then they had to make a law for one case. Does it not seem to you that today you are creating a satire page in Estonian parliamentary history in this Chamber that today's session will go down in history with the creation of the Hard Tobal Act?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-03_U138	Thanks! Good colleague! This bill has been initiated by five political groups of the Riigikogu. These laws, which are initiated by such a large number of members of the Riigikogu, are relatively rare. I don't want to take all the credit.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-03_U139	Viktor Vassilyev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-03_U140	Thank you, Mr President. Dear colleague Kalvi! Do you not think that this law will also repress other people who have been prosecuted and punished during a completely different regime? They've had a punishment, too. In that time and space, everything was legal, it was political processes. The current Toobal case is also a political process, because if the coalition forces, using all the possibilities in their hands, are found guilty of both the largest opposition party and its secretary-general, it is a political process. Aren't you ever afraid to gain the same fame as Soviet repressive bodies when the political situation changes?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-03_U141	Thank you. Ho ho ho ho ho ho ho, not afraid. We have not convicted anyone, good colleague, I have not convicted anyone, no one has convicted anyone in this Chamber. This has been done by the respective institutions. So there's no connection to the conviction here.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-03_U142	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-03_U143	Good manager! Good waitress! I'm asking your opinion on this. After all, the aim of the Political Financing Monitoring Committee is to monitor whether no one makes a pig. But for that, it would be best if there were people out there who knew the details of how this thing works. Shouldn't there be parties' secretaries-general or those who have worked there for a long time? Then the guys would watch the other guys' fingers because they know best how to use that money.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-03_U144	We're not saying there shouldn't be ex-secretaries. We are saying that there should not be persons who have been punished for a crime committed intentionally, who have been punished for a deliberate crime against the state, regardless of the deletion of criminal records, or who have been deprived of the right to exercise a certain position. I don't even see this possibility that there can be one convicted person in every political party. I don't see a parallel between the secretary-general and this bill. No one can prohibit the former Secretary-General from belonging to that committee.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-03_U145	Siret Eagle, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-03_U146	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! Unlike other members of the Riigikogu in this Chamber, I have been a member of the ERJK for several years and therefore I know this indoor climate quite well. If you look at the years I worked there, I can say that this action was very clearly directed against only one party. The finances of the other parties were not even processed. In view of the fact that your own party partner Ardo Ojasalu is also known in the press for all kinds of slippers, tax fraud, the ethics of this committee is highly questionable. In this light, does it not seem to you that in spite of the ERJK, the Parliamentary Chamber has now simply been transferred?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-03_U147	No, I don't think so. You mentioned the Social Democratic Party and Ardo Ojasalu here. If Ardo Ojasalu had really been wrong about these points, i.e. intentionally committed a crime and all the other things that I have read here several times, he could not, of course, be in this committee. But if there's a rumor somewhere, somewhere in the press, there's something to understand... If he is found guilty, of course he cannot be in this committee, but there is no doubt at all about him now.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-03_U148	Arno Bridge, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-03_U149	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear waitress, The draft states: 'who has been punished for a deliberate crime against the state, regardless of the deletion of the criminal record'. It seems to me that this last part, regardless of the deletion of the criminal record, is extremely repressive and redundant. As we know, the legal principles are that a person, when he has done something, will be rehabilitated in time. Do you agree with me that this last part is redundant here?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-03_U150	Dear colleague Arno, I disagree. There's nothing to do, if you've still committed an anti-State crime, I don't think you have a point. The political party can appoint a large number of other people from among its members who could supervise. And, as we know, there are generally very, very few people that are indispensable.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-03_U151	Marika Tuus-Laul, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-03_U152	Thank you. I understand that the person who has already been punished will then, in your opinion, still be punished and must not be part of the committee on the supervision of funding. But, for example, could a person who has only been called into question be part of this committee? You said that the party had a lot of people who could be proposed as a member of this committee. Perhaps you'd be better off with Mr. Edgar Savisaar?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-03_U153	If the person that your party will propose to this committee meets the criteria that are currently in force and those that we have proposed with this bill, you can present anyone for me.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-03_U154	Viktor Vassilyev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-03_U155	Thank you, Mr President. Dear colleague Kalvi! In answer to my question, you said very convincingly from that speech chair that you didn't convict anyone. I was very familiar with it, in Nuremberg they shouted the same with the same conviction. However, you did not refute my claim that this is a political process. Then why not honestly say that you do not want anyone who is a member of the Centre Party to be anywhere, never to be involved in any decision-making process, that you want to keep the leadership of the whole country in your hands forever and ever, for a thousand years?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-03_U156	Thank you. Once again, we have not convicted anyone. As I have heard here, Siret Eagle is a former member of this committee. As a result of this committee's work, I think he has now become the vice-chairman of the party. No? I haven't exactly figured out what position he's in either. I think you'll find another worthy candidate among the members of the party as worthy as Siret Kotka.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-03_U157	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-03_U158	Good manager! Good waitress! My question is, however, competence. If money is to be considered, the criterion should be, above all, a deep competence in the matter of which it is spoken. But my question to you is wider. We discussed here before the Governor's report. For example, should the members of the Supervisory Board of Eesti Pank also be subject to some minimum requirement that both the members of the Supervisory Board and the Chairman of the Supervisory Board should have, for example, higher economic or financial education?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-03_U159	There are certainly normal requirements also for the members of the Bank's Supervisory Board, for example, on what is in any case excluded or what penalties they must not have. I haven't read them so accurately, so I can't comment. Today we are talking about the Political Financing Monitoring Commission. It is the one and only institution that monitors and analyses the party's finances. So, of course, there must be competent people there, and I hope that there will be another competent person in your party besides Priit Toobal.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-03_U160	Siret Eagle, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-03_U161	Good manager! Good waitress! The Political Financing Monitoring Commission should in practice be a highly ethical and value-based Commission in order to be able to take decisions. My question is the same. The chairman of the committee is known through the press as a person who can mess with taxes. Does it then coincide with the values of the Social Democrats that such a person is in the Committee on the Monitoring of the Financing of Political Parties?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-03_U162	Thank you. If you have such information that he has made some kind of black deals or whatever you're referring to, then it's a court, the prosecutor's office, the institution that has to find out. I'm not taking a stand for any rumor.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-03_U163	Jaanus Karilaid, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-03_U164	Thank you, manager. Good waitress! I have to admit, you're making a very hypocritical impression, Kalvi. You give a very hypocritical impression in the sense that you talk about ethics, political responsibility and morality so passionately in a situation where the National Audit Office comes out with an audit, which shows that the Police and Border Guard Board is on the brink of a crisis where farmers, unlike our neighbours, do not receive direct payments, where you watched the secret claim of the VEB Fund calmly. I haven't seen any ethical or moral issues in them. Priit Toobal has been punished in court, but he does not have to deal with the financial affairs of the Centre Party in that committee; he must not do so. He'll have to deal with the Social Democrats and the IRL, and then your lantern will burn. So I'm saying that energy is going to the wrong place in social matters right now. But I guess that's the fate of the Sots to fade away. Good luck to you!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-03_U165	Thank you. We've got plenty of energy for everything, so don't worry about it! We have the energy to deal with both such drafts and major state issues.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-03_U166	Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-03_U167	Honorable President! Respectable waitress! When I first sat in this hall 26 years ago, the Supreme Council at that time had an ethics committee. It was led by a pastor, later known as the ruin of the Narva Church by Villu Jürjo, originally a member of the Fatherland Union and now a member of the Centre Party. I am interested to hear that we have so many ethics experts in this Chamber. Perhaps we should also consider setting up a ethics committee. What do you think?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-03_U168	I can't even imagine what amendment could bring to this law the creation of an ethics committee, how could a cluster law be done to form a ethics committee in the Riigikogu. But if you and Jüri Adams come up with such a good plan and make an amendment, then the Committee on Constitutional Affairs will discuss it.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-03_U169	March Sults, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-03_U170	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good waitress! Listening to this debate and to the bouncing of the ball from one gate to another, I had a very pragmatic question. So tell me, Kalvi, how much is one place in the Political Financing Monitoring Commission. How much is it?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-03_U171	Good friend, I don't know what he's paying. I owe an answer to this question, which costs, for example, sending a person there in your party.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-03_U172	Oudekki Loone, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-03_U173	Honourable waitress! The Commission for the Supervision of Financing of Our Political Parties is in principle a biased committee. This is the kind of committee to which members are appointed politically, not on the basis of whether they are specialists or not. This is done for a good reason, judging that the supervision of political parties is in principle such a sensitive matter that it cannot be done impartially. That is basically a good principle. But the draft we are discussing now goes against this principle. Here, other parties are going to make injunctions for one they may or may not name. In fact, only voters, not other parties, can evaluate the party's work, morals and the fight for its policies. Why have you decided that political parties must start interfering with each other's internal lives?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-03_U174	Thank you. Firstly, this bill will not interfere with the internal affairs of any political party. This bill, which we have brought before you here, has been drafted on quite a different basis. Secondly, my dear colleague, you argued that only politically would members be appointed to the Committee on the Financing of Political Parties, that political parties would appoint their representatives there. It's not like that. Please, open this law and read it. The members are also appointed by the representatives of the constitutional institutions, the National Audit Office or who was there, and I do not have this exact text ahead of me. Look it up, it's not just party representatives.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-03_U175	There are no further questions for the representative of the initiators. Martin Kukk will make a presentation on behalf of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-03_U176	Good Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, The Constitutional Commission discussed the draft at its meeting on 19 April, which started at 2 a.m. The representative of the initiators of the draft act explained that it was necessary to ensure overall public credibility with regard to the members of the Political Financing Monitoring Commission. Advisor to the Ministry of Justice introduced the positions of the Government of the Republic and explained that the Government of the Republic discussed the draft at its meeting on 14 April and decided to support the draft. The Government of the Republic considered that some issues would require further regulation and analysis during the draft procedure. In order to ensure that the draft amendments do not undermine the principle of legitimate expectations, it is necessary to determine when the draft amendments are to enter into force and to whom they can be applied at all. There can be no retroactive or retroactive effect on the draft, and a reasonable transitional period must certainly be provided for when the draft enters into force. The members of the Commission heard the explanations and asked questions from the representative of the initiators of the draft and the advisor of the Ministry of Justice. Among other things, there was an interest in whether the initiators of the draft had also discussed the restriction on foreign nationals, i.e. that foreign citizens could not be members of the Political Financing Supervisory Commission. The representative of the initiators of the draft act replied that this had not been discussed, but such an addition could be made if necessary. At the moment, however, it has been a prerequisite for political parties to submit their members of the Political Financing Monitoring Commission, who generally have to meet certain conditions. It was noted that at one time, when the law on the regulation of the Political Financing Monitoring Commission was written into the law, it was also considered whether it should be noted that a member of this committee could not be an active politician, i.e. a Member of the Parliament, a Minister, etc. It was also the idea that a member should not be a party employee in order to exclude the possibility of a conflict of interest. At the time, these restrictions were not included in the law. The Commission was asked whether they could now be included in the draft text. The representative of the initiators of the draft act agreed that members may be members of the party, but maybe they should not really be involved in the day-to-day management and financial activities of the party. The introduction of these restrictions could therefore be considered after the first reading of the draft. The Commission found, inter alia, that the Political Financing Monitoring Committee should not be composed of the political parties' secretaries-general, precisely because those responsible for the economic activities of political parties cannot supervise the same activities. This would essentially mean that they would supervise themselves. One Member of the Commission asked to clarify whether the restrictions imposed by the draft act also apply to employment in other public offices. The representative of the initiators of the draft act replied that the same restrictions stem from the Civil Service Act for all civil servants (Article 15 of the ATS). At the end of the debate on this item on the Commission's agenda, it was decided to propose that the draft be placed on the agenda for the plenary session on 3 May 2016 (the decision was taken by consensus). Secondly, it was decided to propose the termination of the first reading (by 7, 0 against and 3 abstentions). Thirdly, it was proposed to set 10 working days for the amendments, i.e. 17 May 2016 at 5.15 p.m. (this decision was also consensual). Finally, Martin Kukk, member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, was decided to act unanimously as rapporteur. Thank you for listening.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-03_U177	Questions. Valdo Randpere, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-03_U178	Thank you. I've already asked you that, good waitress, your previous speaker, the initiator's representative, Kalvi Tough, but I'm going to ask you a little bit differently. First of all, for clarification. I am in no way Priit Toobal's lawyer, I do not absolutely believe that a criminally sanctioned person should belong to the Political Financing Supervision Commission. However, I think it could be so self-evident that it should not be regulated by law. But since this is not so self-evident, you could look the other way around, go all the way to the other side and say that we are giving an exhaustive list of those who may not be part of the Commission. There's another deficit that I'm about to see, which I mentioned earlier. It's that the whole Central Party has actually been convicted. We have a criminal organization called the Central Party. The question is whether such a party convicted of criminal offences should at all be able to appoint its representative to the Committee on Financing of Parties. The Kalvi has advised me to speak to the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. You're one of its members, and I'm gonna ask you. Was it discussed in the Commission that the Centre Party or any convicted party should not be able to present a representative there?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-03_U179	Thank you. Firstly, I would not go into the details of any particular political party or individual in the process of dealing with this draft, because by making a specific draft, we are thinking about the future, not about the past. This means that the draft does not so much concern one party or one person, but concerns regulation more generally. Secondly, my personal view is that if a member of a political party, if I fail to mention the party, has been convicted and if, among other things, a legal person has been convicted, it will not give rise to any discrimination against the entire political party in a democratic society. Perhaps my view is that even if a party has obtained a conviction in a court of law as a legal person, that does not mean that this party should be excluded from democratic processes. On the contrary, in any case, it is justified that this party has a representative there.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-03_U180	No further questions. I'm opening negotiations. There's no call. The Commission's proposal is to conclude the first reading of draft 208. I will set the deadline for submitting amendments to the draft at 5.15 p.m. on 17 May.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-03_U181	Our next item is the first reading of the Bill 187 on Dispute Settlement of the Housing Association Act initiated by the Group of the Estonian Centre Party. On behalf of the initiators, Mikhail Korb will make a presentation. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-03_U182	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! Today we are discussing a draft law initiated by the Estonian Centre Party Group concerning the settlement of disputes between the building association. In principle, we discussed the same draft with you in the autumn of last year. Last time, there was an open discussion on this subject in the hall. You asked how the impartiality of the members of the Commission would be ensured or how the situation in the municipalities where there are only three apartment buildings would be resolved. With this draft, we have addressed the above-mentioned shortcomings. The draft has been improved and has become considerably more comprehensive than the previous one. Let us now go to the substance of the bill. The draft establishes dispute resolution committees for the building association in Tallinn, Tartu, Pärnu and Jõhvi. The committees will be set up in specific municipalities, among whom the problems that exist in all Estonian regions will be shared. For example, the committee in Tallinn resolves disputes that arise not only in Tallinn but also in Harjumaa, Läänemaa and Raplamaa. This ensures that each Commission resolves the disputes that have arisen in its own area of work and that the burden is evenly distributed. The Commission is an intermediary body between courts and housing associations, which would help resolve the conflicts arising in housing associations free of state fees. In Estonia, these intermediate bodies function very well. You can mention, for example, the Labour Dispute Committee, the Consumer Disputes Committee and also the Rental Committee in Tallinn. Now on the legal side. Disputes in which the parties are entitled to appeal to the Commission are, for example, disputes concerning the annulment of the decision of the general meeting and the finding of nullity of the decision. This can also be done if the management board of the building management company refuses to publish information on the cooperative's activities or if the management board refuses to introduce documents concerning the building management company to the member of the cooperative. The problems which the Commission is justified to resolve are also disputes arising from the lack of record of the meeting of the building management company and the lack of clarity in the use of the cooperative's funds. The Commission is competent to deal with matters where material claims are limited to EUR 10000. The referral to the Commission shall be voluntary, and the parties concerned may also refer directly to the Court. Both the Commission and the Court cannot be addressed at the same time. The period for lodging a claim shall be four months after the facts have been established. The Commission shall have three members, comprising the President of the Commission and at least two members. If the same dispute has not been brought before the County Court after the decision of the Commission has been taken, the Commission's decision shall enter into force definitively within 20 days. A number of questions were raised last time on how the independence of the members of the Commission is ensured. In the draft, we made a significant addition to this topic. The independence of the members of the Commission shall be ensured by establishing a reduction function. The objection shall be granted where the President or a member of the Commission has a personal interest in the outcome of the case or where there are other circumstances on which their impartiality is suspected. Once the Commission's decision has finally entered into force, it will no longer be possible to refer the case to the Court. Generally speaking, it takes about five months for a civil dispute to be settled in the Court of First Instance. The Commission's aim is to resolve the dispute much more quickly, with simpler disputes being subject to a decision within one month. Referral to the Commission is an alternative option alongside the court, free of charge to the applicant. The conditions of employment of the committee on the settlement of the housing cooperative dispute, such as premises and technical services, shall be guaranteed by the county government to which the committee is to be set up. The Commission's administrative costs and the costs of resolving the dispute shall be borne by the State budget. Finally, in my speech, I would also like to touch on the position of the Government of the Republic on this draft. The Government of the Republic indicated that this was a similar draft, as was 54 SE, which was defended by the Group of the Estonian Centre Party in the Commission and the Chamber last autumn. I would point out here that this is a similar draft in substance, but the regulation of the draft has been substantially improved. The comments made by the Commission and the Chamber and the shortcomings identified have been taken into account. It seems that the Government of the Republic has not fully examined the current draft and considers it to be the same draft that we initiated last year. One important reason why the Government of the Republic of Estonia did not support the draft was that the draft explanatory memorandum did not provide an assessment of the costs and effects involved. Indeed, there is no separate point in the explanatory memorandum on the analysis of the effects, but anyone who reads the draft and reads the explanatory memorandum realises that, if the draft Act enters into force, people will have the opportunity to turn to the Commission, free of state fees, to resolve disputes on the surface of housing associations. As a result, the administrative burden on courts to resolve these issues will be reduced. In the case of simple matters, the decision of the appellant will be reached considerably earlier. Thank you for listening and I look forward to asking questions about this bill.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-03_U183	Questions for the initiator of the draft. Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-03_U184	Hello, dear colleague. These committees have been discussed a lot before. What do you think about the fact that even though a new housing cooperative law will be in place as of 1 January 2018, nothing has been done so far?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-03_U185	Since we introduced the draft last time, we have received quite a lot of positive feedback from citizens who have welcomed the possibility of this. Last time, unfortunately, due to certain political backgrounds, our draft was not supported, but the possibility that people can turn directly to an organisation that resolves their issues without state fees and without long legal proceedings is really very welcome. The entry into force of the new Apartment Association Act in 2018, which makes it even more difficult, certainly requires such an arbitration or intermediary body between the Housing Association and the Court.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-03_U186	Kersti Sarapuu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-03_U187	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress, do you know from your experience whether such a commission has been set up in some municipalities? What are the best results achieved in the work of such a Commission?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-03_U188	I have heard that such a commission has been set up in Paide. As in other places, this Commission has a consultative role. Certainly, the committee with an advisory function can also work quite well. But the purpose of the Act is to create a body whose decision would be to comply and which would simplify and speed up the internal processes of housing companies. This committee not only deals with cases where a member of the building management company is not satisfied with the cooperative's activities, but also with situations such as those that occurred this year in Kohtla-Järve, where some people in large houses paid utilities and some did not pay. In this case, the management board of the building management company will have the opportunity to turn to the Commission to find a solution to its problems and also to demand funds to pay the invoices submitted to the cooperative.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-03_U189	Thank you, dear waitress. The first reading of the draft is interrupted at this point, as the working time of the Riigikogu's plenary session ended. The questions will continue tomorrow. Power! Closure of the sitting at 1 p.m.
