ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-26_U1	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. We will begin the 3rd working week Tuesday session of the 3rd plenary session of the Riigikogu. Do colleagues have a desire to pass on drafts or enquiries? Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-26_U2	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the members of the Free Party Group, I have an inquiry to report to Urmas Kruus on possible illegal state aid to AS Tartu Agro. In fact, after 3,000 hectares between the Ministry of Rural Affairs and Tartu Agro, there has been a strange startling of chickens since 2000. The uncertainty is in the price of the rent. A committee of inquiry was also convened between 2013 and 2014. We certainly want to know from Urmas Kruus what the findings of this committee's investigation are and how the Ministry of Rural Affairs intends to follow these conclusions. We would like to know how a fair and open competition is guaranteed for the distribution of rental land. Of course, we also want to know where the price difference comes from and how the Ministry of Rural Affairs intends to proceed with these lease contracts. Negotiations are currently underway and looking for ways to extend the lease contracts until 2040. The European Commission has also been asked whether the State grants illegal State aid to the company. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-26_U3	Siret Eagle, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-26_U4	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the members of the Centre Party Group, I am submitting an inquiry to the Minister for Rural Affairs, Urmas Kruus. It deals with the situation and the future of Estonian pig farming. As we know, African swine fever is widespread throughout Estonia. Compared to Latvia and Lithuania, Maarja's land has the highest number of areas covered by plagues. More than 400 pig farmers have now had to put an end to their activities. Some domestic farmers have ceased their activities because the plague has invaded the stables, while others because of restrictions on sales in zones, which have caused very serious economic damage. The future of Estonian pig farming is unclear and puts hundreds of jobs in rural areas at risk, where there are already few. If this continues, there is a very high risk that in the future Estonia and its domestic pigs will no longer be able to feed the people of Maarja County and more pork will have to be imported to meet demand. As a result of African swine fever, nearly 23000 domestic pigs have already been killed and pig farmers have deliberately reduced the number of sows in the main herd by one third after the economic downturn. So the situation is catastrophic. For all this, we have five questions for the Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-26_U5	Thank you. There is no further wish to forward drafts or requests for information. On behalf of the Executive Board of the Riigikogu, I have adopted two inquiries. The Management Board of the Riigikogu processes them in accordance with the Home and Working Procedures Act. Checking for presence. 85 members of the Riigikogu registered as present, missing 16. Attention, colleagues, attention! As the debate on the agenda items is not scheduled for today, the session is closed. Closure of the sitting at 10.06.
