ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-06_U1	Dear Riigikogu, good afternoon. We will begin the Monday session of the 17th working week of the 3rd plenary session of the Riigikogu. Who wants to hand over drafts or inquiries? Viktor Vassilyev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-06_U2	Mr. Chairman of the Riigikogu! The members of the Centre Party Group have a question to the Minister for Defence. The content of the inquiry is that last year, almost 12,000 professionals passed the Medical Commission of the Defence Resources Board and only a third of them met the health requirements to serve in the Defence Forces. One third was permanently unfit and another third temporarily unfit. So only one third of us have eligible young men. And of those who went to serve time, about a fifth were sent home for health reasons. What's this about? How is it possible that we have raised a generation of young men, two thirds of whom are not defensive? Nor can it be said that the health requirements are too strict, because already in 2013, when it turned out that quite a lot of boys were unfit for military service, the requirements were relaxed. And still two-thirds don't answer them. It can't be said that the military service is such that it breaks a bone very badly. In Soviet times, 5-10% were unfit and then two or three years were earned, not just as they are now, and not in Viljandi, but in Kazakhstan. So it was really hard. We have three questions in this regard for the Minister of Defence. Why are our young people not meeting the requirements? What's the status now? What is the Department of Defense planning to do about this? We, members of the Centre Party, would very much like to accuse the Government of the Republic and the Minister of the fact that this is the case, but we would like to know exactly what they are guilty of. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-06_U3	Representative of the Government of the Republic Heili Tõnisson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-06_U4	Mr. Chairman! Good Riigikogu! The Government of the Republic is launching five draft laws today. First, the draft law amending the Labour Working Conditions Act, the Social Tax Act, the Income Tax Act and the Employment Contracts Act. Evgeni Ossinovski, Minister of Health and Labour, represents the Government of the Republic in the Riigikogu when processing this draft. Secondly, the draft law amending the Waste Act and the Environmental Charges Act. Marko Pomerants, Minister of the Environment, represents the Government of the Republic in the Riigikogu when processing this draft. Thirdly, the draft law amending the matrimonial property register law and related amendments to other laws relating to the maintenance of the matrimonial property register and the transfer of entries. In the Riigikogu, the Government of the Republic is represented by Urmas Reinsalu, Minister of Justice, when dealing with the bill. Fourthly, the draft law amending the Accounting Act. And fifthly, the bill amending § 100 of the Gambling Act. The Government of the Republic is represented by the Minister of Finance Sven Sester when these two draft laws are processed in the Riigikogu. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-06_U5	I have adopted five drafts and one inquiry, and the Bureau will deal with them in accordance with the Home and Rules of Procedure Act. Incoming check, please! There are 86 members of the Riigikogu at the plenary session, no 15. Honourable Riigikogu, now on the agenda. Attention! The Special Committee on State Budget Control of the Riigikogu has proposed to exclude the sixth item on the agenda of the meeting on Tuesday 7 June. This is a key national issue in the discussion of the report 'Possible changes of the Fiscal Policy Paradigm in the Estonian parliamentary system'. The Commission has proposed a new debate on 14 June. With this amendment, honourable Riigikogu, I will vote on the agenda for the 17th working week of the third plenary session. Please take a stand and vote. 78 members of the Riigikogu are in favour of approving the agenda, 2 against, 3 abstentions. The agenda is confirmed.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-06_U6	The first item on the agenda is the questioning of the members of the Riigikogu Arno Silla, Martin Helme, Henn Põlluaasa, Mart Helme, Uno Kaskpeiti, Jaak Madison and Raivo Põldaru. On behalf of the heirs, Arno Bridge, please! Attention, Arno Bridge speaking!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-06_U7	Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu! Prime Minister! Members of the Conservative People's Party Group have approached the Prime Minister with a question of agriculture subsidies in particular, as well as other measures that our government would need to implement. Several political decisions, Russian trade sanctions, the local producers of the Estonian Government, the discriminatory agricultural policy, the abolition of EU milk quotas and trade restrictions imposed on pig meat producers, are in a deep crisis in Estonia's production of pigmeat and milk. Quick intervention by the Estonian Government is needed to alleviate the situation. The support of our own Estonian government is critical for the future of our food production. Maintaining domestic agriculture and food production has a wider economic impact on rural areas, related sectors of agriculture both in rural and urban areas, as well as on the country's export capacity. With regard to these problems, we ask the Prime Minister to answer four questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-06_U8	The inquiry is answered by Prime Minister Taavi Kõivas. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-06_U9	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! I will respond to the request for information on agricultural payments made on 5 May. The first question: 'What national measures will be implemented already this year, which would prevent a further catastrophic decrease in the number of Estonian dairy cows and pigs? ' The state of Estonian agriculture has been the subject of increased government attention, especially the dairy and pig sector. We will do our utmost to remedy this situation. The situation in the European Union's common market for milk and pigmeat is mainly influenced by the ratio between demand and supply, as for example, Estonia produces 1.7 times more milk than it consumes. This simple fact alone shows that we depend on how successfully we can sell our dairy products outside Estonia. We know, as you pointed out in the question, that traditional high-volume export markets have fallen away and finding new markets is very time-consuming. To this end, every opportunity must be exploited as efficiently and wisely as possible, including market management and crisis assistance measures implemented by the European Union. The opening of new export markets is crucial to ensuring the sustainability of Estonian agriculture and the entire food sector. Under the leadership of the Minister for Rural Affairs and the Minister for Enterprise, work must be continued to ensure that Estonian products reach the Chinese and Japanese markets. Food safety protocols have already been concluded with China to allow products made from Estonian milk, sprat and herring to the markets there. Work to find and open new markets continues. I have also been to Japan and China with a business delegation myself, and I can say that the activities in this area have been much wider than those carried out in the Ministry of Rural Affairs alone. So it's working. For example, a delegation from the Minister for Enterprise will soon go to China to achieve market opening there. In Estonia, the total amount of rural and agricultural payments is more than 200 million euros each year, including direct payments of approximately 114 million euros this year. In addition, an additional €4.6 million has been agreed by the government to pay milk producers directly in the course of the discussions on the country's budget strategy next year. And it has also been agreed to pay 15 million grants for investment in major projects to create greater added value for dairy products. On the agenda of the government cabinet meetings, the establishment of a company with the Rural Promotion Foundation is pending discussion and decision-making. According to the Ministry of Rural Affairs, this would open up new and flexible ways of using financial resources to support the agricultural sector. There are also possible changes in the design to extend the target group of beneficiaries of direct payments by keepers with more than 100 dairy cows in their herd. In addition, a number of changes are planned under the RDP 2014-2020. For example, the measure to restore agricultural production potential will be included in the development plan with a budget of EUR 1 million. Within the framework of the animal welfare payment, the unit rate of the aid per bovine animal shall be increased from EUR 40 to EUR 44 per year and the unit rate of the aid per sow from EUR 24 to EUR 42 per year. The rate of aid for diversification of economic activities paid from farmers to micro-enterprises shall be increased from 40% to 50%. The second question: 'What kind of transitional payments or other measures have been allowed this year by the European Union in order to ensure equal treatment of Estonian farmers with producers from other countries and to mitigate the effects of the market crisis? ' Farmers receive the most support from direct payments under the European Union's common agricultural policy, the amount of which is significantly higher during the current financing period than in the previous financing period. The total amount of direct payments allocated to Estonia from the European Union budget is over EUR 1 billion for the period 2014 to 2020. The total amount for the previous funding period was EUR 502.8 million from European Union funds. Question 3: "Will it be planned and, if so, what amount of transitional support to next year's state budget and national budget strategy for the years 2017 to 2020? ' As I have already mentioned, we have agreed next year on aid to be paid to milk producers for EUR 4.6 million. Transitional grants are planned to be paid according to the state budget's possibilities and to be assessed in concrete terms already during the discussions on the state budget and budget strategy. Fourthly, 'What measures and to what extent are planned for milk producers and pig farmers in the context of exceptional State aid under the proposal and thresholds proposed by the European Commission in March (EUR 15 000 per company per year) in order to ensure equal conditions of competition for Estonian producers? ' The European Commission's proposals to reduce overproduction are being discussed in the Ministry of Rural Affairs and their implementation is being prepared. According to the Commission's proposal, farmers can benefit from up to EUR 15000. This would be State aid if production were reduced or maintained at the same level. More detailed conditions and positions will be shaped with the participation of the Ministry and representatives of agricultural organisations on 8 June, when the Agriculture and Rural Development Council will be held.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-06_U10	Questions for the Prime Minister. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-06_U11	Thank you, good manager. Good Prime Minister! Your government has reduced the competitiveness of farmers in recent years and you will now allow 4.6 million crisis aid next year, which is actually a very small amount. My question, however, concerns this 1.8 million, for which the government promises to buy pork cans in order to soften the consequences of African swine fever. A million dollars has already been bought, when will you start buying cans for the rest of the EUR 800,000?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-06_U12	Thank you. First of all, I categorically disagree with the argument that the government has somehow reduced the competitiveness of agriculture. I would be very interested in the particular fact on which you claim such a thing. If we look at where the crisis has started in pig farming, it is, to a very large extent, an African plague, which even the opposition ambassador may be inappropriate to accuse the government of breaking out. The fact that the Russian Federation has introduced a ban on importing European Union products, including Estonian products, has also had a significant impact on the pigmeat market. It's their decision. In this, too, it would be inappropriate to blame the Estonian state, to say the least. If we look at the milk market, it has been influenced by more factors. Firstly, Europe as a whole has a low price, mainly due to the withdrawal of milk production quotas in the European Union. As a result of the realisation of production, there has been an excess in the market and this has brought prices down, so that less money is received from milk kilo than a few years ago. Secondly, the dairy sector is also directly affected by the disappearance of the Russian market. The direct export of dairy products from Estonia to Russia alone brought in nearly 50 million euros, plus the quantities that went through Lithuania. So if 50 million in one crap, one Kremlin decree will have the effect of falling away, of course it will affect dairy producers. In addition, global trends, with a number of specific reasons, play a role, but have made the situation of dairy farmers all over Europe more difficult. So it is certainly not just a problem for Estonia; it is a wider concern for agriculture, both in Europe and worldwide. A very interesting interview has recently been given by the Prime Minister of New Zealand, who, for his part, has pointed out the reasons why he considers that New Zealand's dairy industry is in a crisis. We're looking at the other half of the world, yet New Zealand's dairy industry has the same problems as ours. The specific question concerned 1.8 million, which was indeed allocated by the government as a crisis measure for the buying-in of pigs in the so-called third sector. Indeed, as far as I know, it has not been fully exploited. Whether or not this money can be used in the near future should be specifically asked by the Minister for Rural Affairs. We have allocated this money from the budget, and so far, as far as I know, no formal proposals have come that should not be exploited. But when and if it is even possible to use it, the Minister for Rural Affairs can certainly comment on it.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-06_U13	Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-06_U14	Thank you. Dear Taavi in the garment! The question of the heirs was what the government is doing to ensure equal treatment for Estonian farmers in a situation where direct payments from the European Union are not equal. We know that, for example, last year you voted down the Central Party Group's proposal to find money from the budget for transitional grants. You couldn't find the money. Now you say that it is difficult everywhere in Europe, but at the same time we see that our farmers are also affected by the fact that the governments of other Member States of the European Union have taken far more courageous steps to support their producers. For example, our southern neighbour, Lithuania, reported that in May the aid was paid to milk producers and in June another 17.2 million were paid, a total of 35 million. All we heard from you now was that next year you'll find 4.6 million. This is obviously not enough. Why does the Lithuanian Government have so much greater opportunity to help its dairy producers than Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-06_U15	Thank you. As is the case with comparisons from different countries, it is worth looking at the facts and not taking one particular nuance separately. If you add up grants per hectare or per population, and so get some objective figure, you will see that Estonia has no reason to be ashamed of competition with either Latvia or Lithuania. Rather, Estonian subsidies per unit are somewhat higher. As far as last year or this year is concerned, at the end of last year, we allocated an additional EUR 7.5 million from the state budget, emergency crisis aid, which we decided not to call top-up, just because this money could be used more flexibly. It could have been called top-up if it had saved the situation. But, as far as I know, the Ministry of Rural Affairs, in cooperation with the organisations, decided that paying under another name would be more effective. If we add up the amounts that we allocated to pig farmers and milk producers at the end of last year, then the order of magnitude was over EUR 30 million in crisis aid. Some of it was euro money, but the total amount of support was more than EUR 30 million, the same Peeter Ernsta mentioned EUR 1.8 million for the purchase of preserved pigmeat, including. So we have done enough within the limits of Estonia's capabilities. Where does this 4.6 million come from next year's budget? The budget for next year, just so you know, is not locked, it hasn't even been approved by the government yet. It's just like it always happens in September. But we have already booked a sum of EUR 4.6 million in the country's budget strategy, and this is because it is half the maximum transitional support for the dairy sector. While, theoretically, Estonia has the possibility to pay different transitional grants of EUR 21.5 million from the state budget, the transitional payments in the dairy sector can actually be paid in the amount of EUR 9.14 million and the government has found a way to pay half of it. It also makes clear the logic why we want to direct this aid to milk producers in particular. Firstly, it is not possible to grant transitional aid to pig farmers, which is simply not allowed by the rules. Secondly, we want to ensure that every euro we pay really goes to the agricultural sector that is actually in crisis. As you know, far from all agriculture is in crisis, grain crops were record year after year. This has been said by farmers themselves, too, to focus on pig farming and milk production. It is not possible to finance pig farming through top-up, so we will focus as much as possible on transitional support for the dairy sector.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-06_U16	Siret Eagle, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-06_U17	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! When the Minister of Finance introduced the state budget last year at the time of the adoption of the state budget, he argued that there were no transitional grants, in particular because agriculture was simply not a priority enough for the government. That's my question. Is it true that agriculture is not a priority for the Clothing Government? But if there is, do you intend to pay transitional allowances? And if you are, please state the possible amount that could be! Is that the maximum or a few million you would pay as transitional aid to farmers next year?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-06_U18	Thank you. First of all, I am prepared to bet that if you take a verbatim report on last year's budget debate, you will not find a quote that you have just given to the Minister of Finance. Looking at how many crisis measures we launched using taxpayers' money in a very short time, this amount of more than EUR 30 million shows everything but the attitude you have just given to the Minister of Finance. I am absolutely certain that the Minister for Finance has not said that the agricultural sector is not a priority. As I said, more than EUR 200 million per year will go from the budget to grants. How can it be said that over 200 million per year will be allocated to a non-priority area? That is, in my view, a completely absurd claim. As I said, last year we set aside 7.5 million on such bases that it could have been called top-up. In cooperation with agricultural organisations, however, the Minister for Rural Affairs proposed a solution that is not called top-up, but a crisis measure, and we accepted it. But in principle, it was also an additional allocation for the same purposes. The total amount of this money was 7.5 million, some of which were paid out last year, part this year. So let us be precise in the facts! For next year, we've planned $4.6 million. If Parliament finds smart sources of cover to increase this amount, it is of course Parliament's decision, but 4.6 million have been found now, even before the budget discussions. I think that's good news. This is the aid we want to focus on dairying. And I, personally, am ready to discuss whether we call it top-up or whether we can find some more flexible way to allocate this money to agriculture. The aim is the same: the dairy sector must be helped. Unfortunately, the rules of the European Union do not make it possible, as has been said, to help pig farmers through the top-up.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-06_U19	Mark Soosaar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-06_U20	Thank you, Mr President. Good Prime Minister! All exports of our agricultural products to our eastern neighbour, namely our fish, milk and meat, are finished there. This unfortunately provides me with a picture of the history of Estonian agricultural products, where the same train came to Soviet Russia by a full-blown train and returned with empty wagons, the doors of which were sealed and on which had been written: the help of the Soviet working class to the starving people of Estonia. However, we are in a very absurd situation at the moment: we cannot send food behind Peipsi. Wouldn't our government and prime minister be willing to go talk to that bear-named prime minister across the lake? Perhaps we can restore economic relations after all? It is known from history that when economic relations break down, cannons begin to speak.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-06_U21	Thank you. In this case, it has been exactly the opposite. First of all, cannons began to speak in Ukraine, and the Russian Federation continued to act and act as an aggressor in a sovereign European country. The European Union reacted to this with economic sanctions, and then Russia, in turn, decided that we did not need high-quality food produced in the European Union, we could manage without it. It was purely their decision, and there is no reason to think that we could somehow unilaterally slip past it. I think that Estonia must be united along with the whole of Europe on these issues. If we turn a blind eye to what is happening in Ukraine, the price for us will be many times higher than the price for milk litres that have not been sent to Russia. There is only one way in which Russian consumers can get high-quality Estonian food again, and that is if the Russian Federation decides to end the aggression in Ukraine. Only then will we be able to talk about mitigating sanctions. It is not a question of who is bowing to Russia and how much. Our principles are not for sale, and we are certainly in solidarity with Ukraine on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-06_U22	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-06_U23	President-in-Office of the Council. Prime Minister! In the context of the crisis in agriculture, too, the huge investments made in milking systems and other equipment on dairy farms have been hit. Breeding flocks have also been hit. For example, I bring a pack of Estonian breeds: the biggest and most valuable breed repairer is currently in danger and the owner says that he will not last more than a few months. Should the government not consider any extra aid in such cases so as not to dismantle existing lines and to eliminate valuable pushers such as the herd of our breed? This is in the hope that one day our agriculture will recover.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-06_U24	Thank you. There are now two options. On the one hand, the Minister for Rural Affairs, Urmas Kruuse, has proposed the creation of a new credit product. It is mainly about money, which is why these difficult situations you have referred to arise from specific producers. Banks have allegedly become much more critical in opening credit lines. This statement is based on my own contacts with farmers and their claim, which I have no reason to doubt. The banks know the dairy industry is in crisis. Every time a dairy crisis is being discussed in Parliament, it is likely to be heard by decision-makers in banks, and so, for reasons that are understandable in the dairy sector, banks are also doing business, just as farmers are finding it more difficult to obtain loans. As this is probably a market failure, we will discuss with the government as soon as possible whether it would be possible to create such a credit line and whether it would be sufficiently effective to use taxpayers' money. Another and far more sustainable solution is if we can find alternative markets for dairy products. In the case of raw milk, while the distance to which raw milk can be sold is a few hundred kilometres, the shelf life of dairy products, such as cheese, is much longer and the value added is significantly higher. This way you can also earn from more distant markets. This is also why we have worked so actively towards Japan and China. I had a meeting last week in Estonia with a high-ranking Chinese state figure who said that the Chinese and Japanese traditional food table has a fairly modest presence of dairy products. But the development of society has reached the point that there is more middle class, that Western patterns of consumption are also more rooted, and that already has an impact on dairy consumption. His particular message was that the potential on the Chinese market is immense, and even if every thousand people in China drink milk, it is as much as there are people in Estonia. So it's worth looking in that direction. The technical conditions of the agreements in China have been very, very complicated, but the Estonian state has done everything possible to conclude agreements with the Chinese. We have moved forward with very long steps. I have been to China myself, and I have been to China, and the Minister for Rural Affairs has been to China and has dealt with it repeatedly. And, as I said, the Minister of Business is about to head to China with a business delegation. So there are two solutions: a credit line and new markets.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-06_U25	Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-06_U26	Thank you, Mr. Speaker. Minister, thank you very much. What comfort does it offer to our immediately bankrupt dairy producer that the consumption patterns of Japan and China are changing? Looking that way is as useful as looking at the moon. Here we spoke about the priorities and what the priorities of the Estonian state budget are. We know that very much money is spent on very funny things from the Estonian state budget. For example, 70 million or 90 million were allocated to start up a state airline or bankrupt another airline. And while we keep shutting down schools, new schools will be built over the next few years for 240 million dollars. Turkey received an unblinked transfer of 2.8 million, and the construction of a refugee-related structure costs the same size, with a resolution fund of 22 million. At the same time, last year, it was not possible to find 20 million for top-ups in the planning of the state budget. It's a matter of priority. Who is opposed in the government to raising agricultural subsidies as a priority: you, another party or the Minister of Finance? Who are these main combatants?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-06_U27	I'll go over it then, it seems you didn't get the rest of this earlier talk. I repeat that 4.6 million have already been booked for transitional grants in the country's budget strategy before the state budget is made. In total, agricultural subsidies exceed EUR 200 million. These are very large sums of money. You're saying that the 240 million that go to schools is an unreasonable use of money and should be moved elsewhere. I certainly don't agree with that. I think that a high-quality school network is very important; the conditions under which our children go to school are very important. This is not so much about Tallinn as about county centres all over Estonia. I have attended several state secondary schools and I am convinced that, thanks to the establishment of a state secondary school, one or the other county centre has not only received one new and beautiful school building, but in fact, in Läänemaa, Viljandi and many other places the choices in upper secondary school have been greatly expanded. Very many substances can be selected. So in any case, it's been a reasonable expense. I am saying that there has also been a very sensible expenditure in the European Union that we support refugees in Turkey. Firstly, supporting people where they have come is humane. If they are able to eat, receive school education, receive basic living conditions, then their pressure to move on to Europe will also be significantly reduced. Secondly, the allocation of this EUR 2.8 million or the allocation of a total of EUR 3 billion to the European Union has also been very effective. If we look at these figures, the flood of war refugees that has come from Turkey to Greece, then essentially it can be said that it has ended. We spoke recently about tens of thousands of people every month, the last week there were a few hundred arrivals all over Europe, so we are talking about hundreds of reductions. It is very important that the European Union and Turkey do their best to help people where they have come directly from Syria. Turkey is considered by international organisations to be a safe country, and it is possible for a refugee in war, who was afraid of his life in Syria, to be safe. I think that if, for our part, we put money down a little bit to help these people out there and thereby significantly reduce migratory pressure on Europe, it will in any case be reasonable and, in any case, effective. It also loses the opportunity to intimidate people by mass immigration. If people see that the pressure on Europe has been reduced a hundred times because of Turkey, then it will probably be harder for extreme forces to say that millions of people will arrive in Estonia immediately, just as you have tried to convince the people. In any case, this has also been a reasonable provision for the state budget. However, if you have any other proposals to withdraw money from or move to, you will certainly be able to do them as a Member of Parliament during the budgetary procedure.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-06_U28	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-06_U29	Thank you, manager. Prime Minister! Today's questioning is about national subsidies and national measures. We are not asking about the money that the European Union shares. The European Union is giving money to all the countries of the European Union, and it makes no sense to read the hundreds of millions because it does not save our farmers. The main question for farmers is that we are not in equal competition. For example, compared to Latvia and Lithuania, we have lost about 100 million competitive advantages because they pay transitional support. It is not just milk and meat production that is in crisis, and cereal production is also in crisis this year. Look at the fields this year, and what a situation farmers are in! I'm asking from a security point of view, security is one of the government's priorities. 70% of all Estonian pork consumption is produced in Estonia, is it security? Are security risks grounded when the owner of a thousand-headed pack shuts down the farm, as Äripäev could read last week? A man just can't keep keeping a dairy herd. And I ask how this is possible in Latvia and Lithuania, Latvia and Lithuania farmers buy up the Estonian dairy herd. What does it come from? Are our farmers incompetent, or is the government incompetent?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-06_U30	Thank you. I would very much like us to be able to hold this debate so that you can look calmly at the facts and calculate, for example, how much milk producers will receive all the subsidies in Estonia, how much in Latvia and how much in Lithuania. And if you're still asking those same questions after this calculation, there's something serious going on. In my opinion, looking at the facts is enough for your questions to be answered. I repeat again what I said in response to Kadri Samson. If you look at the total amount of subsidies, there is certainly no reason for Estonia to be ashamed either in comparison with Latvia or in comparison with Lithuania. But support is not the only thing that helps a farmer. I dare say that support is not the main thing. Because when it comes to production, you also need a market in which to realise your production. And if we do not increase our milk consumption 1.7 times here in Estonia, the simple logic is that we need to find markets further away. Since, as in Estonia, there are currently overproductions of milk and difficulties in finding markets throughout Europe, it makes sense for us to invest in order to deserve dairy products in Estonia. However, we do not have enough processing capacity. Those companies that can process also sell very much for export. Take e-milk, for example. A very large part of E-milk production goes for export, mainly to Finland, but also elsewhere. E-milk is also very likely to be one of the first companies to sell large quantities of cheese to Japan. And we're hoping to make similar deals. In one kilo of cheese there are about 11 kilos of milk, and simple logic says that a much deserved product can be sold with a much longer shelf life than raw milk, so it can be sold much further. It's worth the effort. The government has already helped Estonian producers here and intends to do so further. I have received feedback directly from producers and this has been very positive. This same E-milk has not considered it much to say thank you for the efforts that the country has made to enable them to sell their produce in Japan. But there must be other companies.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-06_U31	Jaak Madison's question.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-06_U32	Prime Minister! At the time of your answer to the previous questioner, you could hear pure gold from your mouth. It is admirable how you can reach out to migrants, to intimidation and to what else when you answer the question about domestic subsidies. And you confirm that Turkey is a safe country. I do not know when I open the newspapers, I see that all human rights activists claim that Turkey is not a safe country. Let's find out if it's safe or not. More migrants have reached Europe this year than they did last year, particularly through Italy and North Africa. It's inappropriate to say that someone's scaring somewhere in vain. I think we should not take the floor on this. But let's talk about grants. Domestic subsidies are one thing, but since the debate on this topic has already spread out here, even to migrants, I would stress that Estonian farmers receive 63% of the average from European Union funds, i.e. a little less than two thirds compared to others. And France has been the main opposer of the harmonisation of subsidies. How does this fit into the general principle of solidarity in the European Union?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-06_U33	Thank you. First of all, I confirm in answer to this question that the Estonian Prime Minister stood very strongly in the budget talks with his Latvian and Lithuanian colleague a few years ago for the harmonisation of agricultural subsidies. I, too, believe that agricultural subsidies should be equal across Europe, because this is the only way to achieve equal competition. There is, in itself, an option for the Estonian farmer, which I have also talked about with many farmers, so that such unit-based support is not paid at all throughout Europe. In this case, the Estonian farmer would certainly be competitive. At the same time, however, these same farmers often claim that the investments that have been made with the support of European Union money have been very helpful. Otherwise, our desks would still be unmodernised in many ways, thanks to European Union money, it has been possible for Estonia, unlike Latvia and Lithuania, where there are very many small animal keepers, very automated production, very high quality equipment, very scientific production. These investments have been possible thanks to the solidarity of the European Union. Agreements on the budget in the European Union have been made until 2020 and will we be able to open the debate on the next budget as chairman and find ways to make these subsidies fairer in the course of this debate, if that is what time will show. As far as helping war refugees in Turkey is concerned, I repeat that for those people whose country is at war, the best shelter is the one that is as close to their country as possible. Several million people have gone to Turkey, estimated at two million people in Lebanon and one million people in these estimates differ from Jordan. If these people, whether Turkey, Jordan or Lebanon, are guaranteed decent living conditions and food, if their children can be provided with education, then their pressure to travel to a life-threateningly distant Europe will be greatly reduced. And since we can see that the regular number of arrivals has fallen from 50000 to a few hundred, it can be concluded that the agreement between Turkey and the European Union has begun to work. The masses that would otherwise come to Europe will no longer come from Turkey. Will this solve the migration problems of the whole world? I don't think so. But at least it can be said that there is no really great migratory pressure on Europe from Turkey. I really think that this is positive from a European point of view. It is not that Europe cannot work together to help refugees. I think I could. But it is very negative for Europe when refugees are being exploited to promote political extremism and trying to intimidate people with refugees who are fleeing from war, trying to convince the public that hundreds of thousands or millions of refugees are about to come and take away local jobs or homes or something third. If there is no pressure on Europe, the wind will also subside in the extremes' sails.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-06_U34	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-06_U35	Thank you, manager. Good Prime Minister! I would like to remind you that the question is about agricultural subsidies. I think you answered the second question a little strangely. I understood that you argued that in 2014-2020 it would be possible to pay more than one billion euros in direct payments in Estonia. I'm afraid that you may have created investment grants there, too, because if you claim that we will pay 4.6 million a year for direct payments, there is no way that the billion will come together. Another problem is that a week ago, exactly the same question was put to the Minister for Finance, who suggested that we look at the overall picture of how much subsidies the agricultural sector still receives from the state. I'm saying it's not the whole picture. The overall picture is the common agricultural policy of the European Union. This is an area that is very regulated within the European Union, one could say, one of the most socialist policies that we must pursue here. Does the government have an understanding of what the European Union's common agricultural policy is, what is Europe's common market and competitiveness there, and what is the need for direct payments in this regard?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-06_U36	Thank you. How I'm gonna say this politely, but you guys got all messed up like a Kört-Pärt shirt. This 4.6 million we are talking about is top-up, or additional direct payments, specifically in 2017. But it's not all a direct grant. There are direct grants from the European Union, to which this 4.6 million comes in addition, a total of one billion and seven million. If we include this in the rural development plan, the total amount that we can use is 1.9 billion. So believe me, I wasn't wrong with that amount. You can check it yourself. In the case of agriculture, this is a highly subsidised area. We pay agriculture a little more than 200 million every year, and that is about half of the national defence expenditure. It's just that things have to be put into context. This amount also accounts for two thirds of the money that goes for all the investments and maintenance that are carried out on Estonian roads. So the sums that go into agricultural payments, as you rightly pointed out, are really asking about agricultural payments, are very, very large. It is up to us to ensure that this money is distributed responsibly. If we see that there is no crisis in agriculture as a whole, but the crisis is, for example, as it is today, in pig farming and milk production, then we must also have the wisdom and flexibility, within the framework of the current rules, to share money in a way that we support these areas more where it is actually difficult.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-06_U37	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-06_U38	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Prime Minister! Like the previous questioners, I have to express my surprise that, when it comes to agricultural subsidies, you prefer to avoid refugees and the immigration crisis. But my question is specific. You mentioned that you have taken up the issue of agricultural subsidies in the European Union, because in so-called older European Union countries they are many times bigger than we are. Please tell me specifically whether the Estonian Government and you have made a concrete proposal to open negotiations on this subject. And if you have done so, when and if there are any concrete results to be seen, or are we just waiting for these things to be fixed by themselves in the future?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-06_U39	Thank you. The budget talks lasted for the time before before the government, when the Prime Minister was Andrus Ansip. I can confirm that both the Prime Minister of Estonia at the time and the heads of government of Latvia and Lithuania strongly supported the harmonisation of agricultural subsidies. After all, the rate of harmonisation has been agreed, Estonia is also subject to growing gradation, so we are talking about increasing subsidies in Estonia. But it really has not been possible to reach an agreement that the level of subsidies is exactly the same as the old Europe, so we still have work to do. If you look at how much money has been allocated to direct payments for agriculture, how much was at our disposal in the last seven years and how much there is in the seven years, and if you ask whether what Ansip did at the time was useful, then I think the simplest answer will be if you look at the numbers. The single area payment and other direct payments to Estonia from the European Union budget have doubled in size. So in any case, this job has been useful. Thanks to the very strong argument made by Andrus Ansip, the EUR 500 million could be traded in addition to Estonian agriculture. I think it's a very big deal.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-06_U40	Arno Bridge, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-06_U41	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Prime Minister! I am asking about the distribution of European Fisheries Fund money, which is curated by the Ministry of Rural Affairs. We know that the National Audit Office produced a rather destructive report on the impact of the European Fisheries Fund on aquaculture subsidies. Does the government intend to discuss this at some level or what will be done on the basis of this information? There seems to be a lot of confusion with these moneys.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-06_U42	Thank you. I believe that it is possible to deal with this issue in the Committee on Rural Affairs of the Riigikogu and discuss how this aquaculture support can be used in such a way that the effect is greater. There are probably wise people in the Committee on Rural Affairs who are able to make their assessment and perhaps also to recommend to the Ministry of Rural Affairs how to plan these measures.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-06_U43	Thank you, Prime Minister Taavi Kõivas. No further questions. I'm opening negotiations. The inquisitors do not wish to speak. Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-06_U44	Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Taavi in the garment! I came to this chair because giving answers to this question was very illustrative of how it is possible not to answer questions of substance when talking empty. We all know that there is a situation in Estonia where new and new dairy farmers get into difficulties every week. Some of the more tragic cases have also attracted the attention of the public and have ended by the fact that the cows that have given milk to Estonia so far are sold in another European Union Member State, mostly Poland. And while milk surpluses and milk prices are low everywhere in the European Union, our dairy herd is falling faster than in other countries, precisely because of the inaction of our government. The Prime Minister juggled here skillfully with the European Union's money, but neglected that the level of direct payments in Estonia continues to be only about 60% of the European Union's average. However, our farmers must compete with their colleagues from the European Union. In a situation where this support is lower than Estonia's average in other countries, our southern neighbours, for example, have taken advantage of the opportunity provided by the European Union and paid the difference with their own money. Estonia last used this opportunity in 2013. This opportunity has not been used in 2014, 2015 and 2016 and it was stranger to hear the Prime Minister speak of emergency crisis assistance as if it could be called top-up under some other condition. No, this cannot be called a top-up because it was an emergency crisis aid for the European Union, which was also available to other countries in trouble. If Estonia now wanted to provide our farmers with the same competitive opportunities as other farmers in the European Union, this would mean paying out the maximum amount of transitional support from the state budget authorised by the European Union and would have meant EUR 92 million for the period up to 2020. As I mentioned, it was last paid in 2013, in the following years we have not supported our farmers in this way. But this crisis, which has now hit Estonian milk producers, means a monthly loss of 3.5 million euros because of the fall in the price of milk alone. The Prime Minister promised here that there will be 4,6 million aids next year, but it will not keep farms from going bankrupt this year, will not keep milk production at the same level. There is certainly no reason to say that Estonia has behaved equally with governments in Latvia and Lithuania. Anyone who wants to look around a little bit on the computer can see that Latvia and Lithuania have paid transitional grants and, in addition to this, like Estonia, Lithuania paid the full share of crisis aid last year. So the competitiveness deficit of Estonian farmers is obvious and this deficit has arisen precisely because our government has not performed its tasks as well as those of our southern neighbours. They're complaining we're overproduction. This puts at stake Estonian farms with long history, if not already in operation for decades, who have offered such important jobs to people living in the countryside. And in this situation, if the government simply sews shoulders, then the problem of peripheralization will only grow. So this is not only a question of our own diet and food production over the years, but also of the people who are still living in the countryside and are doing the very necessary work. If they are not helped in competition with other countries of the European Union, they will soon no longer be in the country and their employers will not be there either. We must therefore certainly not allow the government to remain in the comfort zone. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-06_U45	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-06_U46	President-in-Office of the Council. Mr. Prime Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, Agriculture is not just agriculture. Agriculture is a strategic area for national security and national security, in many respects: both in terms of food supply and population location. So it is not just a question of whether or not agriculture is a priority compared to other areas. If he's not a priority, the country and its government will cut the branch on which he's sitting. That's one. Second. Today, we heard a talk about this talking board, which is perhaps acceptable and satisfactory in some way for people who know nothing about agriculture and rural matters at all. We heard that the government has, like, set aside hundreds of millions to support agriculture. No, it's not! This money is mainly European Union money paid to farmers under the single area payment scheme. It is not the money of our government; the government has transferred the money of the European Union. We heard it as if the government had given emergency relief. No, it's not! This emergency crisis assistance was the European Union's emergency crisis assistance. At the same time, the government has failed to pay the full amount of domestic support. But unfortunately, we did not hear that concession from the Prime Minister. We also heard how, thanks to the aid from the European Union, our dairy producers and other operators have managed to modernise their barns, their equipment, their production lines and everything else. Very nice, and that's true. I personally know a number of dairy farmers, owners of dairy farms who have worked 24/7 to increase productivity in their stables and fields where hay, silage, cereals and everything can be done to improve the health of these animals. And I know that many of them have stopped production now, and that is for the simple reason that they are not going to sell their forests or scrape money from anywhere else to cover the losses that milk production makes every month. Before going bankrupt, they're just going to shut down the production. It's a reality. This is reality! If I remember correctly, Estonian breeding animals have been sold to 12 countries in the last year. It will take years for the herd to be restored, and if the herd of our breed is eradicated, perhaps it will no longer be possible to restore it. That, too, is a reality. I would remind the Prime Minister of a man like Theodor Pool, who was one of the leading farmers during the first Republic of Estonia and, in my opinion, also the Minister of Agriculture at some point. He was from the Pistachio in Tori's neighborhood. This farm has survived to this day. He was deported. The Bolsheviks naturally found him to be an enemy of the class, an enemy of the people, and he was deported. His grave is unknown. Do you know what was written in his last note thrown out of the car window that came into the hands of his own people? He was not worried about his life, not even about the Estonian state, he was worried about his cattle. It was written on this piece of paper: "Keep the flock of the Fountain! " It was his greatest concern, for as an active farmer he knew that if this best pusher were to be eliminated, it would be immensely difficult to restore it. If we now have our farms closed down because we do not have a common, national rural and agricultural policy, it will be terribly difficult to restore it all. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-06_U47	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-06_U48	In this regard, I also have a proposal for the Prime Minister. Without wanting to provoke any kind of government crisis or any other crisis here and without wanting to link the problems of agriculture and rural areas with global problems, I propose. Prime Minister, we have seen that the current Minister for Rural Affairs cannot manage its area. Replace him! Find one powerful, manageable and visionary person who grabs the horns with two hands in this field so that these cows stay in Estonia!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-06_U49	Martin Helme, please! Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-06_U50	Good speaker! Prime Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, I almost didn't come here to speak, but in my opinion, these answers were still so distrustful that they couldn't be left unanswered. There are some very fundamental questions that I do not think our government understands at all. One thing is that agriculture is not a market economy in Europe. This is a highly regulated and very thoroughly subsidised area, and here we are talking about finding new markets and the best solutions are market economy solutions, but they simply do not work. It just doesn't work! If there is one area of life that is subsidized from one end to the next, it is agriculture. And when we say, in this situation, that our own can manage in a market economy, if others can handle significantly higher subsidies, we actually say that our own will shut the doors. That is precisely why this is the fact that we are always talking about: it is an unequal treatment in the common market. The second question, to which we did not get an answer at all, was the question of who is behind it. If there's a finance minister in the remote, he'll be happy to support it. If there is a Prime Minister in the remote, he also confirms that he would be happy to support agriculture more. If there's a minister of rural affairs in the remote, I'm sure he'd be happy to support it. Then who's the one who's stopping? The sums that we need in themselves are not at all large compared to the state budget, and if we put aside the other spending that our government is doing there, we will see that this is a matter of priorities, absolutely clear priorities. Keeping agriculture alive is not a priority for our government. Of course, it makes you smile a little bit, or it doesn't really know whether to cry or laugh when we hear the talk that everything is fine and we give money and life gets better. But next to that, the reality is that farmers go to Toompea with tractors to protest and talk about how they sell herds, close the barns. The picture that is in real life, and the picture that the government paints for us, are so different from each other. In fact, it is not possible to talk to this government because I think they simply do not live in the same world as us. Now, agricultural production will not disappear in Estonia. A failure doesn't mean life is going to stop. The master, the Estonian master, will disappear. We remain pops on our own land: dairy cattle are sold to other owners, forest land, farmland, herds, boards, production companies simply go to foreign capital. Domestic business is fading, and we're just gonna be paid workers, or pops, in our own country. This is the real consequence of the current government policy, not the loss of agricultural production. The problem is also that, in the light of the current agricultural policy and the current administrative reform, it seems that the government has taken the view that it does not matter whether we have a life outside Tallinn or not. Those who want can live in the country with their teeth crossed and their grass chewed. That's all it takes! It is a trend that is everywhere in the world: people move from country to city. At the same time, Estonia is such a small country that it should be 300 kilometres from one end to the other, just to rule out that we have some kind of hunks. Secondly, it is unthinkable that there can be some kind of economy in Tallinn and at the level of the state in general if there are one or two centres left and there is empty land everywhere else. The forest industry, or the same agricultural industry, is already screaming for the hands of the workers, and they have no employees. These workers are becoming fewer and fewer because the working age population is moving away. Moves away because children do not have schools, kindergartens, all other services are disappearing. The latest news is that the Road Administration is shutting down the DMV's offices. You can't make licenses in the country anymore. You can't re-register your vehicles in the country. Who's so stupid that he lives in a place where the service level is a century ago? In this situation, the economy in Tartu and Tallinn cannot function normally. So here we are talking about giving agriculture a lot of money when we actually know that it is European Union money, and the state does not give to the strategically important business sector to support its tax money; it expresses the total unwillingness to keep any regional policy alive, to keep domestic production alive and to keep Estonians in their own land. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-06_U51	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-06_U52	Good manager! Good Prime Minister! Really, it's a "Life in the Land." In time, everyone knew what the meaning of this concept was, today its content is distorted. I think that the accession to the European Union and the accompanying agricultural subsidies have had a very positive impact on Estonia, including our economy as a whole. That is the question of how we can use these European Union funds. The next year, the more we come to the conclusion in various discussions that the Estonian state is doing everything in order to make legal use of the funds provided. However, no economic policy analysis, no idea, no idea, no objective is known. I think we could also shape agricultural policy in a targeted way. I've grown up on a farm, and I've seen people move hordes from time to time, who say that now we're gonna raise sheep, now we're gonna raise stings. As such a so-called sect of faith, it certainly does not make sense to do such a thing. We have to consider what our assumptions are. For example, our assumption is that we have favourable climate conditions to grow grasses. This is the basis of our animal husbandry and the enhancement of its products. Our problem is that we have been in the European Union for 12 years, but in 2004, when we stepped there and started receiving agricultural subsidies there, the European market had reached a certain level and we are unable to deal with it in any way. Now the question is, can we make a difference in any way? I'll give you an idea. I'm not 100 percent sure this is the right way to go, but it's an idea that has been said to have been introduced in the factions. It's the organic movement we're talking about. Europe's people have started to get along quite well with the consumption of eco-products, which is being promoted very successfully. But there is one problem: there is no organic production register in Estonia. And forests, for example, are not included in this register, but it would provide an opportunity to highlight our distinction. I am afraid that looking for markets only in Japan and China is not the solution. If we look around, the quality and consumption of Latvian, Lithuanian and Estonian production are quite similar. Perhaps the solution is if these three countries sit together and find common markets. As has already been put forward here as an argument, we alone are still too small to find stable markets. Perhaps transnational cooperation would be more helpful. We must think that agricultural subsidies must also fulfil the objective of ensuring life on land. We should have more and more busy people in the country. The great dilemma that has come from our history - the great production of farm farms - would also need to be resolved. The security risk is already that people will disappear from the country and move away to the cities. The solution is that we will find solutions specifically for farming-like activities. Unfortunately, I still did not receive an answer as to whether the government had a complete picture. In view of the answers given last week by the Minister of Finance, Sven Sester, and today's evasive answers from the Prime Minister, do we sense that we are living in the conditions of the European Union's single market? We need to make use of all available resources to increase competitiveness already due to the small size of our country. And there really is a request that we talk about subsidies using their proper names: there are crisis measures, transitional grants, investment grants. We will take advantage of all the possibilities, but we will try to do it more purposefully. We can't just put out fires and we can't deliver based on the principle that let's go, let's see what happens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-06_U53	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-06_U54	Manager! Ladies and gentlemen, Prime Minister! I think this is not the only area that the Prime Minister does not understand very much. Personally, I have already asked the Prime Minister more than ten times about excise duties on fuel and agriculture has probably been asked about the same number of times. If the government, including the Prime Minister, does not have an understanding of the common agricultural policy of the European Union, then we have nothing to talk about. That is why we need to see whether our farmer is competitive or not. If, by the end of this period, we receive support for our farmers of around 60% of the European Union average or a little more, you will all understand that the rest are in a privileged position. If we compare Estonia with our neighbours, we will see that the neighbours have done better and will certainly be winners in the long run. Neighbours have been able to pay their farmers additional transitional support. Unfortunately, we have not been able to do this, although we could have supported farmers with an additional EUR 100 million. It is not possible to give money simply in the agricultural sector, it must be justified and it is subject to the rules. But transitional support has been one way of guaranteeing more equal conditions of competition for their farmers than they are today. For me too, one important aspect of this issue is the security aspect. We are talking about high security costs, we are talking about tanks, cannons and all that, but we are not talking about how well our food security is secured. If only 70% of the pork needed in Estonia can be produced locally, this is already the kind of signal that the government should react to immediately. How, then, will the rest of the need be covered? And this crisis is getting worse. I read last week's business day that one of our most modern milking houses that can accommodate a thousand animals is closing down. The owner says that under these conditions it is no longer possible to produce in Estonia. This milking and pusher is sold to its neighbours: Latvia, Lithuania, Poland. How is that possible?! But that is simply because it is not possible to react in time and because our farmer has been left in unequal market competition. In addition, I can say that direct taxes will also have an impact on market competition. For example, in Latvia and Lithuania, the electricity excise duty is EUR 1 per megawatt-hour; we have EUR 4.7. That, too, is a great expense for the farmer. As regards the increase in excise duty, the excise duty on specially labelled fuel sold to farmers will also rise from EUR 110 per 1000 litres to EUR 160. Is that support for a farmer? I say that money is needed by farmers immediately, because this year will not only affect the dairy farmer, it will also affect the cereal farmer. Look what the drought has done in the fields! It is not excluded that cereal growers will also contract production. The alternative is that rich owners come from somewhere else and buy our land, forests and farms together and deliver them. I don't think that should be our goal. The government could quickly meet and assess the reality of the situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-06_U55	Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-06_U56	Ladies and gentlemen, I'm a city man, but I can say that today I can take a reap, a rake, or some other field tool, I can take a horse, put him in the field and do land work with him. I was a young boy, 14 years old, when I got my first salary working in Sinimäe Sovhoos. We were doing hay there, and I still remember that money. That was the safest way to earn your first salary. What to talk about here is that for more than a hundred years, an Estonian person has been involved in land work. I don't know where any of us started our work life, but a lot of people have definitely had something to do with the field work. There was a time when I was driving around Ida-Virumaa a lot. Then I knew well where the herds of our neighborhood were, either Narva's side, Avinurme or Sompa's. At first, there were two or three large flocks, but there were times when there were not enough fingers to count them. People were working, people wanted to work. I'm sorry, but lately, it's getting smaller and smaller. What are you gonna do? Someone's gotta be responsible for what's going on. You drive around and you look, there's less and less herds. And we also see that despite the fact that we may like blue more and more, our fields are increasingly covered with yellow rape. It's not bad, but maybe it's just a temporary solution that we could offer farmers. I want to say that the government really needs to think about whether the generations that come after us are connected with this country, whether they are aching for the progress of the rural work, whether our young people are going to work in the country, or whether they are forgetting what their fathers and grandfathers did. I am not only saying this because the questioning relates to the questions that we have put to the Prime Minister today. I mean, this is serious talk about the future of Estonia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-06_U57	Members of the Riigikogu no longer wish to negotiate. Is there anything the Prime Minister would like to say? No, I don't.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-06_U58	We will go to the next question that Mr Herkel, Ms Haukanõm, Mr Ammas, Mr Adams, Mr Lutsepp, Ms Aru, Mr Talvik and Mr Kübrashep. Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-06_U59	Mr. Chairman! Prime Minister! People's representatives! I would first like to point out to the Prime Minister that this is an inquiry into foreign policy. So some of the answers you gave to the previous inquiry into agricultural policy may be better suited here. I really hope that this answer will be concentrated and focused on the subject. We ourselves, as heirs, tried to achieve this by delimiting the circle of problems essentially with three subjects. The first concerns the Estonian network of foreign representations and the decisions to be taken on it. Secondly, a candidate for non-permanent membership of the UN Security Council. Thirdly, the Presidency of the European Union in 2018 and possible institutional and other preparations related thereto. There is no doubt that there is much more to ask about foreign policy, and the issues of foreign policy should certainly be at the front of this Chamber more often, but it is probably not possible to go through everything in one form of inquiry. As far as the UN Security Council is concerned, it has been in various plans since 2004 or 2005. The fact that society has suddenly become aware of this is a problem in itself. I'm sure we need to talk more about it. The possible closure of embassies is a different problem. In fact, if you take the draft national budget strategy a few years ago, there will be a completely different picture. I also took off the Development Plan of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs 2015 It talks about opening new embassies in different regions. Today we hear a completely different story. I also think that these two issues are linked by the fact that perhaps it would be better if the Riigikogu and the Riigikogu Committee on Foreign Affairs had much greater weight in deciding on such matters than it is now. These decisions are currently taken at government and coalition level. I also hope for very clear answers on what happens to the embassy in Prague, what happens to the embassy in Portugal and Brazil, what happens to the embassy at the OECD. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-06_U60	The inquiry is answered by Prime Minister Taavi Kõivas. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-06_U61	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! I will respond to your inquiry on Estonia's foreign policy on 16 May. In doing so, I hope that I may also answer the fourth and fifth questions, which, strictly speaking, do not deal with foreign policy. These are, as you well know, questions concerning the Presidency of the European Union and European Union policy, which are not classified as foreign policy. But I suppose you still want answers to all the questions. The first question: 'Which decisions are planned in relation to cutting the network of foreign representations? In which countries will the Estonian embassies be closed and what are the legitimate considerations? How much money and jobs will be saved in this way, and how will the work of embassies be redesigned with declining resources? ' The Ministry of Foreign Affairs has not yet taken decisions or presented its views to the government for discussion and decision. As far as I know, they want to come before the government in the coming months to deal with these issues. The foreign policy capacity of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to effectively stand up for the foreign and security policy interests of the Estonian state must be preserved in the organisation of the work of foreign missions. At the same time, we in the country as a whole are well aware of the fact that, as far as I know, the Free Party has also accepted that if we have a decrease in the number of working-age residents, then the number of civil servants must also decrease in proportion. The second question is how consistent our foreign policy can be considered when, a few years ago, an extension of the embassy network was envisaged in the country's budget strategy. Expanding or tightening the embassy network cannot be an end in itself. One of our strengths is flexibility. What has been done so far needs to be analysed and the decisions taken in the past changed, if necessary, in the light of changes in the world geopolitical situation. For any proposal to close the office, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs must be prepared to explain why such a step is being taken and how it intends to organise its foreign policy activities in such a way that quality does not fall. Question 3: 'What are the reasons for Estonia's ambition to become a non-permanent member of the UN Security Council in the years 2020 to 2021? What costs will this entail, and what political benefits do you expect? Please comment on the critical views of Mart Laari and Toomas Hendrik Ilves. ' One of Estonia's great foreign and security policy goals is to perpetuate that democratic and independent Estonia will never be alone again. And there is a difference between whether we do only compulsory things in foreign policy or whether we have the ambition to raise the bar higher. The Estonian bar must not be modestly low. As a worthy country, we need to think big, and the UN Security Council is an opportunity for us to be at a table with the most influential countries in the world and to stand at the epicentre of information and decisions on global security policy, not to monitor everything remotely as an observer. Given that any aggression, a military act against a Member State or the implementation of the right to self-defence reaches a discussion at the UN Security Council, this would be an invaluable opportunity for Estonia to deal with the world's problems in depth. It would also be an experience that would increase our international influence and awareness and enhance our reputation. The decision to become a non-permanent member of the UN Security Council has already been taken by the Government in 2005, and the government that I manage has renewed and reaffirmed this position. There are several reasons why we are applying, and I will focus first and foremost on Estonia's security issues. Firstly, all major security challenges will eventually reach the UN Security Council. We therefore need to be ready and know how this Council works. Secondly, the conflicts between Georgia and Ukraine have shown how important it is for the Council to have a Member State that knows the region and the local context. Thanks to Lithuania, which was a non-permanent member of the UN Security Council, the conflict in Ukraine received much more world attention. This brought Russia's hidden activities to the world's attention. Thirdly, membership must also be viewed from the perspective of our fundamental pillars of security, NATO and the European Union. Both NATO and the European Union, but in fact the whole Western world as a whole, would benefit from having as many members of the Council as possible at the same time. It is two and a half years before the Security Council elections, and now we need to make a final effort. The government has decided to allocate half a million euros per year to the final phase of the campaign, until 2018. The exact amount of the 2019 campaign can already be decided in this year's budget process. If we are elected, of course, there will also be costs in 2020 and 2021, but they will be of the same size as the New York Mission in 2018 when Estonia is the Presidency of the European Union, both financially and in terms of human resources. Question 4: 'How will preparations for the Presidency of the European Union take place in 2018? What institutional reorganisations are planned at the State Chancellery, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Government of the Republic in order to fulfil the Presidency's obligations in the best way? ' In a speech to the Riigikogu on 8 April 2015, I said that the Estonian Presidency in 2018 is one of the six major challenges of this government. The Presidency is a joint effort of the entire Estonian state, and all our ministers will stand for the future of Europe and the well-being of all Europeans during this period. The planning of the presidency preparations started already in 2012 and is centrally coordinated by the State Chancellery. The general basis for conducting the Presidency is that no new parallel structure will be created, but will be strengthened and supported by existing bodies. For example, the composition of the Estonian Permanent Representation in Brussels will essentially double. I would stress that this is not a permanent increase in staff and is therefore not imputable to the purpose of staff savings. The presidency committee has drawn up a preparatory action plan, a staff strategy, a training plan and a communication strategy, and the government has also approved a budget with financial coverage in the country's budgetary strategy. It is EUR 74,8 million. The venue for the most important events has also been selected. Question 5: 'How does the Estonian Government intend to address the problems of the functioning of the European Union as a Presidency, such as the weakening unity of the European Union in decision-making, the expanding bureaucracy, the slowness of the decision-making mechanism and the remoteness of euro democracy from the citizens? ' As the Presidency, Estonia must act in accordance with the tasks and mandate laid down in the Treaties of the European Union. Estonia intends to hold a neutral presidency, seek consensus and work towards compromises within its mandate. I recall that our role is, above all, to stand up for the interests of the Member States and to find a common part. My assessment of the European Union's decision-making processes does not coincide with yours at all. A Eurobarometer survey carried out last year showed that trust in the European institutions has returned to growth from the bottom of the crisis: it increased from 37% to 40% in 2015. There could always be greater support and confidence, but given what is happening around and the uncertainty surrounding it, it is quite understandable that there is also more mistrust for the European Union. But I stress once again that the European Union has proved that decision-making processes are sufficiently effective if necessary. Europe has, in fact, been able to cope very successfully with the very different crises that have actually been considered to be fatal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-06_U62	Questions for the Prime Minister. Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-06_U63	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Prime Minister, I would like to ask how we are, however, planning this foreign policy. Sirvin I do this Ministry of Foreign Affairs Development Plan 2015 We are now faced with the fact that we are being told that there is obviously no room for embassy in Brazil. In general, however, you would have wanted clearer answers. I guess the government doesn't have them right now. The more general question, however, is whether Urmas Paet, as Minister of Foreign Affairs, could not plan at all.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-06_U64	Thank you. First of all, it is not possible to present as a decision something that has not actually been decided. Therefore, we cannot talk in a specific way about the closure of any particular embassy. However, I am deeply concerned that we must be flexible in planning our embassy networks. In those places where we know that Estonia's presence is necessary until the end of time, we must strengthen our representation, invest in dignified buildings. I consider the government's decision to set up a new embassy building in London and to introduce the old building as an ambassador's residence. It is a very important and historic capital, and I think that Estonia must always be very representative in London. I also think it is right that next year the government intends to invest more in an embassy network than in the last five years combined. The most significant investment is made to the Estonian embassy in Moscow, where we place just over 20 million euros. There we ensure, among other things, that Estonian diplomats are able to do their work in dignified spaces, safe spaces, etc. I believe that this investment plan must continue to be implemented and that investments must be made in those places where we are convinced that our presence is also necessary in the distant future. However, there are also embassies where we have reason to doubt whether, for example, decisions taken 12 years ago to expand one or another embassy, hoping to establish business contacts, have justified themselves. We have examples of embassies that are very much open to the creation of economic contacts. And if we see that Estonian companies have not succeeded in achieving significant business success in these countries in a decade, we must think about whether it will not be possible to strengthen Estonia's representation in another place, whether to strengthen business diplomacy or security. This flexibility must be enjoyed by the country. I am absolutely not offended if, in five or ten or even 15 years' time, someone decides to change one of the decisions that now appear to be the right one to design the embassy network. There must certainly be some flexibility in planning the size and strength of diplomatic representations and we should not stone these decisions in all places. In cities where we certainly know that we will be there in a hundred years' time, but we will chop decisions into stone if you want, and also build dignified buildings so that the representation is appropriate for our country.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-06_U65	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-06_U66	Thank you, good Chairman. Good Prime Minister! I'm a little sad that they're trying to distort the idea of certain steps. I think that the closure of foreign offices is not very much linked to the decrease in Estonian population and the number of officials. Perhaps it would be wiser to look at what the role of foreign affairs is right now. You were a little involved in looking for economic contacts, but when you go around, we see that companies are quite concerned that embassies are not interested in them or in their own database where there are possible business contacts. Have you studied the creation of markets and contacts? The second question is that being a provisional member of the UN Security Council is, in my view, a rather intermediate stage. What are the real ambitions of the Estonian government's foreign policy?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-06_U67	Thank you. The main objective of Estonian foreign policy is that we will never be alone again. That we are a strong partner and ally in both the European Union and NATO, that because we understand the concerns of others and are ready to think and contribute, we can be sure that others, if we need to, understand our concerns as well. Foreign policy is not a breakthrough to confrontation. Foreign policy is about winning friends and keeping friends. In order to win friends, I think it is also right to be active in the United Nations, where there are very many countries with which one small country, for example, could not maintain contact through a permanent representation. We are used to the fact that the Prime Minister of Estonia knows all his European and NATO colleagues personally that we call each other directly on a mobile phone if necessary, without mediation by the secretary. We are used to the fact that the Estonian Minister of Foreign Affairs knows all the foreign ministers of Europe and NATO countries and that the Minister of the Interior knows all the Ministers of the Interior of Europe. But there are far more countries in the world than in Europe and NATO, and sometimes it is also useful if we have any contacts and relations with exotic countries, too. I recall this very serious case when Estonian cyclists were hostage in Lebanon. It was shortly after the elections, at that time the Foreign Minister Urmas Paet, who had the Turkish Foreign Minister's mobile number on his mobile phone, was very experienced in his office. He was able to call right away and ask for help, do it directly, without any difficult channels. There was a familiar person on the other end of the phone. We never know when we may need to have good personal contacts, for example, with Turkey or why not with Lebanese leaders, whether the Foreign Minister, the Prime Minister or why not also with the President. Why have I said that we also expect good contacts from the President outside Estonia, the desire and willingness to engage in foreign policy? That is what is needed for many of these reasons. In winning friends, keeping friends, all the people who lead the country are important, whether the President, Prime Minister or Minister of Foreign Affairs, all must be active on these issues.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-06_U68	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-06_U69	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! Former Prime Minister Mart Laar has criticised Estonia's ambition to seek non-permanent membership of the UN Security Council. He has clearly stated that it may be very prestigious in a diplomatic sense, including our diplomatic corps, but it is pointless and expensive from the perspective of the whole nation. My question is: what is the benefit of being a provisional member of the UN Security Council for the people of Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-06_U70	Thank you. The prime ministers have different levels of ambition, and if Mart Laar says that the Estonian bar should be lower, it is his choice. I don't agree with him. I think that Estonia, as a dignified small country, has a capacity for much more. Of course, in honor of the truth, Estonia's external communication is now more intense than Mart Laar's Prime Minister's office. In the meantime, Estonia has become a member of the European Union and NATO, and our role has grown considerably in several international organisations. We are much more confident as a country, we have much more experience, and therefore we have reason to put the bar higher. That's one. Now, what is the benefit of every individual in Estonia? He will know that his country and its leaders are making an effort to ensure that the security of the country is guaranteed, that the country has friends and allies, that because we are interested in the resolution of conflicts in the world and want to have a say in it, we can be sure that if we need support, we will be supported. I have spoken with many colleagues from NATO countries that we now want NATO to strengthen the deterrence in our region so that our NATO allies send here the so-called enhanced pre-positioned units. In this way, we can feel more confident in Estonia and the security of the whole of Europe will be guaranteed. Believe me, this help is much easier to ask if the other party knows that we are also contributing to the resolution of conflicts that have arisen far from us. We have helped our allies in Afghanistan, Iraq, the Central African Republic, Mali and many others. As a result, the allies realise that Estonia is not a rake that just waits long enough for someone to contribute to our security, but we also have dignity, skill and strength to contribute ourselves if necessary, even in the event of conflicts that are not directly related to Estonia. For example, there are several military missions where almost a few thousand people have stood up for the security of the world and done so proudly, both under the Estonian flag and under the flag of NATO and the UN.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-06_U71	Aadu Black, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-06_U72	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Prime Minister! A whole series of principles of flexibility that you have said must be accepted. In a situation where there is no longer foreign policy concerning the European Union and where, as you said before, the Prime Minister, the Minister for the Interior and the Minister for Foreign Affairs all have very close personal contacts, the role of embassies has inevitably diminished and can be pulled together. At the same time, it must also be accepted that the embassies of the so-called empires need to be expanded, as there are often contacts from more than one country in the back. My question concerns an issue that you are likely to say that I am running in front of the locomotive again, because it has not been decided that an embassy will be shut down. But if I ask you later, you'll say it's already been decided why you didn't ask sooner. I am intrigued by the talk about the Estonian embassy in Kazakhstan. It represents Estonia throughout the region, but it may be closed, although it has an important role to play in the region as a whole and also in the realisation of the European Union's Eastern Partnership programme's research and cultural agenda. Are my fears justified?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-06_U73	Thank you. Since these issues have not yet been under discussion in the government and indeed no specific decision to close the embassy has been taken, I do not think it is necessary to go along with every speculation in this Chamber. As far as embassies in the European Union are concerned, indeed, all members of the government and Parliament meet very often with representatives of the countries of the European Union in very different formats. That is one thing, and we can also really resolve bilaterally specific matters relating to diplomatic relations. It should be borne in mind that very many countries in the European Union are also crucial to our bilateral relations. For example, there are some European Union countries that have very active economic activity, where there is a very large Estonian diaspora or where we have a strategic security interest on the ground in addition to the contacts we have at European Union level. I believe that our strong diplomatic representation will continue to be very well founded in most European Union countries, also bilaterally, and this, of course, cannot be underestimated. So much for a reply. I didn't want to argue with you in any way, I just wanted to comment on it.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-06_U74	Monika Haukanõmm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-06_U75	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! According to the Coalition Agreement, all public authorities have to aggregate their staff and operating expenses, as does the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. It is now known that closure threatens at least five embassies: in the Czech Republic, Brazil, Portugal, Kazakhstan, as well as the Chinese Consulate General. Whether the time is right or not, we can always discuss it. But my question is that when Hungary closed its embassy in Tallinn, I think we made a relatively emotional decision and closed the Estonian embassy in Budapest. Hungary is now opening the embassy again with us, but we are in a situation where the beautiful Estonian embassy house in Budapest is still unsold. How do you feel about the decision to close our embassy in Budapest? In fact, we could cover the entire Balkan region from there.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-06_U76	Thank you. As regards the objectives set out in the Coalition Agreement, entrepreneurs have said that it should be even more ambitious, i.e. significantly more to reduce the number of people in public service. If I remember correctly, this particular point has also gained the approval and understanding of the Free Party, and you have also supported it repeatedly during and after the coalition agreement. This is a principle which, as cannot be argued, is rational action in a situation where ignoring the demographic situation would be simply short-sighted and to put its head in the sand. I believe that we do not really have a fundamental disagreement on this issue. I would like to stress that the list you have read is, for the time being, clearly speculation. There is no decision that these embassies will be closed. Maybe they'll close less, maybe in other places. Before these issues are discussed in detail, all the lists in this regard are speculative. The reopening of Budapest's embassy should certainly not be ruled out; it must also be analysed, as is the subject where we are wise to tighten up. We are not, of course, doing an embassy somewhere because of the existence of a nice house, but you are right that in Budapest we have a very beautiful and dignified property that would make the costs of reopening the embassy lower. But can this house be the only argument? I'd rather not. Looking at all regions, we appreciate how effective action has been in all areas you have mentioned and in other places, whether it has been of considerable benefit. It must be taken into account that in addition to foreign offices, Estonia is also represented by several attachés from other ministries. EAS has its own network working in synergy with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. So everything must be looked at in its entirety and care taken to ensure that places where the country needs to be present are present in such a way as to help. If we simply send a diplomat somewhere, for example, and a large part of his time is needed to ensure Estonia's presence there at all and not the activities of substance, then it is certainly not effective. That is what we should try to avoid. But in the countries where we are present, we must be present with a representation that can really promote relations, whether they are security or economic relations, or relations with the Estonian diaspora, which are also very important.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-06_U77	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-06_U78	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Prime Minister! I am very pleased that we share the view that one of the objectives of foreign policy must be to find and maintain friends and allies. At the same time, it is deeply surprised that your coalition associates, government associates, are extremely contemptible and ironic about Brexit, labeling British politicians who support Brexit. It'll probably go through with the majority in England. Marine Le Peni is called Putin's henchman, although France does not think so. His party has 30% support and is likely to be able to become president. As for Donald Trump, the American presidential candidate, some of your coalition mates have even said that he looks like Hitler and is otherwise insane. Do you think this is how we will find allies and, in this policy, will the soldiers of America and other NATO countries want to come to protect us?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-06_U79	Thank you. I do not know which coalition partners you were talking about in concrete terms, which is why it is difficult for me to comment on. I don't know if anyone has expressed themselves in the way you said. But nevertheless, I can say that it is always wiser to debate with viewpoints. If it is absolutely necessary to use a crisp word, it is more of a crisp word about some of the positions and not the debate partner. This is such a general issue of children's room and debate culture. In any case, attacking a position is more acceptable than attacking a person by personal means at least in my eyes. Now, I am glad that you really meant that you also think it is important to find and maintain friends and allies. I remember a very heated debate on European and NATO solidarity from last summer, and then one of your party partners from this very remote area said some very crisp words about these allies that are important to us. To put it freely, it was all about the idea that we didn't need these allies, so let each one of us do his own thing. The position you have expressed today is much more sympathetic than that very sudden outburst of anger of your partymate at the time. I think this position is much smarter, much more reasonable. I thank you for representing such a more rational side of your party!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-06_U80	Jaak Madison, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-06_U81	Thank you, Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu. Good Prime Minister! I can't imagine you thought that allies and friends weren't important to us. Of course, friendship is very differently defined. I would rather say that there are countries with which our interests overlap and, in view of these interests, we are working together very effectively and successfully. I think this is a more precise definition of the basis for cooperation. As far as the European Union and NATO are concerned, there are 28 Member States in the European Union, including some with whom we do not have very many common interests, such as Greece, whose debts we pay. At the same time, there is Finland, Poland and Latvia in the European Union, with whom we have a great deal in common, and also a great deal in common. So the whole Union can't be taken unambiguously. I am not going to label here, as you have done in our case, we are extremists, we are collaborators with Odin's warriors, and what else have you called us? I'm not gonna label who said what about Brexit or Donald Trump. But I'm asking about foreign communication. How do you predict what it will be like to get through Estonia and the United States when Donald Trump becomes president?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-06_U82	Thank you. As Prime Minister, I do not have the right to speculate on the outcome of the presidential elections in another country. But as far as finding friends and allies are concerned, I think you represent this part of the EKRE and, unfortunately, it seems to me that this is a dominant part of the story, which rather scares allies and friends away from Estonia with its speeches and positions. Even the same recent line concerning Greece, which belongs to NATO and is in it 'one for all, all for one! ' in the Union also certainly important for our security. You're saying if they need help, we have to pretend we're not home. But think once if a politician from Greece or another European Union country said the same thing about Estonia! Since we have nothing to gain directly from our friendship with Estonia, let them deal with their own problems. Try to think a little bit about what these EKRE views really mean! What happens if this scenario, pointed out by your colleague, really applies that extremists who support isolation policies in other countries come to power and say that let each country manage itself, including Estonia there at the northeast edge of the European Union? I would argue that here in the immediate neighbourhood of an aggressive superpower, we have a great deal more to lose from Europe's lack of unity than many countries in safe Central Europe. So it is worth thinking a little before making such very harsh statements, which may have an impact on Estonia, Estonia's independence, Estonia's security. It is impossible for me to accept your views.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-06_U83	Thank you, Minister. No further questions for you. I'm opening negotiations. Andres Herkel on behalf of the heirs, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-06_U84	Mr President! Prime Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, I examined the information system of the Riigikogu, which was the deadline for replying to this question, and it is always a pleasure, of course, to have the Prime Minister answer before the deadline. But I have the feeling that we need to ask our first question again as soon as possible, so that the Riigikogu has a clear answer on what will become of our embassies in Brazil, Kazakhstan, Portugal and the Czech Republic, which is actually very close to us in the Visegrád state, and the closure of which might raise the most questions. Indeed, as Aadu Must, who left the hall a little while ago, said that you are now telling us in such a way that, oh-oh, you have asked these questions before the government has made a decision, but after that it is too late. If you make a decision now in the summer, it is very easy to point out that listen, members of the Riigikogu, you will ask us after we have made this decision for a long time. In this sense, I would ask for more respect for Parliament, which is a very important issue. When a decision is made, we ask you to come with this answer and give us these views first. The second thing I want to touch here is the UN Security Council. Indeed, it has been 11 to 12 years since Estonia began to speak about the pursuit of non-permanent membership of the Security Council. In the meantime, it was forgotten, and much has changed since then, both in our security situation and all around us. This has also led to a change in priorities and it should, however, be considered how rational this step is. There is one aspect to the whole discussion that I think is important to emphasise from this speech chair in the Riigikogu. Mart Laar has pointed it out somewhere, it's a valuable aspect. Indeed, the UN Security Council is a very strange relic of world policy, with five permanent members and ten rotating members. These five constant members are the winners of World War II, including two countries with a clearly undemocratic internal and external organisation, the Russian Federation and the People's Republic of China, which veto all kinds of things. In order for us to understand how this works, we imagine a Chamber of Riigikogu, where one third of the compositions are such lifetime Members who are never elected and who have the right to veto all questions. The rest of the unfortunate ones are the ones who try to get behind the table and say something for two years from election to election. This is the system itself. In short, there is a conflict of values here, which we have not straightened out in the best way on this subject. True, it can really go the way Lithuania did. I admit that Lithuania's membership of the Council at the time of the crisis in Ukraine was probably fit for purpose. We can go like this and we can go like this, we can't predict that. But there is certainly a point of consideration here, and if we put this issue side by side, including the money that goes into this campaign to make progress, many countries have spent a lot of time on it, and on the other hand forced us to cut our embassies' networks, it is questionable whether this campaign will pay off first and, secondly, whether it will be possible to carry out this campaign in a reasonable way at the same time if we close the embassies in the countries of the world whose support we want. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-06_U85	Thank you. Jaak Madison, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-06_U86	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good Prime Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, To begin with, it was quite embarrassing and painful to hear these answers. Such bizarreness and stretching, so one specific question is answered in three or four minutes, I do not think it is appropriate for one Prime Minister. But now to the issues. As regards external communication and foreign policy, I have written down some notes in order to comment specifically on the Prime Minister's statements. We are as quick as we are, we have extreme speeches, and we kind of want isolation. I ask Mr Clothes this question: are you so brave as Prime Minister that you dare say exactly the same to the current Polish administration, which has more than 50% of the seats in the Polish Parliament? Do you dare say exactly the same to the representatives of the Austrian Party for Freedom, for example, who are most popular in Austria with more than 30% support? Do you dare say the same to the Marine Le Pen party in France, which is one of the most popular parties, now the second largest in the country? Do you dare tell them that they want to put Europe in isolation, that they are extremists who stand out with loud speeches? I do not think it would be very foresighted to maintain foreign policy and good relations in Europe. Please note that many of these political parties are very likely to soon be government departments. You accuse us of sluggish speeches and some extremeness, but excuse me, your two coalition partners are far behind us in support of Estonian society today. We have 16% of the public support according to the latest survey. It is certainly not appropriate for the Prime Minister to accuse us of making extreme speeches. You also claimed that I personally represent the majority of the Conservative People's Party, who wants to bring Estonia into isolation and says sharply about Greece that this is how we destroy allies with Greece, Italy and certain countries. I do not know how we should take, for example, the statement by the Greek Head of Government, Mr Tsipras, that sanctions against Russia should be lifted as a matter of urgency. Does this refer to very good alliances in Europe? Is it in our interest? How do you comment on that, Prime Minister? Similarly, how do you comment, for example, on the fact that three quarters of Italian representatives in the Euro Parliament voted against the resolution on the release of the Eston case about six months ago? Is it keeping good relations with its allies here on the eastern border of the European Union? I don't think so. You tend to teach and exhort us how we should speak and what statements we make in relation to certain countries that have not shown us solidarity or very much openness in a single European Union. This is not appropriate for the Prime Minister and does not give a good impression. What else? It's like we're scaring our friends away from the mouth of Mr. Clothes. You know, we had a meeting today at 12:00. Personally, my group chairman, Martin Helme, member of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Henn Põlluaas, and our advisor met with the Ambassador at the Polish Embassy to talk about the situation in Poland. The aim was to find out what the situation is, how the European Commission actually discriminates against Poland and intervenes in the internal affairs of a sovereign state. I'd say you're still very wrong when you say we're scaring our friends away. We really don't long to keep a phone with Merkel's number in our pocket and call him at night. We prefer to communicate directly with our biggest allies and strategic partners, with whom we have the most common interests. So I wouldn't say we scare our friends away. We also very much want to maintain good relations with countries where national conservative parties have become very popular, because, as we know, this is the direction that is now spreading in Europe and that is inevitable. If you look at the general trends in Europe, you will see that there are national conservatives in Poland today in the majority government, as well as in Hungary, as I have already said. In Austria, they are winning the next election. I'm asking for a few more minutes to finish my thought!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-06_U87	Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-06_U88	I suggest you really be a little more modest when you use the words 'breathing, extreme, wanting isolation, closing borders'. The same mass propaganda goes to the Estonian media. If you open the Postimees, one of our biggest publications, you will read that there is an extreme right-wing Freedom Party in Austria. But, oh surprise, the candidate for President of the Freedom Party took 49.7% of the votes in the elections, i.e. in Central Europe, one of the so-called old European countries has half the population of the right-wing extremists. That's really good to hear! And if the Prime Minister pours oil into the fire with such claims, no is not very serious. I advise you to be more balanced and argumentated, not to throw words at them. You will probably have to work together and accept allies from both France and the United States, even if these countries have the power, for example, of Marine Le Pen or Donald Trump. It's inevitable. Good luck with your work and your sober mind! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-06_U89	Thank you. There is no further wish for negotiations. Would the Prime Minister like a word? Yes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-06_U90	I just want to assure Mr Herkel, in response, that I respect Parliament very much. When we had a choice whether to answer now, before the intersessional period begins in Parliament, or to come back to these issues in the autumn, when Parliament will meet next time, I thought it would probably be more correct if I still answer these questions as soon as possible. If this topic continues to be topical in the autumn, we can come back to it. But, as you well know, the fire in Stenbock's house also burns in the summer, and if you would like to discuss these issues during the summer in the Committee on Foreign Affairs, for example, to hold extraordinary meetings of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, then Marina Kaljurand, and I am certainly prepared to speak on these issues, of course, when the time is really ripe. Once again, I assure you that I respect Parliament with great respect. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-06_U91	Thank you. I'm glad to hear it, Prime Minister. We're done answering another question.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-06_U92	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-06_U93	Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-06_U94	Thank you, Mr. Speaker. Prime Minister, we understand that you love to conduct foreign policy over the phone. You will never miss the opportunity to mention that you can call Angela Merkel directly. We also understand that with our Foreign Minister, Kaljuranna, you communicate on the phone quite a bit to coordinate different decisions. Kaljurand himself also always confirms that one or the other of his positions is coordinated with you. But we also have a very clear impression that Foreign Minister Kaljurand is dealing with a terrible deal of internal politics. Maybe it has something to do with the presidential election. But I have this question: is it internal policy or foreign policy that you are coordinating the issue of Foreign Minister Kaljuranna's handbag by telephone, and did you also talk to Angela Merkel over the phone?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-06_U95	Thank you. Both Angela Merkel and Marina Kaljuranna, I will be happy to speak on the phone and when I meet them directly, and I will talk to them on various topics. The other part of your question is that colleagues from the Free Party are likely to resent me if I answer it, because it goes very far from foreign policy. But I suggest that you consider where this information comes from when you analyze the subject. It comes from the Chronicle heading '35 euros for a hint immediately'. The title of the same heading will actually give you a clue how seriously the news should be taken. However, as far as complimenting the ladies is concerned, I am still happy to do so, just in this case, the "source" should be viewed with some criticality. This is a clue in the Chronicle, which should not be taken as the ultimate truth by the Member.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-06_U96	I also found out where all the media took the news from the Chronicle. I didn't know that. Thank you. But as an introduction to this question, I would say that you have spoken very patheticly that our goal is 'Never alone!' '. By the way, even during the first Republic of Estonia, the purpose of foreign policy was exactly the same: never alone. If you don't believe me, I suggest you read a book like Vahur Made as a guest in world politics. Estonia and the League of Nations in 19191946'. It describes very thoroughly how Estonia made enormous efforts to never remain alone. And what happened in 1939 and 1940? Look at these chapters, I suggest you read particularly carefully, because all of a sudden, everyone who was friends so far became somewhat different. My question, however, is about another matter. Don't you think when we decide on an embassy network, we should contribute more to specialization? The previous inquiry was about finding markets. Perhaps we should send more military attachés to those countries where we have security problems, Russia, Ukraine and perhaps some other countries, and...
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-06_U97	Good colleague, time's up!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-06_U98	... where we have economic concerns, more economic diplomats?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-06_U99	Thank you. After all, the content of the whole lesson in history, or much of the content of the lesson, is that in 1939 and 1940 we were ultimately alone. We did not have strong enough alliances to prevent the occupation of Estonia. I argue that membership of the European Union and NATO, as well as active foreign policy, activity in the UN, are the best guarantees that Estonia can continue as an independent state. It's very important. I do not think it is possible for anyone in this Chamber to dispute that finding friends, maintaining allies is in any case a wiser idea than picking a fight and creating enemies. In foreign policy, it is vital that we have many friends. As far as specialisation is concerned, it is already the case that there are specialists with different specialties in different embassies. In countries where our main interest is bilateral political relations and security issues, there are diplomats in embassies, including defence Attachés, security experts. Where the aim is primarily to maintain economic relations, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs' economic officials also cooperate with the EAS, which helps businesses to have their own contact point, where information can be found on how to cope with this particular market. So a certain specialization is completely elementary, and if there are three diplomats in the embassy, for example, that does not mean that these three diplomats are exactly the same profile as the three diplomats in another embassy. Absolutely not.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-06_U100	We will go on: today's third inquiry, presented by Riigikogu members Andres Herkel, Külliiki Kübarsepp, Andres Ammas, Monika Haukanõm, Artur Talvik, Krista Aru and Laine Lutsepp. The inquiry is about the completion and demonstration of a land-based strategy and submitted to the Minister for the Environment, Marko Pomerants. On behalf of the heirs, I ask Mr Andres Herkel, Member of the Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-06_U101	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable representatives of the people! The last signature of the inquiry is from Ain Lutsep, not Laine Lutsep, as we were told.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-06_U102	I'm sorry! Ain Lutsepp, of course.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-06_U103	I would like to assure the Minister for the Environment that this is an extremely benevolent question concerning the preparation and demonstration of a land-based strategy. The heirs consider that this undertaking is very necessary, especially in a situation where there are two strange myths circulating in the public space at the same time. One is from one television channel and its message is that we have unprecedented wealth in the earth and we are stupid if we don't dig them up right now and we don't know how to get rich. That's bad. The second myth is that somewhere somewhere secretly planning some sort of mining, and immediately, the groundwater will be ruined, and everything will go badly again. I think that, in the light of the spread of these myths, a proper underground strategy is extremely necessary. We also want answers on how best to use our economic potential in the interests of the country and whether, in addition to purely geological groundwater and other aspects, the economic potential of mineral resources and the feasibility of exploitation will be analysed in parallel. We expect meaningful answers from the Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-06_U104	Thank you. I ask for an inquiry to be answered by Minister Marko Pomerants of the Environment!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-06_U105	Hello, Mr President-in-Office. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! I've only received well-meaning enquiries, I've never received any other. However, I have had problems answering them. They say you don't have to show up so early, you won't be able to hear those answers to previous questions. Now I'm glad I made it to the remote. On the ground strategy, you have asked a number of questions, and I will give them answers. The first question: 'Is and what kind of preliminary studies are planned to be commissioned on the economic potential of mineral resources and the feasibility of their exploitation? If research is planned, should these be carried out by Estonian or foreign institutions? " The answer to this question is as follows. Since these are the fundamentals of policy, there is no intention of mentioning concrete research in the underground strategy. Rather, principles, themes, and directions are written. Within the framework of the strategy, three assessments of the economic potential of mineral resources and the feasibility of their exploitation are to be commissioned. These are the following. First of all, the first assessment of the economic effects of the biodegradability of Estonian argillite and the extraction of metals. It could mean the following, I'll try to explain a little bit. I'm sure you've heard the word 'dictyonaargilitis'. This is from the same dictatorial mom, which is known to contain various quantities of metals that may be of economic interest. The second assessment would concern the economic effects of the separation of this same argiliid methane and the third of the economic effects of the extraction and processing of magnetite. Magnetite is once again a popular explanation of the so-called Jõhvi iron ore that geologists in Estonia drilled before the war. Whoever wants to see it has to go to the Natural History Museum on the wide street, there's a piece of fresh geology experience. These works are done first and foremost by Estonian scientists, but we do not exclude the involvement of foreign experts. With regard, for example, to the same iron ore or magnetite, our Scandinavian colleagues have very good experience in this area. In parallel with the preparation of the strategy, the Ministry of the Environment and the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications have submitted a joint application "Developing more efficient, environmentally friendly and sustainable uses of land resources' within the framework of RITA's sectoral research and development programme, which has received good feedback from other ministries. An opinion on this is also expected from the Scientific and Development Council, which will meet tomorrow at the Government of the Republic. After obtaining the opinion, the Estonian Research Council confirms the final list of topics, on which basis it will also organise the relevant competitions during the year. One of the objectives of the RITA programme is the development of the capacity of Estonian research institutions, as well as the promotion of cooperation between state institutions and research and development institutions. Interdisciplinary consortia consisting of institutions and scientists of the Estonian Academy of Sciences are welcome to participate in the competition. The word sounds ugly, but the meaning is understandable. So when we prepare our ground strategy, we also have a group of experts from Estonian universities who actually started this process: University of Tartu, Tallinn University of Technology and also Estonian University of Life Sciences. The second question: 'As the underground strategy becomes a basic document that provides further guidance and guidance, could one of the guidelines also be to declare groundwater a mineral resource (now a natural resource)? The ground strategy is intended to address the entire potential of the earth, including mineral resources; the support of the earth as a means of maintaining and maintaining land cover, carrying buildings and ensuring the protection of natural objects and monuments; the earth as a building environment used for the construction of underground installations, such as tunnels and tanks; groundwater and underground heat, which would be used for the production of energy, i.e. heat and/or electricity. As already mentioned in the list of keywords, this strategy also addresses groundwater issues. However, the topic of the debate so far has not been the naming of groundwater as a mineral resource. I know people in Estonia who promote theory that it should also be a mineral resource. But let's look at the Water Act! We were just dealing with the groundwater directive here, and at night, when we broke up, Mr Bridge had a question about what this body of groundwater is. I don't know if you could look at the Water Act or not, but in § 2, this definition exists. It is a concretely delimited layer of groundwater. Nearly 40 of them have been defined in Estonia. I have freshly reviewed the Water Act today and I believe that there is everything necessary in relation to the rational use of water, including the distinction between deposits. In my opinion, this is not a real matter of life either, whether the groundwater is declared a mineral or not. It is important that groundwater is protected, used correctly and continued. The third question: 'How does the Ministry of the Environment intend to increase the use of the economic potential of the earth in the interests of the state? ' To this end, cooperation with the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications will be strengthened. The draft law under consideration also states that the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications is required to coordinate and assess the socio-economic impact of requests for exploration and extraction permits for oil shale, phosphorus and metal raw materials. The Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications creates the competence for strategic planning of economic and socio-economic development in the field and the capacity to perform related functions. It is planned to transfer part of the sectoral tasks of the Ministry of the Environment to the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications. This activity has been based on the fact that we have the aim of the coalition agreement to find out how it would be reasonable to manage the ground through national institutions, and we have found that one important undertaking is to increase the competence of analysis within the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications. This describes more or less the possible set of tasks. There will be an increase in the volume and funding of sectoral research. In order to organise and coordinate studies, a national geology service is planned, which could be a managed public authority. But all these questions will certainly be discussed first in the Office of the Government of the Republic. The strategy also addresses the development of value chains for land resources, business policy conditions, the dissemination of geological information, etc. However, specific developments are not yet in place and are more precise in the course of the work. Question 4: 'In order to implement the Earthyard strategy (and probably a subsequent development plan), the country must have a structure to implement it. Please present your understanding of what this structure must be. " First of all, the ground policy is still being implemented, especially in the administration of the Ministry of the Environment. We have the Environmental Board, the Land Board, the Environmental Agency, the Environmental Inspectorate and, in a smaller amount, the Technical Supervisory Authority under the administration of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications. And it has to do with mining as such. We believe that the country's tasks in managing the underground sector must be clearly defined and support the implementation of the strategy's vision. The tasks of the Geological Service I was talking about was that it was planned to reach the service of geological mapping, general geological research on mineral resources, the maintenance of underground data banks, national environmental monitoring. Part of this would be seismological monitoring. If North Korea is planning another test, then Mustamäe might know it's still there, by the way. Hydrogeological monitoring is also foreseen. This type of monitoring, environmental research, hydrogeological work, research and development, participation in international ground-related programmes and projects, and limited contract work could be these activities. As far as these limited contractual works are concerned, they certainly raise questions. Today, the Geology Center is also forced to do work to simply earn revenue and support itself. Perhaps some of this work could be done freely by others, by geology companies operating in competition with the market, and the state should not intervene at all if the funding situation were better. So that's the plan. Question 5: "Which activities are planned to present the strategy to the wider public? ' First of all, a small announcement that the information related to the preparation of the strategy is already available on the website of the Ministry of the Environment. The relevant information is available: Objectives, Activities / Ground / Ground strategy. Two conferences have taken place in connection with the preparation of the strategy. The first of these was the Estonian Strategic Mineral Resources Conference in Rakvere on 16 October 2015 and the second on 26 April in Tallinn with the title 'Good Master for Common Property'. I am also thinking of environmental associations, representatives of ministries and other public authorities, geologists, miners and universities, who have been involved in the drafting of the strategy through a working group and sub-groups. The draft document is expected to be completed in the third quarter of this year and will then be presented to the public. Let us then try to engage another public event and, of course, additional stakeholders. The sixth question asks for an overview of the timetable of the ground-based strategy and the planning of the preparation to date. You could say we're pretty much on schedule. Looking forward, the draft should be ready in the fourth quarter of 2016 and then we can deal with inclusion. In the second quarter of 2017, there is the coordination circle of the interest groups of ministries, in the third quarter of 2017 a discussion is possible in the government office and in the fourth quarter the document should be approved by the Riigikogu. As far as this geology service is concerned, it is necessary to move forward in parallel so that it can be established in 2018. If we look at the logic of the budget and at the country's budgetary strategy, in 2017, it would be unrealistic, but in 2018 we could take off. I don't think I owe you any answers.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-06_U106	Thank you, Minister. Your answer to the question raised at least two questions. Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-06_U107	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, My question really is about your answers. You mentioned that you have already consulted a great deal with the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications in connection with the completion of this underground strategy, and some areas may be subject to the curating of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications as a result of the review and evaluation. Is it already known that the management of a field or a more specific direction will be transferred to the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications in the future? The other half of the question is also motivated by your answer. Has the Ministry of the Environment already hired a new scientific advisor?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-06_U108	Yes, the scientific advisor has been working for at least three-quarters of a year, and that problem has been solved. This is a doctoral student from the University of Tartu, a geologist that is a good omen, isn't it? As regards the division of responsibilities between the two ministries, what is currently being done in the Ministry of the Environment will remain there. This draft law on the ground, which you are dealing with here, concerning the assessment of environmental impacts, permits etc., makes sense to continue to do so. In the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, a competence must be created to coordinate and perhaps to carry out the whole forecasting of the economy and to obtain possible ex-ante assessments of what to do and why. We have agreed in the country that we will not increase the number of officials in general. That is why we should see how we can be more sustainable in the Ministry of the Environment. Some of this work could also be done at the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications. On the other hand, my colleague Michal must certainly see how he can arrange this in order to increase this capacity. It is not about moving, it is about creating.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-06_U109	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-06_U110	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, I will look at the point of the coalition agreement, which says that it will analyse the transfer of land resources from one ministry to another, from the Ministry of the Environment to the Ministry of Economic Affairs. I can see from this development that the solution is something between the two. So how is this gonna work? What are these decision-making mechanisms in this case?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-06_U111	Thanks! It's gonna work really well, it's gonna get better and better. As I said, all that goes on the permit side, the environmental impact and all that goes on in the spirit of the draft law on the ground, as you deal with it here. The Environmental Board is the main body involved in permits, the Land Board has its roles, etc. At the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, a competence that is currently not at all in the country is being created, and no one has taken that role. A separate question is that if a geology service is set up in the country, then who is his boss or what ministry he is set up in. I am quite frankly saying that both options are possible, arguments can be found in favour of both the Ministry of the Environment and the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications. We haven't been down this particular road for the rest of the day. However, there is an understanding that whoever is in charge of this state institution should be involved in the work of this council, not only the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, the Ministry of the Environment, but also the Ministry of Education, for example, who would be able to run it from science. It seems to me that we are doing this well and that the situation in the country is getting better.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-06_U112	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-06_U113	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good minister! You mentioned a number of very thorough studies and await their results in order to draw conclusions. What kind of time horizon are you trying to pull this off? If you make analyses and conclusions, is it certain that, for example, the next government will come to action?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-06_U114	The government of Taavi Clothes still needs to get to the work with our participation. As regards these studies carried out in the framework of the strategy or, as I have said, the assessments of the economic potential of the mineral resources and the feasibility of their exploitation, these are the issues around which the highest number of žiotage is now, right? That we take and mine the magnetite and get rich or take the metals out of the dictatorial or arcillith and become rich. But the assumption is how to say that the focus first needs to be set. The plan is to make an economic ex ante assessment of how realistic this plan to become rich. The environmental problems aren't going anywhere.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-06_U115	Thank you, Minister. No further questions for you. There is no wish for negotiation either. We're done answering the third question.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-06_U116	Let's keep going. Today's fourth question is an inquiry by members of the Riigikogu, Monika Haukanõmme, Andres Ammas, Külliki Kübarsep, Krista Aru, Andres Herkel, Artur Talvik and Ain Lutsep, about the sustainability of the financing of Estonian health care. The inquiry has been submitted to Mr Jevgeni Ossinovski, Minister of Health and Labour. I ask the speaker to speak on behalf of Monika Haukanõmme!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-06_U117	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Good minister! It is a great honour for me to present the request made on 5 May by the seven representatives of the Free Party regarding the financing of health care. In Estonia, the health insurance tax payers are about the same as the residents who do not and will not have to do it ♪ these are children and elderly people. Thus, our health insurance income base, which accounts for 13% of social tax, is in no way sustainable. As we know, the Coalition has decided that this health insurance income base will decrease by 1% over the next two years, starting to be 12% of social tax from 2019. Unfortunately, when compared to OECD and European Union countries, we are last in terms of the share of our health expenditure in GDP. It was only last week that health professionals organised an action with the 'Pailer for Work' to draw attention to the inhumane working conditions of medical workers and the underfunding of the health care system. We all know very well that the Estonian health insurance system is well down, and only the system established on behalf of taxpayers of working age needs to be changed as a matter of urgency. In our healthcare system, structural funding is a problem, not just a few million dollars in the budget of the Health Insurance Fund. Aggression to the health fund's reserves is shortsighted, because if you continue in the same way, there will be no reserves in a few years' time. We were delighted to see that the programme of action of the Government of the Republic states the task of carrying out a sustainability analysis of health funding and coming before the Government of the Republic with proposals. This was due to take place in March, but Prime Minister Rõivas said that he was postponed to May. In May, when we looked at the state's budget strategy for the years 2017 to 2020, we found that it also stated in clear terms: the sustainability of the financing of Estonian health care must be ensured. But it has been forgotten to record how this will be ensured in a country with a declining and ageing population, where the funds of the Health Insurance Fund are not enough to meet all the needs already. The number of people of working age is decreasing by around 6 000 per year and the number of dependants is constantly increasing, so that for one person of working age, in 2040 there will be 2.0 dependants instead of the current 1.6. This means that more money is needed for health care, and it is needed more and more. As a result, we raised the same issue on 4 May in Question Time. The Minister replied that a large working group had been working together during the year, that the proposals had been formulated and that the Government of the Republic was discussing them in May at its study session and that then the process of making choices was already under way. We understood that the same analysis, which I hope you will present to us here today, also contains a great deal of other important issues in the context of access to health services, which concern not only money but also regional coverage and, for example, the burden of ownership. To date, all these issues should be analysed in a complex way. Since two minutes of response time in Question Time did not allow you to open and explain the subject enough, we have asked you seven important questions about the sustainability of the financing of Estonian health care so that you can give us more details about the analysis results and the choices you have made. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-06_U118	Thank you. I ask the Minister of Health and Labour, Jevgeni Ossinovski, to answer the question.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-06_U119	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear Riigikogu! Good heirs! First of all, I think it's 150 times in the last half year, but still. Indeed, with the decision of the Government of the Republic and the Riigikogu, it has been decided to reduce social tax by 1% within two years of the following year. This means that the percentage of social tax paid directly to the health insurance fund will be 12 instead of 13, but it will have no effect on the income base of the health insurance fund, since, according to the law you have adopted, the honourable Riigikogu, the same percentage of loss will be compensated for by the health insurance fund for other revenue from the state budget. As a result of this decision, the state or taxpayer's contribution to health insurance will not be reduced, but will remain exactly the same. Now you will answer your very important questions. Since the format here is such that I now have 13 minutes and 42 seconds left, I will try to answer your seven questions in a very brief way and then perhaps in the course of a further discussion, I will also be able to solve the issues further. The first question: 'How does the government coalition intend to ensure the sustainability of Estonian health care in the long term? ' The sustainability of the financing of health care is an important issue for the Government of the Republic and according to our programme of action, the Ministry of Social Affairs, together with the Ministry of Finance, received the task of presenting proposals for additional health care funding in spring 2016. A working group was set up to prepare proposals, involving representatives of the Ministry of Social Affairs, the Ministry of Finance, the Estonian Health Insurance Fund, the Estonian Hospitals Association and the World Health Organisation, or WHO. In addition, the proposals have already been discussed in the Social Security Reform Committee, and in the near future they will also be discussed in the Cabinet of the Government of the Republic. Due to the country's budgetary strategy and other more pressing issues, this debate is indeed behind the initial timetable, but I have spoken to the Prime Minister and hopefully these talks will be held by autumn. It is known that Estonian health care funding depends mainly on employment-based funding, which will lead to difficulties in securing an adequate income base in the future. As the honourable speaker pointed out, it is clear that a country with an ageing population cannot only have a income base for health insurance based on labour tax. Several countries, such as Lithuania, have recently set out to pay more for non-employment-based income, other taxes under one or another scheme. There's no escape either. We have to do it. Of course, the question is how to do this, and in this analysis two different options were considered in cooperation with the Ministry of Finance. The Ministry of Finance has proposed a scheme to compensate each year for the structural loss of income resulting from the reduction in the working-age population resulting from other government revenue on the basis of the agreed formula. There are forecasts up to 2030 and beyond how much we will lose our working age population every year. It can be well predicted. On the other hand, it has been analysed how the age structure of the Estonian population changes, the age structure also affects the costs of the health insurance fund, as people of different age groups need to be provided with some or other health care services in different volumes. Against this background, it is possible to come up with such a rather complex, but self-existent formula, according to which this structural demographic change is then compensated for the decline in the working-age population and the change in the age structure of the population. The Ministry of Social Affairs has proposed a simpler alternative to expanding the revenue base. This would in principle be a state budget provision for individuals, such as old age pensioners who themselves do not pay social tax. If the state paid social tax for them, the long-term concern would in principle have been solved, because the working-age population will be reduced, but it will be reduced, in particular because we will have older people. And if the state paid social security contributions for the elderly, the ageing population in terms of health insurance would not be a problem. Option 2: The state will also pay some percentage for children. But children are likely to be reduced in the coming years despite major steps in family policy and, secondly, children, unlike the elderly, are not very big consumers of healthcare. The WHO has repeatedly recommended contributions for pensioners since 2005 to Estonia, stressing the importance of a wider income base in ensuring the financial sustainability of health care. It is true that, in addition to changing the revenue base, this analysis has focused on a number of other issues concerning the content of health care. The availability of health services has certainly been one of the issues in which we have seen that the current year's health insurance budget has been consistently negative since 2013. This is certainly what we are discussing in the Government of the Republic. The same issue of reserves, to which the scenarios refer, are slightly different, fluctuating there and there, but basically, if the policy choices do not change, then in 2021-2022, the health insurance fund will run out of reserves. This does not mean, of course, that you can now wait five more years calmly. This means that decisions should be taken today that guarantee that we will not reach this point. The Health Insurance Fund has also assessed the uncovered demand for treatment on the basis of contracts and actual use of healthcare in addition to the estimated treatment volumes. There is reason to argue that the demand for healthcare is currently not covered. To find out, of course, there is nothing else to do if you just have to try calling one of the check-in offices. With the full funding of the estimated increase in medical demand, the reserves of the Estonian Health Insurance Fund would run out as early as next year and the task of ensuring a mandatory reserve under the Health Insurance Act would not be fulfilled. Thus, if you want to better cover the demand for treatment, you need to make the income base of the health insurance fund more positive. To finance all uncovered demand, which can now be assessed in a purely mechanical manner and certainly not in an adequate manner, would require an additional EUR 130 million in the health insurance budget. The second question: 'What conclusions and proposals did the health funding group set up for the government reach? 'The analysis of the financing of health care focused not only on how to compensate for the structural deficit caused by the decline in the working age population in the health insurance fund, but also on the broader issue of health insurance. The government's proposals are divided into four areas: firstly, the sustainability of the financing of the health care system, which was already mentioned; secondly, the expansion of the health insurance income base, which was also a little discussed; thirdly, the scope of insurance cover and own contribution; fourthly, the performance and effectiveness of the health care system. Proposals to the Government of the Republic have been made in all these areas; the Government should now take its decisions. Now, the points that have not been mentioned. As far as the scope of insurance protection is concerned, it is important for the state to ensure uniform access to healthcare for all, since the inevitable assistance to 5% of the population who are uninsured is more expensive for the system as a whole than providing a comprehensive range of healthcare services. We have about 90000 people who do not have health insurance at a certain time of the year, and this is certainly a major problem for the health care system. These are people whose health insurance is jumpy: they work for at least one month, but less than 12 months a year, and we really do have 900,000. For some, it's their choice, they do some seasonal work, some work on a project basis: they do a few projects in three months, the next one comes in three months, and in the meantime they have no health insurance. This is not a normal situation. Previous studies have shown that it is reasonable to extend cover, as such people are mostly dealt with in the healthcare system when their treatment is already very expensive. The Ministry of Social Affairs is constantly looking for opportunities in general policy to provide cover for such special groups as well. In order to ensure wider social guarantees for people with irregular incomes, the idea of aggregation of social tax on an annual basis has been proposed. The idea is that if a person has paid the minimum social tax rate on an annual basis, he or she could have sickness insurance for that year. We've offered this proposal to the Treasury Department, so let's see what they think about it. They are a little concerned about the reduction in tax receipts, but the fundamental logic of our health insurance system should nevertheless be that all people living in Estonia are insured. It is clear that there are certain tax policy issues that limit it, but the aim of the state, society and, of course, the Ministry of Social Affairs is that all people living in Estonia are insured and, thanks to this, properly supervised on a regular basis. The general extension of insurance protection would, of course, help the system as a whole and would certainly be more sustainable in a far-reaching perspective. One area that we have, of course, assessed is the content of the insurance package. There are certain services that are currently not covered by health insurance. The insurance package could be extended, but of course it requires extra money. One specific proposal, which is essentially covered by the supplement, is the restoration of dental benefits for adults, but it is also a question of the possible inclusion of several other services in the package. In the case of own participation, we know that in Estonia, according to the World Health Organisation, and also from the perspective of the goals of our own population health development plan, we are starting to reach a critical limit of 25%. Last year it was 23.8%, if I remember correctly. This means that, in the longer term, we see the need to control or even reduce our participation. The characteristics of equity are influenced by two of the most important components: firstly, medicines, this is the largest part of the population, and secondly, dental care. Restoring dental benefits for adults reduces the amount of private participation in dental care, and we will deal with medicines separately during this year. We are also trying to reduce the burden of ownership there, especially by slightly redesigning an additional medical benefit scheme, so that people with a high pharmaceutical burden can buy medicines more favourably. This is particularly the case for the chronically ill and elderly, who have the highest pharmaceutical burden. In order to improve the functioning of the health system, it is necessary to strengthen primary health care so that people receive the right level of care at the right time. This is what we have been discussing for a long time in response to earlier questions, and I would not be talking about it now in the interests of time savings. We need to integrate health services more into social services. In this context, we are planning a pilot project in which we can analyse primary care, specialist medical care and social services together and see if we can get there to a reasonable financing model that promotes this integration. The current system of financing healthcare is not conducive to this. We are renewing the development plan for the hospital network, which I hope will have a new content by the end of this year. But now I'm embarrassed because time is running out and I have a lot more questions to answer.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-06_U120	Thank you, Minister. You will have further questions and will also be able to answer the last questions of inquiry during your answer. Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-06_U121	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I am asking you this helpful question.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-06_U122	Thank you very much, Andres Herkel. I will continue to answer the third question: 'Why will social tax be reduced by half a percentage point per year for health insurance in the next two years, if the current rate does not ensure the sustainability of health care and significantly ease the tax burden on employers? ' The fall in social tax will be compensated in the coming years, as has already been said, by a provision paid directly to the sickness fund from the state budget. Thus, there will be no change in the income of the sickness fund. It can also be added that according to the forecast for the next four years, it is not foreseen that the budget of the Estonian Health Insurance Fund will decrease. In 2016, the health insurance budget has increased by 6.4% compared to last year, the health care budget has increased by 5.9%, including a 5% increase in the special medical care budget. On average, the Health Insurance Fund's four-year budget forecast plans for an increase of around 6% in the budget for the following years. The fourth question concerns your own contribution: 'How do you intend to reduce your contribution to the cost of healthcare and the resulting inequalities in access to healthcare? What reforms are planned to resolve this conflict? " When I improvised that, I answered an earlier question. I'll see if there's anything more to add. Several changes have been made in recent years in order to reduce ownership in the purchase of medicines. The obligation imposed on pharmacists in 2010 to offer the most favourable medicine to the patient in the case of an active substance-based prescription may be considered to be the most important. As a result, the average share of the patient per prescription decreased by 15% in 2015 compared to 2010. At the same time, we also consider it important to further analyse ways of reducing ownership by promoting rational use of medicinal products. In essence, this means, for example, reviewing the rates of medicines or benefits used by chronic patients as an option. We will discuss this in the same way as we said in the coming years. Question 5: "How do you intend to solve the problem of long waiting lists when you get to a specialist? ' In parallel, the Ministry of Social Affairs has a number of solutions aimed at faster access to health services. In general, it is clear that the situation is not good. People buy their own health insurance, in essence they have to buy it because it is a solidarity insurance scheme, they pay social tax for many years, but when they need to get to a doctor, they do not get to a doctor. Waiting six, eight, or I don't know how many weeks, of course, can't be considered normal. One major problem here is undoubtedly: the people of Estonia are very specialised in medicine. With every minor problem, they want to get to a specialist right away. However, the resources of a specialist doctor are limited. These doctors were not enough to mention this in the introduction when I was talking about the workload of doctors and, of course, the healthcare provided by specialist doctors is much more expensive. This is why we have considered it important to empower primary care. This is precisely so that people have more confidence in the family doctor so that they can receive more diverse care with their family doctors, so that they can receive the necessary health care close to their home and quickly. The receptions of family doctors are generally good. Basically, one hundred percent of people get to see a family doctor when they need to. In general, the work of family doctors is also satisfied, but, as has been said, family doctors are not adequately trusted in solving their health problems, which is usually a mistake. The family doctor can help perfectly with most of the problems. Well, this whole issue requires a thorough examination. As I said, we are developing a pilot project, a human-centred local service model, which aims to significantly reduce the fragmentation of the provision of health and social services and to ensure that a person, including those in need of specialist medical care, can reach the necessary service as directly as possible on a system-wide basis. Here, too, the question must be resolved that we still have some specialties where we do not ask for a referral letter. Its justification is doubtful. People sign up to a specialist without even seeing a family doctor. There are countries where this is not possible, where only a family doctor can write a letter to a specialist. I'm sure that would ease your concern. And I'm sure it's also a question of a doctor's appointment system. We know the sadly humorous stories about people sitting on the phone for hours to get the number to the doctor, and when their call is finally received, they say that unfortunately the next month's time was full, call again this month and that day at 7:00. It's not normal! That is why the creation of a central digital registration office is also one of the projects that we are promoting. Of course, there is a central digital delivery note for this section: consignment letters would move automatically with the patient and could be registered with a specialist if the family doctor really thought it was necessary. Hopefully, already this year or next year, we will be able to show results in this regard as well. More generally, however, it is clear that in the context of budgetary constraints, hospitals have fewer healthcare volumes than patients wish to receive these services. But once again, it does not lead to the conclusion that people are not provided with the necessary medical care. We rather have the concern that in many cases specialized doctors were waiting to block patients who do not really need a specialized doctor's visit. It would also be possible to provide advice through e-consultation, for example, which has taken place in some disciplines. This year, we will see how well this has worked. In principle, this would be suitable for monitoring chronic patients, for example. At present, patients still go to their specialist every three months or half years, but if they have a controlled chronic illness and a stable condition, they should not do so. They can have themselves checked by a family doctor. If a family doctor takes tests and finds something, he or she already has the opportunity to consult a specialist using the e-consultation system for certain specialties. A specific doctor looks at the problem and tells whether or not a patient needs to be examined in a hospital, for example. This service we will definitely continue to develop. Question 6: "Are we considering buying specialist medical care from hospitals outside the hospital network development plan? ' It's already done, these hospitals are called the choice partners at the health fund's jargon. The future health policy priority is to systematically empower hospitals in the development plan for the hospital network in such a way that they are able to provide adequate services to the people of their region. Question 7: Is the partial compensation paid to the employee at the time of temporary incapacity to work continued to be paid out of the sickness fund or is the option considered to be paid out of the unemployment fund's resources? " It has been discussed for many years, so that perhaps the transfer from the health insurance fund to the unemployment fund could be carried out on disability pages, as they are called, because it is a job interruption. It is a question of choice whether it is dealt with by the sickness fund or the unemployment fund. In my opinion, this would be a transfer of costs from one pocket to another, which makes no sense in substance. The structural minus of the Health Insurance Fund would then be delayed by about 20 years, as this is a large part of the cost of the Health Insurance Fund. But when we think about planning a country's budget strategy, the government sector's position will be written down just like that as a cost, it doesn't matter whether the money is taken from the unemployment fund or the health insurance fund. This change can be made. it is one of the things that this working group has analyzed, but it can not be done. I do not have much passion in this regard; rather, the question is how to increase the capacity of the Health Insurance Fund to cover health insurance costs. At the same time, in the context of the so-called second phase of the employment capacity reform in the autumn, we are planning to propose measures to prevent accidents at work. Within this framework, we will also analyse temporary incapacity benefits and see if it makes sense for us to make some adjustments. Here too, in the Riigikogu, trade union proposals have been raised, for example, to increase the number of sickness days compensated by the employer and the state, and there has, of course, been talk about insurance for accidents at work and occupational diseases for a very long time. We will come up with these proposals in the second half of this year.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-06_U123	Thank you. Monika Haukanõmm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-06_U124	Thank you, Mr President. Good Minister, thank you for your answers. Yeah, the specialized medical queues are long. Of course, it has to be said that this single digital registration office has been on the table for so many years already when I was on the Health Insurance Board. And if you say it won't be for a few years, it'll take a long time. You also said that one of the reasons why there are long queues with specialist doctors is because we don't trust our family doctors. Has the Health Insurance Fund or the Ministry of Social Affairs analysed why people don't trust their family doctors? Could one reason be that we fund family doctors on a bounty basis, as well as special doctors on an occasional basis, giving specialist doctors more diverse opportunities to have analyses and all the other things needed done? Could that be one reason? What's your opinion?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-06_U125	Thank you. First of all, we will still generalise when we say that the people of Estonia do not trust their family doctor. I trust my family doctor very much, and I think that a lot of people are very happy with their family doctor, and there is no question. But when we look at the statistics on our system, we really see that we have a lot of specialist visits compared to a number of other countries. And there's no reason to think we're so much sicker. At the same time, there are other more advanced countries where specialist visits are about as much as we do, and it rather forces people to think that the attitude of the health care system is beautifully traditional. Some form of service has been used to getting from a certain place and there is a solid idea of what medical care is like in one place or another, and these attitudes change beautifully slowly. By now, we have a family doctor's system with quite a long history, but from the perspective of the people's history, it is quite new. After all, our family medical system basically started with the training of doctors with a particular profile. Perhaps the opinion that these people can receive and cure the cold has remained since then, but if there is anything more serious, then you need to contact a specialist. It's unfair, but I think that's the attitude. At the same time, we have good young family doctors, and I think that trust in family doctors in general is growing. As regards health services provided by family doctors, one of the reasons why we want to expand this package of services is to empower primary care, to set up health centres. We want to get the family doctors to work as teams and bring more sisters there. This is how we want to ensure that this is really a health centre, not just a visit to a specific family doctor. We have already expanded the rights of family doctors and family nurses, and I hope that this will be a step towards reducing the pressure to get to specialist doctors when this model becomes operational. One reason certainly is that the funding model for the Health Insurance Fund is level-centred, i.e. it is planned, at what level, how much money will be given and for which it will be provided. This model is by its very nature not patient-centred. If the financing model is not patient-centred, then often different parties approach the matter rationally and, although not malicious at all, decisions are made that are not always in the interests of the patient. Decisions are not even against the interests of the patient, but perhaps the patient's concerns could be resolved much better and faster if the financing model were to promote precisely this integration, cooperation. I think that's one way to go. As I said, we are trying to pilot a new model in which we are trying to bring social services and both primary and specialist care into a single perspective in terms of funding, and to attract interest in all parties, so that the patient can get the right service at the right time.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-06_U126	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-06_U127	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, I guess our health care is intertwined with so many small and big problems that there is probably no good solution for any part of it. But my question concerns the information disclosed by pharmaceutical companies. Do you also see the problem of pharmaceutical companies telling you how much they've paid to one doctor or another? At the same time, we also know that there are countries where a pharmaceutical company can no longer even give medical doctors its logo or a pen with a name on it. Do we have a problem with that, and if we do, should we deal with it? How do you think you should look at that?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-06_U128	As regards the promotion of the sale of medicines in its various variations, whether advertising or some other form of promotion, the state must ensure that all this is in the interests of the patient. As I said in my presentation, in 2010 a change in this direction was made, which has also begun to work. The doctor has the right to decide what active substance he prescribes in a specific diagnosis, sometimes it is possible to prescribe different active substances. As a general rule, we do not have a specific name for the medicine, and this limits the possibility in many other countries that, with all kinds of training and conference trips and other great events, doctors will later be directed to write the names of certain companies' medicines in their prescriptions. I have been asking for statistics and it turns out from the accounts of the Health Insurance Fund that about 90%, perhaps even a little more, of Estonian prescriptions are issued on an active substance basis, which means that no particular name is written there. However, in the case of the rest, this is still being done, and the sickness fund will monitor and see if it is always justified. In certain cases, for a certain diagnosis, this is justified because only a specific medicinal product, the substances that it contains, is better suited to humans. Some other combination can cause allergies, etc. But in general, we have got rid of this matter so that Estonian doctors can prescribe specific medicines from a specific pharmaceutical company. There is no doubt that pharmaceutical companies are not developing this type of activity in vain. Every time someone's ready to put a lot of money into something, it has a purpose. There are very many altruistic people in other parts of the world and Estonia, who do this because they want to do good, but as a rule, we always have to ask the state for what purpose it is for. I think this disclosure itself is a step in the right direction. Everyone may have interests, and everyone has certain interests, sympathies and preferences, but these interests must be recognised, especially when it comes to patients. That's what we've been doing in the system for a long time. For example, if we assess the cost-effectiveness of some medicines or treatments and involve experts from medical institutions, specific doctors, it has always been made clear whether they have any interest in a pharmaceutical company. Some doctors belong to certain associations and associations, which are financed in one way or another by pharmaceutical companies, and then, of course, some kind of conflict of interest may arise. Doctors are generally correct people, and we have been able to maintain objectivity quite nicely. I think this disclosure will encourage this.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-06_U129	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-06_U130	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good minister! You like to talk a lot, but I would like a very specific answer. You have repeatedly pointed out the fact that the minus of the sickness fund resulting from the tax cuts of the following year and the following year will be covered. But you still haven't told me which budget line. Since you're the Prime Minister's right-hand man, I'm sure you can tell us where the money comes from. If it comes from a reserve fund, how long is the prospect of continuity of the reserve fund?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-06_U131	This represents a reduction of EUR 40 million in 2017 and EUR 86.6 million in 2018, while EUR 91.9 million in 2019, to be mentioned well in concrete terms. If you continue to do so well, the Social Tax Act states that the tax administration, calculated on this exact 1% basis, transfers this money to the health insurance fund, as it transfers the share of the social tax. And if you answer well where the tax office gets the money from, then the taxes received from Estonian people and Estonian companies. We know that EUR 90 million is on the expenditure side of the budget due to this tax cut, but we also know that the revenue side will be increased by using the jargon of the Ministry of Economic Affairs, certain measures that will improve the budgetary position. I'm sure you know them well.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-06_U132	Kersti Sarapuu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-06_U133	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! The media writes so nicely that Ossinovski promises to take sick people by bus to large hospitals. My question is, where are these buses taken from? Who's gonna organize it, and who's gonna pay for it?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-06_U134	First of all, I certainly don't carry these people, I don't have the right to drive a bus. But more seriously, that is one question we are discussing in the context of the development plan for the hospital network. Patient transport has so far been the patient's own concern and, of course, it is an own contribution that we do not calculate in the statistics on the own contribution of the care service. One reason has been that we have so far had very good access to health care services in rural areas. Of course, people would like more and even better, but in international comparison, it has been very good. If there is a hospital in every county centre in a country the size of Estonia and in some even more than one, this is a good coverage. But it is now clear that there has been gradual progress towards the fact that some specializations have been concentrated in Tallinn and Tartu, and the question of how people can get into and out of these hospitals has, of course, become more topical. Unfortunately, the regional public transport network does not always meet the needs. And if we take two so-called competence centres, i.e. the University of Tartu Hospital in South Estonia and the North Estonian Regional Hospital in Tallinn, they are not geographically in the best places, if you think about the people who travel there from other counties. In this context, we are really conducting an analysis of how the people of Estonia can conveniently get a doctor from other counties, go to the reception and take them home. Health insurance could, in principle, finance it. I'll give you a figurative example, completely arbitrary and constructed, but don't start with it now, but if, for example, in a county hospital somewhere, the visits of three specialised doctors are stopped and transferred, say, to a North Estonian Regional Hospital, then this networked smaller hospital will agree with a large hospital on the day on which these three specialized patients will be admitted to the hospital. They have separate receptions, and on this very day, the bus picks up people for the county hospital and takes them straight to the big hospital. Their appointments have been arranged so that when the bus arrives, the receptions begin, people go there, they sit back on the bus, and it takes them home. In itself, this is not a technically very complex solution, and we are discussing it.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-06_U135	Thank you, Minister. No further questions for you. There is no wish for negotiations, so we are done answering the fourth question.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-06_U136	Let's keep going. The fifth question has been submitted by members of the Riigikogu Andres Herkel, Artur Talvik, Monika Haukanõm, Jüri Adams, Andres Ammas and Krista Aru. The inquiry is about the progress and effectiveness of the National Audit Office's report on the establishment of the Police and Border Guard Board and the stressful security situation and it is presented to the Minister of the Interior, Hanno Pevkur. I ask Andres Herkel to present the content of the inquiry.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-06_U137	Mr President! Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! Honourable Minister of the Interior! Indeed, on 2 May, in the absence of two members, six members of the Free Party Group submitted an inquiry into this matter. I can predict the general state of the Minister of the Interior with the first swing. He is probably pleased that the audit of the National Audit Office shows that, as the proportion of support services has decreased and the characteristics of the public services of the PBGB have either not changed or even improved, the long debate about how practical the merger of the Police Office, Border Guard Board and Citizenship and Migration Board was in 2006 has received some kind of response. We do not intend to disengage ourselves from the National Audit Office in any way and do not want to argue on this issue very much. However, this audit itself is very interesting in a number of other, accompanying aspects. For example, it turns out that the staff of the PBGB is ageing and shrinking and is even falling at such a rate that the total number of people lost in 2010/2016 is 1000. Thus, within six years, we estimate that the decrease is 17%, which is obviously more than any other ministry or agency in the public sector at all. This is worrying, as is the age structure. And what else will come out: a few months ago, we discussed the internal security development plan 2015 to 20.20, but even close to 400 million euros, this grand development plan is essentially without financial coverage. As a result of all this and, inter alia, from the fact that the security situation has changed very drastically and unfortunately in a bad direction since 2006, we are putting a number of questions to the Minister of the Interior, in the light of this audit, in total eight. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-06_U138	Thank you. I ask you to answer the question to me, Minister of the Interior Hanno Pevkuri!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-06_U139	Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Good heirs! Since there are a lot of questions, I'm gonna try to get right with them. The first question concerns the age of the deceased employees of the PBGB and the reasons for the departure. We have, of course, a very precise overview of the people who have left the service of the Police and Border Guard Board. In an effort to generalise, I took into consideration the same six-year period you asked about. From 2010, 20% of those who left were up to 29 years old, 20% were 30 to 39 years old, 17% were 40 to 49 years old. At most, 29% were 50 to 59 years old. I'm about to get to the point, but to put it predicamentally, of course, it's a special retirement age. At the same time, we also have over 60 years of age in the ministry. The 60-64-year-olds left the service by 7% during this period, while the 65-year-olds or older were 6% of the deceased. That's the distribution. When analysing the reasons for leaving, half of the deceased have left the Police and Border Guard Board of their own accord, 16% due to redundancy, 16% due to the fulfilment of the limit age or special pension, and 15% of the deceased, whether healthy or otherwise. Well, quite roughly, half of the PBA that left is going to go away of their own accord. If you look at what has gone away from the posts, you can see that, as the changes in the last five years have led to, this is in many respects linked to the support service, a very large proportion of the deceased are support workers. 65% of jobs have been in other positions, not in the police, they have been in the field or in a special group. We can point out statistics by detectives, border guards, patrol police, district police, traffic police and police officers at the impound. Everything I read to you is 35% of the deceased, and everyone else was mostly in the support service and make up 65% of all those who left. The second question: 'What are, according to your analysis, the main factors that motivate or demotivate the employees of the PBGB? ' At this point, I am pleased to say that we have also carried out a satisfaction study at the Police and Border Guard Board. The 2015 study also compared the results of the study with those of 2011. Every four years, we conduct such a study among our people. 78% of respondents considered working at the Police and Border Guard Board to be good, 4% did not reply and 18% considered bad. However, if you look at the trend, compared to 2011, the number of holders in the PBGB has increased positively. The advantages of the state enterprise are considered to be the most important: social guarantees, stability, secure pay, a secure pay day, a secure future, sports opportunities, etc. Similarly, it is appreciated that the work is routine-free, developing and interesting. A good collective is also mentioned. The question that needs to be corrected has been answered so that there can be less reforms, and in this respect, the last few years have brought about a cease-fire. Thirdly, you are asking about the critical limit of the size of the staff of the PBGB. Here my position is very clear, I have said it before. I do not see the possibility of further reducing the number of staff at the Police and Border Guard Board, which does not mean that there could not be opportunities and the need to review police tasks in different areas of work as time changes. But if you look at the total amount of work, you'd try to avoid a decrease in the composition of the PBGB. The fourth question is briefly summarised as to how the process of accession has taken into account the strained security situation. The merger was announced in 2010 and, from the outset, no reduction in the number of employees has been planned for the establishment of the PBGB. This was also noted by the National Audit Office in its audit that earlier plans were such, but life here has made its corrections. The fifth question is how the increase in the number of officials is guaranteed. We have an agreed solid personnel strategy. This concerns, in particular, working and wage conditions, as well as education and the quality of education offered at the Academy of Home Affairs. Similarly, we need to look more closely at our job opportunities. Special attention will be given to flexible working conditions and a health-friendly working environment, as well as to the analysis of the causes of departure. Satisfaction studies will continue to be carried out to find out what motivates or demotivates people. Of course, training orders are also very important to us. For example, in 2015 the Academy of Internal Defence carried out an analysis of the implementation of graduates' work, according to which 95% of police and border guards graduates work in professional work. In principle, everyone who comes to the National Defence Academy will complete it and also go to professional work. The sixth question is, how do I comment on the statement of the National Audit Office that the internal security development plan is free of financial coverage for one third. A perfectly correct statement! Indeed it is. It is also true that a very large number of national development plans are more ambitious than there are opportunities in the state budget. I am very pleased that one of the few development plans drawn up by the country, which has been covered for the last two years, both last year and this year, is a civil society development plan that is affectionately called CODAR. Just as the plans had been made, so the funds have been provided. But a very large number of development plans are not covered with all the money. However, it may not be a tragedy to see the development plan should be more ambitious and ambition must be greater than opportunities. The seventh question is how we respond to the priorities in this situation. One hundred percent agree that priorities need to be set, and we have set them very clearly precisely on the basis of the security situation and what is happening around us. That is why we have set the border first for all the next four years and for more than 70 million. It's been approved by the government. Similarly, we have agreed and prioritised the development of rapid response capabilities and the sustainability and timely renewal of our assets, both property and movable property, particularly in the form of cars and other means of transport. These are the basic priorities that we defended in the negotiations on the country's budgetary strategy, and these are the areas in which we received additional resources. But, of course, next year's budget will only come before Parliament. We hope that Parliament will support all the proposals that have been made in the interests of internal security. The eighth question is about measures that should help to address the problem of an ageing workforce. In fact, I have already said that this issue can be addressed with motivation and certainly also with a training order. We must undoubtedly keep the volume of the training order for the National Defence Academy and, in fact, I am very pleased that as one of the innovations we have been practicing over the last few years, internal defence pre-school education has been very successful. We will open an internal defence pre-school in the new Jõhvi state gymnasium in September. This measure has been very helpful in recruiting cadets specifically for the National Defence Academy. Young people who have completed pre-school training come to the National Defence Academy and there was a pretty good competition last year.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-06_U140	Thank you, Minister. You have questions too. Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-06_U141	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you, Mr Minister, for their answers and also for the clear view that further cuts in the staff of the PBGB are not possible. I ask this: since this has taken place during the governments of several Reform Party parties, what is the reason that such large redundancies have hit the area of internal security much worse than all other areas in Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-06_U142	Thank you for your question. Statistics on quitters show, as I said, that a very large proportion, or half, have left the PBGB of their own accord. When I look at the figures relating to redundancies, indeed, structural reforms have taken place. The main reason has still been that (a) there has been a desire to pay better salaries to existing people and (b) there have been opportunities to narrow down certain support structures, which was also one of the objectives of the merger, for example, to reduce the number of accountants and staff. If we're talking about patrols outside, the total number of patrols, it's the same. And, for example, the number of border guards on our eastern border has not decreased. All of this has been analysed separately for section goods and the main reduction has been in support units, support structures and central apparatus.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-06_U143	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-06_U144	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you for your clear and concrete answers. My question also concerns a very specific piece of work. In order for people to want to live in Estonia, it is not only necessary to get a good salary. It is also about the safety of the environment, and it is about making people feel good at all. The chief of the Police and Border Guard Board has said very clearly that they would like to increase the number of patrols, because not all of Estonia can be satisfied with the speed of the patrol. If the number of patrols is increased by 20, EUR 6 million will be needed. As Minister of the Interior, will you do everything you can to find this EUR 6 million and thereby increase the well-being and security of our people?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-06_U145	Thank you. In addition to EUR 6 million, new people are also needed if we would like to increase the number of patrols. One patrol is known to have two people in the car. To keep one patrol out at all times, it takes ten people to cover the holidays and periods of illness. So if we put on 20 new patrols with ten people, that means 200 more. So it's not just about money. If you look at the priorities in our area that we have discussed with the Police and Border Guard Board, yes, there could always be more patrols, but it is very good that the total number of patrols has not decreased in the last five years. It's been around 100 all along. If we also take water patrols and other reactive forces, 110-113 patrols are out there every day with border patrols. So this amount is quite remarkable. As far as the priorities are concerned, looking at our security situation, I see, first of all, a clear need to contribute to rapid response capacity and border security. Rapid response is not only about classic special forces, that is, regional support units, for example. It is precisely on the ground, precisely in Põlva, precisely in Valga, in Võru or in any Estonian city, that there must be people with rapid response capacity who do not necessarily have to be on patrol. They may be on patrol, but they don't have to be on patrol. They may also be quite free to be some policemen who usually work in office rooms who have received special training. If you need to react quickly, they will react. In other words, I see the need to increase the number of such people. But we also need to have regional support units of the K Command, as well as rapid reaction teams, and there must be an operational border guard service, or Rapid Border Intervention Unit, if you can say so in rural languages. We want to increase the number of rapid border guards from the current 34 to 50-55. This would actually mean the rapid response capacity of the patrols. In the same way, we want to grow regional support units. Unfortunately, I cannot read all the figures because certain figures are covered by a red stamp. But that's the main resource. And then, when these basic priorities are covered by resources, we can come to the question of whether it is more sensible to contribute to additional patrols when extra money comes, or whether it is smarter to contribute to greater motivation for existing workers by means of better wages.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-06_U146	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-06_U147	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good minister! You have pointed out that the main asset is human. My question is about their motivational package. When you finished your answer to the previous question, you noted that this was a higher salary, but unfortunately it has not been seen since the layoffs that the savings are aimed at raising wages. Rather, it is a national task to reduce overall costs. We really see that trust in the police is high, but young people go to school very quickly at some point and they decide not to go to this job, which is because they have gone to learn it. When the school is finished, you don't go to professional work, something's missing. What do you think should motivate them now, or if there is no motivation package, when do you plan to develop it?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-06_U148	Thank you. I can't agree with you. As I said, the last study by the National Defence Academy showed that 95% of the cadets who graduated from the Academy went to work as a police officer or a border guard. The percentage of professional employment at the National Defence Academy is undoubtedly one of the highest when we look at vocational education and further higher education. At the same time, many people who have been working as policemen for some time also acquire higher education. So, in fact, the percentage of professional employment at the National Defence Academy is very high. As far as pay is concerned, I think last year's jump was completely felt. One and a half years ago, the policemen had a minimum wage of EUR 750 and we raised it to 950. In addition to regional fees and other charges, I can assure you that a police officer working in Southeast Estonia or East Estonia will receive a salary of at least 1050, 1100, 1150 euros. So this leap that has taken place in recent years has been noticeable. You're saying the money from the layoffs hasn't gone to pay. On the contrary, all of this has been paid, and it has provided an opportunity precisely to attract young people to work, and we have raised the wages at lower levels most. In South-East Estonia, the average wage in the labour market is around EUR 800.850, while in the police there is a minimum wage, as I said, about EUR 1100. The average police salary is somewhat higher. So we have precisely directed all the funds that have been available to raise wages. What needs to be done to increase motivation, I already told you. Work environment needs to be further addressed and very good training ensured. It depends on whether the person stays with the police or not. There are, of course, other elements in our staff strategy. If a member of the Riigikogu wishes to read the staff strategy of the Police and Border Guard Board, then we are happy to give it a read, there is no problem.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-06_U149	Raivo Põldaru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-06_U150	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. It is not possible to compare the transition of police graduates and private vocational graduates to professional work. Some people have jobs, at least they should have jobs, but others go to the labour market and start looking for work. So this shift of 5%, which was in some year, was actually a failure, these jobs did not correspond to the order of the state. You said you could really move more patrols, but something's still wrong. In Estonia, there are an army of people with police education who do not work in this profession. Half of them have left of their own accord. I wonder why they volunteered to leave. Something's wrong, what could it be?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-06_U151	Thank you. It's your subjective assessment that something's wrong. It's perfectly normal for people to move. I can't imagine a person having to be married for the rest of his life in a single post. When a person has chosen a police call and started his or her working life as a police officer, it makes perfect sense that at some point he or she no longer wants to do the job and decides to re-learn. Surely he is capable of doing so and finds new challenges in his life. People's mobility is also natural in other areas of work. If someone learns to be a pastry chef, you don't have to assume he's a pastry chef his whole life. As far as entry into the labour market is concerned, the 95% I have mentioned is not correct in your view. Yes, the National Defence Academy is designed to train new policemen, border guards, tax and customs officials and prison officers, but this does not mean that it is the only way to come to the police and that these young people must remain in the police or border guards. People are free in their career choices and have the right to change their wishes. It's every person's choice that he does with his life. Those people who have decided to move from the police to another area have made this choice.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-06_U152	Monika Haukanõmm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-06_U153	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. We have an excellent internal security development plan up to 2020 and an implementation plan has been drawn up to implement it. When we looked at the National Audit Office's assessment of this, it turned out that the estimated cost of implementing the implementation plan and the planned budget did not match very well. According to the National Audit Office, which was based on the state of April, 399 million euros are missing to implement the development plan. What priorities will not be implemented, or where will the missing nearly 400 million come from?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-06_U154	Thank you. I would point out that this forecast has been made for the whole period, not just for one year. But this whole period has indeed been foretold. The situation is likely to improve in the coming years. For example, in the area of border security, it has improved. If, just a year ago, we were not able to talk about investing this amount of money in border security, and we also had an empty budget line there, today we can say that we have agreed the sums needed for four years in the country's budget strategy and, by the time of the next assessment, we will get a much better picture of border security. In fact, it should also be taken into account that the internal security development plan is not just an action plan of the Ministry of the Interior. It also includes a wide range of activities in other fields, Ministry of Social Affairs, Ministry of Culture, Ministry of Education and Research. All ministries will have to make an effort to do so. It is also true that ministries have a number of development plans for which they wish to receive additional funding. Well, then we'll have to make choices. We have more in mind at the moment what we are obliged to do. It is imperative for us to develop a rapid response capability, border security and asset management. As far as various assets are concerned, I can confidently assure you that we have quite a lot of things to do. An example is the Pärnu Home Security House, which costs 17 million, as well as the Vastseliina Small Command and Vändra Small Command. They're all on. Unfortunately, we are missing tens of millions of euros to develop this area. In fact, we must first look at what we can do, then what is required to do, and other activities must wait for their follow-up. Unfortunately, I must say to the people of Sillamäe, Kohtla-Järve and Kiviõli that I cannot confirm today, as a member of the government, that there will be a new house there in the next two or three years. The honest message is that they won't, they'll have to wait for a better time.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-06_U155	Uno Kaskpeit, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-06_U156	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Mr. Minister, you might want to clarify the statistics a little bit. What you said is beautiful, but on the chicken legs. Take out the statistics since 2005 when your comrades started destroying the border guard. I'm talking about officers. I don't think officers are the kind of company that could travel here and there. These are people who have studied this work for five to seven years. Those who left the border guard due to layoffs were officers who had reached the age of 50. Those who volunteered, of their own accord, went to the Defence League and the Defence Forces. I thought it was a great shame and make it clear to you. But here's my question. I know the cordon's gonna cut the number of cars. If there are now three or four cars in the cordon, they will be 50% lower. Half of them will be replaced, and only half will get cars. Why the action?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-06_U157	Thank you. First of all, I say to the remark at the beginning of your question that I answered the question and that the inquiry focused on the 2010/2016 years. If you want to do a more thorough history lesson, we can also deal with a longer history period, but there is no problem. As a former border guard and border guard, I'm sure you have an understanding of things that I naturally respect. You have every right to your opinion. As far as the machinery fleet in the border guard cordon is concerned, as far as I know, this will not be reduced in all the cordon. The replacement of the machinery fleet is indeed underway, the public procurement is over and the new cars are starting to arrive as a result of public procurement. It wasn't until Friday I went to Piusa, and there nobody told me they'd have fewer cars. If you have such information, let me know what you're talking about and who you're talking to. Then we can find out if this information is true, or if it's just a rumor to you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-06_U158	Mr Raivo Põldaru, the Home and Rules of Procedure Act provides for only one oral question in the event of a question being asked. Minister, there are no further questions for you. Let's open the negotiations. Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-06_U159	Mr President! Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! Minister, thank you for these answers. However, I would like to make a few comments on the subject that something is rotten and exactly what is rotten. I am pleased that, according to the Minister, further cuts in the staff of the Police and Border Guard Board are unthinkable. You can't go any further than this. However, the question remains as to why this has been an area where reducing staff has been at such a pace. And all this has been happening, as I pointed out, for a very long time in the times of the Reform Party governments. Indeed, it was quite startling to read a summary of the years 2010 to 2016 when 1,000 people had to leave work, or 17%. This is considerably more than all other public authorities. The National Audit Office even claims that by 2025, if you look at the ratio between the number of people leaving the PBA and the number of people entering it and their age structure, if everything goes on like this, there will be 30% fewer people working in the PBA. It would be catastrophic. Therefore, something is still wrong with the motivation package and other things. The National Audit Office also tried to answer that question. It turned out that 32% of the respondents considered that the biggest problem, which is why they do not recommend working in the PBGB, was frequent restructuring. So we're still getting to the connection and the nervous atmosphere involved. 22% say that the main cause is low wages, 20% think that the main problem is high workload. It signals that people are not dealt with sufficiently and well enough. I want to make one more marginal remark, and that is about the internal security development plan. When the Minister replied here, he said something about the fact that the development plans must be a little idealistic and that 400 million are missing to complete the development plan is natural. That's how these action plans are done. In my opinion, this is not natural at all. The Estonian state is full of development plans, which do not have the means to actually carry out, and which no one even plans to carry out. In my opinion, it is completely catastrophic, that is not the way we should view our public administration. We count our money and prepare our development plans in a realistic way, not in a way that several hundred million are missing. An example is the research funding plan in which we want to move to the target of 1% of GDP, but in no way move. This is also the case with any other development plans. It's a very unfortunate syndrome. And then the story that came out in response to Monika Haukanõmme's question that other ministries are also involved in internal security and that they too must make an effort. Sounds like a fairy tale to me. In this sense, it would be more honest if we were to face the real situation and the truth in drawing up such development plans, under the leadership of the Estonian state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-06_U160	Thank you. There is no further wish for negotiations. Would the Minister like a word? No, I don't. We have finished dealing with the fifth item.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-06_U161	We will proceed, today's sixth item on the agenda: an inquiry by the members of the Riigikogu, Martin Helme, Henn Põljaasa, Mart Helme, Uno Kaskpeiti, Jaak Madison, Raivo Põldaru and Arno Silla about the free movement of illegal immigrants in Estonia. This is presented to Minister of the Interior, Hanno Pevkur. Please speak on behalf of the heirs Martin Helme!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-06_U162	Mr. Deputy Speaker! Ladies and gentlemen, Good minister! We submitted this question about a month ago and at that time very interesting data appeared in the Estonian press. But I'm going to read our entire question. 'Last days, Estonian press has published stories about illegal immigrants who have remained on the streets of Tallinn since their release from the Harku detention centre. They have no work, no home, no documents, and they cannot be expelled. These are persons who do not have the right to stay in Estonia or the right to legalise their stay in Estonia. ' Our questions are as follows. First of all, 'How many people in Estonian detention centres who do not have a basis for staying in the country? How many such persons have been released from detention centres by the Police and Border Guard Board, and what is the number of those likely to be released in the near future? " Second: 'You have repeatedly confirmed that the eastern border of Estonia is guarded. How is it possible that persons from across the Estonian-Russian control line arrive on our territory without hindrance? In addition to surveillance, will there also be substantive unauthorised border crossings? " Third: " Why is the Estonian state not returning to its homeland persons whose origin is essentially established? ' Fourth: 'How does the Police and Border Guard Board intend to ensure the safety of citizens if, as the current situation continues, the number of people moving around freely who have no income and no chance of legalising their stay in Estonia will increase? Fifthly, " What is being done about these people? ' Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-06_U163	Please respond to the inquiry, Minister of the Interior Hanno Pevkuri!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-06_U164	Honourable Vice President! Good heirs, I'll answer your questions. First of all, how many people are in the detention centre? As of 1 June, 46 foreigners have been stationed in the detention centre, 21 of whom have been deported and 25 have applied for international protection from the Estonian state. You are also asking how many people have had to be released from the detention centre by the Police and Border Guard Board. Since 2010, when the maximum term of detention is fixed at law level, a total of 13 people have been released from the detention centre due to the arrival of the deadline: nine in 2014; four in 2016. At this point, I would point out that if a person has been released from the detention centre due to the expiry of the maximum time limit, the expulsion procedure concerning him or her will continue. You're asking how many more people could theoretically get out of the center soon. That's a hard figure to say right now. But I asked myself to be informed of the number of people who have completed or are about to complete 18 months, the maximum period of detention. There are five of these people. The second question is about guarding the eastern border. Once again, I assure you that the eastern border has been guarded as it has been for the last 25 years. And in recent years, the situation has been improving. As far as crossing the control line is concerned, it should be taken into account that, like most countries, our border is in nature. We are talking about a green border that can be crossed. We do not have very many fences in Europe and, if there are in some countries, not the whole border. The border line between Estonia and the Russian Federation also has a garden. At times, barbed wire has simply been drawn onto the Russian side, which prevents crossing the border, and there is also a river that limits these possibilities. If a person has unlawfully overcome these obstacles, he or she shall be detained and shall have a choice as to whether he or she will be the subject of an expulsion procedure or of an application for international protection and an international protection procedure. You ask why the country does not send back persons whose origin is essentially established. At this point, let me assure you that people will be expelled. There are procedures for this, and it takes time. For example, 135 foreigners were expelled from Estonia last year. If we look at a year earlier, then it should be taken into account that the statistics will also deal with persons who have received an exit letter immediately on the border, who were 313. However, as far as return is concerned, the assumption is that the basis for the readmission of the person is certified and that the host country has given its consent to the readmission of the person. This has been the greatest obstacle to the country if the country has not been identified or if the country has not given its consent to the readmission of the person, it is difficult. The fourth question concerns ensuring the safety of people. The security of all Estonian residents will be guaranteed in the same way and, of course, if there is a reason for police intervention, the police will also intervene. In this sense, there is no difference as to whether an offence is committed by a person who lives here permanently, in this village, such as a person on a tourist trip or anyone else. Police intervene in the same way, i.e. people's safety is ensured by the prosecution of the offender. The last question is what to do with these people. The solution is generally very simple according to the law. A person who is in Estonia illegally must leave Estonia. He or she shall be given a time limit for leaving the country and shall be obliged to leave the Schengen area as a whole. If a person does not do so, he will thus violate the precept he has been given and the expulsion procedure will begin. The expulsion procedure must identify the country where the person comes from, contact that country and then send him out. If you are interested in a slightly wider picture, it is, as I said, a relatively small problem in Estonia. However, if we take the whole of Europe, it is very difficult to obtain accurate data from elsewhere in Europe, but it is estimated that there are 5 to 10 million people who do not have the legal right to stay in the European Union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-06_U165	Thank you. You have questions too. Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-06_U166	Thank you, Mr. Vice Speaker. Good minister! It is completely incomprehensible to me that the state must be willing to accept its citizens. In my opinion, it is absolutely clear in international agreements that the country must accept its own citizens. There is no need to seek consent. Your answer gave the impression that the Ministry of the Interior actually took it on a totally cold stomach, that we had lawbreakers on the street at peace. Yes, there will be an injunction, and if it is not enforced, they will wait until they break the law in some other way. Whatever this number is, it's a matter of principle. These people have come to Estonia illegally, crossed the border illegally. But the main problem here is that the border is not actually guarded or the border crossing is not hindered. They're ticking their time, and then they're letting them out on the street until they commit the first crime. This is at the expense of the security of our citizens. Is that really all you can do to comfort us here today that we have to wait until they commit a crime?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-06_U167	Thank you. I can confirm that the Police and Border Guard will continue their expulsion procedure. As far as the detention of these people is concerned, it has been agreed internationally, I stress, it is internationally agreed that the maximum detention period will be 18 months. And a surprise-surprise, it really does happen that some countries are not willing to take their people back. For example, Vietnam has told us that it will not confirm that these people are Vietnamese people and will not accept them. We're gonna have cases like this, and we're gonna have cases like this. Even if we have identified where people come from, this country says that they are not our citizens and we do not accept them. And that's it. In this sense, neither the police nor the ministry take it on a cold stomach, but we do everything we can. As I said, last year we expelled 135 foreigners. There is also money to get these people out of Estonia. We take this very seriously and the person who does not have the right to be in Estonia is ordered to leave and must comply with it.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-06_U168	Jaak Madison, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-06_U169	Thank you, Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu. Good minister! I have two small questions. This year, 13 people have been released because of the delay, as I heard from one response. What countries are these 13 people from? The second question concerns natural obstacles on the control line. Don't you think it's a little bizarre to claim that the natural obstacle is the Piusa River, given the fact that hundreds of thousands of migrants come across the Mediterranean? Are you seriously suggesting that the Piusa River should prevent illegal migration from one country to another? However, the river is not quite what prevents an illegal from going from point A to point B. Do you agree with me?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-06_U170	Thank you. I suggest you listen a little more closely to what I say. I said 13 people have been released since 2010. Among them, nine Vietnamese have been released in 2014 and four Guineans have been released this year. And the river is undoubtedly a natural obstacle. Unfortunately, we have also seen that people have left their lives crossing the Piusa River in winter. They are frozen to death precisely because they crossed the river and got wet. Such a natural obstacle is certainly an obstacle.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-06_U171	Uno Kaskpeit, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-06_U172	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Mr. Minister! This is a very strange story. For 18 months, people will be detained and officials under your command will not be able to identify where they come from and cooperate with other countries. Secondly, the four people mentioned in the press did not cooperate with the authorities. They lied, vat, and misrepresented, one even had an expert assessment because he said he was a minor. In my opinion, this is an offence on their part during detention, not cooperation with the authorities. Don't you think it would be necessary to amend the law so that these 18 months do not apply to such people and are treated as offenders who do not cooperate? How do you look at that?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-06_U173	Thank you, Mr. Kaskpeit! You are always welcome to join the Police and Border Guard Board again if you wish. Maybe you'll also be trained as a detective and become a detective, and you'll be conducting these criminal proceedings. As for whether someone can be identified or not, I will give you a simple example. Suppose you do not live in a country as advanced as Estonia and that there is no fingerprint database in your country. Let's also assume you're going to Nigeria and you don't have your passport with you, and there's no way you want to tell me who you are. What do you think the Nigerian authorities will do to you? They'll take prints, photograph you, question you, but there's no one to get any more information. What would you do in such a situation if you were a Nigerian detective? It's just a person you don't know anything about. You take prints, you ask Interpol for fingerprint checks, you request fingerprint checks from other databases, but there's no match. There's no information about a human being at all. A person says a random name, what do you do? And you say we're incompetent and we can't identify a person. I think it is not fair to your former colleagues that your former colleagues are doing a very good job. As I said, in the vast majority of us, we can identify these people in the vast majority! We can also identify those who have come here with forged documents. Even in such cases, we determine the real identity of these people, but the expulsion procedure is a little different. As regards the fact that there is no cooperation, if you want to include in the Penal Code the paragraph that non-cooperation is punishable by criminal imprisonment, then you have the opportunity to make such a proposal. I think that would be a bit of an overreaction.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-06_U174	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-06_U175	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Mr. Minister! You claim that the Estonian border is guarded and protected. In this case, it is a little incomprehensible how we have Vietnamese people sleeping under the shed suddenly, some Somalis are being caught in the village, and somewhere on the streets of Tallinn people are being found wandering, who have come from unknown places. How do you explain that? How is this border still guarded when these people get here?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-06_U176	Thank you. A border has been guarded within the limits of the knowledge, skills and capabilities that currently exist in Estonia. We guard the border according to the human and technical resources available. We have made every effort to ensure that border surveillance is significantly better ensured in the coming years. The Estonian state has passed the Schengen evaluation and I dare say with absolute certainty that the level of border guarding the Estonian state is comparable to that of border guarding other European countries. Can the border guard level be better? Yeah, of course you could. But if there was a high fence at the border, would it rule out illegal border crossings? Wouldn't rule it out! I have seen different borders and different border facilities marked differently in different countries, including the high fence. And I've seen holes in that fence. Anything that can cross the border, lawbreakers use. Anything you can cross, you can cross. A wise man has once said that if you build a two-metre-high fence on the border, you only need a 2.5-meter ladder to climb over it.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-06_U177	Thank you, Minister. No further questions for you. I'm opening negotiations. Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-06_U178	President-in-Office of the Council. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, mostly my groupmates, but also ladies and gentlemen of the Free Party. I will never, if the members of the government answer, over or around our questions, if I remember correctly, from the point of view of 17th-century English philosopher Thomas Hobbes, that we live in the best of all conceivable universes. Our government also lives in the best of all conceivable universes. Our border is guarded, our Piusa River is wider than the Mediterranean Sea, and no matter how high a fence we would build around Estonia, it would be climbed over anyway. But we can watch it for all kinds of monitors and cameras, and I don't know what things to combine, and keep the border really so that the bums that were on your cheeks and on your head, if you visited the Piusa cordon, wouldn't get through. It's the attitude. It is a question of the cosmopolitan attitude that our government represents. This cosmopolitan attitude requires an extremely tolerant attitude toward illegal immigrants. This cosmopolitan attitude has essentially nullified all the rules that the Minister and his office should have had on their heads from the Schengen Agreement. Any illegal who has entered the territory of the Schengen visa area is a criminal. He is not entitled to stay anywhere in the territory of the Schengen visa area and must be expelled. And if it is not possible to identify where he comes from, then he must be deported to the country from which he came. We all know it's true, but somehow it's not done. We have people coming to a large extent from Russia, why don't we send them back to Russia? They've come this way, Russia is obliged to accept them. If Vietnam refuses to accept identified Vietnamese citizens, it is violating international law and we have the right to appeal against Vietnam in an international court. We have the right to make these people's lives bitter, but we don't. Instead, we humbly warm them up somewhere in the center for a year and a half. And if we can't send them out, because we don't have the determination, we don't have the backbone, we're gonna throw them out on the street. Then we will deal with it and the procedure will end by giving them some sort of permission to stay in Estonia, because we are cosmopolitans. That's the attitude, and that's where everything gets stuck. The fact that we do not have a border guard is also stuck behind the attitude. We have a few patrols and document checkers at border guards. That's our border guard, plus some cameras. This isn't a border guard! Suppose we have a conflict with our eastern neighbour, which the members of the government very much love to talk about. Fearers are as if we are, but I think the most frightening of us is our government in the war between Estonia and our neighbour. Of course, this cannot be ruled out; of course, our neighbour is aggressive. He has started several wars and is extremely unreliable, and we agree with that. And one drug against it would be our military border guard, just like we had. Just like we had! We should have a border guard who can also wage a guerrilla war, who has the corresponding training, who has the corresponding composition, structure. We don't have it. Instead, we have police officers who don't know much about border surveillance and sometimes go patrolling, and border guards who say we don't become cops. These are the two agencies that are still like fire and water to this day. You won't be able to melt them together until the last of the right border guards retire. And they're gonna be replaced, I don't know who, but anyway, not the people we can call real border guards. That's sad. We have repeatedly raised this issue here and have repeatedly received vague, evasive answers which ultimately reveal that we live in the best of all conceivable universes. Except we don't agree, we don't believe it. We don't believe this! And we don't have to believe, because in the case of a country, it can't be a question of faith. In the case of a country, it is a matter of tangible experience. If I'm out of time, I'll ask for more!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-06_U179	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-06_U180	I also recall that some time ago, I asked you, either in briefing or in questioning, whether it was some kind of ghost, or whether it is true that there are more and more people of distinctly unlocal origin on our street. And then, ironically speaking, you said it was a ghost. Now I've been walking around with very open eyes and pinching myself when I see again people who are clearly not of local origin. And, you know, there's more and more of these people. Maybe it's the result of proper border surveillance. I don't know. But it is clear that the number of these people is increasing. Of course, we don't get a clear answer during inquiries or briefings, because we can't start asking these people on the street if you're illegal, whether you're studying here, whether you're working here, whether you're US military or who you are. We just can't nail these people like this. But it's clear there's more and more of these people. Maybe they come from Finland and Sweden, we don't know. Maybe they'll come shopping here, we don't know. But it is clear that there are more and more of them, and it is also clear that, over and over again, I recall the old master Eino Baskin's saying that we have no hesitation, but we have some doubts. Or vice versa: we have no doubts, but we have some reservations. We would be terribly pleased if instead of a politically correct talk, you would answer us in concrete terms and say yes, we have problems and these problems come from this and from that. We do not have money, we do not have people, we do not have training opportunities, we do not have sufficient cooperation with neighbouring countries, we are indeed in trouble, because the migratory pressure on Europe as a whole is very high. Tell me the truth! We're not so scary that we're gonna get your eyes out of your head. But don't mess with us! The same applies to other members of the government. We're not stupid people, we can be mean sometimes, but we're not stupid.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-06_U181	Thank you. There are no more requests for negotiations. Would the Minister like a word? Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-06_U182	If we're gonna be happy to hang out here, I'm gonna take a few more minutes. I'm sure you're not stupid. I haven't told you anything's gonna freak you out. You can read all the verbosograms calmly, I haven't told you anything's gonna haunt you. Yes, we want to be cosmopolitans, yes, we want to be open. The key to Estonia's success has been that we are open. The reason for Estonia's success is that we get along well with our partners. Are we okay? No, it's not. There are certainly no aliens with pink glasses in our Government of the Republic, as some sometimes say. It is certainly better to get along with our partners than ever before with Estonian security authorities. We get along well with our partners. If you don't like it, that's your problem. As your former diplomat, you should know what international cooperation means. International cooperation must ensure that our people here in Estonia are safe. I'm categorically opposed to this attitude that if we see someone on the street who's not from here, we're gonna have to pinch ourselves. Well, if you want to pinch yourself, pinch yourself. But to think that these people are not welcome here, if they have come here as tourists, if they have come to visit their friends, is it a sin, even though it contributes to the economy of the Estonian state? If you think so, we have very different concepts. Yes, we want an open Estonia, we want an internationally active Estonia, you want a closed Estonia. There's a difference. There's nothing to do. But try to get over it. Open Estonia is certainly safer Estonia than a single, closed Estonia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-06_U183	Thank you. We are also done answering the sixth question.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-06_U184	We will proceed to today's final question: the inquiry submitted by Riigikogu members Raivo Põldaru, Martin Helme, Henn Põljaasa, Mart Helme, Uno Kaskpeiti, Jaak Madison and Arno Silla concerning the violation of law in Estonian taxicabs. This is also presented to Minister of the Interior, Hanno Pevkur. I would like to ask Raivo Põldaru to speak on behalf of the heirs!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-06_U185	President-in-Office of the Council. Minister, thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The day has come, and there are few who have endured the last question of this tiring day, which we had the honour of presenting to the Minister of the Interior. In Estonia, the provision of transport services is carried out here, I mean public transport in general according to the law. The law also regulates taxis in Estonia, with the exception of some cases of police operations to catch pirated taxis a few years ago, and those who were caught were punished. In May last year, an incident was discovered that a car was carrying people through the Uber app and was found to be a violation of the law. According to a police spokesperson this January, this procedure was closed. The reason was that the taxi had only driven customers via Uber for five days and after that the car owner stopped providing the service. So it was decided to terminate the misdemeanor procedure. This means that no penalty was imposed on the driver, but at the same time the judge estimated that the conduct of the driver was unlawful. According to the spokesperson of the Police and Border Guard Board, it cannot be said that all those currently providing transport through Uber are subject to the same decision, as each complaint is dealt with separately. In general, the Police and Border Guard Board is of the opinion that it is illegal to provide passenger transport services without a licence, but this activity continues. However, this should not be done without a licence and without the documents required. And since it will continue, it may be expected that other violations of the law could also occur. The police could also overlook them. That is why we have questions for the Minister as to how this kind of violation is still being viewed and allowed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-06_U186	Thank you. Please respond to the inquiry, Minister of the Interior Hanno Pevkuri!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-06_U187	Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Good heirs! Let it be said, as a preliminary point, that this issue is still very, very little relevant to the administration of the Ministry of the Interior. If you want to ask on the subject of advertising, I suggest you still address the Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications. Passenger transport as such is the property of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications. But a few thoughts, though. With regard to the first question, and with regard to your handling of an illegal taxi, the police started and closed the procedure. When the police were told that it was illegal to carry a taxi, they checked it out. For your information, however, there is so much information that the extra-judicial prosecution is not alone by the police, and the misdemeanour proceedings are carried out by others according to what kind of violation is involved. Advertising is supervised by the Consumer Protection Board and I find it very difficult to comment on whether it is illegal or not to publish advertising on public air. The police really don't appreciate it, it's appreciated by the Consumer Protection Board. Therefore, the answer to the first, second and third questions is simply such a general comment. It is a collaborative economy, and since the collaborative economy is clearly not regulated in Estonia, it is very difficult for me to assess whether driving one person to another is necessarily illegal. We take some occasional traffic, such as thumbshots or other forms of occasional traffic, until there is no violation of the law, it cannot be said that it is necessarily illegal. As far as I know, there is a debate in Parliament on how to regulate the collaborative economy. I hope that this debate will also provide an answer to how Uber or any other sharing service, whether it is Taxify or Taxigo, which we have in the Estonian market, must be regulated or whether it should be. Taxi transport is regulated and there are requirements for taxi transport, but the debate here in Parliament will show how the regulated sharing economy will be. In answer to the last question, I can assure you that, of course, if the police receive information about any illegal activity, the police will deal with it. And if there's any reason to make a forbidden decision, the police will make that decision.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-06_U188	Thank you. You have questions too. Raivo Põldaru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-06_U189	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. We are not talking about sharing services as such. We're talking about a law that regulates taxicabs. Years ago, the police acted resolutely against the pirate taxis, but not against Uber's taxis. Have I got it all wrong?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-06_U190	Thank you. Like I said, when the police get a signal, they're looking into it. When we take Uber's service, it is provided by privately owned vehicles that do not have any signs on them that they are taxis. The situation with pirate taxis was different. Pirate taxis were clearly marked as taxis, but their drivers did not charge the regulated price indicated by the companies. This was the nature of the pirated taxis: they took the wrong price for the service. In the case of Uber, this is not possible because the customer sees the price of the service before he gets in the car and there is no cash transaction in the car. It's all wired by electronic means. So these are different services. Against the pirate taxis, I agree with you a hundred percent, it was necessary to act resolutely. Unfortunately, we are still seeing pirate taxis in Tallinn, and the city of Tallinn should certainly act more resolutely against them. We have heard that the former Minister of the Interior is also trying to get a little more in order in the city of Tallinn. Let's hope he's doing okay.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-06_U191	Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-06_U192	Thank you, Mr. Vice Speaker. Minister, thank you very much. We understand that this is not exactly your area of expertise, but in general it is very simple. Uber is an illegal service provider under current law. According to current law, such services should not be provided without a licence. You don't think there's a parallel to pirate taxis here, but they're really pirate taxis. That's right! We understand that we can change this law in this Chamber. But as long as it hasn't been changed, the police should try to prevent the violation of the law, or the provision of this service. From what you're saying, we understand that as long as no one fools the police into this situation, the police won't pick up the phone. In this regard, it can be said that the state authorities act in a voluntaristic way, or they decide when they will comply with some law and when they will not. This is not like the rule of law.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-06_U193	Thank you. Am I correct to understand that, according to your approach, if three students decide to go from Tallinn to Tartu with one car and two drivers decide to pay the fuel money, then the driver should be held accountable? It is also a bargain: two people pay money to one person for being able to use another's car. But the debate in this House is certainly welcome. I very much expect Parliament to create a clear regulation on new opportunities. It is quite difficult to turn back time, but you will have the opportunity to make a contribution to what this regulation will be, what the legal framework for this service will be, whether it will be regulated as a taxicab sector or as a new concept, as is currently proposed. Life will show.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-06_U194	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-06_U195	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Mr. Minister! In the case of the previous inquiry, I wanted to know clearly about people of non-Estonian origin whether they are illegals or not, they have a legal basis for staying in Estonia. I didn't get an answer. Similarly, you are currently not answering this question adequately. If the three students agree to share gas money and travel to Tartu, the person who travels must be licensed to provide this service. Or do I get something wrong? In my opinion, the law still requires it. Because we can imagine when an accident occurs, who is then responsible, what kind of damage treatment comes, whether there are insurance and such issues. In my opinion, Estonia's laws have put this in place.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-06_U196	If one student has to apply for a licence to pick up two friends who are willing to pay fuel money, then we are, of course, on our way to a highly over-regulated country. But as a legislator, you will certainly be able to make this proposal in the context of this draft procedure, and then let's see what the big hall says about it.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-06_U197	Kalle Palling, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-06_U198	Thank you. When comparing sharing services with pirated taxis, it should also be recalled that pirated taxis in general were also accompanied by the damage suffered by one party. And mostly that party was a client. However, customer demand is the key to the collaborative economy. People use this service, people are happy with it. And here I see the only possibility that this area needs to be regulated. It must be regulated in such a way as to make it as easy as possible for people entering this market and to allow people who have more time and resources to do something useful with their time and resources, perhaps to make them more flexible. As we know, there are not many flexible job opportunities. What do you think, good minister, is Parliament on the right track to regulate this area? Should it be regulated? And perhaps you will also express your opinion on whether it should be regulated rather harshly or lightly.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-06_U199	Thank you. I think it should definitely be regulated. It is in the interests of the current taxi drivers that we know clearly what taxi services are and what other forms of regulated passenger transport are, whether we call it a sharing economy or something else. The debate, which is Uber, what is a sharing economy and sharing service, is not only launched in Estonia, but in the wider world. This is not only about passenger transport, it is also about the provision of overnight accommodation and various platforms where money exchange services are offered and whatever. There are many new opportunities. It is clear that technological developments allow for significantly more flexible and faster solutions, and therefore it is also clear that Parliament must agree on the relevant frameworks. Estonia is able to be one of the most progressive countries here and give the world a signal of how we think the collaborative economy could be regulated. This is not just a debate about Uber; it is not just a debate about passenger transport; it is a bit wider. I believe that, just as taxi drivers want occasional passenger transport to be regulated, the hotel managers also want airbnb and other such accommodation facilities to be regulated. This is necessary for the protection of current market participants in order to ensure that the market is orderly and regulated.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-06_U200	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-06_U201	Thank you, President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. Of course, if three friends, whether they're students or whoever, want to drive somewhere and match gas money and other expenses, that's cost sharing. But if one of them is carrying people like this as a service, then it is no longer a matter of cost sharing. Kalle Palling is one of Uber's lobbies here in the Riigikogu and talks about service, clients. Parliament has not legalised this service, although its providers should be subject to the same requirements as other persons engaged in taxi transport. They shouldn't have any advantages. However, as long as this service is not legalised, it is piracy, illegal activities and must be dealt with. Why isn't it being dealt with?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-06_U202	Thank you. I assure you, it's being dealt with. If there's information that there's illegal activity somewhere, there's a procedure. There have been cases where the procedure has been carried out. The police have called the people, they have taken their testimony, they have taken their testimony and they have made a decision. This will certainly continue to be the case. But surely, now that the area is more precisely unregulated, it is quite difficult to distinguish in street pictures whether the three students have agreed to match the fuel money or whether Uber's occasional transport is taking place. Those cars have no distinguishing marks. I do not know if you agree, on the proposal of Mr Helme, that if three students are driving in one car, the driver must have a license, but yes, it is difficult to distinguish these cars now. But okay, let it go. In short, the police are dealing with these cases, and if there is information that an offence has been committed, it will be resolved.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-06_U203	Thank you, Minister. No further questions for you. There is no wish for negotiation. We have also successfully completed our response to today's last question.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-06-06_U204	Now, ladies and gentlemen, the most anticipated item on the agenda today: a free microphone. There are no requests to speak. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. Today's trial is over. See you tomorrow! Closure of the sitting at 19.53 p.m.
