ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-20_U1	Good afternoon, honourable Riigikogu. We will begin the 2nd working week Tuesday session of the 4th plenary session of the Riigikogu. Do colleagues want to report enquiries or drafts? Please, I beg you, Hatter!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-20_U2	Good vice chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, Today is a very important day for the party scene, because it is the second birthday of the Free Party. How to celebrate it better than hard work! I am honoured to hand over the draft law amending the Nature Conservation Act on behalf of the Free Party. Indeed, for quite a long time, there has been a discussion that the state is not always fair enough in the case of restrictions on immovable property. The Chancellor of Justice also wrote a letter to the Riigikogu at the beginning of this month. The Free Party has developed one way of resolving the situation. Namely, there are currently 200 such properties that the Land Board estimates would require nearly 16 million euros, without taking into account the higher price of properties located in Tallinn. In our opinion, there could be up to 50 properties on the property acquisition list. Of course, we have foreseen exceptions if there really is a need to bring an object into nature conservation. We also come to the aid of the fact that finding a permanent residence should not automatically mean naming this area as a nature conservation area, but should take the appropriate steps: the site should be entered in the register and the landowner should be informed about the necessary checks. Today, we often do not see that conservation restrictions are set fairly and in a controlled manner. So good luck to us! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-20_U3	The members of the Riigikogu have no more requests for the transfer of drafts or enquiries. I have adopted a bill on behalf of the management board of the Riigikogu, and the management board processes it in accordance with the Home and Rules of Procedure Act. Ladies and gentlemen, messages. Today, after the plenary session, there will be a meeting in the Chamber to set up the Estonian-Malta parliamentary group. The caller is Meelis Mälberg. We're gonna do a presence check. 86 members of the Riigikogu registered as present; no 15. Ladies and gentlemen, specification of the agenda. Kristjan Kõljalg, Member of the Committee on Legal Affairs, will make a presentation at the debate on today's second item, the draft law amending the Law Enforcement Act, initiated by the Committee on Legal Affairs, at first reading.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-20_U4	We are going to discuss today's agenda items. The first item is the Chancellor of Justice's 2015 activity. Overview of the activities of the year, the rapporteur is Chancellor of Justice Ülle Madise. But before we go to that, I will briefly present to you the procedure for dealing with this item. First, there is the Chancellor of Justice review, which lasts up to 20 minutes, and then you can ask the rapporteur questions. Any member of the Riigikogu may ask an oral question to the rapporteur. Then there will be negotiations, where only the representatives of the political groups can speak. Ladies and gentlemen, we are going to the Chancellor of Justice in 2015. A review of the activities carried out in 2005. I'm asking the Chancellor of Justice of the Speaker's Office, Ülle Madise!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-20_U5	Mr President of the Riigikogu. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! A comprehensive overview of the actions of the Chancellor of Justice in constitutional supervision is as always available on our website and, as usual, the review period is from 1 September to 31 August. All the tasks conferred by the Constitution and by the laws that the Chancellor of Justice has been divided into 18 thematic chapters, including constitutional control of legislation, the attitude to the people of officials, the issues of good administration, the supervision of the legality of the activities of security and surveillance institutions, the results of the control of psychiatric hospitals, special care homes, prisons and other closed institutions, the protection and promotion of children's and young people's rights, and much more. In addition, statistics, chronology and international relations are commonly cited. At the very beginning, I want to get rid of one important thing and disprove one myth. When the new Child Protection Act came into force in Estonia, it was also claimed here that it would facilitate the separation of the child from the family, for example if the family was poor. Of course, we have closely monitored the implementation of the Child Protection Act, as I have promised you here, and the answer to this statement is no. As was meant in the new Child Protection Act, so is it: separation of children from the family has decreased. It has decreased, and it is in the interests of the children. Instead, there are many other activities that should help troubled families forward. Of course, we are monitoring this and we are also training child protection workers. In our review, which is published on the same website and also available to you, we do not recount all the views and explanations given on 1547 matters during this year, but rather try to show trends as our 50-member office sees the life of Estonia. Here in front of you, I am talking about a few things I hope to introduce you to your questions rather briefly. The main task of the Chancellor of Justice is to ensure that constitutionality is monitored without gaps. That is why we are checking absolutely every sign of a possible anti-constitutional rule, whether it comes from you properly, for all these signals, I thank you very much, in many cases, the procedure has begun, just as well-documented by lawyers or officials, or we read about a possible constitutional contradiction from a text published in the media or social media or from any letter sent to us by the people of Estonia. If necessary, we'll start a normal check-up. I can assure you that most of the standards we have studied are constitutional according to the rule of law. A law that seems unfair, or I ask for an apology, is often considered unconstitutional. Sadly, however, it seems that many of our fellow citizens still seem that there is one solution to all the problems in Estonia, and that is exactly what he likes. As in many other countries, it should be noted in Estonia that some of those who should explain that in a free society the people are divided into two, but often more opposing camps, and that is perfectly normal, not always doing so. Rather, they try to explain that there is a united will of the people. I'm afraid not. Dispute is a permanent reality in a free society, which is annoying, but it is certainly better than an iron fist. Why am I saying this? The Chancellor of Justice also needs to be made clear that justice and the best development path for Estonia can only be decided by the Riigikogu, which is yours here, within the framework of the Constitution, of course. Lawyer's diploma or any position in the Republic of Estonia does not replace the mandate received from the people in the elections. During the last review period, seven anti-constitutional laws came before you. Thank you once again for discussing them in depth. Four proposals have been met, i.e. the laws have been amended, often in force. There are three such proposals at work, plus the first one in the season. Of course, I would also like to move forward with them, if possible. It may sound too ambitious, but in my position, I can really see that the real suffering of people is behind these anti-constitutional rules, and often the opinion of people depends on them, too, on the Estonian state. Last week, a letter came back from a person who has paid unemployment insurance contributions, now he has become unemployed, but he does not receive any benefits because he is listed on the board of a small company. At the same time, I would like to stress that I am very pleased that during my term of office, I have developed a really good and statesmanly cooperation with the Riigikogu and the Government. This means that it is often enough to draw attention to the suspicion of a lack of constitutionality of a law or draft at a government meeting or in committees or in plenary. Things will be fixed, there will be no formal procedure, no human being gets caught in the gears. The next item to be discussed today is proof of this, for example, that during the raid 'Everybody blows' it should not be necessary to read the rights of drunk drivers to all blowers, because fortunately most drivers are sober and the rights must be explained to those who really need it. Thanks to the Committee on Social Affairs, it will also resolve the unacceptable situation of an e-state where, in the event of redundancy, the employer will be required to provide proof that the person has been made redundant, so that the state knows it a long time ago. That is what you have certainly noticed in your work, too, that there is not always a cause for concern about the constitutional rule, but rather an error in implementation. We see that a lot. In quite a number of cases, the official has been persuaded to implement the law constitutionally and the human concern has been resolved. These cases give hope. But there are still many who fear the obligation to pursue righteousness and reasonableness. You have probably heard it too, I have heard it many times, too, to do what you do, but do not just give discretion, in any way do not create standards that require your head to think about and be held accountable to. Unfortunately, life is not predictable. Reasonable lawmaking is precisely one that shows goals, values, principles, but linking them to a particular person and to his or her situation requires human understanding and care. For example, if an Estonian citizen returns to Estonia with his family, but happens to have his driving licence expired while abroad, he must wait in Estonia for more than six months to renew it. The official doesn't think he came back. Children are in kindergarten and school, the person himself and he or she are working, but that is not enough. So in a way, we have a moment of dialect. I hope you share my view that we need human and not robot officials. Honourable representative of the people! It is very pleased that during the last review period, the Riigikogu took on an increasingly active and independent role in the good constitutional spirit. This, too, is a sort of moment of dialect, and I very much hope that the Riigikogu will establish itself even more strongly as a real legislator. In the current enthusiasm for the presidential elections, I too have come to explain several times that Estonia is run by the Riigikogu and not by the President or the Government, which is why the most important elections are Riigikogu elections. The work of the government is to prepare laws for the Riigikogu if necessary, to support the Riigikogu with goodwill, but the condescending remarks of which it seems that the wisdom of the whole world is embodied only in the ministry officials are undoubtedly not appropriate. It is good that such comments have been significantly less frequent over the last year, especially this autumn. Now for orders and refusals. According to the Constitution of Estonia, our country is founded on freedom, justice and justice in this order. That is why I dare to ask you today that if some of the social problems are to be addressed at a harsh time, you ask if it will actually be of use. It is not necessary to assign to the law tasks which it does not have or can have. It is worth asking whether the accident with the victims or any illness would not have happened if the planned ban had already been in force. Then you have to ask whether compliance with the new command or prohibition can be verified at reasonable resource costs and whether it is actually controlled. If the answer to one of these three questions is not, the norm is unlikely to be useful. However, it is likely to be a pity, for those caught between the gears and those disappointed come more. Good Riigikogu! If I may, some thoughts and suggestions on the transparency of policy funding and on the approaching local elections. There's a year left, and if you think it's okay, there's a few other problems that can be prevented. The rules on who can receive the allowance and how the origin, time and amount of the grants are published should apply to everyone in the same way and always on the principle that power in the Republic of Estonia is not a commodity. It therefore seems to me that at least the obligation to publish revenue sources should and can be extended to all those who are campaigning, even if they themselves are not participating in the election campaign or election as candidates and have not directly linked themselves to any political party. If this is not the case, then there will be a door open to associations and associations that are not subject to funding restrictions or reporting obligations such as political parties and electoral associations, but through whom it is possible to influence matters in Estonia without knowing where the money came from. Secondly, it was also mentioned last year that the regulations of the Political Financing Monitoring Committee must be public by law. They are not in the Commission's own decisions. All other national supervisory injunctions shall be open to the public, whether or not they are in dispute before the courts. If necessary, initial legal protection can be requested and, of course, personal data must be covered where appropriate. One more thing. I know the idea is probably unpopular, but maybe it's worth at least considering allowing out-of-town advertising in some form again in local elections. The point is, this total ban is mostly blocking candidates with small wallets. Of course, it would not be wise to restore a situation where posters the size of a house riddled public space, where every moustache candidate's fur was like a walking stick, and after the elections, all the dumps from the electoral ditched. That won't be necessary. However, a moderate-sized poster with a picture of an election union candidate on the wall of a local store or bus pavilion could be entirely appropriate and increase the equality of opportunities. Good listeners! Briefly also about the work of the 21st century and the social safety net, which I, too, need to face more and more in my profession. We need to get used to the idea that technological progress is taking more and more work away from people. President Ilves has been talking about this for several years, and it is now one of the cross-cutting topics in the English and German quality press. Soon we will probably be living in a society where, in today's sense, there are many fewer jobs than today. We can already see that the current organisation of the social safety net is in the way of time. There is an increasing shortage of money to pay pensions and support the health care system. Therefore, we must be bold to look at the situation clearly and say that it is probably impossible to continue with the current arrangement, whether it is possible to exponentially grow the natural age or whether someone wants to allow mass immigration. It is true that this last just as the Constitution for the surge in immigration does not permit, as it would probably be in clear contrast with the main task of the Estonian state to preserve the Estonian nation, language and culture. But no one has such a plan, though at times such a talk is terrified. In short, it seems that the tax system and solidarity support systems must be adapted in good time to the new circumstances. More flexibility is still needed. We have also been approached because health insurance is not available if incomes are irregular, even though taxes have been paid on these irregular incomes. It is said that it has always been the case that social security contributions have to be paid on a regular basis. Yeah, it used to be. Maybe it shouldn't be like that in the future. It is very good that appropriate ways to tax income from the collaborative economy are being sought. Another of the priorities of my term of office is the title 'Dignity of the End of Life'. This is a humanly painful and ethically very multifaceted subject: the situation in special care homes, nursing homes and homes where a loved one needs constant care. The Chancellor of Justice can do nothing here but check special care homes and psychiatric hospitals, make public the results of the check, and, if possible, recommend where the state has money, use it in such a way as to make care for people who are demented more humane. This is possible, it does not necessarily require large extra money and personal carer for each patient. We can talk about these problems and I believe that progress is possible with you here. A separate question is how to alleviate fear for the fate of ourselves and our loved ones, and a separate question is what we can and can decide for ourselves by the time we can no longer decide and take care of ourselves, yet I would also like to be responsible for this part of my life. We started discussing these issues at the opinion festival, and at the beginning of October this theme circle will be discussed at the meeting of the Chancellors of Justice of the Nordic and Baltic countries and ombudsmen in Helsinki, and I hope to present you with an appropriate presentation next year. Perhaps this is also an issue where our office of Chancellor of Justice could take the lead in Europe. As a member of the management board of the European region of the International Ombudsman Institute, I have now taken the subject of defending the rights of people to Estonia in an obvious digital society. That is why our authority will be improved as well. However, the IT auditor with an international certificate joins us primarily for the reason that we are as thorough and efficient as we need to be in the control of surveillance and security authorities and, more generally, in defending human rights in the digital society. Honourable Riigikogu! I have repeatedly emphasised to you that if even one person in Estonia has been in trouble or damaged by an anti-constitutional standard, this standard must be improved. Thank you very much for sharing this thinking. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-20_U6	Thank you. You have a lot of questions. Heimar Lenk, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-20_U7	Thank you. Honourable performer! I come back, I don't know how many times I've spoken to you, to our unjust property reform. Last time on this platform, you said this way in answer to my question, I quote from memory that there is a loss of interest in ownership reform in society, there are no protests, therefore there is no need to deal with the issue, and you do not intend to deal with it. Now things have changed. Last Monday, 5 000 forced tenants handed the petition to the President of the Riigikogu, where the signatures were signed with an ID card. I mean, 5,000 people signed their problem. In total, according to the tenants' association, there are 100,000 such victims. Do you feel that the ownership reform is an injustice that has caused thousands of families to lose their homes, that society is used to it and that there is no need to deal with it, or are you prepared to cooperate with the tenants when they return to you with a request for help and a desire for clarification? You guys talked a lot about nursing homes today...
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-20_U8	Honourable questioner, one minute to ask!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-20_U9	...but real homes you've forgotten.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-20_U10	Thank you for keeping this up. When, in turn, I quote from memory what I actually said last year, I probably did not say that the real concern of people deserves attention in terms of my personality and memory. I believe that I have said what can be said in my office and what we are saying to people: the laws have been passed, they have been complied with, the judicial decisions have entered into force, and the Chancellor of Justice cannot go against these judgments and laws under the law and constitution. If the legislator decides that the sense of justice of these people has been touched just enough, people have had reason to feel that way, those cases where the situation is unfair, I too know, and I also know, and I decide here to set new standards and provide for benefits, it is up to the legislator to decide. I am extremely pleased that one of the very useful results of the public assembly has resulted in the same petition environment. So I want strength and hope that it is really possible to help these people.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-20_U11	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-20_U12	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you, Chancellor of Justice, for these problems. I can only relate to one of them on my question. You referred to the inaccuracies of party law, which give rise to many legal disputes. You also set out the public problem of the precepts of the ICTY. My question from here on is what you think should be changed urgently in the party law and whether you share the criticism or the view of the National Audit Office that the concept of political advertising needs to be clarified and the local authorities' information campaigns needing to be defined, which have been in trouble and which have essentially become a personal campaign of local government leaders.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-20_U13	Thank you! For years, the definition of political advertising has been debated. The Office of the Chancellor of Justice would also be more likely to see an agreement on what is considered political advertising and who has supervisory powers in these matters. This is necessary for the public and, in fact, for the candidates themselves, because there are also cases where a candidate is campaigning in good faith, as he knows, but then it turns out that it was either in the grey zone or was completely unacceptable. So in order for the elections to be fair and the rules to be understood by everyone, it is better that these issues have been negotiated in good time. The concept of an association of a political party, without amending the law of a party or making an election campaign, cannot, to a certain extent, be made transparent without the law imposing accountability in this whole area. So here's probably, yeah, a change of law required.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-20_U14	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-20_U15	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good Chancellor of Justice! You are referring here to the quality of legislation and you are suggesting that the number of disappointments is increasing. I would not bring the argument here that, as the opposition's proposals are not accepted, quality will therefore deteriorate. My concern is that the coalition has actually abandoned the generation of proposals and ideas in the Riigikogu and that is why the government fully controls the work of the Riigikogu. What do you think are the levers that would change the attitude of political parties and help the Riigikogu to take advantage of its opportunities? Is this a review of the party funding system? I'll bring out some nature conservation. You have come up with only one small system so that those landowners who want to sell land can solve their problems, but, in fact, people who want to own land also need legal protection, but it has been done with insufficient resources.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-20_U16	This is a question that goes beyond the limits of law. It seems to me that in the Constitution and in the laws everything is necessary so that members of the Riigikogu can establish themselves as real legislators. There are different examples, luckily also good ones.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-20_U17	Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-20_U18	President-in-Office of the Council. Thank you very much, Chancellor of Justice, for your review. In particular, I would like to thank you for this comment at the beginning of the overview you made on the Child Protection Act. Having defended this law as Minister of Social Protection, I know that the purpose of this law has never been for children to leave their families for poverty. On the contrary, the municipality supports these families. But the question is, what you were referring to in your review, is the interruption of heat supply in Kohtla-Järve. There is now a situation where there are doubts about the compatibility between the legal aid agreement, or the external agreement, and national legislation. There is a situation where housing associations cannot go to court or receive money because of their debts. You are, of course, aware of this situation, but as Chancellor of Justice, are you also planning to start a monitoring procedure and to check compliance of the legislation with an external agreement?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-20_U19	This problem has been under our very serious attention for almost a year. When heating was turned off in many houses and really decent families, including disabled old people, were in the cold, even though they had paid for heat, we drew attention to it and asked the Kohtla-Järve City Government and the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications to find solutions quickly. It's a good thing some things have been done. Looks like the town of Kohtla-Järve has done more. The law has not been amended and there is an unresolved problem of what to do in places where the market is not functioning and where the sale of the debtor's apartment, even if this debtor succeeds, does not actually allow the accumulated debts to be paid. This is not just Kohtla-Järve's theme, but all over Estonia there are semi-empty apartment houses. There is currently no good programme to solve the problem of these people with municipal apartments. I will mention a nuance that has not been through much of the discussions so far. We learned from the response of Kohtla-Järve that there are some people who still hope that someone else will come and pay off the debts of their neighbours, that these debts will be taken over by either the heat producer, the city or someone else. It must be consistently explained that this will not happen. That is what we are trying to do, because this hope is in vain. If these debts are to be borne by the heat producer, they will either be shared between all other consumers and debtors will either be increasing due to very high prices or the producer will go bankrupt. So it's not possible to go back to this kind of thing, there are solutions elsewhere. In short, some people themselves do not agree with the solutions that the city has offered. But we will look again at the compatibility of the law with the foreign treaty.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-20_U20	Monika Haukanõmm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-20_U21	Thank you, Mr President. Your Honor, Chancellor! The first phase of the employment capacity reform was launched from July, with the aim of helping all those who want and are able to do so. This requires a very strong effort from all parties involved. Sadly, however, people are always in a weaker position. Let us consider whether, for example, regulations have been adopted under the Building Code to ensure accessibility or whether the services provided by the municipality in the Social Welfare Act to support employment are actually available in every municipality. You have touched on this in the chapter on Social Security Network. My question is whether, and on what issues, you have been approached with regard to the implementation of the work capacity reform or which topics you have analysed. Do you think that the state has done everything it can to make this good idea come true?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-20_U22	Thank you for your question. You asked about accessibility. This issue also came up in the spring at meetings with some political groups. Yeah, we've been in constant contact with the Ministry, and we're still keeping an eye on the subject. We do not believe that there has been enough progress and, as far as we know, there has been enough. Among other things, the analysis that was allowed to be ordered has not been commissioned. So we will definitely continue with this work. Yeah, there's gonna be statements that reflect the pressure and failure. We are trying to clarify matters as far as we can, but this issue is extremely important. This is one of the priorities of our Social Rights Department.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-20_U23	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-20_U24	Thank you, Mr President. Your Honor, Chancellor! In this Chamber, there have been some statements that too many laws have emerged in Estonia within this short period of time after the restoration of independence. You also, if I am not mistaken, expressed the opinion that we are about to become a society of prohibitions and orders, I hope that I associate it with you correctly, and there are too many rules. What would help to ensure that they are not too many and that the relationship between freedom and regulation is good?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-20_U25	Thank you! That is indeed a very close question to my heart, because I am deeply convinced that we do not need robot officials. In order for the life of Estonia to be as rational and fair as possible, it is best to show exceptions in the laws, but in general, it is wiser for what purpose and in what way conflicting interests are balanced on a matter and what solutions are. Then it will be brought together by an educated and caring official who respects the actual situation and, rather, by an abstract, discretionary rule of good administration. It seems to me (maybe I am wrong) that more and more people are afraid to take risks. Many officials fear that maybe some of their decisions or injunctions will be challenged in court. Plenty of people are afraid that if they have to justify why they made such a decision or precept, that, for example, whether access to the historical mill needs to be built, it will take time and effort, because there are parties with opposing interests. It is much easier to have detailed rules in place in the law, so that they produce an unreasonable and unfair result. It's very easy to say, look, they're guilty, and now I, I can't help if I want to. You can say that on both sides of the argument. In my opinion, the legislator determines the principles and it is the duty of the official to resolve these micro-conflicts, where possible, in such a way that all the parties concerned feel that they have been heard, that the state is reasonable and fair and that there are different approaches. For example, the interests of the owner, the conservationists and environmentalists are essentially opposed, but there is always a sensible solution that allows the church to be built in the middle of the village. The review also provides examples of the fact that, under pressure from law enforcement officials, the law is likely to be accompanied by more detailed rules. One concrete example is the same Water Act, where basically there are rules of the same content in two places in the law, there are two blocks. But as the sad experience of Prussian land law has confirmed to us, only new problems arise. Then, in fact, there are two ways: either to remove these extremely detailed rules from the law or to make new rules, which will result in the normal system expanding again like a yeast. So that's up to you, good members of the Riigikogu. If I may make suggestions, I really suggest that we leave as much room for consideration as possible.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-20_U26	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-20_U27	Thank you, manager. Very honorable Chancellor of Justice! I'm gonna ask you something that I've probably never asked you before. I'm asking about hidden taxation. How legitimate is it that, for example, our unemployment fund has more than EUR 600 million today and we all know that it is not needed there? It's there, to be honest, to keep the state budget balanced. How justified is it, then, that this payment is kept at this level? The second question from the same area is the network charges that we all pay each month on the electricity bill. It turns out that the money collected for network charges is financed by gas routes. The network fee is ad hoc; it should guarantee us a very high quality electricity connection. How do you comment on such things?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-20_U28	As I said, no post or lawyer diploma will replace the mandate received from the people, which is why it is very difficult to base a constitutional position on the level of unemployment insurance contributions as Chancellor of Justice and, at the moment, it is probably not possible. We did indeed examine the taxation of one tax with another tax. It appears that this is the case for a number of excise goods and is in line with European Union law. People are confused about this because, in some cases, this double tax is shown on invoices, in some other cases it does not, and then it seems that this is the only way to apply it. I know that this question led to a time ago when Tallinn was trying to impose a sales tax on excise goods. The introduction of such a tax at local level is indeed contrary to European Union law. But I agree with you that it doesn't make any sense. If there were any more reasonable way, and I and my department could help choose this path, we would be very happy to do so.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-20_U29	Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-20_U30	Honourable President! Honourable Chancellor of Justice, thank you and your colleagues for the good work they have done over the year, the fruits of which we can hear and read today! My question is about the local elections in a year's time. How fair, fair and fair are you, in the light of current laws, assessing competition in local elections between political parties and local electoral alliances? How do you consider this competition to be affected by the administrative-territorial reform, which is now being launched, and how can it be affected by the so-called two-chair law adopted some time ago?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-20_U31	Thank you! Very correct and catchy questions. Some of the possibilities to improve equality and fair competition were mentioned earlier: actual online organisations not falling within the definition, and perhaps, to a limited extent, the re-advertising of outdoor advertising. I've expressed my position on two chairs of law. In my opinion, at the same time, the admission to the Riigikogu and to the City Council are compatible with the Constitution. Why? Because the local government is the right of the community to decide on its own according to the Estonian constitution. There is a so-called vertical separation of powers. Therefore, there is no government office in the local government. A member of a local government council is not a state office for constitutional purposes. As regards whether it would be better if members of the Riigikogu were not to stand as candidates for local elections, it would probably be in this sense that local politicians would have better opportunities to gather personal recognition and sufficient personal votes and thus go to the council. However, the Constitution does not prohibit the application of members of the Riigikogu. So we are talking about this and discussing whether these 50 or 60 members of the Riigikogu from the current experience of different political groups who will be elected to councils at present 50 or 60 of all 3000, but maybe in the future a little less of the members of the Riigikogu across Estonia will be allowed to work at the council, or an alternate with a smaller vote, who knows that a member of the Riigikogu can always return. And there it is. It seems to me that this is a partial solution. If someone wishes a member of the Riigikogu not to stand as a candidate in local elections, or if he did, the powers of his member of the Riigikogu would end and the powers of a member of the Riigikogu would begin, in my opinion, the Constitution must be amended. Yes, I know your group has a different opinion, but I really do not see how those 50-60 elected members of the local community, who are also members of the Riigikogu, could somehow undermine the autonomy of the municipality when they start working on the council on the basis of their votes. This cannot be reasonably and scientifically stated, at least on the basis of experience to date.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-20_U32	Arthur Talvik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-20_U33	Good waitress, I also want to thank you for your very good work and presentation. My question is about nature conservation restrictions. You also partially touched on them in your report. From nature protection it is very unfortunate to say this, that has become a lump with which officials punish citizens, citizens entrepreneurs, etc. There's been this kind of dead circle. What could be the miracle rod that would bring nature conservation standards back to their noble purpose of protecting nature?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-20_U34	This snail is in the hands of the members of the Riigikogu. If you task the government with working through the standards in such a way that the balance point is more reasonable and does not automatically confer an advantage on, for example, the environmental interest, then that will happen. Secondly, it is probably necessary to negotiate very carefully with officials who apply environmental protection standards. According to our experience, they are the ones I have already referred to who, in view of the extreme sensitivity of this area, would prefer the possibility of applying standards without negotiation and without thinking with their heads, and in the face of an unfair situation, would like to point the finger at the Riigikogu, both when dealing with one side and the other side of the debate, saying what they can do about it. Maybe we should talk to these people carefully. I understand them by no means, but such a situation does not help to achieve justice. Another good opportunity to mark this situation is the society of prohibitions and orders referred to by Urve Tiidus. Often an extremely strict management system is established in a nature reserve or also in a Natura site, perhaps in an area with a slightly less protective regime, such as a total ban on making a fire. If the landlord then asks whether a fire could still be made in the proper weather on a site prepared to make a fire, it is said: "You may, this is the norm for those we want to hold accountable. ' That is precisely what is unacceptable in the rule of law, that, in essence, everyone or many people are turned into the perpetrator of the offence, and it is confirmed openly that those who are needed will be held accountable. It's another society.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-20_U35	George Adams, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-20_U36	Madam Chancellor! One of the bottom lines of your report is the funding of political parties. It has a little more than two pages of text and it is clear that it cannot address all aspects of this topic. It was a great pleasure for our group to have such a part in your report, but at the same time, probably many members of the group would have liked to have included the amount of public funding. At least one of the cornerstones of the political path of the Free Party so far has been that also the size counts, although it may not be legally so important. If the money is given too much, it will pay off the previous election campaigns and buy out the local departments. Are you dealing with this question?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-20_U37	Thank you! The proposal is now underway. Right now, right here, right now. I recall 2003 when the public funding of political parties was significantly increased. At the time, I also expressed my opinion in the legal literature that it was actually working against equal opportunities. At that point in time, I believe that it was also possible, on the basis of practice, to claim that it was unconstitutional. I even did that analysis. Unfortunately, the constitutional review procedure was not initiated in 2003. But let's see it again.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-20_U38	Andres Anvelt, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-20_U39	Thank you. First of all, Chancellor of Justice, I congratulate you on your work and especially on the fact that it is easy to read this report in the online environment. It is very well structured and, in this sense, it is one of the best reports available online. But my question is about administrative reform. You have mentioned that if the municipalities do not join voluntarily, the possibility of contesting their forced merger will be too close to the elections. What are your suggestions? Should we already anticipate these problems in this Riigikogu and, for example, intervene in the legislative process by imposing some sort of interim election conditions, or should possible disputes be awaited, which will really be too close to local elections after 15 July next year?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-20_U40	I am extremely pleased if you have a new approach for your colleagues in the Riigikogu. Thank you very much. On 4 October there will be a public constitutional monitoring college meeting on the Administrative Reform Act in Tartu. The President of the Supreme Court has assured me that this will also be a transfer. I hope that the Supreme Court will reach a reasoned decision as soon as possible. Here again, decisions are in your hands, to intervene or to push in one direction or another are not appropriate, but it seems to me that the Supreme Court's decision should not be expected. If it turns out that the Supreme Court shares the opinion of the Chancellor of Justice that, in a few nuances, this law is contrary to the Constitution, then we will be happy, if we know and if you wish to do so, to give advice on how to resolve this situation fairly and sensibly.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-20_U41	Marika Tuus-Laul, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-20_U42	Thank you. Madam Chancellor! I'd like to ask you as Chancellor of Justice about justice. As we know, leading lawyers have pointed out that criminal proceedings are the only area of law that we have without radical reform. Essentially, we live on in Soviet time. They have even referred to legal proceedings. We do not have both sides of the procedure, we do not have equal rights, we do not have equal rights, we do not have equal rights. I mean, over 99% of the processes end in conviction. We have a very, very large number of compromise procedures. Nowhere is it easier to arrest people, we have the highest percentage of arrests, and it has been said that this is precisely because we are pushing for a 'agreement' agreement. Why do you think the number of settlement procedures is so high and why do we have this system without reform?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-20_U43	Thank you! Yes, the lawyers have approached us with these questions. A very thorough list of questions was sent by Leon Glikman. We also answered him. Whether or not criminal proceedings have been reformed in Estonia, I dare to disagree. In fact, the Soviet criminal code is no longer valid for us. All the principles of criminal proceedings have been developed on the basis of the experience of other countries, particularly Germany and France. Some have also been borrowed from other countries. Did these solutions become good or bad? Again, it's up to you. I know there are a number of criminal justice institutes that raise doubts. I don't like some of them either, but I can't say they're unconstitutional. If there are more specific questions about this, we will be happy to answer you in writing. It is now very difficult to say something more general, but in any case it is not true that criminal proceedings have not been reformed or that the lawyer is not guaranteed the necessary rights in the democratic rule of law. From a lawyer's point of view, it seems that there are few rights and opportunities, it is only natural. The prosecutors, by the way, think the same thing about themselves.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-20_U44	Kalle Palling, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-20_U45	Thank you. Thank you, Chancellor of Justice, too, for the work you have done and for a very meaningful report. I would like to ask you about this chapter on the 21st century's work. Indeed, work cannot be an end in itself. I suppose this labour law is similar to that of the post-industrial revolution. Rather, the goal could be for those who earn a happy and dignified salary. What do you think are the next steps that the country should take to ensure that people who want to work flexibly want to participate in the collaborative economy, for example, do not fall within the gears or fall outside the umbrella currently offered to some workers? It doesn't make sense if we force all the new economic standards into the framework of existing norms, does it?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-20_U46	Thank you very much. I would like to thank Mr Palling specifically for carrying out the regulation of the collaborative economy and participating in the inter-agency working group with the Chancellor of Justice, including civil society, which deals with these issues, is trying to clarify them first and then start over. It seems to me that a comprehensive package of measures entitled '21. The work of the 19th century and the social safety net, or whatever, cannot be. It is likely that we should move forward step by step. It seems to me that the linking of taxes and the social guarantees they receive should become more flexible. This is also possible in the e-state. I am talking about the same possibility of spreading social tax. With parental benefit, it looks like things have worked out right now, but there are still nuances. Speaking about the collaborative economy, I particularly welcome Estonia's continuing position that Uber, for example, is an information society service provider and not a taxi service provider. This issue is currently before the Court of Justice of the European Union. We have to wait there for an answer. To some extent, it may also depend on how Estonia can move forward with these regulations. However, this objective, which is set under your leadership, to provide regulation which, if desired, could serve as an example for other members of the European Union, is, in my opinion, very right. But yes, that is the subject we will continue to deal with. I very much hope that all members of the Riigikogu who have any interest in this subject will come and think along, whether it be the questions of voucher work or zero-hour work and the social guarantees associated with it.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-20_U47	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-20_U48	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Chancellor of Justice, thank you and your team for the beautiful and meaningful work you have done over the year, and also for how it has been put into practice. Most of all, I want to thank you and your team for the fact that it clearly seems like caring about a person. At the same time, you have expressed concern about the movement towards the world of orders and prohibitions. In a small country, it would be very dangerous. What is the situation in your view and what is the state of our civil society? Is it strong enough to oppose these orders and prohibitions by itself, or is there something very shaky in this civil society?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-20_U49	Thank you very much. In my opinion, civil society in Estonia has increased considerably in the last ten years. This also means, among other things, that the opposing interests of members of society and the outlooks of the world come out even more clearly. The strengthening of civil society is nothing more than a dispute, but there is more control over the activities of the state authority than before. What can be done, and I hope that the Riigikogu will do this, as emphasised by the President of the Riigikogu in his opening speech of the autumn session, is to invite citizens' associations to participate even more in the draft legislation. They must be listened to and, if there is a point, these opinions should be taken into account where possible. It really seems to me that if new languages and commands were introduced, perhaps it is worth looking at those already in force, then the parties could be listened to carefully, no matter how much time and energy it takes. Perhaps then we will be able to get closer to a society that places freedom and responsibility at the forefront.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-20_U50	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-20_U51	Good manager! Good Chancellor of Justice! I want to ask you about the Social Welfare Act, which is now in force, but in your opinion, it has not clarified. You have tried to find out where there is a limit to the responsibilities and responsibilities of the state and local governments. How far have you come? Where's the border now?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-20_U52	Thank you. This is an extremely important issue; it is also a very important issue in the context of administrative reform. The question really is who needs to notice the person in trouble and his/her concern on the territory of the local government, where the money comes from to help the person whose salary and training are those who are able to help. One could start with the question of how to ensure that, for example, an old man can live in his own home as long as possible, so that, if necessary, he can be visited by a community carer, perhaps also by a companion. All these systems exist in the world. They may not be costly; rather, they need will and wit, of course, also the distribution of money and responsibility. There are also issues that need to be resolved about how a child with severe composite disabilities gets to school or how a person who is simply in trouble because of some kind of life's events can get help. This analysis is ongoing. We have some answers that have not yet been answered, but I think this is where it has to get pretty serious in terms of constitutional supervision. The tasks must be clearly shared and the financing arrangements agreed. The fact is, unfortunately, some people are still in need. Mr Ernits, Member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, I thank you for pointing out very rightly what is most addressed to us on this subject. It is precisely the same area of social welfare and health that dominates people's worried letters.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-20_U53	Yoko Alender, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-20_U54	Thank you. Thank you, Chancellor of Justice, for your good work, and also for this online environment. It is truly worthy of the image of the e-state. My question, however, concerns the implementing acts of the Cohabitation Act. You have also touched on this briefly in your review and said that the lack of implementing legislation does not prevent the implementation of the law. Would you say a little more clearly in front of us here that the risk of constitutional obstruction is completely excluded and you are not going to give the Riigikogu any precept about implementing legislation? How do you expect us to proceed?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-20_U55	Thank you very much. It's a very serious question again. Yes, it does not concern many people, but for those who are affected by it, for example, for those who are currently unable to enter the data of a child adopted on the basis of a judicial decision and of parents entitled to care, this is an extremely important issue. To them, this question is about the fairness, reasonableness of the Estonian state and whether they are welcome in this society and equal to others or not. Of course, it would be better if there were the necessary standards for the implementation of the Cohabitation Act, and I very much hope that the Riigikogu will reach that conclusion. However, there is now a situation in which the Social Insurance Board must not rely on legal registrations, as provided for by law, but, for example, direct judicial decisions when deciding on family benefits and whether a single parent is a growing child and should receive such benefits, or if the child actually has two parents who are raising them and therefore does not qualify for such benefits, for example. Or in other ways, all the very practical problems associated with decision-making on health and education issues are harder to solve and the practice is different here. At the same time, the law is in force, enforced, subject to judicial decisions which are also mandatory. For example, officials in the population register have been put in a relatively poor position. Indeed, my advisers have advised how this situation can be resolved as long as there are no implementing rules. One proposal, which started with a specific and serious problem of discrimination against Estonian citizens living in Estonia, is on the tables of the Riigikogu, but it has not found a solution. I really hope these things can move forward.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-20_U56	5 + 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-20_U57	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-20_U58	Thank you to the Head of the Riigikogu. Ladies and gentlemen, Your Honor, Chancellor! On behalf of my group, I mark some of the principles and thesis set out in the Chancellor of Justice's report. What is very important is that over the last few years the Chancellor of Justice has significantly expanded his field of action. It is not a very distant past when the Chancellor of Justice's office or, essentially, the Chancellor of Justice himself began essentially to play the role of children's ombudsman. A few years ago, he began to control the activities of surveillance authorities in the protection of fundamental rights. Today, I was very impressed by the fact that the Office of the Chancellor of Justice is also launching an IT audit in our Estonian country in order to protect the fundamental rights of people in cyberspace. This is a very important area in which we, I think, are starting to lag behind in the legal side of our e-image. There is certainly a need for very in-depth discussions, for example, what is cyberspace in the sense of public space, how the fundamental rights and freedoms of people are protected there, what is the relationship between man and state, as well as the relationship between people in this public space, which is actually virtual, no longer located anywhere on the street that can be defined by some street name. It should certainly be mentioned here that when we talk about new ways of working, the collaborative economy or the work of the 21st century, we must not only rely on the possibility that we must move quickly towards innovative employment relations and new social, including IT sharing opportunities, but also on the traditional and still majority employment relationships and the principle of two, new and old equal treatment. Next, the rules and criticism that allow discretion, that the Riigikogu and all of us, as legislators, may well fall too often into this trap, that we want to offer final solutions without leaving the officials a margin of discretion and, therefore, responsibility. This is really slippery populist ice, because it is always easier to tell the voters that the solution is like this and there is no alternative here, but in fact, justice and justice are often revealed in disputes. This is a serious matter that we also need to pay attention to in our daily work. It's part of the state reform. If we forget that a public official is one of the most important elements of this state reform and does not give the official the opportunity to consider or assume responsibility, then simply by redistributing functions between agencies and by reducing the number of people in one institution or another, we will not reach the real solutions that the citizen expects. The citizen expects an official who thinks creatively and is seriously looking for a solution to his problem, whether at national or local level. Here, in my opinion, the Chancellor of Justice is a good example of his approach and, at all, his attitude towards solving problems. Not only to raise a problem, but also to find a solution to it should be a standard of ethics for every public official, let's say that. Can I have a few more minutes, please?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-20_U59	Olga Ivanova, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-20_U60	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Thank you very much, Chancellor, and thank you very much to you and your office. You are the only one who really started to deal with houses in Kohtla-Järve and all of Ida-Virumaa, actually standing around Estonia without heating. There are now over a hundred such houses in Estonia. For example, the problem of the Ida-Virumaa region is also what Helmen Kütt said was that the court does not take action against third-country nationals. For example, proceedings against a person of Russian nationality against an Estonian court are not brought and the legal aid agreement is specifically referred to. The question is that housing associations are deadlocked, they can't even catch those debtors who live in other countries.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-20_U61	Thank you very much. Thank you, too, for your activity in explaining the situation to people and looking for solutions. We too have benefited greatly from this. That's the problem. The current legal framework does not allow the problem of people living in these houses who are in a very poor situation to be solved. Firstly, because some debtors do not really get their neighbours, and behind them, apartments cannot be expropriated. It is even more difficult to go after debts if you do not know where that person lives. He is not an Estonian citizen, Estonia has no chance of getting this person, or at least there is no good chance of getting it. In fact, it is possible to come up with solutions for these cases. Obviously, there is a need to amend the law and to take these solutions into account, even in municipal or national housing development programmes. So we're trying to keep a close eye on it, yes, and get involved wherever we can.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-20_U62	Cameron Maruse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-20_U63	Thank you! Madam Chancellor of Justice, unlike your predecessors, you have clearly taken the position of being a public and political adviser, which is certainly a necessary and grateful action. But I ask you how much you have analysed the proposals for amending laws, adopting new laws and the work of public authorities and what the statistics are. What legislation have you looked at in terms of consistency with external agreements? The Chancellor of Justice is known to be the national preventive authority provided for in Article 3 of the Optional Protocol to the Convention against Torture and Other Cruel, Inhuman or Degrading Treatment and Punishment. To what extent has the Chancellor of Justice had to perform this function?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-20_U64	Thank you very much for your good words and a good question. I think the task of the Chancellor of Justice is to be reasonable. I have explained throughout here that I do not think it is ethical to try to raise personal political capital in this office in order to later realise it in any other way. I really think so. Secondly, my important principle is that the problem must be resolved. The fact that I'm the one pointing my finger at someone and calling out that you see, there is a problem here, doesn't give me any satisfaction, frankly, and I don't think it would be very useful for the country either. So once again, thank you very much for your constructive cooperation with members of the Riigikogu as well as members of the government and officials! We really do have a statistical block. As I said, to constitutional review and, even more so, to the supervision of constitutionality without gaps, which replaces the ordinary in some countries, but in my opinion not the useful ones in Estonia, it is very good that there are no complaints and there are no other ways of entering constitutional supervision, we take it very seriously. From its perspective, all the 1547 things we have solved have been illuminated through the prism of the Constitution. Of course, if we analyse the constitutionality and legality of the legislative acts here, the things on which we have done the official analysis are set out in 165 cases, in addition to the opinions on the draft legislation, and in 15 cases we participated in constitutional review proceedings, then we will look at the relevant external agreements. It's a day-to-day job. In the same way, the additional tasks assigned to the Chancellor of Justice must be carried out, and I think it has been done very appropriately and sensibly to a small country. The work of the Torture and Abuse Prevention Agency that you have referred to will be carried out by our inspection department every day. There is a control plan, in addition, inspections shall be carried out where necessary when there is any suspicion. For example, due to the migration crisis, which has also been referred to in the review, several times had to go to the Harku detention centre without notice or any doubt. Vaos have been visited, often go to prisons, watch the rights of conscripts, often go to psychiatric hospitals and special care homes. Of course, all this work is being carried out, and international reporting on it is also public and thorough. It is customary for the inspection department to include people from other departments on its inspection visits, if necessary. The overview of activities in English specifically outlines the use of external experts. We have used foreign experts from Finland and elsewhere as children's psychologists, but also as assessors of detention conditions. So it was a very good and very expert question. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-20_U65	Andres Metsoja, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-20_U66	Thank you, President-in-Office. Chancellor of Justice, I, too, thank you for its contribution to the development of the Estonian state. I want to raise the issue of state reform and the importance and role of rural governments. Landlords have the opportunity to carry out a wide range of monitoring activities, and there are quite a number of such activities. Indeed, the citizen has the opportunity to turn to the mayor to defend his interests and find out what is a real legal rule and what is the situation on one or the other. My question is, in fact, how, in the light of your state reform, you think that the rural parent's supervisory role should be maintained in the health field, in the field of land operations and in the social sphere, there are hundreds of them, or should be resolved in society in the future through legal proceedings.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-20_U67	Thank you very much. The collaborative economy is one of the unspoken interesting things, and it is not just about driving, but it is also, as we know, sharing its dwelling with those who need it, a network of home chefs has already emerged. All of this is done using apps, i.e. the same information technology services. Of course, the movement from Tallinn to Tartu is not along the wire, but still in the car. But the point is that the person who is going from Tallinn to Tartu will pick you up. Yes, some people offer a service in this way. In Tallinn, I believe, there is a Mr Tesla who is still driving, who simply receives the cost of using his vanity car while making a little Uber, and also offers a good opportunity for many to try driving this car. That's right. As soon as Uber gets under taxi rules, he's a taxi. That is why it is probably more reasonable to treat it as an information technology service that allows a person who wants to take someone on his vehicle to find that person or a person who wants to ride with someone and does not want to call a taxi to find such a vehicle on his own responsibility. It is decoupled from income from that activity and from taxation of that income. This is also where the Tax and Customs Board is going pretty well, as far as I know. The issues of consumer protection and, for example, compensation for potential damages, are absolutely right if an accident occurs. But once again, it seems to me that it would be reasonable to do so, but the decision is in your hands again, if the collaborative economy is not subject to the rules of the 'old economy', but if necessary, the same mechanisms that apply in any other case, if it is simply humanely distributed to food, travel or accommodation, be it civil liability or, worse, criminal liability.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-20_U68	Aadu Black, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-20_U69	Thank you very much for a very interesting report and also for an intellectually enjoyable discussion! My question concerns one question about the return of Estonian citizens from abroad, which has been a little discussed. 2002 was an interesting judgment against Albert Märdin, who presented his ancestor's optimist certificate. Initially he was told that he could not obtain Estonian citizenship because he should have complied with the laws of the Russian state and left Russia for one year. Later, however, it became clear that it is not possible to withdraw Estonian citizenship because a person could not leave Russia. Until 2016, the Police and Border Guard Board has issued various statements to some people who have submitted exactly the same documents. But tens of thousands of people who received the credentials remained in Russia. A lot of them say forget it, it's a paper for the museum. What are we gonna do about it?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-20_U70	Thank you very much. That's an extremely interesting question. I do not want to be wrong, which is why, like some times before, when I have taken this opportunity, I thank you for your question and say that my fellow Members are working through the subject and then answer you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-20_U71	Ain Lutsepp, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-20_U72	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Thank you, Chancellor of Justice, for your presentation and your precise answers. My question concerns the established heritage restrictions, which are analogous to environmental restrictions and conservation restrictions. Has the Office of the Chancellor of Justice been contacted on issues that hinder economic activity in heritage conservation sites?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-20_U73	Thank you very much. Yes, it is. The Hellenurme mill is not the only one. Thanks to the contribution of the Riigikogu, this particular problem of the Hellenic Mill has been solved at law level, where the person was put in a position to receive only a fine, with the choice of either the National Heritage Board or the Environmental Board fine. There was a demand for very expensive fish passes, which would have caused this working mill to become useless and actually caused much damage to the surrounding community. In short, thanks to you, there is now an opportunity at law level to consider and make a sensible decision. However, we are looking forward to what is now going to happen in practice, because officials here do not want to give in easily. But yes, it's not the only question. This is typically a very good example of how a rigid rule can make the Estonian state quite unpleasant for a person who has done his conscience and his hard work and lived his life.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-20_U74	Mark Soosaar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-20_U75	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good Chancellor Ülle Madise! I really liked the end of your speech, where you said that if necessary, the law could be amended or created for one person's sake, because behind this one of the needy, there may still be quite a lot of people in disguise. Do you think that, in the course of administrative reform, it would be worth looking more closely at individual municipalities who do not want or cannot join on the basis of their formal metrics and who have turned against the state? After all, it is unnatural that the two sides, the municipality and the state, are going to stand trial. Shouldn't we, the people of the Riigikogu, look once more and better at the law on administrative reform and give the government the opportunity that once the orders of magnitude and capacity have been fulfilled, the municipality could still remain as it has been and has done well so far?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-20_U76	Thank you very much. The Riigikogu certainly has that right. When you ask for my personal opinion, I think that it is best in line with the spirit of the Constitution that the interests of each community and every person are best sought, fairest and most equitablely treated in terms of equal opportunities.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-20_U77	Thank you, Chancellor of Justice, for your presentation and your thorough answers. The members of the Riigikogu have no further questions. Let's go to the negotiations. Kalle Laane, representative of the Reform Party Group, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-20_U78	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good Chancellor of Justice! Ladies and gentlemen, The Chancellor of Justice has heard a great deal of praise here, and I believe he certainly deserves it. I too join in their praises. In his Annual Review, the Chancellor of Justice pointed out positively that in 2015 and 2016 the Riigikogu has strengthened its role in initiating important draft laws and, if necessary, amending government drafts. I am pleased to note that the Chancellery of the Chancellor of Justice also seems that the Riigikogu is not a rubber stamp. During this period, for example, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has initiated a draft law amending the so-called two chairs and an anti-corruption law and made substantial changes to the draft law on administrative reform. This list could, of course, continue. Here, for example, questions related to the sharing economy were answered. In fact, there have been many initiatives that should take our society forward. Indeed, in a democratic society, it is natural for a large part of the draft laws to be initiated by a government that has a large state apparatus in the form of ministries for drafting drafts. At the same time, according to the Constitution, the law is passed by the Riigikogu, acting on the basis of the mandate of the people, who is also responsible to the people for ensuring that the rights and freedoms of the Estonian people are protected as well as possible by law. The role of the Chancellor of Justice in this process is, in our opinion, supportive but also controlling. I agree with the Chancellor of Justice that if he notices an unconstitutional rule in the draft, it is his duty to inform the judge as soon as possible. This can lead to a reduction in the level of regulation, which is due to the need to correct errors in the law. Thank you very much, too, for fulfilling this role. We are also grateful for the presentation of seven proposals to bring into line with the Constitution the laws in which he had discovered shortcomings. It may also happen that the Riigikogu and the Chancellor of Justice have different views on the constitutional compatibility of the Act, as has happened with some provisions of the Administrative Reform Act. In this case, it is normal in our parliamentary system that the Supreme Court makes a final decision on the constitutionality of the provisions. The principles of the Constitution allow for different interpretations. Of course, we await the decision of the Supreme Court. The second issue that I would like to mention is the regulation of the law of social relations, which generally do not need regulation. These are relationships that should be applied in the sense of the peasant and ethical standards. These relations should be regulated by legislation only if they cannot be regulated without regulation. For example, there was no long need for legal regulation by the political parties appointed as a member of the Political Financing Supervisory Commission, as political parties acted in a state-of-the-art manner when appointing members until one moment. We now have a draft law amending the law on political parties, which we must begin to regulate situations where common sense and ethics can actually function. I would also like to mention the subject of heated debates both in Europe and here in Estonia. This is a migration crisis. Because of the crisis, we too have been forced to correct our laws. Thus, in the legal provisions, we strengthened the understanding that we do not adapt to those who come here, but that immigrants must embrace our customs, customs and cultural space and align with the rules that apply to us. In the law on granting international protection to a foreigner, we provided that the arrivals of Estonia will carry out an adaptation programme, learn our language and take our culture into account. I would like to put to our heart, as legislator, that we do not forget our own people in the process of transposing European Union legislation and do not treat them worse than immigrants. On the basis of this consideration, the Riigikogu significantly reduced the social benefits for beneficiaries of international protection during the process of this law, with the aim of equalising them with the social guarantees of our own people. The interest of the state is certainly that those who come here will blend in our society as painlessly and quickly as possible. However, it is not justified to offer more benefits to those who come than our own people can use. Finally. There can be so much right in society how many subjects of law show it in the final stage through their behaviour. We have a choice, whether a society based on values or a society based on commands and prohibitions, or a society based on norms. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-20_U79	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good Chancellor of Justice! Colleagues! First of all, on behalf of our group, I would also like to thank the Chancellor of Justice for his excellent work. But as they say, the job is from the customer's material. 1547 turns means four turns a day, and when I look at geography as a Maasa ambassador, I see that half, two out of four have come from Tallinn and Tartu and the rest from other parts of Estonia. It is true that Ida-Virumaa is also relatively active, but there are few Russian-speaking conversions, only 148. So one question is why the hillbillies are so relaxed and do not turn to the Chancellor of Justice, but it is a question for the whole of Estonia rather than the Chancellor of Justice. Seven problems are interesting and important to us: of course, administrative reform, so-called Kohtla-Järve apartment buildings, income support, end-of-life dignity, migration crisis, digital world and what we should do here in the Riigikogu. As regards the administrative reform, the Chancellor of Justice has said that the conditions for the compulsory merger are broadly in line with the Constitution, but the question is raised by the timetable and the upper limit on the costs of the merger. To date, 22 municipalities have turned to the Supreme Court, especially with regard to the sections and chapters relating to the coercion. It is incomprehensible that if the implementing acts that are supposed to ensure the functioning of the whole of it are not yet there, how this so-called voluntary merger is currently taking place. Of course, it goes on the principle of fear and mercy to get money, because then nothing will happen, but they'll still be put together by the Nazis. So this is very important and we are monitoring it very closely. Unfortunately, the Chancellor of Justice has not written much about this. The second is the problem of so-called Kohtla-Järve apartment buildings. The members of the Centre Party have been talking about this for a long time and have highlighted this problem. We are very pleased that this has finally begun to work out. It has become clear that this is not only the problem of Kohtla-Järve, but there are a hundred such apartment buildings all over Estonia. I understand that the government has also begun to deal with this subject before winter. This is positive and shows that the vigilante's initiative has strength. Third, income subsidies. The Chancellor of Justice has said here that the current system as a whole can leave the real needy in a tight spot. Income support rules should allow for a flexible response in the event of unexpected distress or exceptional circumstances. Unfortunately, it turns out that's not the case. Of course, the Social Welfare Act. The Chancellor of Justice spoke about this, although it has been adopted and has become relatively fresh, the borders that are the responsibility of the state and which are the responsibility of the municipality are cloudy, no one knows them exactly. However, the quality of life of a very large number of people, to a large extent rural people, depends on it and, of course, the dignity of the "end-of-life" is also linked to it. The Chancellor of Justice has rightly said that the smell of urine and smoke, inaccessible toilets, lack of hot water, overcrowding, inappropriate food and the absence of doors in toilets are not included in decent living conditions. Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-20_U80	Thank you. Jüri Adams, the Estonian Free Party Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-20_U81	Dear colleague, there is one minute to ask a question.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-20_U82	Thank you very much. There is one proposal before you, and I hope that it will move forward. As far as the population register is concerned, we need to look at whether the officials are going to make these entries or whether this is not the way it is going. Of course, we keep an eye on the things that are in court, but where there are legal proceedings, our law and the constitution do not interfere. Yeah, these statements are coming. In society, the number of recipients of this law is not very high, but for those who are addressed to it, it is painful to get caught between the gears and their concerns reach our institution as well.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-20_U83	Raivo Põldaru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-20_U84	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Honourable performer! A little while ago, I heard an interesting construction that a person who joined Uber is not a taxi. It's like some kind of service, it was an information service or something. When I get home from Tallinn with a car like this, I've gotten there like an information service. Do you also support the fact that I did not actually use a taxi, but was located like some information through one place in Estonia to another?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-20_U85	The migration crisis is an important issue, but from the report by the Chancellor of Justice, I understood that problems in the implementation of Sharia law and how to conclude polygamous marriages are already being discussed. But the view that the Estonian state is not an à la carte restaurant, where a person picks something on a plate, but a land of complete lunches is sympathetic to us. As far as the digital society is concerned, it is important to know that the collection of facts on electronic communications is acceptable, but the conditions for issuing them need to be tightened up. The most important thing for us is that we should be more than a rubber stamp. The Chancellor of Justice has said that the government is seeking the legislation that comes from the Riigikogu, as if to hold back, but it is necessary to oppose the attempt of the executive power to monopolise the law. On that, I and my group agree with you. Of course, the laws should be understandable, and there is always a question of how the new norm will really improve people's lives, as the Chancellor of Justice said. The fact that current laws often contain rules that reduce the liability of officials and judges and make it more difficult to solve a major problem, to seek justice cannot be accepted in any way. So thank you for encouraging the Chancellor of Justice! However, we should not be a rubber stamp and we should be much more active in organising Estonia's life. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-20_U86	One very important thing I want to mention is what the Chancellor of Justice has also pointed out. The Office of the Chancellor of Justice is really working very hard and responds essentially to all citizens' requests as much as it can and can. This is good in one way, but the other way we cannot want the Chancellor of Justice to deal with state legal aid in Estonia. As a former Minister of Justice in my term of office, this process was initiated and, as a member of the current Riigikogu, I am looking forward to a serious discussion about the future of state legal aid in Estonia this autumn. How accessible is it not only in metropolitan and county centres but also in peripheral areas? How accessible is it for people who may not have the necessary level of knowledge of the official language? We are not talking about legal proceedings in other languages; we are talking about creating an opportunity for a person to turn his or her problem to the legal system and obtain legal protection and state legal aid. It is by no means just the Chancellor of Justice's problem. This is primarily the task of the state and the justice system. One of the other things I am going to talk about is the state's companies. There wasn't much of it here today. This concerns the membership of the councils appointed by the ministers of the Riigikogu. There is indeed an outsider here, not even a lawyer, to find a conflict of separation between certain authorities. These scandals of recent years and several committees of inquiry here in the Riigikogu have also shown that the management of state companies needs to be organized. I am not saying that members of the Riigikogu cannot be good specialists, we have come here from different areas of life, and many of us have certainly been elected here because we are very good specialists in one field or another. This does not exclude our membership of the national company boards. But we have already talked about this in the timeline of several Chancellors of Justice, who still appoints the legislator, a member of the Riigikogu, to the same council of the state company. If this is done by the representative of the executive power, the minister, there is a risk that the independence and the freedom of mandate prescribed for a member of the Riigikogu by his status have been violated. Thank you. Good luck to the Chancellor of Justice in his difficult but interesting and troubled work!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-20_U87	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-20_U88	Thank you. No more calls, I'll finish the negotiations. Thank you once again to the Chancellor of Justice and all the members of the Riigikogu who actively asked! The procedure for the first item is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-20_U89	Thank you. On behalf of the Peeter Ernits Centre Party Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-20_U90	The Free Party Group kindly gave me the opportunity to give the speech that was given to the Group. I will start with some of the general remarks that I have been thinking about on this subject myself, and if there is time, I will mark the topics that the members of the group would have liked to talk about here, if they had had the opportunity to do so. First of all, what do I not like about this item on the agenda? In my opinion, among the many shortcomings of our Rules of Procedure, there is also one that officials of the Chancellery of the Riigikogu use a jargon word such as 'the procedural scheme'. I don't know who made it up, but it's an ugly word anyway. We will be given some kind of text about how long a report can be, how much questions can be asked, whether there are time limits for questions, and how much can be spoken. Compared to all other similar types of items on the agenda, the structure of the Chancellor of Justice's report is relatively nice, almost tolerable. We are all allowed to ask one question and it is very good of ourselves, because many other times it has not always been that way. In principle, we could also talk about the institution, factual or linguistic details of the matters to be specified, which were once stated in the Rules of Procedure of the Riigikogu. But we have now seen such a line of self-sustaining questions, where no one had the heart to say that he had no opportunity to ask anything he wanted to ask. These self-questions were neither obstructive nor confrontational. It was beautiful. Now what's not pretty is the current part of the phone calls. Why should the representative of the group, as I am here, have the exclusive right to present his views in the speech? I think it would be reasonable to do the opposite: any member of the Riigikogu could have the right to give his speech and, if there really is a need to save time, let us skip the speeches of the political groups or do as in the Republic of Estonia in the 1920s when everyone could give their speech, but the group was given an additional speaking time, which was used by the representative of the group for more general matters. Once we come to the amendment of the Rules of Procedure, let us fix the call. It's something I don't like, and I'm taking this opportunity to mark it. I very much like the Chancellor of Justice's approach and the report that the Chancellor of Justice's Office, like the courts, has largely carried out this principle that there are no theoretical legal discussions behind which there are no life facts. That's right, that's good for yourself. Of course, you can also entertain yourself with theoretical discussions, but there is always a way to drown in them and get lost as well. Now, the field of work of the Chancellor of Justice is mostly case-by-case, but more general problems can be said to be rarely dealt with from start to end in one year. The first year of the work of Chancellor of Justice Madise was largely filled with activities that had already begun before his inauguration. It is now over the year of the so-called start-up and residence. I think that, in front of the Chancellor of Justice, his assistants and also the public, there is a question of what will happen next, what are the big issues that have either already started and are going on or which should be dealt with. There are certainly hot issues, for example, administrative reform, but there are also various other issues that need to be raised. Some of it's been done. But I forgot that I wanted to say about making speeches that if I had the opportunity to give a speech for eight minutes now and I had to refer all the issues of my group here, then I could say something about everyone in one minute, which would actually only mean unveiling the title. But if a representative of a larger group with dozens and dozens of members wanted to go the same way, he would have time to say 15 seconds on average for each individual group member. Therefore, I do not think that this time is reasonable or was wrong at the time when the number of speeches was limited. For our group, the problems relating to nature conservation content and borders are obviously important first. This has been dealt with successfully by the Chancellor of Justice, but this is a subject that goes on, it is very general. On the one hand, it is possible that the Estonian state will develop such a perfect nature protection that no person can live in protected areas, but obviously this cannot be the goal. It should be possible to find a middle path. Problems relating to people with mental disabilities, as I understood from the Chancellor of Justice in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, will be one of the important issues in the coming years. It also seemed to me that the Chancellor of Justice had come to the idea that a national programme should be launched to resettle those people who have been in trouble in the large and almost empty apartment buildings of Soviet times, freezing there and not knowing what to do with their lives. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-20_U91	Mr President of the sitting! If there is more time available on this item, I would like to ask you in advance.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-20_U92	Thank you. Andres Anvelt, the Social Democratic Party Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-20_U93	Thank you. This is a really important issue for people living outside Tallinn, Tartu and other major attraction centres. Once again, the answer goes beyond the limits of law. I would, of course, like to make a contribution on this subject in the light of my own education, because it was these issues that I studied for years in doctoral studies. But it's a question of deciding how the state shares its tasks. At times, it seems that the role of rural government has so far remained unclear. Perhaps it comes from times of restoration of independence when even an elected rural body was envisaged, almost like a second-level local government. In practice, the rural government has moved towards a purely state institution. He is part of public administration; he is neither part of local authority nor part of local government. It is therefore up to the state to decide how it shares the activities and works of the state over Estonia. It is always possible to transfer certain tasks to the local government or to the private sector through a corresponding management contract and financial and control mechanisms. Of course, the municipality cannot be supervised by itself or by a neighbour. It is clear that national and national supervision must be organised differently. It is possible that this is done in rural governments, it is possible that it will also be done in ministries located in Tallinn or Tartu. I know that the Ministry of Finance has prepared an analysis where, among other things, it has been proposed to extend the supervision of the Chancellor of Justice to local authorities. At the moment, I can assure you that, if there were resources, we would actually have to look more closely at the legislative acts of local governments. In the work plan for next year, in so far as we can have such a thing, of course, it also states from our house's perspective that we must look at how legislative acts are introduced and notified after accession. I am talking about very important matters here, such as regulations on good order and regulations on applying for, receiving and setting the rate of social benefits. That's what we can do. But in order to answer specifically whether the county governments should be kept, whether they should be 15, four or some other number, whether they should be more the face of state authority or local authority, the law methods will not help here again, here you have the decision.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-20_U94	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-20_U95	Thank you. Thank you, Chancellor of Justice, for an interesting and meaningful presentation. You mentioned that Estonia seems to be moving towards such a command and ban society, that there is clearly an overregulation and a desire to impose disproportionate standards, restrictions and penalties. From time to time, the desire of certain parties or persons to introduce the so-called hate speech law emerges in society. Our Minister for Justice does not support this, because our laws and the current legal framework are sufficient to deal with such issues. What is your position on this?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-20_U96	Thank you for your good words and a good question. As I have said before, freedom of expression is, in my opinion, an important basis for a free society. Estonia has made an international commitment in some way to further restrict what is called hate speech or patronage, as the Head of State has proposed on the basis of Johannes Aavik. We can't ignore that. But it seems to me that there are different ways of implementing the European Union Framework Decision and that it is also possible to choose a constitutional way that does not restrict freedom of expression.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-20_U97	Imre Sooäär, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-20_U98	Thank you, good manager. Honorable Chancellor of Justice! I will join all previous speakers who have already spoken about your web solution. I think it will set a new standard for many other public authorities, how to make reporting more transparent and clearer. But my question concerns the issue raised by Yoko Alender, that is the question of its continuation. In the opening speech of the session, the President of the Riigikogu called on the Riigikogu to resolve the problem of implementing legislation of the Cohabitation Act. Some cases are already in court. Have you also been approached, and what will you do if the Riigikogu is unable to adopt these acts? Would there be any other solution, such as one by one, to change those laws that are being amended simultaneously by the pending law? I will bring another suggestion, for example. The Free Party has had a very constructive proposal on registers so that the name of the register does not necessarily have to go into the records, it is a long story, but analog to the DMV, there are boats in the DMV, for example...
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-20_U99	Let's keep going. Today's second item is the first reading of the draft law amending the law on law enforcement initiated by the Committee on Legal Affairs. The rapporteur is Kristjan Kõljalg, member of the Committee on Legal Affairs. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-20_U100	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, As the Chancellor of Justice said in the debate on the previous point, this is a draft act, motivated by a letter of formal notice from the Chancellor of Justice, the content and purpose of which can be summarised briefly in such a way that the purpose of the draft act is to ensure the effective conduct of 'All Blowing' law enforcement operations. I'm reading the bill in full, it's not very long. The proposal of the Committee on Legal Affairs is that § 38 of the Law Enforcement Act is supplemented by paragraph 21 with the following wording: 'The law enforcement body shall, at the request of a person, introduce to it the rights set out in subsection (2) (2) (5) of this section when checking the drink of the driver's alcohol. ' The current regulation is that a law enforcement officer must actually read everyone's rights in a police operation, but, as the Chancellor of Justice pointed out, most of the road users are still sober. The data is slightly volatile, but it can be assumed that there may be up to 27 drunk drivers per 10000 drivers in Estonian traffic. It would therefore make sense if not all blowers were to be read in advance, but only to those who wish to do so. This would be a general principle of administrative procedure. The Committee on Legal Affairs received consensual support for the draft. The deadline for tabling amendments is 4 October at 4 p.m. The proposal is to conclude the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-20_U101	Thank you, dear waitress. No questions for you. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 267. First reading is complete. I will set the deadline for the submission of 267 amendments. a 4 October at 4 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-20_U102	Today's third item is the first reading of the draft law amending the Pre-School Children's Institution Act, which was initiated by the Estonian Centre Party Group. I ask for a presentation of the Riigikogu Speaker's Board member Mailis Repsi!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-20_U103	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the Riigikogu! This bill is driven by our traditional discussion here in the Riigikogu, which has been going on for years. We continue to have a dilemma because of the interrelationship between education and social issues. That is also why we are constantly returning to these issues. We look at Statistics Estonia's data: one in five Estonian residents lives in relative poverty. This means that poverty actually affects too much the daily livelihood of our children. Let's look at the percentages: in 2014, about 20% of Estonian children lived in relative and 9% in absolute poverty. These data are certainly a cause for concern. There have been quite a number of different drafts and other initiatives in the Riigikogu in recent years to support children's daily living and development. They have gradually increased support for families with children. Unfortunately, however, these data are still quite embarrassing in Estonian terms. One of the options that we have discussed throughout the years in this Chamber is a free school lunch. Free school lunch started to be offered step by step, gradually throughout primary school. Thanks to the fact that the Social Democrats continued in the second coalition, there was also a proposal to allow this in upper secondary school and, shortly before, a free school lunch was offered in vocational education. Why has free school lunch been one of the important measures? We see it in everyday school life. First, school canteens have become quite different over the last few years. Most children have the experience of eating soup or other hot food during the day, especially from school and kindergarten. It must be said that the constant demandingness of parents and also of school collectors has increasingly and more contributed to the end-use of semi-fabricates and frozen raw materials in school canteens. As a result, we can, of course, say that school lunch still needs to be dealt with, because we all agree that 78 eurocents no longer correspond to the real cost of school lunch, especially if we are looking at growing young people who are studying either in vocational schools or in upper secondary schools. However, we can say that free school lunch is basically important and certainly indispensable in terms of message and culture. But why are we discussing kindergarten here today? Almost a hundred percent of children go to kindergarten. After all, we have almost all children in kindergarten whose parents are interested in it. Yeah, from time to time, we have to worry again that the rise in place fees can keep certain families out of kindergarten. Especially in larger cities, this comes back to the subject from time to time. Of course, the local government has its own opportunities here. It is a pleasure to say that most local authorities work very well with the Social Security Office. They're trying to find families who need support. With regard to a lunch like a school lunch or support for kindergarten children, perhaps the biggest question about our draft has been why we have just identified children 5 to 7 years of age in the draft. The rapporteur for the Committee on Culture will certainly bring it out, which was one of the biggest questions in the Committee on Culture. We, in particular, proposed as the purpose of the draft, that the state would support the cost of food for kindergarten children, the exact wording being 'children aged 5 to 7 who receive early education in a municipal and private institution prior to school'. We have taken into account the experience of introducing a school lunch that we are gradually investing in the future of our children on a large scale, one might say. In our time, there were quite a few questions when we started applying free school lunch 1/4. to class. Once again, we did it in two sections because we couldn't have done it at once. Of course, this is not important in kindergarten, but in school it was important that many school canteens were not ready to cater all children at the time. That was also one argument. There is another reason why we started with an older group. Firstly, there are almost 95% indicators of the presence of children and the need for early childhood education and education. So, indeed, if a child does not go to kindergarten, it is more of a family choice, there is no other reason for it. When preparing for school, there is a great deal of trust in early childhood education. We can say that this is a very important and systematic preparation for children. It is unique in Estonia. The cost of school lunch is calculated on the basis of food costs. The EUR 1,5 envisaged in the draft is calculated on the basis of the average. Certainly there are also parents or grandparents in this Riigikogu hall who say that in the kindergarten of their child, the amount is either slightly higher or slightly smaller. In local governments, this experience is also very different because they take into account the costs of day-care in different ways: in some places the food is ordered from outside and all the costs are included, in other places only the cost of food is taken into account. In quite a number of smaller municipalities, there is also this experience that only what is bought in is taken into account. All the rest of the fruit, fruit and everything that can be obtained from this area is allocated by the local government to the children's institution either way. This is also the case with lower food rations. It has to be said that there are also local governments where children in kindergarten do not pay for lunch at all, just as at school. There are very few of them, but there are also such municipalities. This one-and-a-half-euro support for the local government to provide lunch to children aged 5 to 7 would require 8.1 million euros from the state budget. Surely it is also important to show an attitude. We also attach great importance to cooperation between the state and local government for kindergarten children or children in pre-school institutions. Yes, there is certainly a question of whether we need to constantly discuss social issues when talking about education. However, the school lunch experience shows that children on an empty stomach are not studying, and for families it is also a very big support when their children 5 to 7 years of age receive free lunch in kindergarten. If the local authority comes to the aid and rearranges the system, it can be free of charge for most kindergarten children of this age group. In conclusion, such support from the state is certainly very important both in terms of supporting local government and in terms of supporting the development and learning process of children in pre-school education. It is certainly important in the debate that every such step is another signal from the state that we are trying to support and evaluate the work of parents in raising their children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-20_U104	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good waitress! In your report you briefly discussed these issues, but I'll ask you again. You had a conversation with the local government leaders, almost everyone. What was the feedback on early childhood education as a whole and on the same free kindergarten food?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-20_U105	Thank you, good questioner! It must be said that the issue of the relationship between the state and local government is always remembered by all local governments. This question is actually much wider. This means how much the state actually provides for daily subsistence benefits and local government services, and how little local government really has to apologise for what I say is free money or money from my own decisions. With regard to debates such as the one we are discussing here today on the subject of kindergarten lunch, it must of course be said that, if we can agree in this Chamber the following steps are to be taken to allocate to local authorities, firstly, a significantly higher income base, secondly, the whole area of education, together with resources, will be agreed upon by the local authorities, social issues will be decided, first-level health care and many other problems will certainly be resolved, discussions on such details, whether and to what extent, for example, kindergarten food will be supported, it will be 1.5, 1.6 or 1.7 euros or EUR 1.7 euros, or 1 euro will end in this Chamber. Since local authorities do not currently have this kind of free money, everything that the local authorities want to do and initiate is linked to the individual decisions that we are dealing with here today. Consequently, as the good questioner knows, our group has constantly faced a dilemma. We need to deal with such details, even though our goal and desire would be simply to give guidance to the local government and to say that it is the wish of the state and the legislator that children can eat in schools and kindergartens, and to do so we will give the municipality both a large amount of income tax or the right to introduce corporate tax or local taxes, and the local community will decide how best it is. This would certainly result in a better effect than this debate here. But since we are in the situation we are today, that is why we have initiated this discussion, how to actually appreciate more the children who go to kindergarten today. In fact, all of us together want all children, regardless of their wealth and family background, to be able to go to kindergarten and receive early childhood education there.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-20_U106	Jaanus Karilaid, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-20_U107	Thank you to the manager. Good waitress! With the joyful approval of today's power union, more than EUR 100 million has been boldly wasted in the management of incompetent state companies. We see that no one is responsible for this, be it Estonian Air, Tallinn Port or any other state company. Repeat how much this bill will cost. I will say in the background that over EUR 100 million have been wasted. Is it a question of the world view that the Social Democrats will not find money for it, or is it a question of lack of money? Where does the problem come from?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-20_U108	Thank you, good questioner! As far as this draft is concerned, EUR 8.1 million is needed for children aged 5 to 7 years. If we put this issue in a slightly broader context, it may be recalled that we have only just been working here on a draft to increase the cost of school lunch from 78 cents to 1 euro, this amount was about the same size. So these are not very large amounts of money on the scale of the state budget. As far as the attitude towards the wallet and supervision of our country is concerned, I believe that every year, apart from a very serious and substantive debate with the Chancellor of Justice, we can also listen to the Auditor General, and there are analyses of the special committees. The Auditor General is also constantly pointing out those places where we can look at our budget with a much sharper eye than before.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-20_U109	Ants Laaneots, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-20_U110	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good colleague! Surely the problem raised is important. I don't think anyone in this room would mind getting their kids better fed. I think the problem is mainly where to take the money, perhaps the problem is the lack of money. By your calculations, I understand that it would take about 8.1 million euros. As we know, the budget is moving towards the end of the financial year and with it. These reserves, which are provided for in the budget, have been significantly reduced, and we also have unexpected new problems. For example, there is a serious problem with doctors and health insurance because the latter was found to be missing EUR 36 million and must be found.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-20_U111	Question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-20_U112	Thank you for a very good question. This is a question I have thought a lot about myself by reading and working on this bill. I will try to answer this question more thoroughly in my small speech, which I have also prepared. But let me briefly state my personal opinion, because it was not really discussed in the Commission. It seems to me that on many of the issues concerning education, our young people and children, we have become very correct euro officials. We follow very closely the same euros and cents and match all the rankings and rankings, but we also forget about the wider social background and what Estonia needs for its own country, culture and people.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-20_U113	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-20_U114	Thank you, manager. Good waitress! I was also a replacement for Aadu Black at this committee meeting on 13 September. I want to praise you first, Krista, because you are a really good person, you saved the Commission! Of the five members of the Commission who voted in favour of voting on this draft, no one agreed to be a rapporteur today. I guess they were a little embarrassed. You saved the Commission from this problem, so thank you! But I ask you, what is the real reason that this bill is not supported? It can't be a lack of money.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-20_U115	Thank you. The words of praise were redundant, because I myself really support this draft. Why is it not supported? I think the reason is very simple. This issue is not included in the coalition agreement. These grants, which have been granted through other measures, are intended to come first. I don't think there's a question of 8.1 million. It's not a problem, it's an attitude problem. It is simply believed that the measures taken to increase family benefits and benefits for families with children are already so important that they alleviate this need. In particular, day-care lunch does not have a greater meaning. The question of kindergarten lunch is not only that it is full, but it is also a question of how we value kindergarten, whether we can see the subject more widely and see it as a socially-growing role.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-20_U116	Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-20_U117	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, I cannot agree with you that a coalition would only be behind coalition lines. So I ask you to show me where they say that 79 million euros must be thrown into the hole of Estonian Air, or look at the last thing that concerns ferrying. At first, it was said that the attitude in the Commission was positive. Clearly, little children need to be fed, and there are other reasons. Then the adult uncles and aunts come from the same government that threw ten times more money, I repeat, Estonian Air, under the tail of the cat.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-20_U118	Question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-20_U119	The lack of money is not a reason. How did a good attitude in the Commission turn into a negative position?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-20_U120	Thank you. I understood the question as to how a good attitude in the Commission eventually turned into such a vote. I have already tried to say, in response to Mr Tammele, that I believe that at the moment when there is a vote, it will be based on what has been agreed or negotiated in the group. What comes from the ranks of the opposition, and what everyone as people may believe and think is right, just doesn't work, doesn't go along with it. Maybe I'm doing too much, maybe I'm wrong, my experience as a politician is very small, but it seems to me that at the time of the vote, delegates do not always vote as they would like in their hearts. If I'm wrong, I apologize to everyone here!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-20_U121	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-20_U122	Good manager! Good waitress! As I understand from what you said, the Committee on Culture did not look at this problem in a wider way. Let me get this straight. Didn't it say that if 8 million is lethally large money, we'll take only six-year-olds into this calculation, then we can handle 2 million?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-20_U123	Thank you for your question. No, that was not the problem. I certainly did not want to say either that the Committee on Culture is not trying to take a broader look at this issue. As Mailis Reps said earlier, our Commission wishes to look at the financing of all general education and early childhood education as a whole. But in order to make a specific decision, our hands are short, or our voices are few.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-20_U124	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-20_U125	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, In so far as the Commission mentioned the issue that not all children 5 years of age go to kindergarten and 6 years of age, how do we react to the financing of their catering?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-20_U126	Thank you for your question. That was really on the table for a second. It was still based on those who go to kindergarten. When a child is at home, it is the parents' own free choice. But why the fifth year of life, that was a very long story. These are the most important years of preparation for school.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-20_U127	March Sults, please! Oh, I'm sorry!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-20_U128	But in that sense, you are right that the children who are at home should not be part of this money.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-20_U129	Can you tell me which budget line or where these EUR 8.1 million could be taken to organise the feeding of kindergarten children?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-20_U130	I'm sorry again! March Sults, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-20_U131	Questions for the initiator of the draft. Kersti Sarapuu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-20_U132	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good waitress! Mailis, we all know that future health and a healthy life are the foundation of habits and nutrition in childhood. Especially important is one year before school, you must have properly balanced food and everything else. In view of our major pension reform, by 2040 the retirement age was to be 70 years, but the people who are going to be deprived of food today are 30 years old in the middle of the day. If such projects that health is laid as a basis for childhood are not overthinking, how can you even talk about a healthy life, a healthy retirement or a productive old age? What do you think of the subject?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-20_U133	Thank you, good questioner! The first thing that comes to my mind right now is that perhaps some tax reductions have not been very justified. Certainly, the majority of this hall is still highly doubtful as to whether a half-per cent reduction in social tax is the smartest investment. But with regard to the budget line, I would say that this budgetary procedure is still ahead of us. It is usually about the balance between income and expenditure. In general, for the things that have been agreed here, the cover has always been found. Sometimes tax receipts have just been better. As we remember, last year, the Committee on Monetary Affairs wrote on quite a number of lines on which the amendment came, 'better tax receipts'. It is a question of whether taxes actually got better. If you respond seriously, of course, this is only a matter of priorities. I guess we have different world-view concepts of where to get money and where to put it. I'm not quite sure how many hours we could have a tax debate on this subject, but I'm sure you know my worldview. I believe that, in practice, the economic policy based solely on equity is very expensive for us today, and it is certainly not justified in the long term. As Europe as a whole understands that a 0% loan is offered in principle, we could also analyse it. Of course, these investments cannot be directed towards either school lunch or kindergarten lunch or for the benefit of any other social pressure group. But in the context of economic recovery, we could discuss this more broadly. So the tax debate and the economic debate are certainly things that we could have on a wider scale, not just in the coalition or in the individual political parties. I'm sure you'd welcome that.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-20_U134	Anneli Ott, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-20_U135	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good waitress! This draft states that children aged 5 to 7 should start. But it is undoubtedly important that we get to all kindergarten children receiving lunch allowance. What is your sense of feeling from the discussions in the Commission, how quickly can we reach out to all kindergarten children to receive this support? Indeed, for families living in poverty, every euro is important and there should be no irresponsible behaviour.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-20_U136	Thank you, good questioner! In the Committee on Culture in general, it is very common to seek a broader consensus. For almost a year and a half, under the leadership of the Chairwoman of the Committee on Culture, we have been looking for solutions to move forward on issues such as investment in education, funding for education and relations between the state and local government, including the subject of early childhood education. This debate has been, I would say, very constructive. We have had a number of professionals, including on the role of early childhood education and support services, how we can finance other social problems that come out of school every day. Support services are clearly linked not only to specific needs but also to specific social needs. This debate has been very detailed. It must be said that we have not reached any consensual decision, because the position of the Ministry of Education on this matter has been rather rigid. At the same time, it can be said that, for example, the Ministry of Finance, and also, I'm sorry, I don't know what the name of this ministry is -- the opinion of the specialists at the Arto Asa Ministry has been a little different. Why am I bringing it out? I feel again what I have said in the past that this issue is much wider than the school lunch grant or even the children's lunch allowance, it has been a question of how to give local authorities greater opportunities in different aspects in general. This may still mean that catering in schools and kindergartens, for example, is free of charge, but the local government is given the resources, and then the municipality itself looks at how best to organise it, how to do it, to what extent and whether it is free of charge for everyone or only part of it. This analysis of opportunities on the ground is crucial. Our experience in the Centre Party Group showed at a time when the school lunch was free for only a part of the students that it did not work in this form. It was then that the so - called wealthiest went to a bar to buy a burger and others ate a school lunch. The quality of food and the whole attitude changed as everyone began to eat together. We would certainly like this arrangement to be general in kindergarten. But I stress the decision-making power of the local government here. We have a lot of children with different allergies, we see them in schools and especially in kindergartens, we have a lot of children with different preferences, and it would be too difficult for the country to lay down general rules here. Rather, there could be greater support for the local government, which would have a decision-making power, but the costs and benefits should be balanced. When can sufficient resources be provided to the local government? I believe this is possible if it is to be done. We are talking about putting the entire tax system on a different footing in the case of local governments, and I believe that this is possible. In another way, we will not be able to proceed with the reconstruction of this country. There's a local level closest to a human being. Issues such as early childhood education, education at all, social issues, health care and transport services are better organised on the ground.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-20_U137	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-20_U138	Good manager! Good waitress, great initiative! But I'll come back to the Chancellor of Justice. He spoke of the Water Act, which has in some cases been very detailed, for example, five cows must be on the shore of the water to be grazing, and so on. I looked at § 27 of the Pre-School Children's Institution Act, which has also been made at least four or five times more detailed in different years. Does it make any sense to further elaborate this law, or should this matter be dealt with in a different way and put in place regulations on how many euros a child could receive? Shouldn't Mr Laaneots, for example, provide for this support only for children 6. I mean, until I was 18 years old, you'd get less money for it?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-20_U139	First of all, our draft is aimed at starting a debate on this issue and discussing the approach. I recall that it took almost ten years for a school lunch from a political initiative to actually reach school. For ten years we had built up the country by then, but the subject did not go away. I believe that the wider understanding of pre-school childcare as part of education has been going on for about ten years today. We have started calling kindergartens teachers and taking this area into account in education statistics. Our attitude has changed. Indeed, clearly over 90% of children go to kindergarten, trust is greater, and attitudes have changed. I believe that, as part of the debate, we can also bring here the fact that, in addition to children being educated, just as they do at school, the parents of these children will receive this kind of support directly, because, especially for families with several children in kindergarten, this is a very big departure. Monthly fees, yes, there may be exemptions, there are more opportunities to play with it at kindergarten level, but the meal fee must be paid in any case, and this is a very big departure for the family. I believe that, as far as financial opportunities are concerned, as long as we are dealing with such individual decisions in a row, it is crucial for the debate to discuss this. One year or two years? Sorry, I think 8 million is not a question, the question is whether it is our priority or not. It's just why we brought this initiative here. Even if the great hall decides that we are not going on with this issue this time, it will not go away in the debate sense.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-20_U140	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-20_U141	Good manager! Good waitress! This is certainly not a priority for the current government coalition, because it is not right for me to hide behind the lack of money. As far as I know, the Health Insurance Fund has EUR 200 million in the circa reserve, so this is about something else. We are only talking about EUR 8.1 million, but failures in ferry procurement have cost more than this 8.1 million over the last month. So there's no hiding behind a lack of money. But why is there no political will?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-20_U142	Thank you, good questioner! I don't even know if there's no political will. I think there is political will, just kindergarten and school issues have traditionally been rather central to teachers' pay. If you look at a little broader context, you'll have to get used to it for a while. I don't see that there's a question here like no one wants to support children. But finding money is, of course, just a matter of priorities.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-20_U143	March Sults, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-20_U144	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good waitress! I have no fear, no panic. It was about what Mailis said he'd calm me down. I'm perfectly calm. But how do you think the state guarantees equal treatment in kindergarten food if our people's wealth is wall-to-wall? For some, let's say, 10 euros is a lethally large sum, for others it is incomprehensible why somebody has a problem over 10 euros. But how is equal treatment, or equal start in schools after kindergarten, guaranteed if people cannot already be treated equally in terms of food?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-20_U145	Thank you. First of all, I want to reassure the good questioner: today we have no reason to believe that children cannot eat. It is now solved in different ways. There's a lot of people in debt. At the beginning of the crisis, we had to quite sadly discuss this issue several times in the Committee on Culture, saying that quite a number of children were taken away from kindergarten because the family simply could not adapt to the situation and did not know where to ask for help and, for financial reasons, children were taken away from kindergarten. In the case of place fees, such negative signals came from kindergartens even faster than the cost of a meal day. So children who go to kindergarten are generally well fed. Kindergarten meals are delicious. I have no reason to doubt that. But I'll tell you again that it's quite a burden on families. Local authorities often help them. After all, we know each one of us in kindergartens, where one third of children, but sometimes even a little more, get a full or partial exemption from paying for food. In fact, the need for such support is quite high.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-20_U146	Heimar Lenk, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-20_U147	Thank you. In view of the fact that Estonian Air blew up 80 million and there was no other face on it, the financing of this bill should not be a problem for the state and, as the rapporteur has already said, is a purely political matter. But I have a specific question. It took even more than ten years to legitimize free school food in this hall, I was just counting. If this thing gets going somehow, how long would it take for this kindergarten food law to go on for ten or five years?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-20_U148	Thank you, good questioner! Despite the fact that at the moment everyone likes to predict different things, even betting offices predict a number of political decisions for us, I have to owe an answer in this sense how many years it may take. I believe, rather, that there will be such a decision very soon that it will finally be agreed between the local government and the state what we have been discussing here for years: what are the things that the local government is doing and on what issues and to what extent the state is giving down decision-making powers? I believe that this would be the most honest decision of the Riigikogu, where we could bring all these issues to the table at once, from how many times we actually have to push the snow during the winter so that a person can get out of the house and end up with these same kindergarten topics or even starting with them, i.e. the salaries of kindergarten teachers, as well as support services in kindergarten. We also have children with special needs in kindergarten quite largely without the support they might actually need in order to prepare properly for school. So this subject is much wider. As I said, we have discussed this in the Committee on Culture, but we have not finished it. Without this major change, we will not be able to move forward in relations between the local government and the state. I don't think it's gonna be ten years with this big decision, that's just not possible.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-20_U149	There are no further questions for the initiator of the bill. Thank you, Mailis Reps! The rapporteur for the Committee on Culture is Krista Aru. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-20_U150	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable representatives of the people! The Committee on Culture discussed this draft law at its meeting on 7 June. Mailis Reps gave a very long, comprehensive and meaningful overview of the purpose and meaning of the draft law, he put things in context and explained all the principles and wishes that were sought socially or socially by this legislative amendment. The main questions that arose in the Committee on Culture specifically concerned the age segmentation, so why the five- to seven-year-olds, how much this money takes, and so on. However, in the debate in the Committee on Culture, I must certainly emphasise this, the attitude of the members of the committee in general was very positive. Indrek Kilk, a lawyer from the Ministry of Education and Research, was also present in the Committee on Culture. Mr Kilk presented the positions of the government, signed by the lawyers of the Ministry of Education, on the draft law. The government's views were negative; they were negative in almost all respects. The main reasons why the views were negative were as follows: Early childhood education is the responsibility of the local government. If the state takes part in this responsibility, partly covering food costs, then the local government may no longer cover the food costs of kindergarten children. The calculation of the draft is confusing, we talk about the cost of a month's food, but it takes into account food, etc. A very long and clear emphasis was put on the fact that the government has tried to do a great deal in the last year, both to increase child support and to support families with a wealth of children. At the request of the draft law, the discussion of the draft law and the procedural decisions were postponed to the autumn session and the Commission was appointed rapporteur Mihkel Raud. Procedural decisions were to be taken in the first week of the autumn session. On 13 September, the Committee on Culture again dealt with this draft law and made procedural decisions. The Committee on Culture was appointed rapporteur on 13 September and a vote took place. In the Committee on Culture, there were 4 votes in favour of concluding the first reading of the draft, 5 votes against its termination, i.e. in favour of rejecting it. The Committee on Culture therefore rejected the draft law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-20_U151	Questions for the Commission rapporteur. Viktor Vassilyev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-20_U152	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Yes, there is political will, there are many political opportunities, but no political decision has been made. I guess the political flesh was weak. However, since there were several options, I very much hope that the Commission did not consider the livelihood of the needy children to be negligible. Did the Commission have any position on how to support these needy children? Was there a common position?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-20_U153	Thank you, good questioner! The Commission did not have a common position on this issue. This issue was not discussed either. Rather, it was an understanding of the general problem, not a clear view.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-20_U154	Aadu Black, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-20_U155	Thank you. I apologise immediately for asking about what was not really discussed in the Commission. Formally, it can be answered that this was not discussed in the Commission. However, if you're willing to respond, I'm asking for your opinion as an expert. Where does the waterfall come from? All the people who are talking about this bill admit that children are our greatest national wealth, investing in their abilities is the best investment that can ever be. Is this separation at the point where some say that laws and policies must be done according to accounting rules, and where others think that accounting rules should be made on a political basis? Or is the question that perhaps children's health should be taken into account for euros and cents in order to be accepted by ladies and gentlemen? What could be a purely methodological way forward so that all things like a consensual society can still come to the point of supporting this idea?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-20_U156	Thank you, Honourable Asker. That is a very big and complex question. As the honourable Chancellor of Justice said here a few hours ago, against the fact that there are people with very different social statuses in society, nothing can be done. The only thing the state, government and government can do at all is to keep this atmosphere and dialogue in order to help us understand these needs, to really bring them clearly on the table, to admit that we have so many people to help, and then to look for solutions in the long run. In 25 years, we have now probably reached a stage where the mistakes or omissions that have inevitably arisen in this rapid development come to light. They must also be recognised and considered when setting all kinds of benefits, namely whether it is right to grant support or whether it would be more appropriate to really worry about having a child receiving food money and getting fed up instead of family support. These are political choices, but we should be honest about them. So speaking, understanding, and admitting mistakes are important.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-20_U157	Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-20_U158	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, I have a very specific question. The atmosphere in the committee, I understood that, can be described as the mice cried and cursed, but they kept chewing on the cactus. Basically, good people are forced to vote against their wishes. This means that the rule that a member of the Riigikogu is not bound by the mandate does not apply. This is about the fact that the very good people in the Commission are taking a very bad decision against their will.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-20_U159	Thank you. I didn't quite understand the question, but I'm still trying to answer. I don't think it's that bad. We don't have mice and no other rodents. Each person is evidently satisfied with his decision. That was my look as an observer.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-20_U160	There are no further questions for the Commission rapporteur. Thank you, Krista Aru! Before we go to the negotiations, we need to put a procedural proposal to the vote. The Group of the Estonian Conservative People's Party has proposed to the Assembly that the IV session of the Riigikogu be extended until 14 p.m. until 20 September 2016. I hope there is also a note that until the agenda is exhausted, but no longer than 14:00. We need to vote on this proposal. Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on the proposal of the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia to extend the session of the Riigikogu on 20 September until 14 p.m. Please take a stand and vote. There are 13 members of the Riigikogu in favour of the proposal and 41 against, with no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. I am opening negotiations on draft 224 at first reading. On behalf of the Free Party Group, Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-20_U161	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Good people's representatives! I am very pleased that the Group of the Estonian Free Party entrusted this speech to me, even though they do not know what I am going to talk about at all. I don't want to talk about who pays for eating carrots and who pays for eating potatoes. I think that our country, and the same honorable collection, this whole, above all, could look at the whole issue of education. On the one hand, that's what we're doing. There has been a great deal of talk in this Chamber that education is the most important thing that education must be dealt with and, on the other hand, that young people are our future, our independent Estonia's most secure guarantee, and they are the ones who can move life forward. So we're all in words, concepts, and even phraseology, like we're on the right track. We are very pleased that this is the case. But when it comes to money, somehow we forget about these things and start calculating, thinking and considering a little different. What do I want today? I would like us to agree that, before the big halls gets to the draft Education Act, which rethinks and puts things like early childhood education and higher education in place, whether the kindergarten is the first and very valuable part of early childhood education, whether we want to have an interest education there too, whether we want the kindergarten education to be part of an education that raises the kindergarten that comes up with life and helps others, helps everyone around, and whether we want children already in kindergarten to participate in the immersion so that children who speak the second language can start starting from kindergarten. When we see the kindergarten as part of early childhood education, we must be able to answer the question whether kindergarten teachers deserve the same salary as teachers. Then it can no longer be that there are kindergartens and kindergarten teachers, and there is food money and a different education. If the kindergarten is part of the education system, the most important goal of our education system is to raise a self-thinking, well-functioning, tolerant and good, good person, then it must be treated in the same way as the rest of the education system; I am also thinking about the pay of kindergarten teachers and children's food money. What was I thinking the most, reading the bill 224? The question is what is lacking most in today's Estonia and, sorry, which is also missing in this respectable hall. It's old state-manly wisdom. Jaan Tõnisson, who was the head of state three times, a member of all the pre-war Riigikogu and also the President of the Riigikogu, spoke of this wisdom on several occasions. No decision must be taken by the assembly, based solely on figures and based solely on the influence that it may ever have, but the first task of the Riigikogu is to take all decisions on the basis of the people's love for their country, so that statehood does not kill everything that the people think is good in that country. That's the wisdom I want when you think about the education bill. That is what we should have thought when it was about children's food money. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-20_U162	Thank you. No more calls, I'll finish the negotiations. The Steering Committee has proposed to reject the draft 224 at first reading. This proposal needs to be voted on. Honourable Riigikogu, please pay attention! I shall put to the vote the draft proposal of the lead committee 224 to be rejected at first reading. Please take a stand and vote. 44 members of the Riigikogu were in favour and opposed to the proposal of the commission. The proposal was supported. Bill 224 has dropped out of procedure. Dear Riigikogu, for the sake of better organisation of work, I will take a break of one minute and two seconds. Closure of the sitting at 1 p.m.
