ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-10_U1	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. We will begin the Tuesday session of the 3rd plenary session of the Riigikogu on the 14th working week. It is possible to pass on requests for information and drafts. Jaanus Karilaid, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-10_U2	Ladies and gentlemen, I have an inquiry to make to the Minister for Economic Affairs and Infrastructure, Kristen Michal, and this concerns the development of ferry ships for the large islands' routes and political responsibility. The inquiry is submitted by Artur Talvik, Jaanus Karilaid, Martin Helme, Märt Sults, Tarmo Tamm, Valeri Korb and Erki Savisaar. It seems that the ministers of the Government of the Republic still do not learn from the Estonian Air case and are still willing to throw taxpayers' money into the wind. The biggest problem for the taxpayer in the field of ferry procurement is the fact that, at some point, the execution of the contract awarded will cost more than the contracting authority has been approved. There are clear indications that the implementation of Plan B represents an additional cost for the taxpayer from the provision of ferry services, as well as a breach of State aid rules and public procurement law. However, we are interested that, if, for example, in a year's time, it turns out that this ferry procurement will cost the taxpayer more than planned, then who will be politically responsible for it. Is it the responsibility of Juhan Parts, Urve Palo, Remo Holsmer, Kristen Michal, or a ministry official? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-10_U3	Ladies and gentlemen, attention! On behalf of the management board of the Riigikogu, I have adopted one inquiry and the management board of the Riigikogu processes it in accordance with the Home and Working Procedures Act. Incoming check, please! 87 members of the Riigikogu registered as present, missing 14. Ladies and gentlemen, attention! Clarification of the agenda. Pursuant to § 73 (1) of the Law on the Rules of Procedure of the Riigikogu, the President of the sitting does not open today's agenda item No 3, which is the second reading of the draft Act amending the Act on the Status of Members of the Riigikogu and the Law on the Organisation of Local Government, initiated by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, on the ground that the documents on which the agenda is discussed have not been made available to the members of the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-10_U4	Let's go to today's agenda. The first item is the first reading of the proposal for a Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council amending Directive 96/71/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 December 1996 concerning the posting of workers in the framework of the provision of services, as regards the non-compliance with the principle of subsidiarity. I would like to ask Kalle Palling, President of the Committee on European Union Affairs, to act as rapporteur.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-10_U5	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, The European Union shall exercise its powers in accordance with the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality. For areas which do not fall under the exclusive competence of the European Union...
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-10_U6	I'm sorry! Ladies and gentlemen, attention to the speaker. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-10_U7	... the principle of subsidiarity aims to protect the ability of Member States to take decisions and to take action. In accordance with that principle, Union intervention is justified where, because of the scale or effects of the proposed action, the objectives of the action cannot be sufficiently achieved by the Member States and can be better achieved at Union level. At the beginning of March, the European Commission presented a proposal for a directive amending the 1996 Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on the posting of workers in the framework of the provision of services. With its proposal for a directive, the European Commission wishes to complement the framework established in 1996 and better balance the objectives of promoting and facilitating the cross-border provision of services, protecting posted workers and ensuring a level playing field between foreign and local competitors. According to the draft directive submitted by the European Commission, the main changes are as follows: Where the estimated or actual duration of the posting exceeds 24 months, workers shall be subject to all employment rights in the country of destination. Instead of the minimum remuneration laid down in the country of destination to date, the posted worker must be paid all the components and associated fees relating to employment in the country of destination. Undertakings can be obliged to subcontract only to undertakings which guarantee certain conditions of employment for workers, which also cover remuneration. The labour law rules of the country of destination shall apply to posted temporary agency workers. The Committee on European Union Affairs is of the opinion that the proposal runs counter to the principle of subsidiarity and launched a draft of this Decision on 20 April. First of all, we believe that the proposed amendments to the directive, by which the European Commission wishes to reduce unfair practices relating to the posting of workers and to ensure equal conditions of pay for the same work done in the same place, could undermine the competitiveness of businesses in the provision of services in other Member States of the European Union and restrict the free movement of services. It is questionable whether the proposed measures can be better achieved at Union level due to their scale and effects. Secondly, the current Directive provides for the basic working conditions to be applied by foreign service providers in the host Member State. The current Directive already provides adequate protection for posted workers, which will be better guaranteed by the measures provided for in the new Enforcement Directive. The difference in remuneration rates is one of the legitimate elements of the competitive advantage of service providers. It is therefore questionable whether or not the principle of equal pay for equal work in the same place is in line with the principle of the single market. The pay gap is a legal competitive advantage for service providers and, in view of the large pay gap between Member States, several Member States are unlikely to be able to guarantee posted workers the conditions of pay in the country of destination. This, in turn, may hinder the posting of workers. Thirdly, the Posting of Workers Directive and its Enforcement Directive form a whole. It is incomprehensible why a proposal for a revision of the Directive has been tabled in a situation where the deadline for transposition of the Enforcement Directive has not yet arrived and the impact of the Enforcement Directive has not been able to be assessed at all in this respect, not to mention an in-depth assessment. Above all, the existing rules must be effectively implemented and the impact of the Enforcement Directive thoroughly assessed. In a situation where there is no proper impact assessment of the Directive, no new obligations should be imposed. This is not in line with the principles of best lawmaking in the European Union. A few words about the procedure for the decision. The Committee on European Union Affairs decided on 18 April to submit this draft decision to the Riigikogu. The draft decision was initiated on 20 April, and the Riigikogu Board set the deadline for amendments at 4 p.m. on 2 May. The Committee on European Union Affairs discussed the draft decision again at its meeting on 22 April and proposed that the draft be submitted to the plenary session of the Riigikogu for the first reading by 10 May. The rapporteur was appointed here. At the meeting of the Committee on European Union Affairs on 2 May, the draft decision was discussed with ministries and interest groups. Representatives from the Ministry of Social Affairs, the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, the Estonian Association of Construction Entrepreneurs, the Estonian Trade Union Confederation, the Chamber of Service Economy, the Estonian Chamber of Commerce and Industry and the Confederation of Employers participated. On the agenda of the meeting of ELD on 6 May, the revision of the amendments and the formulation of Estonia's views on the directive were for negotiation. No amendments were received from other committees or the political groups of the Riigikogu. The Committee on European Union Affairs decided to change the position of the Government of the Republic and formulated Estonia's position as follows: 'Estonia considers that the draft directive of the European Commission is contrary to the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality. 'The Government of the Republic did not formulate an opinion on subsidiarity and proportionality. The deadline for subsidiarity is today, i.e. today it will be eight weeks since this draft directive came out. Reasoned opinions have already been submitted by the Czech Republic, Poland, Romania, Bulgaria, Lithuania, Latvia, Croatia and Denmark, and national procedures for the submission of reasoned opinions are in progress in Hungary, Slovakia and Estonia. Each national Parliament shall have two votes. If the reasoned opinions submitted correspond to at least one third of the votes cast by Parliament, a yellow card procedure shall be initiated. This means that the European Commission will examine its proposal. The Commission may quite freely decide to maintain, amend or withdraw the draft. The Commission must give reasons for its decision. As a result, ladies and gentlemen, I propose that you support the draft decision of the Riigikogu 225 and adopt it as a decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-10_U8	Thank you, dear waitress. You have questions too. Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-10_U9	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good waitress! It is, of course, most welcome that Estonia has discovered subsidiarity and found the backbone to oppose European directives. I hear we're not alone in this fight. I have this question: do we still have hope for a similar procedure for some other directives?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-10_U10	Thank you, good question! We will do this for the second time in history, and if there is a need, we will certainly consider this possibility again.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-10_U11	Jaanus Karilaid, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-10_U12	Thank you to the manager. Good waitress! Please also give an overview of the Labour Inspectorate's objections as to why they do not support this ELAK initiative.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-10_U13	The Labour Inspectorate did not participate in an inclusive Commission meeting organised by ELAK and sent a statement that they did not support the draft decision taken by ELAK.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-10_U14	Jaak Madison, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-10_U15	Thank you, Mr President of the sitting of the Riigikogu. Good colleague! I was very happy to hear how many allies we have here, Hungary and the Czech Republic and Slovakia, who are real comrades to us on other matters as well. Perhaps you can point out where else we could see the points of reference for cooperation with those countries that are equally very concerned about the principle of subsidiarity in matters of sovereignty, perhaps also because of the development of the European Union in general, one of which is the same directive that we are opposed to at the moment?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-10_U16	At the moment, we are talking about an item on which we are dealing with the issues of posted workers. I think it's the wrong place to philosophize other subjects.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-10_U17	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-10_U18	Thank you. Honourable Chairman of the Commission! My question is that you referred to the arguments of employers' organisations (the Chamber of Business and Employers' Confederation, there were others) but could you open them up here for the Riigikogu a little further so that we can still get a picture of these arguments and what problems the practical implementation of this directive will bring to Estonian entrepreneurs or will not bring.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-10_U19	Thank you, I'd love to! Toomas Tamsar, Head of the Employers' Confederation, said that employers do not support the adoption of the proposed amendments to the Directive, because they restrict and not increase the free movement of services. Raivo Rand, Chairman of the Management Board of the Estonian Association of Construction Entrepreneurs, pointed out that the proposed amendments to the Posted Workers Directive by the European Commission exacerbate the gap between the new and old Member States, export of products involves exports of services and, if the same rules were to apply everywhere, it would hinder the entry of the new Member States into the common market. According to Evelyn Sepa, CEO of the Service Economy Chamber, Estonia should support the growth of the entrepreneurial initiative both in Estonia and in Europe and thereby the real integration of the European Union's single internal market. According to him, the effects of this directive and its amendments are rather protectionist and inward-looking. Katre Rugo, a lawyer of the Chamber of Commerce and Industry, pointed out that Estonia, as the main country of posting, would rather suffer as a result of amendments to the Directive. According to him, the Chamber supports the submission of a reasoned opinion, as in this case the amendments to the directive undermine the competitiveness of Estonian companies in the European Union. Peep Peterson, Chairman of the Confederation of Trade Unions, said that if there is no comprehensive labour law in the European Union, Member States must be allowed to organise their labour markets themselves. His opinions were of a philosophical nature rather than specific proposals.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-10_U20	Oudekki Loone, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-10_U21	Honourable waitress! We are discussing the non-compliance of one directive with the principle of subsidiarity. The principle of subsidiarity states that human rules must be adopted as close to him as possible. Under this directive, the rules applicable to workers should be those adopted in the country where the worker is employed, and this is absolutely in line with the principle of subsidiarity. On what basis do you find that this principle has been violated here?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-10_U22	In particular, on the basis that when we talk about the "nearer" side of the provision of services, including the inclusion of labour, it is still the nearest half of the country from which workers are posted to the country of destination. And a separate argument as to why the European Union Affairs Commission took this form of consideration is that the Enforcement Directive has not yet been allowed to enter into force. The deadline is in June this year and therefore it has not actually been possible to analyse its effects. Consequently, we decided that the most sensible way to oppose the draft in this form is to initiate a subsidiarity procedure. Indeed, I agree that these subsidiarity arguments are less than more in this draft, in the case of this directive, but that the principle of adopting or initiating new draft directives in this form, in a situation where previous enforcement directives have not been allowed to enter into force, is not good practice. Not to mention that this is perhaps not the right time to address this issue in Europe.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-10_U23	March Sults, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-10_U24	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good waitress! My colleague asked why the Labour Inspectorate did not come to the extended debate, not whether he had come. I repeat, please be so kind as to answer. Can you explain why the Labour Inspectorate did not come to the extended debate?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-10_U25	I'm sorry, I'm looking. But how am I supposed to know why he didn't come? He simply did not come and sent his position in writing. I think you can ask for this at maret.maripuu@tööinspektsioon.ee.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-10_U26	Marianne Mikko, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-10_U27	Thank you very much. I come to this meeting of the Committee on European Union Affairs. There really were people on your list. You mentioned that union leader Peep Peterson was philosophical there. No, he was not philosophical, but on the contrary, he expressed his reluctance very clearly and said that he opposed our draft decision. And my question to you is how this draft decision supports and helps Estonian contractors and posted workers.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-10_U28	I don't want to say in any way that Peep Peterson didn't have an opinion. However, Peep Peterson stressed that, as long as there is no single labour law in the European Union, it would be more sensible to resolve these issues as they have been resolved so far. Indeed, he too looked for these arguments of subsidiarity. At this point, I think it is worthwhile for all of us to be correct. Now that we are talking about how one thing helps or doesn't help, I think that if Estonian entrepreneurs post their employees and in the future every Estonian entrepreneur needs to clarify the labour law of the 27 other countries and the components and logic of paying all wages, it will increase bureaucracy rather than working for the purpose for which the European Union is created. Since we have a single market, we have common rules, we do not need to clarify the rules of each country. In my opinion, if, as a result of this directive, we lose competitiveness in the provision of services and the posting of labour abroad, it is contrary to the interests of Estonian entrepreneurs and it is also contrary to the interests of Estonian workers. If Estonian entrepreneurs are unable to post employees or participate in activities in another country, in purchasing their services, then Estonian employees do not have a job in these countries either. In this sense, there is a very simple logic.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-10_U29	Oudekki Loone, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-10_U30	Thank you. Estonian trade unions have pointed out that, in fact, this Commission proposal eliminates discrimination against posted workers in relation to local labour, guarantees Member States the right to design their own rules freely and gives assurance that these rules apply to everyone who works in this country, equalises competition rules for local and foreign companies, and also protects Estonian entrepreneurs from cheap temporary agency labour. We see that in other countries that have opposed it, the wage level is considerably lower than in Estonia. In summary, this draft, the rejection of the Commission's proposal, harms both Estonian employees and Estonian entrepreneurs. Why, for technical reasons, are we taking an initiative that actually protects us as a small country and our employees and small businesses?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-10_U31	I don't understand why you call it a technical reason. I think there's a very substantial reason. All business organisations have said that they are opposed to the draft as it is today. They would have been prepared to support the government compromise on this draft directive. Since this compromise proposal is exactly the same face of my aforementioned enforcement directive, which has not been allowed to enter into force, but the Commission has come up with a new initiative, the Committee on European Union Affairs considered it necessary to oppose this draft rather than compromise. We oppose the principle that, before the previous directive has been allowed to enter into force, new initiatives are already coming up without having been able to analyse the effects of the previous enforcement directive.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-10_U32	Marika Tuus-Laul, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-10_U33	Thank you. Good performer! You have been asked several times about the position of the Labour Inspectorate. Take this paper and read it to us. Why are their principles now reversed, why do they not support your views?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-10_U34	They were of the opinion that the amendment of the Posted Workers Directive would only be possible with a new directive, not with national regulation, but we in the Committee on European Union Affairs had a different view. The Committee on Social Affairs and the Committee on Economic Affairs had exactly the same position. It was a parliamentary debate with involvement. Some of the organisations that were involved were of the same opinion; others were of the same opinion. The Committee on Social Affairs, the Committee on Economic Affairs and the Riigikogu Committee on European Union Affairs formed their opinion and this opinion is before you today. And we can all choose which approach we support.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-10_U35	Martin Repinski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-10_U36	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear Kalle Palling! Here's the question. We are currently in a situation where it is very difficult to take workers from abroad in Estonia, because we have strict conditions. They have to have an arithmetical average salary plus a coefficient, so it's going to be a pretty high salary. Many entrepreneurs solve this by, for example, taking people from Poland here. In Poland, workers are put into employment and then posted to Estonia, where they work on the basis of lease contracts, etc. Ultimately, the result is that taxes are not collected into the Estonian budget, but are collected in Poland, even though people actually work here. I would like to ask how this bill affects the collection of taxes into the Estonian budget in this context.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-10_U37	After all, this bill regulates that, when a worker is posted, those workers must be paid the same salary and equal wage components as the workers in the country of posting. Perhaps if there are accompanying wage components in relation to collective agreements, etc., all of them must also be paid. I am saying that the tax issue is even secondary here. It is simply that, if this situation reaches the point where the provision of services and the posting of labour become uncompetitive, the service will not be provided in this form. I will answer your groupmate, Oudekki Loone, who asked above. Indeed, in our view, the protectionist approach of the Member States of the European Union is rather behind the directive initiative in this form, and it is precisely to protect its workforce from coming from outside posted workers who may offer services somewhat cheaper. Although, compared to the country of departure, when sending an employee from Estonia to another country, wages are completely competitive, completely reasonable, and this fact itself confirms that people go and work at these jobs. So I think that, in a complex way, the same enforcement directive, which should enter into force in June of this year, is already a major step forward from what this directive once was. And I think that there is simply no justification for taking this next too long step now.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-10_U38	Marianne Mikko, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-10_U39	Thank you. How can the explanatory memorandum justify the idea that a posted Estonian construction worker receives not the same salary as a construction worker in the country of destination, such as Finland, but the minimal wage in the Finnish construction sector when doing the same job? Why does an Estonian skilled worker have to accept the minimum wage of a Finnish construction worker?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-10_U40	I don't think he has to. When we talk specifically about Finland, legislation has already reached the point that the minimum wage is no longer mentioned for posted workers. In this case, however, we are talking about having to pay all other components relating to pay, to comply with collective agreements, etc. When we involved Estonian construction companies in the committee meeting, they said that our pay gap is already minimal compared to Finland. However, if we are talking about some other countries, about making labour law clear in other countries, the adoption of such an initiative in the European Union is inherently controversial, precisely because it creates more bureaucracy, not because it does not work as a leader in the creation of the common market, say, and as a less bureaucracy. But in Estonia and Finland, according to Estonian construction companies, wage levels are already very close to each other. At this point, I am indebted to the answer on how all the accompanying collective agreements will be enforced there. But the practice of this one particular country is not important either. We in the Committee on European Union Affairs are of the opinion that the introduction of such a general Union-wide practice is simply unfounded in this case.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-10_U41	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-10_U42	Good manager! Good waitress! It is interesting to hear a difference of opinion on such matters here and to see a fight. But I ask when we can finally see the European Union's common labour law. What stone or stones does its formation actually lie behind?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-10_U43	After all, we in the European Union have a lot of things in which we are united on paper, but we are not united in real life. In this case, Estonia points out that this proposal would rather distance Member States from the desire to reach common labour law and common principles. And when we talk about labour law, we should talk about work, not everything else that comes with it. I am still optimistic about the future of the European Union. I hope that we will be more united in the future than we are today, and we will be able to deal with them in those days, when we really have serious challenges in very many areas that we should focus on in the European Union. And only when these major challenges have been solved will we begin to address issues that concern, for example, only 0.7% of workers, i.e. posted workers, who are actually covered by this directive.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-10_U44	Martin Repinski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-10_U45	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Honourable waitress! I myself remember very well how I worked in Germany 11 years ago, and there the same work was done by Finns whose wages were about two and a half times higher. This is not fair to me, and this directive would solve this problem. So if we look, this directive is clearly in the interests of our Estonian workers who work abroad. The initiative actually came from the Netherlands, and many old European countries supported it. I want to ask why it is so that the directives developed for the benefit of our workers are supported by the old large countries, but the Estonian Commission does not want to support them.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-10_U46	That's a nice philosophical question. Indeed, on paper it looks like it's all in the interests of our employees. However, if our employers are no longer competitive on foreign markets due to such conditions, these employers will not be able to create jobs for workers, and this draft directive is already working against the interests of workers. Perhaps when entrepreneurs become uncompetitive, Estonia may lose its job to 7500 workers. Since we have learned from business organisations, the Confederation of Employers, the Chamber of Commerce, the Association of Construction Undertakings that this is really detrimental to their competitiveness, I think we should listen to them. The country, the directive and the European Commission do not create jobs, and businesses still create jobs. And when entrepreneurs say that they are becoming uncompetitive under these conditions, I think it is worth listening to them. Although we have so far also agreed with the previous proposals for a directive, which already need to take into account certain minimum levels of posting of workers to a specific country of destination. So I don't see it in that black light. And compared to the time you went to work in Germany, what you said was that it was ten years ago, the situation in this area has actually changed quite a bit. Not to mention that we have the Enforcement Directive, which should enter into force in June of this year, but which is simply not to be allowed to happen. Let's just say on paper these things look a lot better than in real life.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-10_U47	Jaanus Karilaid, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-10_U48	Thank you to the manager. Good waitress! On page 2 of the explanatory memorandum to the draft law, 7147 workers were posted from Estonia to other Member States in 2014. But what number do you expect as Chairman of ELAK? How much should this number increase?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-10_U49	We're not talking about growing numbers here, but it's really good that you fixed me, Mr. Karilaid. I said 7500, but for the sake of the verbatim: the correct number is 7147. But indeed, the question is not whether it will grow or not. It would be perfect if all these people had jobs here. However, since our companies provide services at the top of the word'service' also outside Estonia and the workforce is one of the components of the service, I think that this issue of posted workers will still persist. And, of course, if we look at the fact that our companies can provide services and increase their exports to foreign markets, this could also lead to an increase in the number of posted workers. So all these things are connected. However, once again, I would stress that if the draft were to be adopted in this form, it would rather reduce the export capacity of our companies in these areas, and we will then talk about significant reductions, not increases.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-10_U50	Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-10_U51	Thank you, Mr. Vice Speaker. Dear waitress, However, I was not satisfied with the answer to the previous question. We are talking here about the principle of subsidiarity and that Estonia does not agree and that several other countries do not agree either. The question was whether we still have such issues coming, or whether we have had issues in the past where the principle of subsidiarity has been violated. So I'll ask you more specifically. Do you think that the Banking Union Directives are a violation of the principle of subsidiarity or not? Are immigration quotas a violation of the principle of subsidiarity or not? Or is granting aid to Greece a violation of the principle of subsidiarity or not? These are also very important things, where large sums of money are involved, which have a very significant impact on Estonia, but there we have not, for some reason, appeald to subsidiarity.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-10_U52	After all, with this subsidiarity, it is the case that we first have to appeal, then discuss and search for these arguments and see whether these arguments exist or not. An important argument or component here is that one third of the votes in the European Union still have to be met. Each Member State has two votes, and we will then be right on the border with this draft. Together with Estonia, this third vote exists, which means that the European Commission must at least renegotiate this draft. He can easily leave it the same, he can change it, he can put it in a drawer or he can take it back. So there are different questions here, but I really don't go into these other areas. However, if we look at it more closely, Estonia has used the subsidiarity procedure as one option for one accounting directive once. Then we stayed in a screaming minority, that third of the votes didn't come together. So it really has not been used too much in the European Union. However, in the context of the British negotiations, other colour cards have been brought to the table, and one of them is the so-called'red card initiative', which could come into use on the British proposal in the coming years. I think this really is an opportunity that Parliaments could use even more widely. In particular, it would perhaps be for the Commission to know that if they come up with initiatives that they cannot justify and come up with initiatives before the previous directives have been allowed to enter into force, the parliaments will have the opportunity to oppose it. The yellow card and subsidiarity procedure is still, say, a softer version of being opposed. In this sense, my personal opinion is that the British struggle to get a real application for the red card initiative is to be welcomed.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-10_U53	Raivo Põldaru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-10_U54	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, I would like to ask a comment on one point. Instead of making changes to the law, perhaps you should think that the people you work with are suffering because employers do not know local labour law as well as they need to. Perhaps we could contribute to learning about these rights and working together between countries?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-10_U55	That is the question of Peeter Ernits: when will the European Union come to have a common labour law? He'll come when he comes. Of course, we welcome this initiative, so that we have a common market in different areas, common standards and common rules, so that all these things can be done more easily. But we are not yet there and we are rather moving towards that certain countries want to act more protectionistly and do not allow companies from other countries to provide services to their territory. I bring here, for example, procurements organised in the local legal language, etc. The requirement to pay all accompanying items also creates an obligation to know the right to work in all other Member States, so-called one for one, and they are all different. We therefore considered it necessary not to support the draft directive in this form. Indeed, this is a very small proportion of the workers posted by businesses. In the case of Estonia, about 1% of workers are posted. I think the directive would simply make this pointless. These 7147 people may not have a job in that form in the future, but they'll find a job somewhere else. But I think that simply because we want to support some kind of worldview in Europe, and that is this initiative, it does not make sense to go along with reducing the competitiveness of our businesses.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-10_U56	Peter Helme, please! I'm sorry, Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-10_U57	Peter's my cousin. He's my nephew. President-in-Office of the Council. Dear waitress, The central word in all this is'subsidiarity'. Let me ask you a bit of a spiteful question. Does the fact that we still have the European Social Charter without being fully ratified today also result from some kind of interference with subsidiarity?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-10_U58	I can't answer that spiteful question. I think it goes a little bit out of the debate on this draft, on a specific point. So, after this philosophical debate, we are going to continue behind the benches, and let's not spend any time with our colleagues right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-10_U59	And now Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-10_U60	Good manager! I'll come back to the last question. You have said that you are optimistic about the future of the European Union, but you have once again stated that our big colleagues are acting in a protectionist way and do not want us and our workers in their yard, or at least not on equal terms. But I ask you again, what are the basic stones behind the creation of a single labour law for the European Union?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-10_U61	After all, that is the answer to your own question, these are the protectionist interests. Perhaps to extend it in such a way that it is not so true that somewhere else in Europe we are not wanted to be in their yard, but that ex-post missions are usually carried out between neighbouring countries. In particular, the Nordic countries which are interested in such an approach are, for example, Poland in the case of Central Europe, the old Czechoslovakia in the case of southern Europe, the Visegrád countries whose workers are opposed. This is a regional problem, and this is what this common labour law is all about. If we look at who is interested, even in the common agricultural policy, in the differences that exist between the old and the new Member States of the European Union, they are still the same big and perhaps somewhat lazy countries in old Europe who want to pursue protectionism instead of increasing the effectiveness of their countries. So this is such a broader issue in Europe, which we have been dealing with for years. The Union is still designed to have basic freedoms based on free movement and the single market, but we have not been able to implement them in the most effective way so far. Particularly in the interests of Estonia, as a small and flexible country, it is in the interests of us to become more united and, by doing so, to have greater freedom for our businesses and our people to provide services everywhere, in the 28 countries of the European Union. So, yes, well put simply, the protectionist interests of the countries are what they are behind. My longer answer may have helped open up that background a little bit. Thank you for your question.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-10_U62	Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-10_U63	Thank you. Mr President, the Committee on European Union Affairs. Our Confederation of Estonian Trade Unions does not often make statements. I have the question to you, what was the response of the committee chairman to those trade unions who signed this statement so that it would be heard in this Chamber today.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-10_U64	I haven't seen it. I understand that the groups were also sent a position taken by the trade unions. I was based on the fact that, as Chairman of the European Union Affairs Committee, I organised an inclusive session, and the Confederation of Trade Unions was at the table there, as were all business organisations. According to a representative of the Confederation of Trade Unions, they did indeed base their position on the best way to have a single labour law in the European Union. But until we have this single labour law, we in the Commission decided to take the position we reached: to build on the positions of Estonian employers, the Chamber of Commerce, the Chamber of Service and the Association of Construction Entrepreneurs and to oppose this initiative of the European Commission. I think that, in principle, we all agree, and I have also confirmed this in this Chamber, that if we had a single labour law, everything would be considerably simpler and we could change each other's employees without too much red tape. But as long as we do not have it, I think we will let this last directive enter into force, let us see what its effects are, and maybe then we will start working on new initiatives. As long as we do not know what this future will be, the blocking minority could come together so that the European Commission should, in any case, discuss its proposal. It is probably or probably not, but it is quite certain that the current Presidency will no longer be able to deal with this issue. Soon we will also be Presidents of the European Union, and I personally think that this same draft package will be discussed again, at least in the troika of our Presidency, perhaps during the British Presidency. If we speak of the British Presidency in this form, which I personally hope will not come to the table during these times, it will certainly come to the table during our Presidency. And then we will be able to shape this draft just as we think it is and in the direction that the government also reached with its compromise proposal, which was reasonable in itself. But today it would be tactically wrong to support it, because we are actually opposed to this draft and in favour of the previous directive being allowed to enter into force. So in this case, this is the procedure and we are waiting for the European Commission to reach its position.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-10_U65	Thank you, dear waitress. No further questions for you. I'm opening negotiations. Please, Martin Helme on behalf of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia Group! Please, five plus three minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-10_U66	Ladies and gentlemen, Subsidiarity is a great thing. We Conservatives are gonna love this. We are delighted that, at one time during the full moon, the Committee on European Union Affairs has also discovered that the principle of subsidiarity exists, that sovereignty can be defended and that we will undoubtedly support this initiative. But there is a slightly broader background on this subject, which I think needs to be clarified. The question is that this is another very good example of the merciless and irrefutable centralisation of power in the European Union. When we talk about the directive that was adopted in 1996, which is being amended today, and what is being done with the argument that the internal market will then work better, it is not about 'harmonising' the internal market, but it is actually about paralyzing competition in the internal market. Competition in the internal market is a natural part of the functioning of this market, including labour. Trying to make one measure to everyone here reveals exactly what we all hate most about Brussels, i.e. centralising, creating a brainless measure, standardising, essentially taking everything with Soviet-era GoST. Yes, we understand that it is possible for ordinary workers to benefit from this directive. We know that, for example, in the case of daily allowances for missions, there is about twice the difference in the European Union. Some countries pay 70, 80, even 100 euros a day, while we still had a daily allowance of 32 euros until the end of the previous year and 50 euros from that year, which is not the mandatory daily allowance rate, but the maximum that can be paid without paying separate taxes. Perhaps the daily allowance may well be lower. In this sense, the simple desire of many people to allow the directive to apply is understandable, and then we, the clap, the daily allowance will also rise. If he doesn't get up to 100 right now, maybe 60, 70 or 75 is better. What is not understood is that, in fact, in order to benefit from such a small number of people, one piece of our own decision-making will again be allowed to be taken away, the latter, the weak sovereignty we have, will be hindered by normal labour competition within Europe and the entire labour market, which is across Europe, because it is not real that from Finland to Spain or Greece to northern Sweden, the conditions are the same for both postings and working conditions. So, in our view, it is very important to oppose the centralisation of the power that comes from Europe. Now I'm going to give a big compliment to ELAK that he initiated this procedure. This is very important, so we certainly support it. It is a pity that this principle of subsidiarity is not found more frequently. We have already had a number of heated debates here in this very Parliament on whether one thing or another can be prescribed by the European Union or not written to us. If we look at our agenda from week to week, there will be a directive in the directive. Riigikogu acts as a rubber stamp without criticism. Far more than half of our items on the agenda relate to the conversion of directives into Estonian laws, where we do not seem to have the right to reject. I recall here a few weeks ago or a little more than a few weeks ago a debate with the Minister for Social Protection, Margus Tsahkna. This was about the amendment of the Equal Treatment Act, and the answer was that no, we cannot change anything, the directive is a directive, the directive is a god. That is not what we are doing to start the procedure relating to the principle of subsidiarity, for example, in the case of directives, which will lead us to the next issue. In this case, we have allies in Europe with whom it is possible to be on the same line. These countries were also named from this remote control, and these are so-called ordinary suspects. It is the Czech Republic, Hungary, Poland and a whole series of other Eastern European countries, with whom we actually have exactly the same or overlapping interests in many other areas within the European Union. Unfortunately, Estonia's similar interests are mostly not aligned with its so-called natural allies in Europe, but are aligned with the Brussels and Berlin routes, which undermines solidarity with its true supporters. The most authentic example here is, of course, the issue of immigration. We know that a number of Eastern European countries have gone to trial with the European Union on quotas, but there are still a number of other issues where we actually share similar interests. For some reason, Estonia is not going to go out in public on the same lines as them, but rather on the contrary, very rehepapapasticly says that let these and other and third countries block Brussels's stupidity, we keep our noses down, we peek around the corner and we are not bad boys for Brussels. Look, I think it's extremely rehepapapastic and two-faced. But I say once again that we support this protection of sovereignty and subsidiarity, yet we are now proposing rejection for one simple reason. We want to see Riigikogu members vote on the issue of sovereignty. We hope that you will all support this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-10_U67	Eiki Nestor, Social Democratic Party Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-10_U68	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I honestly admit that my position is distracting me with a little bit of a lyric set-up-- maybe I'd like to talk more colorful than I can do. But I will never vote in favour of this bill. And the reason why I am not voting is hidden in the second paragraph of point 1.2. Here is the text: 'It is questionable whether the principle of equal pay for equal work in the same place is in line with the principle of the single market, because the difference in rates of pay is one of the legitimate elements of the competitive advantage of service providers. ' Look, I am of the exact opposite opinion. I am convinced that the principle of equal pay for equal work in the same place is fair both to workers and to honest businesses that employ these people, and the difference in rates of pay must under no circumstances be a competitive advantage. You have to pay the same salary for the same job in the same place. Secondly, I am not voting in favour of this draft because it is like kicking the ball up to every possible Eurosceptic, to those mentioned here by the previous speaker. And even though the British know nothing about volleyball, they know football well. So it's as if these parliaments are now doing an extremely good performance under the gate so Nigel Farage, or someone else, can hit the ball with their head. If they have so far been able to explain how horrible this European Union is, especially the new Member States, that all our umbrella plants have been closed here and moved there, then now they can still say that Estonians, Latvians, Lithuanians and Poles are coming here to repair these umbrella houses for cheaper money. So it is a big plus for all Eurosceptics to make such a decision by these parliaments. Finally, I am against this bill for the third reason. I'm a little surprised that our employers live somehow yesterday. After all, this year we have had a lot of debates here on different topics, but for all these debates, one is somewhat short. In my opinion, our economy is in a significantly different situation than in the past. The fact that some factory in Estonia stopped production because it moved either eastwards, to Asia or, for example, to Russia is a well-known thing and it remains. But the whole new thing is that one factory was closed here, but opened in Lithuania, because of labour costs. This puts Estonia in a completely different situation. So, in my opinion, we are not in the line of countries that should make such a decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-10_U69	Thank you. Kalle Palling, please, the Reform Party Group!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-10_U70	A good Eiki has such authority in this hall that, if in the time of another person on the remote, everyone speaks freely, at least during Eiki's remote control, everyone listens. And I guess that's the reason Eiki's making sense. But I was hurt by a part of what you said, that last paragraph. When we talk about companies that have moved away from Estonia because our labour force has become more expensive, I think it is normal and it will definitely continue. However, with this draft directive, we are talking about the posting of workers in connection with the provision of services, and this has nothing to do with whether a wire plant or another venture based on cheap labour will move away from Estonia or not. This is a completely different area, and I totally agree with that. However, if our companies are still able to provide a service outside Estonia and labour costs are one of the components of the price of this service, I think that we should certainly not prevent the provision of the service in the form provided for by this directive. So, on behalf of the Reform Party Group, I call on you, good members of the Riigikogu, to support this draft Committee on European Union Affairs, because this directive actually makes the provision of services for our companies on foreign markets more difficult and, in this context, the creation of the jobs involved in the provision of these services. So I thank you for your participation in this debate and I ask you to support the draft ELAK.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-10_U71	Thank you. Does Martin Helme have a procedural question or a request for a reply? A microphone for Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-10_U72	It's a procedure. We would like a ten-minute break before the vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-10_U73	Got it. Before we go to it, I'll explain the voting procedure a little bit. This is a draft decision of the Riigikogu, which is dealt with at a single reading. The Commission has proposed a final vote of 225 on the draft. If the draft decision does not obtain a simple majority in the final vote, it is also essentially rejected. I therefore only put the Commission's proposal to the vote. But the Conservative People's Party Group wanted a break. How many minutes of recess do you want? A microphone for Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-10_U74	Ten minutes of recess, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-10_U75	Ten minutes break. V a h e a eg
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-10_U76	Ladies and gentlemen, The break taken by the Conservative People's Party of Estonia has ended and we are going to the final vote. I vote on the proposal for a directive of the European Parliament and of the Council amending Directive 96/71/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 December 1996 concerning the posting of workers in the framework of the provision of services, as regards the non-compliance with the principle of subsidiarity, to the President of the European Parliament and the President of the Commission and the President of the Council of the European Union. Please take a stand and vote. 55 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the draft decision, with 28 abstentions. The decision has been taken.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-10_U77	Let's keep going. Today's second item is the appointment of the "Auditor" of the decision of the Riigikogu, presented by the Committee on Monetary Affairs, to the National Audit Office 2016. First reading of Bill 223 on the control of the activities carried out in 2005. I would like the Vice-Chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, Tarmo Tamme. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] Ladies and gentlemen, let's focus on the waitress.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-10_U78	Manager! Ladies and gentlemen, The content of the draft law initiated by the Monetary Commission is to mention the National Audit Office 2016. Grant Thornton Baltic OÜ. Pursuant to § 5 of the State Audit Office Act, the Riigikogu appoints an auditor on a proposal from the Finance Committee to check the activities of the National Audit Office for the financial year. The selection of the audit firm was based on the results of the public procurement organised by the National Audit Office. Grant Thornton Baltic OÜ has been an audit firm based on local capital since 1992, providing auditing, accounting and tax, legal and financial advisory services. The company has audited many large companies in Estonia and provided advisory services to them. It has also carried out audits in the public sector. In accordance with the Riigikogu's Rules of Procedure, this draft decision is discussed at one reading and no amendments to the draft decision are tabled. The adoption of the draft requires a majority of votes in favour. The draft was discussed by the Committee on Finance on 2 May and the Commission's consensual proposal is the final vote on the draft. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-10_U79	Thank you, dear waitress. You have questions too. Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-10_U80	Thank you, Honourable Vice President. Good waitress! I have a very specific question that we have mentioned in the Commission. The National Audit Office itself chose and presented us with a candidate. Our question was whether we could choose someone else from among the candidates who received the competition compared to the National Audit Office's own choice. How about this?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-10_U81	The Riigikogu certainly has that right. But I think we should trust the National Audit Office and think that they made this competition for the best reasons and won the best bidder.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-10_U82	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-10_U83	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Ladies and gentlemen, You mentioned that the winner of this competition has also carried out audits in a number of public sector companies. Can you tell me where?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-10_U84	Thank you. Between 1995, 1996, 1998... Sorry, these are the offices that have previously audited the National Audit Office. I don't have that list where they've done audits before. So I owe you an answer because this proposal from the National Audit Office does not make that clear.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-10_U85	Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-10_U86	Thank you very much. I'll come back to my last question. In the Commission, however, it became clear to us that the candidate they chose must be confirmed or rejected if, for one reason or another, we are not satisfied with him. I am not calling into question the principle of choice, he did indeed have the most advantageous price, but it became clear to us that we have the opportunity to either confirm or reject this candidate. We can't redefine or rethink anything.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-10_U87	Thank you for that question. The questioner is certainly right that we cannot make the next choice in this I agree with you one hundred percent, either we endorse this proposal of the National Audit Office or we reject it. We have this choice, of course, but we cannot make another choice here because we have not carried out this competition.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-10_U88	Thank you. I must now apologise to my fellow Members Henn Põlluaasa and Martin Helme, because, according to the Home and Working Procedures Act, there is only one issue for this point in the debate. Viktor Vassilyev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-10_U89	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! In fact, this item is about pressing a dull button, that's all, because we don't know much about these things, but it's probably going well. But I have a theoretical question. What happens if the Riigikogu, suddenly in disorientation, does not confirm this decision?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-10_U90	Thank you. Then he goes back to the National Audit Office and I imagine that the National Audit Office will have to organise a new competition. But what can be the reason, I can't tell you that. But I'll tell Martin Helme or Henn Põlluaasa that Grant Thornton Baltic OÜ is a former Grant Thornton Rimess OÜ. Perhaps it tells you more and it may be possible to link the audits they have previously carried out in the public sector with them.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-10_U91	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-10_U92	Good manager! Good waitress! We have a major specialist in this Chamber, my colleague Juhan Parts. What does he think about it? I'm sure he knows more than all of us combined.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-10_U93	Thank you. I'm not Juhan Parts, and I can't answer for him. I can't see he's in the hall right now. But I think Juhan will soon show if he likes or dislikes this proposal put forward by the National Audit Office.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-10_U94	Uno Kaskpeit, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-10_U95	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Mr. performer! What criteria were the indicators other than the price on the basis of which it was decided?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-10_U96	Thank you. The evaluation criterion was 70% price and 30% team qualification. During the previous period they were audited by the same company and the National Audit Office was satisfied with the cooperation. So the same company was audited by the National Audit Office during the previous period. That should say a lot.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-10_U97	Thank you, dear waitress. No further questions for you. I'm opening negotiations. Martin Helme on behalf of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-10_U98	Mr. Vice President! Ladies and gentlemen, As our questions turned out, this is again a situation where the Riigikogu has retained the role of rubber stamp. I do not, in itself, question the choice made or the selection criteria. The representatives of the National Audit Office explained in the committee what principles they carried out this competition on the basis of and how they achieved their result. But what upset me and hurt me was the simple fact that we have nothing to choose from. We have a choice as to whether we approve or reject it, which essentially means that it is one of two, either a pointless formality or the fact of the Riigikogu, which, in my opinion, makes the whole procedure pointless in both cases. So, in view of this, we propose that this draft be rejected at first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-10_U99	Thank you. No more colleagues wish to negotiate. Once again, I would like to explain that I am voting on the proposal of the commission, as it is only one of the drafts that are being read. Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-10_U100	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. I propose a ten-minute break on behalf of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-10_U101	Break ten minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-10_U102	Ladies and gentlemen, The commission's proposal is for a final vote on draft 223 and we are going to the final vote. I am voting on the decision of the Riigikogu, presented by the Committee on Monetary Affairs, 'Auditor's appointment to the National Audit Office 2016. In order to monitor the activities carried out in 2005', see Bill 223. Please take a stand and vote. 67 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the draft, there was no one against and the abstentions were 1. The draft has been adopted as a decision. Ladies and gentlemen, the third item on the agenda is not open because of the inability of the debate.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-10_U103	We will proceed to the fourth item on the agenda, which is the first reading of the draft law amending the Penal Code initiated by the Government of the Republic. According to § 73 (1) of the Riigikogu Law on Rules of Procedure and Rules of Procedure of the Riigikogu, the President of the sitting does not open this point either because of the inability to discuss it, as we do not have a waitress. I would remind you that yesterday the Committee on Legal Affairs also proposed to exclude this draft from today's agenda.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-10_U104	Let's move on to the fifth item on today's agenda. We begin the first reading of the Bill 196 amending the Equal Treatment Act initiated by Dmitri Dmitriyev, Helmen Küti, Liina Kersna, Maire Aunaste and Monika Haukanõmme, members of the Riigikogu. Member of the Riigikogu Monika Haukanõmme, please waitress!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-10_U105	Mr President! Good ambassadors! I have the honour to introduce you to the draft Act amending the Equal Treatment Act, which was developed by five members of the Riigikogu and presented on 9 March. On 1 January 2009, we entered into force the Equal Treatment Act, which states that the protection of persons against discrimination on grounds of nationality, race, colour, religion or belief, age, disability or sexual orientation must be guaranteed. The Equal Treatment Act transposed two Directives of the European Union: 2000/43/EC implementing the principle of equal treatment between persons irrespective of racial or ethnic origin and 2000/78/EC establishing a general framework for equal treatment in employment and occupation. The one-to-one transposition of these directives has led to a situation where the Equal Treatment Act treats different groups differently. Paragraph 12 of the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia expressly provides for the prohibition of both equality and discrimination. It says, "Everything is equal before the law. No one shall be discriminated against on grounds of nationality, race, colour, gender, language, origin, religion, political or other beliefs, property and social status or other circumstances. 'The expression 'due to other circumstances' in the executive edition of the Constitution has also been interpreted as opening the list. In addition, § 13 of the Constitution also provides for a general fundamental right of defence and Article 14 of the Constitution provides for the guarantee of rights and freedoms to be the responsibility of the legislative, executive and judicial authorities and local authorities. Thus, according to the Constitution, any unequal treatment in Estonia is prohibited. In reality, however, the legal protection of certain minority groups is lower than that of others. What, then, does discrimination mean? This means a very simple matter, namely that a person is treated differently from others who are in exactly the same situation and have no objective or reasonable justification. Discrimination is generally the result of groups in society that are historically linked to stereotypical estimates, as they tend to deviate from normal standard norms, are dangerous or less valuable, such as people with disabilities, as well as older people. As a result, they often experience unequal treatment, exclusion, humiliation and need special attention and stronger legal protection from the state. The aim of our draft is to eliminate the unequal treatment of social groups and to ensure uniform protection against discrimination for all persons. The current regulation itself is discriminatory by group and it can even be said that a genuine phobia was made when the law was passed in 2008. Paragraph 2 of the Equal Treatment Act states the scope of application, which has created a situation in which we treat people unequally. People are not equally protected from discrimination, protection depends on which group they belong to. Paragraph 2 (1) states that discrimination is prohibited on grounds of nationality, race or colour in seven areas: employment and occupation, contract of employment or contract of service, vocational training and membership of associations. Social welfare must not discriminate against people on grounds of nationality, race or colour in the provision of health services and also in social security, including social benefits. Similarly, these three target groups must not be discriminated against in terms of education or the rights to goods and services offered to the public, including access to housing. And now we come to § 2 (2), according to which discrimination on grounds of disability, age, religion or belief or on grounds of sexual orientation is prohibited only in four areas. In general terms, this means that these people must not be discriminated against in employment and occupation. This leads to the conclusion that discrimination on grounds of religion or belief, age, disability or sexual orientation is not prohibited, i.e. it can be totally free to discriminate in social welfare, health care, social security, education, the provision of goods and services intended for the public and access to housing. We have a work capacity reform starting on 1 July, where we need non-discriminatory and equal treatment to involve people with disabilities and direct them to work. This is for example in the field of education, so that people with disabilities are not just pushers, but can use their abilities in the same way as others, including lifelong learning, as well as in access to social and health services, as well as in adapting the environment. Without this, the objectives of the labour capacity reform cannot be achieved. How have we come to such a very ridiculous situation? There has been a law since 2009 in which we treat our people unequally. In fact, the reason is seemingly simple. In particular, Estonia had to transpose two directives at that time, to which I have already referred. That is exactly how they were transposed: § 2 (1) transposed Directive 2000/43 and § 2 (2) transposed the second directive, which bears the number 78. Unfortunately, the message we give to society was overlooked when we put the requirements of two different directives in a single law one after the other. We are sending a message that, depending on the basis of discrimination, people can be treated unequally. This situation has led to feelings of inequality in a large number of people. For example, 70-year-olds may well ask why they can be discriminated against in education, including lifelong learning. Due to the differences introduced by the law, there are also differences in people's practical means of defending themselves against discrimination, such as pre-trial protection. The Equal Treatment Act also regulates the competences of the Gender Equality and Equal Treatment Commissioner in support of equal treatment. In accordance with paragraphs 2 (1) and 2 and due to the special nature described above, the Commissioner is currently unable to examine the facts or give an opinion when an elderly person has encountered obstacles to, for example, access to health or social services, or when a disabled person has experienced unequal treatment in the field of education or obstacles to accessibility outside of employment. Although the Commissioner's opinion is not indispensable for recourse to the Court, the Commissioner is an expert to whom free advice and assistance can be sought in case of suspicion of discrimination. These problems have also been addressed by the Chancellor of Justice and stated that a clear distinction between the level of protection granted to a person pursuant to § 12 of the Constitution requires very compelling reasons from the legislator, but he does not see any justification for this in relation to the scope of the Equal Treatment Act. In addition to the Chancellor of Justice, the current discriminatory regulation has been drawn to the attention of several international organisations and civil society associations dealing with Estonian interest protection. In particular, inequalities in guaranteeing equal rights for people with disabilities have been highlighted. They must be guaranteed the opportunity to participate fully in society and to eliminate any discrimination based on disability. The state must also provide them with a comprehensive opportunity to defend their rights. Thus, the draft we have initiated aims to eliminate the unequal treatment of social groups and to ensure that all persons are given a uniform protection against discrimination. I would point out that the draft does not change or extend any right that already exists, but provides all people living in Estonia with the same protection against discrimination. I thank you, and I ask you to support the bill.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-10_U106	Thank you. Dear waitress, there are also questions for you. Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-10_U107	Thank you very much, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, In your speech, you used a great deal of the words 'discrimination' and 'equal treatment'. These are widely used expressions today that can, in principle, sell anything. In my understanding, discrimination is nothing more than a distinction between things. I have a question now. If, for example, the term 'discrimination on grounds of sexual orientation' ran through what you say, we still have some sexual orientations in Estonia that have been criminalised with the help of heaven. When we talk all the time about ending discrimination on grounds of sexual orientation, at one point we may have paedophile kindergarten teachers, otherwise there will be discrimination. Do you think there is any discrimination that is justified and allowed?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-10_U108	Thank you. With this bill, we do not regulate the issue of sexual orientations that go under criminal sanctions. In the case of pedophilia, which you have cited as an example, this is clearly a phenomenon that has been criminalised and is therefore certainly not covered by this law. As regards the right to discrimination, by adopting the current Equal Treatment Act, which applies to us from 1 January 2009, you will also find exceptions where people can be 'positively discriminated against', I do not consider this expression to be very acceptable, i.e. to give them, for example, disabled people, any special advantages compared to other people. Although I say once again that this use of words is not very good. However, as regards the example you have given, the protection of discrimination does not, of course, extend to everything that falls within the scope of criminal law.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-10_U109	Raivo Põldaru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-10_U110	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, You had a very thorough analysis, but I still had a question. Two directives have been transposed which regulate matters. Were the directives poor and will Europe then allow discrimination that we do not want to allow well?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-10_U111	Thank you, very good question! These two directives are different in nature. Directive 2000/43/EC is aimed at the principle of equal treatment, irrespective of the race or ethnic origin of persons. That is, Directive 2000/43 was designed and implemented to prohibit discrimination based on racial or ethnic origin. However, Directive 2000/78 did not address the problem on a targeted basis, but on a thematic basis. This means that he laid down the principle of equal treatment in employment and occupation. The scope of the two directives was simply put together in a single law in Estonia, which created this nonsense situation.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-10_U112	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-10_U113	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Ladies and gentlemen, As you have read, the draft aims to eliminate the unequal treatment of social groups and to ensure that all persons are protected from discrimination, including discrimination based on sexual orientation. I am going to extend the question to my colleague Martin Helme a little bit. You answered him that the draft did not concern the criminally punishable sexual orientation of paedophilia, for example. But let's take a specific case. For example, a pedophile who has served his sentence has already been washed clean before society. Do you really think that such a person would be suitable for work in kindergartens, schools or other places where children are concerned? Don't you think our children need protection from these people?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-10_U114	Thank you for your question. I totally agree with you. Such individuals are not suitable for working with children and our children need protection from them. The aim of the draft to be discussed is to rule out situations where we unduly discriminate against some people. If a person has been charged with paedophilia and has been sentenced to punishment, we already have laws that say who is suitable to work in kindergartens that are suitable for child welfare, such as social work, etc. They often say that there must be no judicial punishment. Consequently, it is not discrimination if it is not allowed to serve in that capacity. I consider it reasonable that such people do not work with children.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-10_U115	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-10_U116	Good manager! Good waitress! It's such a strange bill. The government has been working on this issue for a long time, and in June the draft should be submitted for coordination. Now you're rushing like you're in front of a train. So where's the rush and running in front of the train, what's the point?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-10_U117	Thank you for this question. I certainly don't agree with you. This law deficit is known from 2009. Personally, I have drawn attention to this discriminatory situation since 2011. I think that both the previous social affairs ministers and the current Minister for Social Protection are aware of this situation. If you consider it hastily that a draft has finally been tabled, because the government, knowing the situation, has not changed such a discriminatory provision in five or six years, it is, of course, your right. I think five or six years is a very long time. When I worked at the Estonian Chamber of Disabled People, I also went to the Social Committee during the previous Riigikogu and talked about this situation that needs to be changed. People very much agreed that it needed to be changed. Yes, I am aware that the Government of the Republic tabled a similar amendment through the intention to develop it into a coordination circle in June last year. Unfortunately, the proposal did not pass the round of coordination successfully. When we developed the bill, we also got acquainted with the draft information system, which contains all the drafts that the Government of the Republic has sent to the coordination circle. At the time of the drafting and presentation of our draft, and even after that, the Government of the Republic has not submitted such a draft information system. I think that if the Riigikogu has often been accused of being a rubber stamp, we are approving directives of the European Union or only knocking off the drafts submitted by the Government of the Republic, then now we have set an example that we can actually do otherwise. If for years there is no bill coming from the government or coming from it, we can do it ourselves.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-10_U118	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-10_U119	Good manager! Good waitress! On the basis of this amendment, I will ask you such a question. Why so far is it that a black, Syrian, Moroccan or Russian person must not be discriminated against, but a person in a wheelchair or another disabled person or an older person can? Where's the logic?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-10_U120	Thank you for that question. As I said in my report, according to our constitution, no one can be discriminated against. So this doesn't make any sense. With this draft, we will lose the illogicalism that has been in force since 2009.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-10_U121	Thank you. March Sults, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-10_U122	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good waitress! If the head of the state office says that people over 45 are not able to learn, is it discrimination, is it mockery or is it something else? How's that in your bill?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-10_U123	Thank you. If it were up to me, such a head of state would have to file a resignation.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-10_U124	Viktor Vassilyev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-10_U125	Thank you, Mr President. Good colleague Monika! Does the new regulation give older people, pensioners, equal access to bank loans? They don't want to give me a loan from the bank. A urine sample and all these other things is required and a five-year loan is offered with a screamable percentage. Will this inequality also be brought to an end?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-10_U126	Thank you. If the banking service goes under the goods and services offered to the public, we can conclude that people should not be discriminated against on the basis of age alone.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-10_U127	Uno Kaskpeit, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-10_U128	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Honourable performer! I don't understand. You are talking about the fact that people with disabilities and older people must not be discriminated against both in training and at work. But if these people are unable to do a certain job or do not adhere to standards, for example, work longer or so, who will pay the difference if another person does the job? According to the bill, this is discrimination if the employer does not employ such people. Who's gonna pay for the difference?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-10_U129	Thank you for your question. We're not regulating it right now. If a person cannot do his job, of course, no one has a duty to keep him at work. When you listened carefully to my introduction, I also tried to give an overview of the situation, perhaps I did not do it with sufficient clarity, which is meant by discrimination and which situations are considered discriminatory. If, for example, a 60-year-old person is dismissed from work and wonders whether dismissal was justified or whether there was age discrimination, then the following things must be looked at: First, whether such treatment is justified or justified. Secondly, was this person treated unequally compared to others? And there must also be a so-called comparable group. Let's say we have two men who are already elderly, one is 60, the other is 50. They both do a great job, but this 60-year-old gets laid off. Then you might really wonder if this is done because he is older. And if he gets laid off just because he's older, although he can do his job exactly the same, then it's discrimination.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-10_U130	Imre Sooäär, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-10_U131	Thank you, good manager. Honourable waitress! I am not surprised by the questions of some members of the Riigikogu that attack Monika Haukanõmme about this very sensible draft. But I was a little surprised by your answer when you said you read the committee records. Did the Commission not, for example, look at and examine how many people of different convictions there are in Estonia and how these beliefs should be distinguished or measured? Or how many people have different skin colors and how to determine it? Is there any particular colour of the skin, and if there is a deviation from it, is it to be measured using a spectrometer? How can these numbers be clarified? Is it even important to measure how many people with one or another skin color or different beliefs are in Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-10_U132	Thank you. It's a humour that you can measure someone with something, Imre, you, not me. I have been offering only one thing here for over 16 years, since 1999: we give everyone equal opportunities and that is it. There's no need for any advantage. You haven't been to the crown, have you? You are. Then you know that a young soldier, when he begins, only dreams of having one law for all be not these parents, they were called a dedõ, and that they would have no advantages. He wants everyone to be on equal terms, but the system is designed in such a way that not everyone is on equal terms. At present, for example, this is my personal position, rather I support this law because the initiators want to introduce discrimination in the field of education. And then I'd like to see how people react when it turns out that there are 300 children in Narva, for example, who do not have mental, healthy opportunities to study in Estonian. Their native language is Russian and their level is such that they are unable to complete secondary education in Estonian. Right now, it's nothing to do that wants to be bullshit, isn't it? But then there will be a situation where they will be discriminated against, and they can, for example, turn to Strasbourg to defend their rights. And we're gonna do it. But in order to measure one person, what are his convictions here to measure? There are a hundred and one people in this Chamber, more or less we know what convictions some people have, who, of course, open their mouths, because there are many who never perform. We know what conviction is. There's no We can safely march forward. I don't know if that answer will satisfy you, but it's always possible to ask another question.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-10_U133	There are no further questions for the Commission's rapporteur. I'm opening negotiations. Jaak Madison, on behalf of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-10_U134	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, To begin with, I will immediately settle the claim of a good colleague, Imre Sooääre, that someone was attacked or that someone was aggressive. No one has attacked anyone, but I think that with this law, all the questions are justified. It is entirely justified that we want to know specifically what this change will entail, what purpose it has been made, where it will lead to, how we can avoid discrimination and reduce the so-called distinction in society. I think it is still positive, we are working towards a common goal. If we take this draft, the explanatory memorandum is very nicely set out, which is the purpose of the change at all, or what is the origin of it. It starts on 1 January 2009 when the Equal Treatment Act entered into force. There are, however, two fine things in this Equal Treatment Act, which transposes two European Union directives. Because how else do we get, we still need a directive. Otherwise we do not know how to live, the directives still have to order, hang and let them know how to live and who can be discriminated against, who cannot be discriminated against, where to sit, where to go. But two directives bring another problem. The first directive is a fine number 2000/43/EC which applied the principles of equal treatment irrespective of the racial or ethnic origin of persons. The question immediately arises as to how we define ethnic origin. Is it that if I come from Järvamaa and Mr Sooäär, for example, is from Muhu, there is some kind of origin of ethnic origin somewhere centuries ago, or is there a slightly different ethnic background? If a person is discriminated against somewhere, they say that you are Setu, does he have the right to go to the Commissioner for Equal Treatment? There's gonna be more problems and more questions. The second Directive is 2000/78/EC. Such a nice number and a very long-written title: establishing a general framework for equal treatment in employment and occupation. The question arises here immediately: if, for example, the Medical Commission in the Defence Resources Board adopts professional candidates, it will carry out this check, which are the grounds for equal treatment. If a girl and a young man come, can there be discrimination when they say you see, maybe one of them is a little weaker? And this babe may not be a girl at all, it may also be a young man, given the physical preparation of today's young men and their willingness to serve the country in the army and in military service. There might be a problem there, too. Such a pair of words, 'equal treatment', can always raise the question of equality. On what basis do we define a level playing field in society? Can a person who looks at a different person in a different way on the street be discriminated against? Does it give the Commissioner reason to look at me differently, because maybe I look different, maybe I have blue eyes and the viewer has brown eyes? Or that I'm a long example, I think one of the tallest ones in this room, and the other one's shorter than me? Can someone be discriminated against because of their attitude or conviction? There is a very good saying about equality, I can quote to you: where there is equality, there is no freedom, where there is freedom, there is no equality. So how far do we go with the creation of equality in society? Today we are talking about equal treatment in the labour market: we must not discriminate by age, gender or sexual orientation. The last one is totally separate music and opera in the sense of how many adjustments go down there. According to the officials of the Ministry of Social Affairs and other people who report on certain drafts in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, we live in a hetero-normal society. I like this society, to be honest. Everyone has equal rights, no discrimination, and no one in the bedroom looks at what you do and who you live with. At the same time, you don't want to call on the street to help, we live in a hetero-normal society. We do, because the heterosexuals are about 95 to 99% of the society, and I think this is perfectly normal. That doesn't mean we have to look at different people in a different way, let them live. However, the claim of the Ministry of Social Affairs that we have potential discriminations of 5 to 10% of society is still startling. I've read from the studies that it's 11⁄2%. I asked the Ministry official to send my e-mail references to the research they were looking at. Two days later, we came to me with 20 links, half of which were studies by certain lobby groups and interest groups themselves. A little extra time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-10_U135	Please, three minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-10_U136	Does the Ministry, when drafting drafts or presenting them to the Commission, base very dubious studies on questionable sites with even double results, 5% or 10%? I think it leaves a very bad side effect, and there's no way to talk about equality in society or anything. Similarly, the Constitution has so far worked very well for us. Article 12 of the Constitution literally says nicely: 'Everyone is equal before the law. No one shall be discriminated against on grounds of nationality, race, colour, gender, language, origin, religion, political or other beliefs, property and social status or other circumstances. ' I think it's very nice to say that we are equal, but before the law. If I'm tall or someone's short, there's a personal problem, we're still equal before the law. Likewise, we must abide by the law of traffic, be tall or short, with blue or brown eyes. But the constitution hasn't been enough. There are two directives since 2009, which now require progress in creating equality in society. Once upon a time in the Mongols, Genghis Khan pulled a reap somewhere over seventy feet, who got through below, was equal to who didn't make it, so you know what happened. There was equality, for real and sacred purposes. So the question is, how far are we going with the creation of equality in society? When we are talking about sexual orientation, for example, that two men or two ladies live together, okay, well, let's live. But maybe in ten years we'll be saying that some have, like, four women in a Muslim society? Why do we not discriminate against them now and accept it for God's sake? They have love, live in a common household, pay taxes together, buy food together, make porridge in the morning. It's so sweet, but we're discriminating against them. Where does that end run? Why, then, do we not now consider them to be potential discriminatory and'slaughters from society'? I'm still suggesting that if you do the law, you do the whole thing. We go on in full motion and create equality in society, which never was fully created, unfortunately the union broke before. But let's keep going, create equality between all members of society! Any intolerance, a different view, a different political conviction is also part of discrimination. That if you are not politically clear enough, then you are a completely different member of society who deserves to be condemned, deserves to be rejected and immediately run to the Commissioner. If these circumstances are taken into account, the initiative itself is good discrimination is very ugly, deplorable, we must not discriminate against anyone; it must be dealt with. However, everything that comes from somewhere in the directives or from allegations of very dubious value by the officials of the Ministry of Social Affairs deserves to be rejected. The Conservative People's Party Group therefore proposes to reject this draft at first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-10_U137	Before we continue the negotiations, procedural decisions on working time need to be made. Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-10_U138	Thank you. Ten minutes break on behalf of the Conservative People's Party, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-10_U139	Break. Break ends at 12.53.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-10_U140	Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the proposal of the Reform Party Group to extend the working time of the plenary session until the agenda is exhausted, but no longer than 14 p.m. Please take a stand and vote. There are 51 members of the Riigikogu in favour of the proposal, against 20. The proposal was supported, the plenary session has been extended. Let's continue the negotiations. Mikhail Stalnukhin, please, on behalf of the Central Party Group.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-10_U141	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-10_U142	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, Do you not think that all these cases and problems of discrimination or alleged discrimination would largely fall away if Estonia took up and ratified the European Social Charter in full?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-10_U143	Thank you. I am very much in favour of the full ratification of the European Social Charter, especially the article on the elderly. Would everything be resolved if we fully ratified the European Social Charter? I don't think everything's gonna work out right now. It is not all about enforcing this law either, but it is about what kind of message we give to society. With this bill, we are sending a message that all people are equal.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-10_U144	Jaak Madison, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-10_U145	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Good waitress! I remember well when this bill went through the committee. At first, it seemed to be quite a reasonable undertaking, but when I started to examine exactly what it said and what it was for or what it was for, there were questions. Maybe you can explain. From the authorities of the Ministry of Social Affairs, I heard that we do not have a problem of mapping potential risk groups, whether age, special needs or gender discrimination. These are areas where we know exactly how many members of society are there. However, there must also be no discrimination on the basis of sexual orientation, which in itself is absolutely right. The problem, however, is that no one knows exactly how many such discriminations can be. Can you say, on behalf of the initiators of the draft, that if we know the size of other groups of members of society, how much can be discriminated against on the basis of sexual orientation?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-10_U146	Thank you. Indeed, this issue was also discussed in the Commission. We must agree with the author that we know very precisely how many older people we have. For example, since a person turns 60 or 65, we know exactly how much that number is. I took data out of Statistics Estonia, as of 1 January 2016, there are 332669 people aged 60 and over. It's very easy to keep track of how many people we have at this age. Similarly, we know very precisely how many people we have with disabilities, or those who have been officially assigned the degree of disability. We have 143623 of them as of 2015. How many people of sexual orientation we have and with which particular orientation it is difficult to answer that question. They usually do research and ask people about it. If many people dare to acknowledge or not admit this setting, it also depends on the attitude taken in a particular country, for example, when a person dares to say that he is a homosexual, how his rights are guaranteed, as well as on protection against discrimination. Studies have identified different percentages of the population, and this percentage fluctuates quite a bit. On average, studies say that there are about 5% of the population. If we consider that we have 1316000 people, we can say that this 5% is about 65,800 people.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-10_U147	Raivo Põldaru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-10_U148	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear waitress, The list is beautiful from the point of view of all those who must not be discriminated against. Now, though, if there are such bastards who do not comply with this law and discriminate, have you wondered what to do with them and what will happen to them?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-10_U149	Thank you. If the law is not complied with, it is possible for every person to first turn to the Commissioner for Equal Treatment to determine whether there is discrimination by referring to some ground. And if there is, then you have to take the next step, go to court to defend your rights.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-10_U150	Jaak Madison.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-10_U151	Thank you for your question. In order to avoid such a situation, we need to look very critically at the processes that are taking place in Europe, and we are not blind. The same positive discrimination, where two people compete, one has better experience and better knowledge, but the other, for example, is disabled or black or lesbian or single mother, etc. I must admit that one of my relatives has been through this kind of positive discrimination twice in European competitions. After that he spit and returned to Estonia. That's at least one good thing about all this shit. To avoid such situations, we need to take a very critical view of our laws. It's probably the same gin we're letting out of the bottle. We're not critical, and we can't take today seriously. We hear in one block how it sounds that there is no logic in a constitutional provision under which no one can be discriminated against, but in a minute we will hear that that is the logic of that provision. So we need to think more about what we're gonna take here.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-10_U152	Thank you for your question. Everyone has the right to appeal to the courts to defend his or her rights.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-10_U153	Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-10_U154	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, I wanted to ask in committee, but the debate ended so suddenly that I did not make it. What is your opinion on why the Equal Treatment Act does not define discrimination? Protection against discrimination is offered, but it is not precisely defined in which case and what to consider as discrimination. It seems to me that it is very difficult to protect a person from what we do not know about.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-10_U155	Thank you. Yes, it is not precisely stated in the law, but if you consider it important, it is certainly possible to supplement the draft and introduce this definition. At the same time, however, attempts have been made to explain discrimination. Discrimination is considered to be a situation where a person is treated differently from other people and has no reasonable justification or justification.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-10_U156	Arno Bridge, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-10_U157	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear waitress, Can you tell me how many violations of the Equal Treatment Act have been in the past, that this has led to the need to amend, supplement and reform the law?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-10_U158	Thank you. I don't know how to get you numbers right now. Why? Because, as you know, the Commissioner for Equal Treatment and Gender Equality is currently unable to accept appeals concerning disability issues in areas outside protection: social welfare, health care, the provision of social services, education, public goods and services. However, the number of appeals that the Commissioner has had to give his opinion shows a upward trend, as people's awareness of their rights has increased year after year. Why can't I answer that question? I would certainly have put this question to the Commissioner when he presented the results of his work last year in the Committee on Social Affairs, but at the same time I defended the same draft in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. So I can't answer.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-10_U159	Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-10_U160	The Equal Treatment Act contains Article 11, which states in which cases "positive discrimination" is permitted. If certain groups, such as people with disabilities, need special treatment and additional benefits compared to other people, it is reasonable and actually justified. But above all, I think that there should be as little opportunity and special treatment as possible of so-called positive discrimination. However, we should move along this road to treat all people equally, but if necessary, we will take into account someone's special needs.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-10_U161	Thank you, Monika Hawkhammer! The members of the Riigikogu have no further questions for the initiators of the draft. Commission waitress Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-10_U162	Mr. Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, This extremely interesting draft law was discussed in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs on Monday, 2 May. a. Before I tell you about the substantive debate in the Commission, I must, however, give some explanation, because this matter did not come to the record, it does not count there. I was neutral when the fate of this bill was voted on. But I promised that I would make an amendment that means one group that has been discriminated against for a quarter of a century. These are members of Narva gardening cooperatives, who, being permanent residents on the territory of Estonia, cannot sell to non-citizens for their 20th century, usually six or eight. I propose it. I understand that, of course, the Commission does not accept this, but if it is supported by the initiators of the draft, I will certainly support them as well. Now for the protocol. Everything that Monika was talking about just now sounded like from the starters. Finally, it was said that a draft amendment to the Equal Treatment Act is also coming from the Ministry, and if the draft that is currently being discussed is supported, it will be possible to merge the drafts. With regard to the transposition of the Euro Directives, no one has approached the Chancellor of Justice with a complaint and, in fact, neither the elderly nor young people are discriminated against in terms of education. But besides being so real, it should be written in the law. This is the positive message I'm transmitting to you right now. No one is discriminated against. What was discussed in the Commission? They wanted to know what the term'sexual orientation' meant. The originator's representative explained that gender orientation cannot be the reason why a person is not allowed to receive education or benefits, for example. The representative of the Ministry of Social Affairs added that we live in a fairly hetero-normal world where the family is made up of a man and a woman, but that is not always the case. Sexual orientation is one of the grounds for discrimination at EU level. This means that no one must be discriminated against because he is homosexual. The term 'provision' is taken from the translated directive and used by the Ministry. For my part, I must add that as an Estonian philologist, I do not understand why the old word 'orientation' had to be replaced by a term that everyone understood. But that's it. One Member of the Commission asked whether people of normal sexual orientation could be discriminated against. Why is it not said that no one is to be discriminated against? The representative of the Ministry replied that § 12 of the Constitution prohibits discrimination in general and added that there are certain groups of persons in society who are more discriminated against. The Member of the Commission asked whether he understood correctly that there were no actual complaints of discrimination, and the draft text simply requires labelling in the law. The representatives of the initiators explained that the Equal Treatment Act was implemented by the Gender Equality and Equal Treatment Commissioner (hereinafter the Commissioner), which means that if a disabled person could not participate in a work situation, for example, he would call on the Commissioner to check the situation. At present, the Commissioner can do so in the working situation, but not in the field of education, as this competence has not been given to him. The Commissioner has been approached quite a bit, but he has not been able to deal with these cases. If, for example, a person needs a social transport service to get to work and calls the Commissioner on this issue, the Commissioner is currently unable to deal with this appeal. The committee asked whether the members of the Riigikogu wanted to prevent the drafting of the draft. The initiator's representative replied that this was not the issue, but the practice of everyday life and the unequal treatment of people. Of course, one hundred percent will have to agree to that. The next Member of the Commission asked what the hetero-normal world means. A representative of the Ministry replied that heterosexuality is generally a dominant sexual orientation, but that does not mean that other options should be abnormal. There is a great deal of discrimination in society on the basis of homosexuality, both in attitudes and in regulations. Here I have a question which I did not have time to ask in committee that if there are so many, why do I not notice them? Not that I have a different orientation, but if someone is discriminated against, then society should actually know it and see it. However, this is not to be seen. So there's been a lot of mistaking around here. One Member of the Commission wanted to know how many people with homosexual orientations need to be avoided and how it is checked that people are discriminated against because of their orientation. The same question also sounded in the Chamber and the answer was more or less the same. A representative of the Ministry replied that according to various studies, there are about 5 to 10% of the population. Control is difficult, as is the case with a nation. Quite a blurry formulation, but just as the protocol is, so I'll pass it on to you. I don't know what kind of trouble it might be to control a nation. If it's a body, yes, but if it's a living person, I can't imagine what's hard on it. One member of the committee noted that the initiators of the draft were representatives of five political groups and asked whether the purpose was to have the initiators from different political groups of the Riigikogu. The initiator's representative replied that the initiators were all members of the Social Affairs Committee. The following Member of the Commission noted that § 12 of the Constitution does not provide for a prohibition of discrimination on grounds of sexual orientation and wanted to know what sexual orientation really means. Is the arrangement the same as the orientation, or is it more widely thought of, so that includes people who have undergone a sex change operation? Does the amendment of the law result rather from protecting individuals on grounds of sexual orientation, since discrimination on the basis of age, belief and religion is not a topical issue? The initiator's representatives replied that the draft does not contain any new terms; in the Equal Treatment Act, this term has been taken from the translation of the directives since 2009. Just a few more questions. The following Member of the Commission noted that nationality and ethnicity are not the same. The Constitution is about nationality, not ethnicity. The nation is a clear foundation mentioned in the Constitution. I mean, I mean, the nation still has a linguistic and cultural background. Ethnicity is something else. It's what most people don't depend on, it's because of race. It makes it very confusing when they're trying to put them together. A representative of the Ministry replied that ethnicity and ethnicity may not fit together, just as nationality and nationality do. In the context of Estonia, Setos and Vipers, or groups that are not a real nation, can be mentioned as an example. This is a feature taken over from the directives. Another member of the Commission wanted to know whether this bill would be incorporated into the Government Bill. The initiators' representative replied that the government is preparing a larger package, which also concerns other problems in this law, and it will go to the coordination round in the summer. The initiators do not rule out the possibility of merging the drafts, but are not sure about it. They haven't seen the government bill yet. Four decisions were taken. It was proposed that the first reading be completed (by 7 votes to 0, with 3 abstentions). The other three decisions were consensual, i.e. a proposal to put the draft on the agenda for the plenary assembly on 10 May, to set 10 working days for the amendments, i.e. 5.15 p.m. on 24 May, and to appoint Mikhail Stalnukhin, member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs as rapporteur. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-10_U163	Questions to the rapporteur of the Commission. March Sults, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-10_U164	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good waitress! We imagine that there is a teacher competition at school, comrades with the same diplomas, but one is competent and the other is not, even though he has a university diploma of exactly the same category. How can you avoid pointless trials when an incompetent person sues someone and says he was repressed because he has a mustache in front of him or because he combs his hair to the wrong side?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-10_U165	Mr. Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, There was an interesting moment in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. When a couple of questions had already been asked about the definitions and other wording of the current law and Mr Adams asked how such foolish things would ever get into the law, the answer came from a representative of the ministry that you yourself adopted it. It then became clear that the law was actually passed in 2008, and specifically neither I nor my colleague Adams had anything to do with it. If I had been there then, maybe I could have avoided something. But one of the conclusions that was drawn was that since this law is so rarely used, all these deficiencies remain hanging in the air, they don't bother anyone. In fact, this law was one of the requirements of the euro standard, not more. But right now, if this bill goes on, and it's probably going on, there are some things that need to be seriously reviewed and corrected. This also applies to what is proposed by the initiators of the draft law under discussion, such as this ethnicity. If very simply explained, Pushkin is a great Russian poet and a bigger Russian than Pushkin is hard to find, but ethnically he was a nigger. And your choice is what you call him if you leave in the words 'ethnicity and (ethnicity) '. Lermontov is Scottish in ethnicity. Dmitri Mendeleyev is Jewish. What are you going to call him in the future? Ethnic affiliation has absolutely nothing to do with this law. That's another thing. If the Equal Treatment Act wants to rule out discrimination, how can it rule out what is not defined? This does not concern the current draft law, but is likely to concern the draft which is being prepared somewhere in the Ministry. We will remain here to argue exactly as long as we do not know what the Ministry means or we ourselves mean by discrimination. If there is no definition of discrimination or positive discrimination in the law, I cannot imagine how this term can be used in such a way as not to result in the painful processes that some of our fellow Members referred to here in their questions. That's it. The two questions of ethnicity and some definitions of ownership of the property are certainly to be resolved when this major bill comes to the hall. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-10_U166	I'm gonna finish the negotiations. There's no more calls. The Commission's proposal is to conclude the first reading of draft 196. The Group of the Estonian Conservative People's Party has proposed to reject the draft at first reading and it needs to be voted on. Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-10_U167	The Conservatives Group shall request a break of 10 minutes before the vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-10_U168	Break ten minutes. Proceed to 13.08.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-10_U169	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, Another question I did not have time to ask in committee. In some European countries there is a problem of both discrimination and so-called positive discrimination. And this last one is even more visible than the first one. I am not going to propose any amendments, of course, except for the issue of Narva gardening cooperatives, which I talked about in the Commission. But what do you think about the fact that there is a phenomenon like positive discrimination in addition to simple discrimination, shouldn't it also be inside the law?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-10_U170	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Good waitress! I must point out that the rapporteur from the Ministry of Social Affairs mentioned twice the number in the Commission, 5 to 10%. So we can talk about 130,000 people who have a slightly different orientation, which may not be quite acceptable to the majority. How do you really see this problem being solved as the initiator of the bill? Yes, we all agree that discrimination is a very bad and ugly thing, it must be condemned, it must be opposed, but it is always a question of control. How can we prove that person A speaks right by saying that person B discriminates against him? How do you imagine real control? If a person goes to the Equal Treatment Ombudsman and says that he was dismissed because he has a different orientation, how does the Commissioner control the orientation of that person? Does he go home, do some kind of surveillance that a person goes out with, or what does it look like?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-10_U171	Thank you for your question. It is very difficult for me to remain within the scope of the draft we are debating in response to this question. Nobody goes home to check on sexual orientation. I think your group certainly does not want this control to take place in such a way that you come home to anyone. But that's it. The Equal Treatment Act is known to contain § 8, which states that in cases of discrimination the burden of proof is shared. This means that if, for example, a woman feels that no social benefits are paid to her because she lives with another woman, she can apply to the Commissioner for Equal Treatment and the one complained against, such as the local authority, must prove that there was no such discriminatory provision for the payment of the allowance. This means that you do not go home to anyone, but you are still based on real life, for example, in my example, on the payment of support. And whoever is accused of discrimination must prove that he has not done so.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-10_U172	Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-10_U173	Thank you, Mr. Speaker. Dear waitress, To tell you the truth, with this last answer, we got to the problem of the problem that is troubling us. We live in an age where there is a certain dogma, discrimination, openness, tolerance and other things, and people who do not share these dogmas are being hunted. As we can see from the Estonian court practice or legal practice, this drawing, in my opinion, also yesterday, when we had inquiries to the Minister of the Interior, is primarily a process, not a real decision. And what these anti-discrimination provisions, which we actually have in fear and by which we all discriminate against people at some point, allow, is to prosecute a person. Then the accused person or entrepreneur must begin to prove that he is not a camel. This is our problem with the draft we are debating. How would you solve this?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-10_U174	Thank you for your question. Yes, when it comes to identifying discrimination, the legislator has indeed decided to solve the problem through the so-called'shared burden of proof'. This means that one party must prove that it thinks that it has been discriminated against, and the other party must prove that it has not acted in this way. I consider it very reasonable and justified.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-10_U175	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-10_U176	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear waitress, I am now taking the matter to a slightly different point, because this discrimination story concerns not only people with a certain orientation, but also people with disabilities or people who have become helpless. Do you not think that this is to some extent a national discrimination, that it is very difficult for people with disabilities or who have become helpless to obtain aid and that these things are very expensive? In many cases it is not possible to get them immediately, but to wait until they are ordered from somewhere, and when they arrive, it becomes clear that the price may simply be unacceptable to the subscriber. Do you not think that this is, to a certain extent, national discrimination, because if aid is addressed to the state, it is often said that there is no funds?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-10_U177	Thank you. You referred to a very important and very painful question. Of course, any person who needs help, regardless of whether he or she is disabled or struggling to cope with a health problem, must receive help. But what kind of aid he receives, to what extent and whether it is sufficient, it does not regulate the draft. It is governed by other legislation, such as the Social Welfare Act, where it is clearly stated. I think we can come back to this issue, but then, in the process of processing the second draft law.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-10_U178	Viktor Vassilyev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-10_U179	Thank you, Mr President. Good colleague Monika! The draft contains a list that claims to be complete, but since this draft extends the list, it means that the previous list was not complete. Probably there might be other categories, for example, people may be divided by the fact that some are wiser, some are dumber. The stupidest one is being harassed by any means, he's called a fool, which is extremely offensive. He gets a lower salary, gets a worse job, gets harassed everywhere. Is it foreseen that this list will ever be extended and that the fool will also be taken into conservation? Is it a thing that ever bans any form of discrimination, and all people are declared equal, which sounds very familiar in some way?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-10_U180	Thank you for your question. With this draft, we will not extend the list of possible grounds for discrimination. These bases are already in force in the current law since 2009. However, we do want to harmonise the scope so that everyone is treated in the same way.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-10_U181	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-10_U182	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Ladies and gentlemen, Paragraph 3 (3) of the Act is repealed. Harassment aimed at humiliating a person's dignity, creating a threatening, hostile, derogatory, humiliating or insulting atmosphere is very difficult to define and measure in practice. This creates an unjustified burden on the judiciary and may lead to a large number of unjustified discrimination complaints which undermine the functioning of the law in other and important provisions. Aren't you afraid that the courts will drown in this matter, and that other important things will not get to the debate in time?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-10_U183	Honourable Riigikogu! I am voting on the proposal by the Group of the Estonian Conservative People's Party to reject the draft Act amending the Equal Treatment Act at first reading 196. Please take a stand and vote. There are 10 members of the Riigikogu in favour of the proposal, 54 against, no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. First reading of Bill 196 is complete. I will set the deadline for submitting amendments at 5.15 p.m. on 24 May.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-10_U184	The next item is the first reading of the draft law on the annulment of the Cohabitation Act initiated by the members of the Riigikogu Arno Silla, Erki Savisaare, Henn Põljaasa, Jaak Madison, Jaanus Karilaidi, Mart Helme, Martin Helme, Martin Repinski, Mikhail Stalnuhini, Märt Sultsi, Olga Ivanova, Raivo Põldaru, Rein Ratas, Uno Kaskpeiti and Viktor Vassilyev. Martin Helme, the opening waitress, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-10_U185	Dear Speaker! Ladies and gentlemen, I will bring before you a bill, which in itself is very short. This is a draft law repealing the Cohabitation Act, which has two sections. Paragraph 1 states: the Cohabitation Act, published in the Official Journal of the State on 16 October 2014, is repealed. Paragraph 2 states that this Act enters into force in general. I will also read to you, just in case, an explanatory statement on the draft law repealing the law on partnership. By adopting the Cohabitation Act last year, now in the year before last, instead of uniting society, society was divided. For the correct adoption of the Act, there was no required number of votes in the previous Riigikogu, which required the implementation of the Act by a separate law within the current Riigikogu. The adoption of implementing provisions is also blocked and those who voted in favour of the adoption of the law at the time do not want to complete their legislative work today. This poor legislative practice and uncertainty can lead to a number of court decisions and costs for the taxpayer. By repealing the law of cohabitation, we want to put an end to the confusion that has been created and restore the status of the former majority of society to satisfaction. The purpose of the Act is to put an end to the confusion caused by the law, which could violate the principle of legitimate expectations and, in this respect, create a large number of court decisions and costs for the taxpayer. This law has no connection with European Union law because it is a matter of national regulation. In addition to the explanatory statement, I would now like to recall a few things that passed through this explanatory statement. There has never been any order or demand in Estonian society for state regulation of relations between same-sex persons. This was not the case when this law was initiated, it was not the case when the cohabitation law was passed, and it is still not there. Opinion polls carried out this year show that social opinion on this issue has been quite fit for purpose, depending on how to ask a question or what to ask, and also depending on other methodological aspects. In broad terms, two thirds of Estonian people are not in favour of the Cohabitation Act, are not in favour of the implementation of this Act, or, if asked differently, the same two thirds or about 60% of Estonian people think that the Cohabitation Act should be repealed. Why am I talking about these percentages? For a very simple reason: at least according to the understanding of our party, Estonia could be a democratic state and democracy in its most basic sense means that it is the power of the people. There are no instances who can impose laws that ultimately do not find the people's approval. If this is done, as has happened, society will be divided, the legitimacy of the political process undermined, the rule of law violated and what has been achieved in Estonian society will be achieved. Social polarisation is achieved, it is achieved that it is no longer possible to argue rationally or reasonably on certain issues. Flying insults, accusations and slogans, and this is not good for any society. When I said that there had never been a public order, this morning I asked for figures from the House of Notaries. The Cohabitation Act has been in force in a faulty or incomplete way for four months, from January this year. This is, of course, a serious point of dispute on which I am about to dwell, how much he is in force or how much he is not in force. However, since January, the Notars have signed partnership agreements in Estonia, and on my question of how many partnership agreements have been signed within four months, it was answered that 25. All of Estonia in four months! When, at the end of this year, we read clearly from the media the tales of aziotage, how same-sex couples count seconds to New Year's Eve in order to base their happiness by signing a partnership agreement, the number will somehow remain poor. We also consider that most of the 25 are cohabitation agreements between couples of different sexes. Quite the exact number of the Notary Chamber could not tell me so quickly, but we are aware that the same-sex partnership agreements are less. And that, in turn, means that there is no real need for anyone to register a partnership or a partnership in the way that we have been advertised. After all, we all remember these enormous nuances, how people want to come to legalize their relations and only wait for them to be honest in the eyes of the country. It was all bullshit. And that is perfectly in line with what the opponents of the Cohabitation Act said when the law was processed: it is false or false. It is, in fact, a desire to change social order, to reverse traditional values and ancient truths, and to reverse the existing arrangements. It's just lying to the public like there's some kind of need for a partnership agreement somewhere. We also know that Mr Jõks, as Chancellor of Justice, has repeatedly explained the mandatory or necessity of the Cohabitation Act and referred to two very important points. Firstly, there is no international law in the treaties or human rights conventions of the European Union that would oblige or force countries to regulate same-sex relations in any way. It doesn't exist! If anyone comes to claim that they are, that statement is wrong. It should be borne in mind that there is clear political pressure in the European Union. At the political level of the European Union, there is a clear political pressure on the Member States to regulate same-sex relations nationally, but that is another matter than the assertion that a treaty or convention obliges us to do so. No obligation! Another thing that Allar Jõks said when he was the Chancellor of Justice is that there is no requirement in the Estonian Constitution to regulate the same-sex relations nationally. Article 27 of the Constitution talks about how the family as a basis for population growth is under the special protection of the state. If I remember correctly, in 2006 there was the first gay parade in Tallinn. The Estonian Constitution was adopted a long time ago, in 1992, and at that time no one ever thought in a social debate that a family could be anything other than one man and one woman. According to the meaning of the Estonian Constitution, the family is very specific to one man and one woman. If anyone here says that the concept of a family can be extended, yes, it can, but it is a political choice, a political desire in that case. The whole debate is about political choices, ideological differences. But to come to claim that our constitution requires it is quite clearly misleading the public or wishful thinking. So there is no need or obligation for Estonia to adopt the Cohabitation Act. It's as simple as that. Yes, of course we agree, as I said, that it is always possible for the Riigikogu to adopt laws that change something, do something differently, define something, it is possible. In general, Parliament works according to the principle that it requires the will of the majority, the will of the majority of the Chamber. This is where we come to the main headaches in the implementation of the Cohabitation Act. During the previous Riigikogu there was a change of government about a year before the elections and two liberal parties became government: one was left-liberal or social democrats; the other was right-liberal or Reform Party. The two liberal parties, let's say, had a common desire to regulate the same-sex relations in Estonia. Since the opposition of society was quite clear, quite obvious, it was not a fair talk about civil partnerships that came to the public, but an attempt was made to feed this bitter instrument to the public, along with other lawns. It was said to be a gender-neutral law, which, regardless of whether it is same-sex or special-sex, gives people the opportunity to register their cohabitation on a contractual basis. And so, step by step, they wanted to achieve legalization of the homo partnership in Estonia. Of course, the public saw through that lie. Of course, it was clear to everyone that this was not about the tens of thousands of Estonian couples who practice regular living together, where a man and woman living together do not want to get married for one reason or make any kind of property contract. We were already talking clearly about regulating relations between same-sex people, which was hidden or embedded in this so-called gender-neutral law. In essence, it was a fraud, only this fraud was, of course, immediately seen through. And since this deception was immediately over, there were people in the previous Riigikogu, both social democrats and reform parties, who, in principle, in the worldview or simply because they realised that they had to go before voters and report on their actions in their constituency after a year, were not willing to support the cohabitation law in the form that it had been presented before the Riigikogu. This was followed, of course, by vile and ugly, very unusual or unprecedented legislative behaviour: those points that would have required 51 votes in Parliament, which we are talking about today as implementing provisions, were thrown out of the Cohabitation Act. And that law was pushed through, very close, of course. Pushed through by a simple majority. Let's just remember that those simple votes were 38 against and 40 in favour. What resulted from such conduct? The first result, of course, was that society was terribly upset, completely in vain. Estonian society was provoked in vain! In fact, I have to say that Estonian society is already under enough stress. And the result of the irritating of this society, I'm making a great bow to the socialists, too, was a new political force in Parliament. You cannot ignore the deep convictions of two thirds of people and believe that there is no political setback. The second consequence, of course, was that we are talking about implementing legislation, but basically we have, as the Minister of Justice Reinsalu has said, the Cohabitation Act 1 and the Cohabitation Act 2. In the autumn or before the turn of the year, it was said that perhaps the current implementing act would be shattered, that the most important requirements would be removed, and that we would also have the partnership law 3. It all speaks of the fact that, apart from public acceptance, the law does not have parliamentary approval. Such laws should simply not be passed and such laws should not apply, which is why we have come here with this proposal to repeal them. In addition, we have also developed a perilous situation, which I started to describe: the law has been passed, declared and some people think it is true, other people do not think it is. In fact, these thinkers are not just Kükametsa Skulls or just members of our party. These include very weighty legal experts, such as the Minister of Justice, who considers that since the last section of the Cohabitation Act explicitly states that the law will apply with implementing legislation, and these implementing acts do not exist, it is simple logic that this means that until there are no implementing acts, the law will not apply. Here we see the voluntarism in Estonia once again, where, in essence, the law does not apply in form, but is being partly supplemented. In order to put an end to this extremely bad situation, we have come up with a proposal to repeal the cohabitation law. We believe that it will go back to the situation before the war, or society, to restore the situation that satisfied the absolute majority of society, where same-sex people had every opportunity to exercise themselves, to live together and regulate their property relationships in accordance with the Law of Obligations, the Law of Succession and various other laws. They can organise their lives in this way without violating the beliefs, moral values of the vast majority of society, and natural behaviors, which are very important and which we will probably talk about separately. What is most important, however, and what we need to understand is that if we now repeal the cohabitation law, we are not going back to the Stone Age, we are not going back to any medieval period. We're going back to 2013, where people weren't burned on fire stakes, like Mihkel Raud, the last time we talked about it, he thought it would happen if we broke the law. People weren't put in prison, they weren't interrogated because they had been going to a bar with some very suspicious celebrity. We know that our police have no meaningful statistics at all to show that people in Estonia have been harassed, persecuted, beaten or something like that based on sexual orientation. It's missing! So don't tell me that this law has been passed because poor gay people don't dare talk about themselves and their own persecution. If there were one case in Estonia where homos have been beaten for being gay, then probably the gay movement would have put it on such a big watch that we could hear about it under food and on food. These cases are being chased by lightning and they still can't be found! So there will be no discrimination in Estonia; there will be no discrimination in Estonia if the cohabitation law is deleted from its incomplete or flawed form of legislation. In this case, when we repeal this law, as our draft states, people's values are simply taken into account in Estonia, what is the opinion of the majority of the members of society, and all parties, I will draw attention to this, too, by paying attention to their voters. Even the electorate of the Social Democratic Party has only half of the support for the Cohabitation Act. No party has a large majority electorate to support it. Therefore, it is also important to look into the eyes of our constituents; I think this is an elementary part of democracy. If anyone here is going to discuss what we look like in the rest of the world, let me give you a simple example. In Africa, where we kindly welcome highly skilled workers and other highly educated people, there are 50 countries around here and there depending on whether a province has become independent or not. And in 35 of these 50 countries, homosexuality is criminalised, 35 or 36, depending on where we draw the line of criminalisation. The truth is that most of them are Muslim countries in North Africa. Europe is the same in this sense and the rest of the world is different. When we look at Europe, life has not gotten better, more fun, because of such things anywhere. The problems that the gay community has aren't gone, this law doesn't solve any of them. So nothing will get worse in Estonia if this bad law is abolished. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-10_U186	Thank you, dear waitress. You have a series of questions. Jaanus Karilaid, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-10_U187	Thank you to the manager. Good waitress! This draft is already on the second round, the annulment of the Cohabitation Act has been explicitly in favour of both the Centre Party and the EKRE. But we know very well that joint work by several political parties is needed to repeal this law, joint work by the Centre Party, the EKRE, the IRL and the Free Party is needed. In the meantime, has political lobby gone so far that we can be sure today that our allies are also the Free Party and the IRL on this issue?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-10_U188	Thank you for your question. Yeah, that's clear, our party profile is absolutely clear. The Centre Party also has a clear decision on this, both by the political group and by the Bureau. In the case of IRL, it is known that their electorate, their party council and the majority of the political group opposed the adoption of the Cohabitation Act, opposes the adoption of implementing acts and is in favour of the draft repeal of the Cohabitation Act. It is true that they have a small number of people in the group who, for whatever reason, do not abide by their electoral promises and have not realised that if you have joined a party with a clear platform and electoral promises, it is if you have some friends, acquaintances or relatives who, on the contrary, have no reason to go against the clear platform of your electorate or party. In the Free Party, I have to be honest, I am seriously disappointed and critical. The Free Party programme clearly stated: we stand for a traditional family. On the electoral platform of the Free Party, it was clear that they were standing up for the recognition and protection of the traditional family. Moreover, in the election campaign of the Free Party, the promise to oppose the implementation of the Cohabitation Act and the annulment of the Cohabitation Act repeatedly went through. These have been the promises of the Free Party to voters. Now we have already had two votes in the Chamber on this issue. One vote was when there was the same draft cancellation, and the other was on the proposal for voting out of the implementing legislation procedure. The implementing acts, I recall, are now at second reading. And on both occasions, the members of the Free Party gave a critical vote to the progress of the union law. I am very sad about this, because if the Free Party comes into politics and promises new policies, promises to listen to the people, promises to reason and talks about the citizens' initiative, then its electoral promises must be fulfilled. Not to say that we are so free that we changed our minds on this matter after the elections. It's cheating on your constituents, letting them down. I come back once again to the question that measured the attitude of party supporters towards the law of cohabitation. More than 60% of the voters of the Free Party were clearly opposed to the implementation of the Cohabitation Act. Thus, not by supporting the annulment of the Cohabitation Act, the Free Party essentially goes against the will of its electorate. We may say that we do not believe in polls and everything else, but in my opinion, the election promise is a red line that still needs to be respected. If we have given some sort of electoral promise, then it must be respected by the members of the group, because that is why you were elected here. We'll see how this vote goes again today, or maybe tomorrow, because I don't know how long the trial is going to be. But I'm seriously knocking on the hearts of the ambassadors of the Free Party so they don't go against the will of their constituents. If your conscience really does not allow you to vote in favour of cancellation, at least do not vote in favour of the exclusion of this draft cancellation from the procedure. Don't doubt it, in the next election we will remind people who will vote on these issues. When people have clearly positioned themselves, I am also saddened that if we now had more than a few weeks ago in the Commission to defend the same bill, for example, Mr Raivo Aeg, Ambassador of the IRL, did not support the draft, but voted in favour of excluding the draft from the procedure. Külliki Hatter, an ambassador to the Free Party, never showed up, even though he was in the house that day. Which suggests that maybe they had gone a little button-fucked or had some other political agreements, so-called cucumbers for you, voices for me. You don't know. I sincerely hope that during the vote, people will remember what they promised before the elections. I hope that the new policy does not mean that it is done the way it used to be: before the elections, the land and the heavens will be allowed together and then the business as usual will go on. I would point out here an example that our party promised to abolish the cost benefits before the elections. We came to this Chamber with this draft, and we were finally the only party that voted in favour of this proposal. We promised not to use cost benefits for car leasing and we fulfilled that promise. For us, electoral promises are important, and we will adhere to them. Everyone knows, the vote is free, as the free party knows.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-10_U189	Raivo Põldaru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-10_U190	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, You were talking about a gay parade in 2006. Do you have any idea when the government came up with the good idea, as we speak, of developing a plan to make such a law? We still stress that there must be a desire to do so. Do you have any idea when the government had this desire? Did that wish even exist?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-10_U191	Thank you very much. We need to go a little further into history here. We know that in the Ministry of Justice, this idea has been raised for many years. Since it began to form exactly in the form of paper, it is difficult for me to judge, for which it should have been closer to the executive. But we know that this initiative or thought has been since the second half of the zeros. And when we talk about gay parades, because there were several years in a row, it was also a clear society provocation and a clear model by which these things have been done elsewhere in the world. Such social provocations are called upon to give the impression that there is a social order to solve a serious, socially critical problem. We all know there was no critical problem, there was no social order. But if you put such a colourful parade on the way to the Old Town several summers in a row, the media naturally like it, the media lives with polarisation, and there are a lot of people in the media, who have a natural world-view sympathy for all homoideology and propaganda, then it is possible to start producing this social demand from an empty point of view. I can't tell you exactly what year it was, but as far as I can remember, in 2009, for the first time in the public, there was a plan in the Ministry of Justice that the idea of making a bill would be invented. Here we need to see how these things have happened in other parts of the world. Gay movement has been a cultivated movement for decades, with specific goals and a clear pattern or clear means of promoting it. It started somewhere in the Americas after World War II, where a small group of people who lived homosexual lives began, as so-called scientists, to feed society claims that there were significantly more homosexuals in society than there really are. We know the so-called Kinsey report, according to which there are supposedly up to 10% of people in society with homosexual tendencies or attractions. In later studies, this claim has clearly been made to the ground and to the ground. So when we were talking about how many of these people could actually be in society, Kinsey conducted the study, basically, among prostitutes and prisoners, just in the homosexual community of America. Of course he got a picture there, which is clearly not representative of the entire population. The actual number has been assessed differently, for men it is about 2.5 to 3% of the population and for women it is 1.5 to 2%. There is also a terminological understanding of what we are talking about. We're talking about these people who have a sexual attraction to either the same sex or both sexes, so they're not still practicing homosexuals. The percentage of people who actually live in same-sex sex is much lower. So we are talking about a really small social group. If we are particularly kind, we say that there are about 11⁄2% of them, but this percentage is not that high, of course. If we continue to talk now, I will return to this so-called social need or burning problem. When we talk about how many people in this percentage are in need of a cohabitation law, there are even fewer. I'll name a number, I'll find it as soon as I can, if you'll excuse me. We know that in Denmark and Sweden same-sex relations have long been regulated. I'll get to it as soon as I can. Sweden has 9 million inhabitants. Even if we are very kind to expect 5% of this 9 million population to be homosexual, this should mean that there are a total of 450,000 homosexuals in Sweden. However, since 2004, when homosexual relations or partnerships were legalised in the country, the relationship has been registered by 3440 people. This is 0.76% of these homosexuals, or we're talking about 1% of the population, of which 1% wants to legalize their relationships. So we're talking about 0.1% of people. It is completely incomprehensible why such a number of people need to have a law that turns on their heads the rest of society, is terribly irritating to the rest of the population and, in fact, does not solve any problems because there are solutions. But when we come back to the gay parades, like I said, there's a clear pattern. First, they come up with some kind of pseudostudies that seem to show that there are attitudes in society or a number of people who have a burning problem. The next step is to create martyrs and social confrontation. These parades are, of course, perfect for that. We know that the first homoparades took place in the United States during the 60s Controversy, during mass drug use and during the hippie movement, and we also know that in America they sometimes became violent. Of course, this violence was conscious and immediately turned in favour of the gay movement. Martyrs were created, who had been plucked from their beliefs or beliefs somewhere, and then they began to defend the martyrs. Here we come again to the previous item, because from then on we will be told about equal treatment. Equal treatment has nothing to do with all of this, because every Estonian person who is able to act and is of an adult age is equally able to marry a representative of the opposite sex, if that representative of the opposite sex agrees. Everyone has the same limitations. The limit is that it must be voluntary, the person must be of adult age and must not be close relatives. So these restrictions exist, so-called discrimination exists. But what is required is not an equal right for same-sex people to want to get married. What is required is a special right. So all other people have the right to marry a representative of the opposite sex, but one small group says that we want to have a special right to marry the same-sex or to have a civil partnership with the same-sex. So we are not talking about equal treatment and equal rights, because all people in Estonia still have equal rights. We know that there are very many people in Estonia who have decided never to get married. There are people in Estonia who also do not live in a common-law relationship or a free-law partnership, that is to say, there are a number of people who decide on this privilege, which is marriage, not to use it. But everyone has that right. Now there will be a group, a very, very small group, who says that they want another privilege within the privilege, i.e. they do not want the right to marry a representative of the opposite sex but want to register a partnership or marry a same-sex person. I now come to why I speak in turn about the law of cohabitation and marriage. We all know again from the experience of other countries that this is a goal. All this talk of the Cohabitation Act is a stage of a clear ideological struggle to demolish the traditional social order, this so-called bourgeois social order, to demolish the marriage institution, to distort the meaning and meaning of this institution, and to raise something which is unnatural to the same level as it is. If you raise something to the same level as her, which is unnatural, it reduces the exclusivity or speciality of the marriage institution. We see it from other countries. I have given here the example of Sweden and Denmark; examples can also be found in the Netherlands and in several other countries. Everywhere, it starts with the same story. It starts all over the world, as it was said here in Africa, that first we decriminalize, do not ban or punish. I couldn't agree more. In Estonia it was decriminating immediately after the Soviet occupation. I totally agree with that. The private conduct of an adult capable person, if it is not harmful to anyone, apart from his own course, does not have to be criminalised. In this sense, I think that Estonia is an exemplary country. But the next step is to establish a civil partnership. In Estonia, it is then said that this civil partnership, or cohabitation law, is gender neutral. Everyone understands that, in fact, it is not gender-neutral, it is done to have a civil partnership with the same sex. Practically, in any country in the world where civil partnerships have first been legalised, the next step has not been taken. The next step is the same-sex marriage with that word and the very concept. From there, the next step, which has also been taken in many countries, is the granting of adoption rights to couples of the same sex. In fact, there are very, very disturbing, very alarmous cases of how Norway and Great Britain are, of course, in several countries, but to some extent also Sweden has become actively and vigorously persecuted, for example, adoption agencies that do not want to offer adoption to same-sex couples. They will be actively repressed. Perhaps we will stop talking about any freedom of conscience at all; we will no longer talk about any right to respect our values. And that's the real purpose of this whole cohabitation law, this whole homoideology, they're not even really hiding it. This is making tolerance compulsory by threatening the repression of state power. We can no longer talk about a free society, freedom of conscience or freedom of religion and freedom of speech in a situation where some kind of law is passed, which, under the name of equal treatment, is going to shut down adoption agencies and conservative schools, is going to shut down and fine wedding agencies, for example, who say that you are very sorry, we only organise weddings for traditional marriages. This has all happened in other parts of the world! This has all happened in other parts of the world! The enforcement of homoideology is inevitably followed by repression. Inescapably! I think that we are, broadly speaking, in the second stage of development, if we consider homoparades to be the first stage. We are at this second stage, we are at the stage of civil partnership and the stage of disgusting the public. We can already see how the Estonian educational system enforces this ideology of tolerance in the fifth, sixth, seventh-class classes of social studies. Children are told how all intimate relationships are equal, whether they are male or female or male. This is already being done in Estonia. This is already being done and it needs to be countered, normality must be protected. It's not enough if we say we draw a line here, so let's not go any further, because there's going to be another phase anyway. It's like cooking a frog, where the water gets quietly warm at first, and when the water gets so slowly hot, the frog doesn't even know when it's cooked. Let's get used to it! We hear this argument over and over again how society is not yet ready and attitudes need to be changed. Why are they saying this? Because the brainwashing of the next generation has begun. And this next generation, we see it in the Estonian entertainment industry, we see it in the Estonian media, in the 20s, people who have marinated within this tolerance ideology take this ideology for granted. Embrace its traces of falsehood as if people are standing up for normality, haters of something or someone, or somehow anti-human. Human anti-human ideology is homoideology; it is a truly anti-human ideology, even a hateful ideology; I dare say, because it despises the natural state of people and their natural relationships, it wants to change them by force. What is more, those people who do not agree with it want to force either approval or at least silence. I can't agree with that. And we can't agree either that we're declaring a truce, we're pulling the line down, and we're saying we're not going any further. No, the territory must be taken back to normal, the political territory must be taken back to normal! This law must be abolished and returned to a situation where we had actually reached a social agreement: live and let live! Right now, homo-activists don't let you live. We must reject this dispute where society was in the 90s or early zeros. This, in my opinion, is essential. There's no way we can accept the idea of getting used to it, there's nothing to get used to. There is normality, there is the desire of the majority of society, this desire of the majority of society is constantly being attacked, even by the most vile lies and practices, it is being undermined and it is trying to do its will in a piece by piece. Fortunately, there are political forces and MPs within this Riigikogu who understand this thing exactly as it is, they understand this fight exactly as it is. I would say that, if we have achieved enough already, that by now this gay roller has run into the mud for the implementation of the cohabitation law, then we have also achieved that people are showing the colors of their flag. Maybe Krista Aru didn't hear until I gave a long lecture on your election promises, but people need to show the colors of their flag and voters need to be able to decide the next time. That's right.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-10_U192	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-10_U193	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Colleagues around here are saying that we have never received such clear and exhaustive answers from ministers in briefings and enquiries. That is not my position, it is my fellow Members'. My question, which cannot be answered very thoroughly anymore, because the time for today's sitting is running out, is this. After all, we who stand for normality are always accused of scaring people. At the same time, the apologists have even come up with the view that if we do not accept and approve the implementing acts of the Cohabitation Act, the whole homoideology, the multi-culty and the liberality, then what happens is that our NATO allies will never come to protect us. How can we view such a conversation?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-10_U194	Thank you. After all, with this intimidation, we have had President Toomas Hendrik Ilves in the first place, who has indeed come up with a rather absurd statement in my opinion that Italian aircraft will not come to the Estonian sky if our cohabitation law is not enforced. We begin by saying that the right, competence or competence of the Italian Government, certainly not the NATO military leadership or the European Commission, is not to tell the Estonian Riigikogu and, more generally, Estonian citizens what the regulations of our state may or must be or must be, and what our attitudes must be. Another very important aspect is that if the President really thinks that Article 5 of NATO is conditional, and the condition is that we have 20 or 10 people in Estonia who have been able to sign a partnership agreement here in Estonia, I say that we have nothing to do with this NATO article. I have so far understood that international agreements either apply or do not apply. The NATO Treaty is a rather concrete and short agreement where Member States clearly have their own responsibilities. If suddenly a country decides, such as the Italian Government or the German Government or the Obama Government in America, that it will not comply with this agreement, then we have absolutely nothing to do with this NATO member. True, I do not believe that this statement in itself is absolutely true. I think that the NATO Treaty is valid, I think that the Member States will comply with this agreement regardless of whether we have a cohabitation law or not. I am saying that just coming up with such a statement shows how to say it now, how hard some people in Estonia are staring at their belly button and are not able to see it outside the world at all or do not want to see it. To be honest, I do not believe that anyone in Italy cares in the slightest about whether we have a cohabitation law or not, and they will certainly not therefore fail to comply with Article 5 of NATO. There is a real possibility that the NATO Treaty will not be launched for any other reason. Someone, for example, blocks it for some reason or starts stretching it all is possible. But this certainly does not happen because we are not fully implementing the law on partnership. I find this argument completely absurd. It is very common for our President to be ashamed of the Estonian people all the time, but I do not know whether he understands quite precisely that the Estonian people, or at least a very large part of the Estonian people, are constantly embarrassed by his statements. I think that confident, confident people in general are not worried about what others think of them, nor are they very embarrassed about other people. You should be embarrassed by your own actions or omissions. When we talk more about incitement to hatred, there has been a terrible amount of murmuring in Estonia about how political discussion has become very acute and aggressive with the coming of the Conservative People's Party to the political arena, and how we will no longer be able to have a normal debate. To be honest, I should say that it is actually exactly the opposite. I would like to draw attention to a picture that was in Sirbis two weeks ago, where I was very perverted personally, and I would then set aside the debate on hate speech in the Riigikogu last week on the initiative of the Chairman of the Legal Affairs Committee from the Social Democratic Party. There was also a Swedish left who told us what hate speech was, and he kept saying that we had to adopt a law that criminalises hate speech. And then what's the hate speech? If we take the so-called meters that we saw last week in the debate at the Committee on Legal Affairs, the picture published in Sirbis is one-to-one against hate speech, one-to-one against a conservative world view or conservative politics. It's a classic left-wing tactic. In the '60s, even one left-radical political activist, Alinsky, has published a book in which he teaches how to achieve his political goals and reset his political opponents. If we are looking today at the methods homoideologists or tolerant people are using to achieve their goals, then I recommend that everyone read this Alinsky book. It's like a textbook: how to demonize your political opponents, use personal destruction tactics, take on one particular person and ruin it. I recall what was done to Jaak Madison shortly after the election. It's a classic Alinsky tactic that takes a particular person and makes him a powder to put a hole in the opposing column. It's a tactic used. So when we talk about incitement to hate speech in Estonia, it is primarily the homoideologists, the tolerant, and, of course, the left-wing media of Estonia will make an excellent contribution to this.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-10_U195	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to apologise to everyone who wishes, but the time for today's sitting is over. We'll pick up where we left off tomorrow. I'll see you tomorrow. [[Let's hear it.]] Closure of the sitting at 2.03 p.m.
