ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-24_U1	Dear Riigikogu, good afternoon. We will begin the Monday session of the 6th plenary session of the 4th plenary session. As usual, the first is the handing over of drafts and enquiries. Please, Siret Eagle!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-24_U2	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the members of the Central Party Group, I would like to address an inquiry to Prime Minister Taavi Rõivas concerning the payment of transitional payments to Estonian farmers. The situation is that the level of direct payments in Estonia is so low that we get around 60% of the level of other European Union countries. In order to compensate for this difference, the Estonian state will be able to pay the so-called "transitional support" or top-up from its own state budget. Unfortunately, the Estonian state last paid transitional support to farmers in 2013. For example, last year we would have been able to pay farmers EUR 24 million in transitional support, but we did not. At the same time, other countries have found money to support their farmers, for example, Latvia supported its farmers with EUR 42 million and Lithuania with EUR 32 million. The crisis continues. A survey by the Estonian University of Life Sciences, which recently turned out, says that Estonia should seriously consider whether not to pay transitional allowances. This is why we have questions for the Prime Minister about why the Estonian state has not fulfilled its obligations towards farmers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-24_U3	Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-24_U4	Honorable manager! Respectable members of the Riigikogu! Who has observed the news about the connection between the mainland and Hiiumaa knows for sure that during the weekend the sea floor was cleared of the accumulated sediment and won a few inches more. Last Wednesday, before us, the Minister for Economic Affairs and Infrastructure pointed out several times that neither God nor nature can be opposed, nor can the delegates regulate the level of water. He's absolutely right. It is possible, however, to do deepening work. We, six members of the Free Party Group, are wondering whether, and how, more extensive dredging is planned in the future, right there in the Rye Peace channel. What is the ability of new ships to drive at low water levels? How will TS Ships continue to co-operate with the Institute of Marine Systems of the TUT in order to obtain as good and operational advance information as possible on critical water levels and share it with customers? How can we proceed with a faster response rate and not as flegmatic as it was with regard to chartering a new spare ship and also cleaning the seabed? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-24_U5	Representative of the Government of the Republic Heili Tõnisson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-24_U6	Mr. Chairman! Dear Riigikogu! The Government of the Republic is launching two draft laws today. Firstly, the draft law amending the Social Welfare Act and related amendments to other laws. Margus Tsahkna, Minister of Social Protection, represents the Government of the Republic in the proceedings of the draft law in the Riigikogu. Secondly, the draft law amending the Health Services Organisation Act. Evgeni Ossinovski, Minister of Health and Labour, represents the Government of the Republic of Estonia in processing the draft law in the Riigikogu. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-24_U7	I have adopted two draft laws and two inquiries. We treat them under the Home and Rules of Procedure Act. Dear Riigikogu, we have guests. It is a great honour for me to welcome the Polish Senate Marshal, his Excellency, Mr Stanislaw Karczewski and the delegation accompanying him, who are sitting on this balcony. [[Let's hear it.]] Now, please, let's do the presence check! 85 members of the Riigikogu are present. Adoption of the agenda. Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on the agenda for the 6th working week of the 4th plenary session of the Riigikogu. Please take a stand and vote. 78 members of the Riigikogu are in favour of approving the agenda and there are no respondents or abstentions. The agenda is confirmed.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-24_U8	The first item on our agenda is an inquiry by Külliki Kübarse, Andres Ammas, Monika Haukanõmme, Jüri Adams, Artur Talvik, Ain Lutsep, Krista Aru and Andres Herkel. Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-24_U9	Mr. Chairman! Prime Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, Guests on the balcony! This question is motivated, on the one hand, by the administrative reform law which was adopted here in June and, on the other hand, by the fact that the National Reform Radar College had also reached the conclusion by the beginning of September that things would not go exactly as they were supposed to, and that the progress of the state reform would be assessed by two, mainly on the grounds of stagnation and difficulties in the implementation of the Administrative Reform Act. There is no governance of this reform. I would also like to point out from these conclusions that such a reform should be very clearly managed and associated with it, above all, with the Prime Minister, we are giving him this opportunity today, as well as with the whole coalition. It's supposed to be a coalition thing. There have been different views. There is no forceful governance in the same way, but the other way around, the law we have adopted is not, in fact, the law on administrative reform. This is an administrative-territorial reform law, and in this sense it is only two-thirds Estonian law, because the administrative reform, which does not concern Tallinn at all, deserves the name of the national administrative reform, either entirely or otherwise. Consequently, we have a number of questions for the Prime Minister to answer. One of the most acute issues is certainly related to the functions and financing model of local governments, i.e. all these sectoral laws or additional laws, or, as has sometimes been said, the substance laws that we were promised to this Parliament by the beginning of autumn, but which have not yet arrived here. The Prime Minister said to us last week, answering another question on another subject, that they were in the government immediately, but this 'right now' has definitely been too long. It would be necessary to get an idea of what functions are quite self-governing and what are state-owned and how they are financed, and all the related functions. We now have reason to suspect that this is merely a reform of redeploying borders and replaying power, because we have not yet seen and understood this important content. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-24_U10	The inquiry is answered by Prime Minister Taavi Kõivas. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-24_U11	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! I will respond to your inquiry on 12 September. I will first read the questions you have asked and then answer them. Question 1: 'Have you analysed the assessments of the activities of the National Reform Radar College during the summer period and what are your conclusions as Prime Minister? What concrete steps will you take to improve the situation? ' I appreciate very constructive criticism and, of course, I have also analysed the assessments made by the National Reform Radar College. I very much agree that these are clear and concrete proposals, some of which have already been met. However, I cannot at all agree with the argument that, in the summer, after the adoption of the Administrative Reform Act in the Riigikogu, the momentum of the government on this subject, as the College said, would have diminished. On the contrary. Both the Radar College of State Reform and the respondents have probably overlooked the fact that the government made a large number of political decisions during the Cabinet meeting on 25 August. For example, a number of decisions were in principle approved to entrust local authorities with the development of the business environment, regional development and the organisation of regional public transport in cooperation with the Road Administration. I find it inappropriate to call them more substantive than this very important draft law on administrative reform, I would even say that the historic draft law on administrative reform, which has already been passed as a law, is ready to be sent to the coordination circle, according to the Ministry of Finance. But I repeat, there are political agreements and positive signals on these issues. So there shouldn't be any news to anyone about the additional functions they're giving. The ministries are also expected to propose which institutions could be put together or which institutions the county representations of which would be able to bring together on a common surface in the state buildings and which jobs could be taken out of Tallinn in different state institutions. The deadline for their submission was early in autumn. Now the Ministry of Finance must screen these proposals out of the feasible, make its offers and bring them back to the government in early 2017. As early as November, probably in the first half of November, this will depend on the schedules of individual ministers, but we plan to discuss the reorganisation of the functions of rural governments at the meeting of the Cabinet from the beginning of November, on which the political choice of principle has been made. County governments will not continue as they were after the administrative reform. We reorganize county governments by giving part of the tasks to local governments and part to the central government. However, as there are a lot of details here and there is a need to discuss the matter thoroughly with the administration, there will already be more detail about this issue before the government in November. The second question: 'Actual camera' 6.09.2016, it was pointed out that if Saaremaa and Hiiumaa form a whole local government, they will receive an additional premium of EUR 5 million and EUR 2 million respectively. What decision did such an exception take, and on which budget line will this expenditure be covered? If this is the administrative reform merger grant line, who will benefit from the savings? Why has it not been decided to pay additional payments to the rest of Estonia's counties when county-based municipalities are created? ' In the process of dealing with the Administrative Reform Act, the government agreed on the principle that, in the case of sub-regional mergers, ministers would have to find additional possibilities to support strategic investments in addition to the merger grants provided for in the Act. It is also fixed in the explanatory memorandum to the draft law on administrative reform. Support for additional investments does not come from the merger grant budget, but from additional allocations and, where possible, from the European Union support measures, but not only from the budget. The principle and the same conditions contained in the explanatory memorandum to the draft Administrative Reform Act apply to all counties. Indeed, Saaremaa and Hiiumaa are the ones most likely to join the county-sized municipality, although Saaremaa probably does not have small islands, which is also justified. If they join as one of the major municipalities, they really have reason to expect additional support from the state budget. In addition, it can be said that there does not appear to be a municipality the size of the whole county in other places, following the state of the negotiations currently being held. This is likely to remain the peculiarity of Saaremaa and Hiiumaa, which does not mean that it is impossible in other counties. But if you look at the status of the accession negotiations, it doesn't look like it right now. The third question: 'The Supreme Court is requested to initiate constitutional review proceedings and repeal the provisions of the Administrative Reform Act by a total of 22 municipalities. Is the government prepared to review the coercion mechanism and the minimum requirement for population numbers? If this situation has already been analysed, what are the government's messages and concrete steps to clarify the situation? ' I agree with the lawyers who have spoken in public on this subject, who have admitted that any reform may result in certain cuts. However, in the case of administrative reform, these barriers are proportionate to the objective of the reform. This is a historic reform, which has been planned for a very long time, which has been tried for a very long time and which has a considerable and, of course, positive impact on people. According to experts, the minimum criterion for the number of inhabitants of the municipality is the least, since which the municipality is able to perform all the statutory functions of the municipality, hire competent specialists and provide high-quality public services. Experts estimate that from 5,000 inhabitants it is possible to ensure the specialization and adequate competence of officials in local governments. Now, about this constitutional dispute. The role of the Constitution is to set the legal framework. In my opinion, it is not appropriate to use the Constitution as a pretext for slowing down development. If it should be mentioned in the Supreme Court's judgment that the details of a particular provision of law need to be specified, then of course, there is no choice but to make these clarifications. But I very much hope that we will be able to move forward with this reform in any case so that Estonia can become larger and more capable municipalities. This is something that the people of Estonia are quite sure to expect. Question 4: "How do you see your role as Prime Minister that administrative reform does not remain an administrative-territorial reform? When will local authorities become clear about the services and revenue base? " Question 5: " What role do you see in your actions regarding the implementation of state reform, where, like administrative reform, there is no clear political objective? ' I will answer these two questions at once. Both the administrative reform and the reform of government have specific objectives, which have been repeated through my mouth from this point of view. Firstly, the administrative reform. Its aim is to provide the best possible public services to the people of Estonia throughout Estonia. Administrative-territorial restructuring is an integral basis for administrative reform and a prerequisite for all possible innovations. Without the larger municipalities, it is not possible to carry out the additional tasks that we wish to give to the municipalities. So, under no circumstances should this historic part of the reform, the administrative-territorial reform, be underestimated. If we have larger and more capable municipalities, there will be a number of new tasks. Of course, funding will also be added, as agreed. Reform of government. Last time there was a crucial discussion on a national issue, I listed three major objectives of the reform of the state or government. These are the following. First, better public services available throughout Estonia, such as the organisation of the school network, cooperation between major hospitals and county hospitals through networking, etc. There are a number of examples of what we have already agreed and where the sub-objectives in this area have been formulated. Secondly, it must be even easier for businesses and citizens to communicate with the state. Examples of this include the zero bureaucracy project, e-residency, the electronic public procurement system and the new electronic solution of the tax administration, which also makes it possible to conduct business without a declaration, a project entitled 'Reporting 3.0'. These initiatives are found in almost all areas of ministerial administration, most decisions have already been taken and deadlines have been set. Thirdly, public authorities must be open to a new and internal organisation of the state must be more efficient and affordable to the state. For example, centralisation of support services, as well as real estate reform by not having to manage real estate by each ministry or other public authority. As an example, when ministries move to a joint building, a large number of activities are carried out jointly and ministries do not duplicate activities. The number of government employees is falling, we have met the first year target more than twice, etc. Proposals and options relating to the reorganisation of the local government's revenue base will be discussed at the Administrative Reform Expert Committee meeting on 25 October, tomorrow, and then at the Cabinet meeting, expected in the first half of November. Now I am talking about coordination, governance and responsibility. The greatest number of tasks in the implementation of both the administrative reform and the reform of public administration, of course, lies with the Minister of Public Administration. But as far as the reforms are concerned, there are also tasks for other ministers. We have repeatedly set these goals in the government. As has been said, at the end of the year a number of targets will be reviewed and so-called follow-up decisions will be taken. Most of these choices and decisions concerning both state reform and administrative reform are made at government level under the leadership of the Prime Minister. Of course, the Prime Minister will personally monitor that all the important issues that have been agreed upon are in work. If necessary, it is also my role to ensure that ministries and ministers reach a reasonable agreement. One example of where we are working to reach an agreement is that ministries have proposed different ways of reforming public authorities in the same area. We have two competitive reform plans. It is up to me, as Prime Minister, to look at whether they can be united by taking over the strengths of both of its reform plans or by choosing one or the other. So the work on all these issues is done in the government, under the leadership of the Prime Minister, of any kind. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-24_U12	Questions for the Prime Minister. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-24_U13	Good manager! Good Prime Minister! I checked the protocols. At the end of last year, it was stated directly in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, in the Committee on Rural Affairs and elsewhere that, while the draft basic law reaches the Riigikogu, there should also be concepts of implementing legislation. Now this year's Christmas is approaching. On August 25th, the office decided that we were going to look at these applications. It's almost October 25th. It's been two months. Chancellor of Justice Madise has said that constitutionality cannot be assessed until these implementing acts are on the table. I repeat, Christmas is approaching, but there are no implementing acts. Mr. Prime Minister, why have you waited so long? Or has it turned out somehow that there hasn't been a deal? What's all this about taking so long?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-24_U14	Thank you. As it has often been, fortunately, some of your information is mistaken this time too. Indeed, the law on administrative reform does not need any implementing acts to enter into force so that this historic reform can take place. The Administrative Reform Act itself sets out the conditions for accession, the rules and everything necessary for its implementation. The Administrative Reform Act, which was passed before Midsummer Day, contains all the important notes. We're talking about giving extra responsibilities to local governments. A number of tasks have been agreed, I listed some of them. If, as a result of the administrative reform, we have larger municipalities, we will be able to give them additional tasks and additional funding. Some of the tasks that can be assigned to local governments, I read, some of them come in addition to being reorganized by county governments. All the tasks that can be transferred from rural governments to municipalities, we also hand over the extra money to the municipalities. However, since rural governments have a number of tasks that cannot be assigned to local governments, for example, supervision of local governments, we need to agree which specific public authority or which specific public authorities will perform these functions in the future. As a result of this part of the reform, we will be able to perform the same tasks as the circa five times the number of people. So in any case, it's an important part. Do we have any difficulty in giving these new tasks, or can we hand these tasks over to the municipalities today? The answer is no. We have no difficulty with this either, as these new tasks can be implemented at the earliest after the 2017 local elections, when there are a number of so-called new-sized municipalities in Estonia. Some of the tasks related to the calendar year are practical for enforcement from 1 January 2018. So now is the time for ministries to be able to express their position in coordination circles. Then this act will be on the government table without any delay, the government will send it to Parliament, and I can confirm it, even you have no difficulty with it. You can discuss this calmly for as long as you think it is necessary. You will probably do so mostly during the spring session and you will be able to make these decisions carefully and shake every detail into place, still that several euros for each specific task the state will have to give, which tasks could still be assigned, etc. Once again, these new tasks can come when we have new municipalities. We have new size municipalities after the local elections in October 2017. There's still a long way to go.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-24_U15	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-24_U16	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Prime Minister! I think the fire has been in a hurry since 2010 when the Supreme Court made one decision. The content of this decision was to declare an illegal situation where there is no legislation that clearly sets out which obligations imposed on the local authority are self-governing and which are state-owned and which provides that they can also be financed by the state. Why have we started this reform at the back end like this? Perhaps it would have been more reasonable to start with a delineation of tasks? In fact, this is indeed an unconstitutional situation and it will last as long as there is no solution. What will be the solution if you confirm that it exists? We haven't seen it.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-24_U17	Thank you. In 2010, I was chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs and I had very close contact with this issue. At that time, those tasks, which are public and should be carried out by the municipality, were also identified by means of financing. The remaining functions of the municipality were self-governing. At the time, the subject was examined, debated and discussed, and a solution was reached. So, in my opinion, we do not have to discuss this from the beginning, but if we now give the municipalities tasks that have so far been the responsibility of the state, it is not so terribly important whether they should be called self-governing or national tasks in the future, then the fact is that it must also be accompanied by a fair financial allocation. That's what we're going to do. I have read you the list of tasks that have been performed so far at county level, as well as those that have so far been carried out at central government level. By handing over the tasks, we're gonna rake through everything, and we're gonna give you the right amount of money. It is very difficult for me to ask why this was not done 15 years ago or why there were different developments at the time. The fact is that the government union currently in office has taken this administrative reform, which has been planned for a few decades, to its heart. I think we're gonna do it.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-24_U18	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-24_U19	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Prime Minister! With regard to state reform, the administrative-territorial reform of the state, there have also been several talks about state houses. What are the functions of these state buildings going to be? Is and to what extent are these supposed services to come over from rural governments, and what will it even look like on the conceptual base?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-24_U20	Thank you. I'm talking about the logic of the state house. Currently, most administrative departments, the Ministry of Rural Affairs, have offices in each county to manage the Ministry of Education and Research. Sometimes these representations are larger, such as the PBA has large units everywhere, they are understandablely well-founded in a separate logistical sense, but in some places, in order to ensure regional coverage, only a few officials are involved. It's very different from country to country, but also in the case of these few officials, it's sometimes that a separate house is maintained. It is sometimes the case that some similar services, such as career counselling, provided by three public institutions in each county, can be obtained from three locations in the county. Our aim is to bring the country's representations, where it is justified, to a logistically one surface, preferably to a location where people can easily access. Why couldn't there be a building used by the county government so far, which is mostly in a logistically very good location, but where the functions to date are no longer being performed? But we're not stuck at all in any particular house. The state building has a more "conceptual approach," it is not closed in one building or another. The point is that if a person really has to deal physically with a country and has to go somewhere, so that it is as simple as possible logistically, so that he does not have to spend his shoes walking from one house to another and looking for public officials around the city. That's one. Secondly, we believe that if several public authorities are on one property, synergies can also be created there, even if support services can be provided jointly. Perhaps not every public authority needs a separate conference room, etc. This theme can be viewed as a complete picture. We most likely want to test this solution faster in some counties than in others. As has been said, this does not have to mean that all the public authorities in this county have to move to one place. But we are trying to find such a substantive solution that anyone who moves really does have a victory over it.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-24_U21	Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-24_U22	Honorable manager! Honorable Prime Minister! You have promised me a few times today that the municipalities will be adequately funded. I'll keep asking from here. How's this gonna happen? Will the additional funds allocated to municipalities on the basis of the state budget strategy in the coming years still be distributed through the Equalisation Fund or will there be any additional grants or will you change the revenue base of the municipalities?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-24_U23	Thank you. I have a correct comment to make when the government has agreed on a new scheme. As I said, it is expected to take place in the first half of November. This will depend on the day on which we will be able to get all the ministers involved to the meeting of the Cabinet. There are choices. We have decided to give extra money But as long as these matters have not yet been agreed, it may be inappropriate for me to express my personal position. So the circuit for a month, maybe a little less, and we'll figure this out.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-24_U24	Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-24_U25	Thank you. Mr Prime Minister! The central part of the administrative reform was still tensile centres for 10 to 15 years. It now turns out that the basic idea is 5,000 people in local government. It seems to me that if a municipality is created where only 5 000 people live, thinking that it does not have to be a centre of attraction where people go more, it is only half the business. The next step is to think about where people are going. I have taken part in some discussions and I know that Lääne-Virumaa and Ida-Virumaa are saying that they are meeting at county level. I guess Jõhvi won't stay, let's say, the capital of Ida-Virumaa, because Narva will be the capital. How do you comment on that? I want to know your opinion on why we threw away this attraction plan in the first place.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-24_U26	Thank you. First of all, when we look at the practice, we see that this reform across Estonia works in many ways as it makes the most sense. The concentration will take place either on several municipalities or around one of the larger municipalities. So the lion's share of the accession talks that are currently taking place is actually very logical in real life terms. I do not quite agree that people necessarily have to move much to where the municipality's centre is formally. It may not be that way. I think people already have fewer and fewer physical needs to go to the municipal government at the rural municipality centre. Service points where services are provided may remain in several locations in the connecting area; they do not necessarily all have to be in one place together. The municipality of Lääne-Saare is a good example here. There are both social workers and other important professionals on the territory of the merged municipalities, who must be as close to people as possible. But yes, there should not be much physical time for a parish elder in the future, as most local services can be obtained digitally. We'll take all kinds of permits. This is also happening in Tallinn, so that you no longer have to go in the same way as in the old days to the city planning office and then to the district government. You, as your former head of government, know how much this has evolved over time and how much more comfortable it has become for people. Many permits can be applied for electronically and therefore people have fewer and fewer things to do with the municipality's centre, the municipality's elder or the municipality's government. The place where educational establishments and shops are located is important to people as a attraction centre. I'm sure it'll work. When a person is used to shopping in a settlement that is soon to be no longer formally a rural municipality centre, I don't think that's why he's canceling shopping there. They're probably going to the store where it's most convenient to go and where the most reasonable prices are.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-24_U27	Arthur Talvik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-24_U28	Good Chairman! Prime Minister! When the administrative reform law was passed, the coalition was quite unanimous, if not very unanimous. As the summer days moved on, a coalition partner, IRL Margus Tsahkna, began to criticize the administrative reform quite strongly, including by saying that the Reform Party is trying to push through a two-level system of municipalities, and calling the administrative reform not too ambitious. Have you had these conversations or disputes in the Cabinet, and what did you answer to Margus Tsahkna on these issues?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-24_U29	Thank you. I am pleased to assure you that Mr Tsahkna will quite certainly support the administrative reform. Moreover, he is actually very interested that this reform will be successful across Estonia. I have another good news: Mr Ossinovski, too, is supporting administrative reform and is working to make it work in different regions. I can list exactly 15 members of the government who support all administrative reform here. We have had debates, and they will certainly come in the future. One of the places where we had the debate was that if we reorganize the county governments (this, by the way, actually found some very quick approval in the government), whether these functions, which must be left to the state, are some portion of the functions that must be left to the state, I would like to say, for example, that supervision, which cannot be done by the municipalities themselves, could not be done by the municipalities themselves, should be shared between the ministries. For example, supervision is carried out by the Ministry of Justice and Level 2 planning, for example, by the Land Board, or a separate unit is set up as a "regional competence centre." We really had a debate about that in the summer. But for Margus Tsahkna to have been opposed to administrative reform in the summer, I cannot honestly recall. I believe that it is very likely that we will also have a proper discussion of the details of the municipal income base. If someone disagrees, you should not assume that they are opposed to administrative reform. Anyway, there's gonna be a discussion. In fact, there are many important issues in the government that are being discussed very seriously. I would very much like the opposition to participate much more actively in these political discussions.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-24_U30	Anneli Ott, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-24_U31	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister, please specify! Did I understand correctly that the government's position on administrative reform is that it is not necessary for the municipalities to know under what conditions they will join and what will happen after the accession negotiations have ended or after the so-called final accession decisions? It is enough to know that 5,000 people are a criterion, and let the merger be done. Do you regard this attitude as respectful of our local government leaders and our people?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-24_U32	Thank you. In my opinion, it is not respectful of the local government leaders if you say that, despite a very thorough administrative reform law, the local government leaders do not know under what conditions they will join. Of course they do, they have a very good view of it. The law states both the conditions of accession and the entire procedure. I am absolutely certain that local government leaders all over the country are well aware of this. That's one. Secondly, are there likely to be additional functions for municipalities with funding? Yes, it is. Do the local government leaders rather support it? Yeah, they do. The local government leaders are watching very closely what has been agreed in the government. They, too, will certainly be able to speak through the alliances in the round of coordination of these drafts, where these drafts will go immediately. In any case, my understanding is that municipalities are interested in additional functions and additional funding. These changes are clearly a positive undertone for the municipalities, just as the additional funding is quite favourable to the municipalities.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-24_U33	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-24_U34	Thank you, manager. Prime Minister! I'm gonna ask you another question. You just said that the scheme, how local authorities will be financed at all, will become clear in the government in November. Municipalities make a merger decision, but basically they don't know how to finance them yet. If you claim to be done with the Supreme Court ruling, I say the opposite. No, it's not. The Supreme Court's decision came in 2010, but, as you remember, in 2009 the municipal income base was reduced by 0.5%, so far nothing has been restored. How do the two things, the Supreme Court's decision on the inadequate funding of local governments and the failure to restore the income base go together?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-24_U35	Thank you. Compared to the ideal 2008 you have referred to, the municipal budgets are, on average, one and a half times higher. So the situation has improved considerably. However, as far as the allocation of additional funds is concerned, I believe that the situation of the municipalities will, in any case, be even better. I do not believe that some municipalities would object to the government's decision to finance them further and have provided resources for this in the country's budget strategy. I believe that the most important thing for local governments in the allocation of additional money is whether it is distributed fairly according to their assessment and whether each region receives a reasonable amount of money. We're trying to find a system like this.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-24_U36	March Sults, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-24_U37	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good Prime Minister! Our state budget has not increased much this season and next season will be more or less within the same limits as this year. You're saying extra funds are being channelled to local governments. I have a pretty simple question. The cross product has a permanent size: if any number is changed, the other three digits should also change. What makes money available to finance local authorities in addition?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-24_U38	Thank you. I did not understand the first part of this question. You said the state budget didn't grow. Very clearly, it has grown. By the way, I would like to take this opportunity to have your group chairman in your presence, who has spoken in the local media on this matter. I am resolutely overturning this, like lowering social tax in any way would reduce the financing of health insurance. I can tell you good news: a reduction in social tax will not completely reduce the funding of health insurance. Health insurance will also receive a very significant additional amount of money next year. So the size of the state budget is increasing considerably. On average, the total increase in the budget is over 6%. This is, in my opinion, a very considerable increase. In the same way, the budget allocation for local governments is increasing significantly, mainly because unemployment has fallen very much in Estonia and people's wages have increased rapidly. As you know, the lion's share of how much money goes to local governments depends on how much people get paid. Secondly, we have seen additional allocations in the country's budgetary strategy following the accession of the municipalities in such a way that the base is growing. This money is conditionally reserved in the budget, but it has not yet been agreed whether the additional money will go to the municipalities through the Equalisation Fund, as it has so far largely gone, or whether the additional money will go to them by changing the rate of income tax, or whether there will be some other innovation, which will make income tax and the collection of all state budget revenue fairer for the municipalities. There are alternatives. These alternatives will be introduced by Arto Aas to the government, as has been said, in early November. I'm sure it's gonna be a big discussion. The government will find the best solution. If we are convinced that this solution really is the best, then we will come to Parliament and ask for your approval.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-24_U39	Monika Haukanõmm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-24_U40	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! One of the three main objectives of the government's state reform agenda is to ensure better public services throughout Estonia. The other two objectives are savings and improvement in quality. In fact, these three objectives can probably not be achieved at the same time. It is therefore important to set objectives and priorities, and also to make agreements at political level, as these decisions are often not technical. My question is which public services are planned to be tightened up for savings. This should not come as a bad surprise to anyone, such as the reform of the Road Administration.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-24_U41	Thank you. In order for this reform to be successful, additional funding is, of course, also needed, but above all, that the different functions across the country are being carried out more effectively. If we are able to perform our functions more efficiently, we will receive much more and much better service for the same amount of money, or we will be able to do new things in addition. So the aim of the reform is not to make savings in order to do the same thing for less money, but rather to look for ways in which the taxpayer could provide more public service for the money he has given us. To this end, these services must be provided in the most efficient way possible, so that the minimum amount of money goes to administration and to help people in the most real way. That's the logic. I don't see any contradiction here. I think that doing things more effectively gives us the opportunity to offer better quality services.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-24_U42	Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-24_U43	Respectables! This format here is very unequal. I have one minute to ask, while the Prime Minister can talk forever on whatever subject, also on a non-issue. Therefore, I cannot speak here about the fact that I do not believe that the government has initiated the necessary steps to ensure the sustainability of the Estonian social system. I'm asking about administrative reform. You came to the Riigikogu on 14 March and made a political statement that the law on administrative reform must be adopted quickly. I had time to reread that statement. It states that the Administrative Reform Act regulates the first phase of the administrative reform, whose main focus is on the reform of the administrative-territorial organisation of local government, followed by a phase during which we will be presented with amendments to the administrative reform legislation. The explanatory memorandum clearly allows them to be submitted in the second quarter of this year, including a list of 18 laws. I have not seen the government pass these laws on in any way to the Riigikogu. Is it because you can't agree, or because you can't prepare them?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-24_U44	Thank you very much. The good news is that agreements on these topics were concluded in the second half of August, I think on 25 August this was an office meeting, and I have already mentioned it once, and the guidelines for drafting laws have been given. I am not sure whether these laws will be 18, that is what the minister who prepares and is responsible for these laws will be able to say in more detail, but these specific new functions that we are going to pass on, we are now writing into the laws. As has been said, these laws are about to enter the circle of coordination, and if they pass it smoothly, they will surely reach you as well. But once again, we do not have such a heavy fire in our own right with these laws. The truth is that the Administrative Reform Act was passed at the end of the spring season. That was the assumption that we could make the following laws. There was a certain shift, if you would like to say so, but this shift is not something that would in any way jeopardise the implementation of the reform. The drafting of these additional laws is made somewhat more complicated by the constitutional dispute in the Supreme Court. There are also these assessments that before the Supreme Court has stated its position, it is not possible to make new decisions in the government. I believe the Supreme Court will make a decision during this year. I cannot, of course, prescribe this to the Supreme Court, but I hope the Supreme Court will do so. Then we will be able to come before you with additional laws, so that you can work through them long enough and, if necessary, make them even better. As for equality or inequality in this format, it is very difficult for me to make it better. I come before Parliament and I answer on the basis of the rules that Parliament has laid down. But since you're asking questions quite often, it's a good thing that I'm quite a frequent guest before you. Speaking of format, I say that every Wednesday I will be in front of you in Question Time and recommend that you take this opportunity to ask. Last time, although the three opposition parties had worked very well together, I did not quite understand exactly what the point was that nothing was asked of the Prime Minister or the Minister for Finance, just that the possibility of asking was given voluntarily and asked the Minister for Economic Affairs and Infrastructure again and again. I'll always be in front of you when you call. I really ask you to take this opportunity to ask, so you will be able to learn a lot of things. Both inquiries and Question Time have a perfectly reasonable format, and I will always be there when you call me.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-24_U45	Arno Bridge, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-24_U46	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Prime Minister, I will take this opportunity to ask you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-24_U47	Very good!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-24_U48	I'm asking about the coercion. Are there mechanisms for how this coercion will take place? Let's take a simple example. Three or four municipalities agree to join in order to meet the criteria, but there is another municipality next to them. What, then, will the wishes of those who have already agreed with each other be taken into account? How are these mechanisms going to work on forced integration? There hasn't been much information on that so far.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-24_U49	Thank you. You can also find information about this in the same administrative reform law that you yourself adopted. So I recommend that members of the Riigikogu study this law thoroughly, even now. There are actually most of the answers, but I don't mind explaining it either. The logic of coercion is that we first give the municipalities the opportunity to agree themselves, so that all the municipalities in the future will meet the minimum criteria. We have motivated this with rather generous accession support, so that the necessary investments can also be made in order to support integration either from the infrastructure side or in other ways. This is a logical proposal from the state. If a municipality, knowing that a merger will come in any case, really voluntarily gives up its decision-making power, raises its hands and says that it should be forced to join it, renounces all double benefits and the opportunity to participate in it, then the government will have no choice but to join it in accordance with the rules laid down by law in such a way that it meets the conditions laid down by law. In this case, the discretion of the government plays a very important role. The government, of course, wants to make decisions in such a way that they are the most logical and based on the facts that seem the most reasonable on the ground. We can also use the recommendations of the regional consultative bodies or consultative committees on how accession could take place. These are the grounds on which the government has to make a decision on the matter. I can say that the government has the readiness to make these forced decisions if necessary, but our preference is for local leaders to carry this process out themselves. I believe that if this process is carried on the ground itself, the best result for the people of the municipality will be achieved. I don't understand why some mayor, knowing that the merger will come, should voluntarily give up his role here.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-24_U50	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-24_U51	Thank you, Mr. Speaker. Good minister! You said that the government discussed and discussed which institutions and ministries could be merged or removed from Tallinn. We know that the reverse process is currently taking place in Estonia. The Road Administration tried to eliminate its offices, but the public did not do so, but the services were reduced on the ground. The Maritime Administration does the same thing, etc. Aren't you afraid that by the time you reach a decision, there won't be a lot of agencies on the ground? What agencies and ministries did you mean when you discussed what could be taken out of Tallinn?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-24_U52	Thank you. No, I'm not scared. That's one. Secondly, it is true that all institutions are under pressure to be more effective and to perform the same functions with fewer people. That is why it is necessary that a country which, on the one hand, abolishes the land governments in their former form, and therefore contributes to making it, as you said, the opposite process, compensated by taking the so-called central part of a public authority or agency that provides a service to the whole state, one county or another. I can't say it's being replaced by county government, but the principle is that it's being taken to the county. This will help to keep the public sector in balance. The largest share of the public sector, including the very large participation of the central government, is surprisingly not in Tallinn at all, but instead in Tartu. In fact, the central government is, of course, present in all Estonian municipalities, but we want this presence to be even more uniform in favour of smaller counties. It is still early to call out specific institutions and counties, but I can say that ministers have had a number of proposals that they have sent to the Minister for Public Administration. The Minister of State Administration must systematise them and make sure that the picture is balanced throughout Estonia and in all areas of administration, and then bring its proposal to the government. Examples of what has already been done can be given in a number of ways. The Rural Promotion Foundation was moved to Viljandi during the term of office of the Deputy Chairman of the Riigikogu, and the accounts of rural governments have also been taken centrally to Viljandi, the management of the prison area of Jõhvi is a well-known example, etc. So there are already examples, but there will be much more in the future.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-24_U53	The members of the Riigikogu have no further questions for the Prime Minister. I'm opening negotiations. Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-24_U54	Mr. Chairman! Prime Minister! Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! We are, of course, pleased that the Prime Minister is always ready to answer our questions and come before us when we ask questions, and is ready to answer even if no questions have been asked, as happened last Wednesday. But unfortunately, we didn't get a lot of new knowledge from here. We learned what is so in the administrative reform law as it was adopted, which is why the Prime Minister named larger and more capable municipalities who can offer better services as the purpose of the reform. I think the emphasis here is, in a very one-sided way, on the word 'greater'. The assumption that the larger one brings about better services may not always be quite accurate. Of course, we would like to have larger municipalities and we would like to have a bigger Estonia, too, but it does not always work like this. It's probably starting to absolutize this one figure. The argument that some questions, such as the precise distribution of these tasks and how they are financed, can only be answered once the government has come up with a new scheme or once the coordination circle has been run smoothly. If you look at the way in which these promises that the laws will come before us are being pushed forward, it seems to me that this is not going so smoothly for you, because otherwise we would not have to discover or spin this earth from the backwards. In fact, this division of tasks should still have gone ahead of drawing boundaries. Indeed, the local government must know how the municipality will operate. But you put the delineation and funding of these tasks in a different wagon, the locomotive with the first wagon, or the territorial part, has come somewhere, some activities are going, but the other wagon, it seems to me, has disappeared, just as was the case in the Soviet railroads. Where is he now? Indeed, you once said that these laws would come in the second quarter, then there was talk about the beginning of autumn. This is the end of October. However, we are somewhat dissatisfied, and I believe that rightly so, because this issue of delimiting tasks and financing is, in fact, the most important. One more thing I want to touch briefly here. In fact, I somehow scratched my ear when the Prime Minister said that the protection of constitutionality and of the Constitution, which hinders development, just as it does not work. In my opinion, this is a very dangerous argument when, by slowing down development, stigmatization is introduced to legitimacy or, more importantly, constitutionality. This is definitely not right. When you look at what is said about local governments in our constitution, I think it is obvious that the different paragraphs must be viewed in combination and they are quite well balanced. There is the side that gives the municipality the right to self-order, and there is indeed the side that allows the municipality to change or adjust the order on the basis of the law. But this thing gets out of hand when you start to interpret one or the other criterion in a very one-sided way, just as it has happened with this unfortunate 5000 population criterion, without taking into account geographical and cultural specificities. With the proposal on Setomaa that the opposition has put forward, we will deal with here tomorrow. The failure to take account of these particularities makes the matter very one-sided and the constitutional problems that arise from it. The problem of constitutionality is certainly also that until the division of tasks is clearly delineated, the situation is blurred. I also do not really agree with the statement that, before this administrative reform, these tasks were clearly and satisfactorily delineated. Actually, it didn't work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-24_U55	Anneli Ott, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-24_U56	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Prime Minister! First of all, I would like to thank the authors of the inquiry. Undoubtedly, the questions are very serious and I believe that they are very interesting to many people in Estonia. Today, the law on administrative reform has been in force for three months, and we can see clearly that the issue of self-government reform remains on the agenda. In this short time, 26 local government councils have approached the Supreme Court with a request to declare the provisions contained in the Administrative Reform Act incompatible with the Constitution. The Riigikogu has held a debate on the reform of the local government on a crucial national issue. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs, of which I am a member, also deals with these issues almost every week. The draft law on administrative reform initiated by the Government of the Republic in spring contained the basis and procedure for carrying out the reform. The draft decree provided for the minimum size of the local government unit and the exceptions thereto, as well as the rights and obligations attached to the merger of municipalities. The main objective of the administrative reform was that by the time the results of the 2017 municipal elections were announced, new operational municipalities would have to be formed. By acting local authorities, the authors of the draft law on administrative reform meant municipalities that are able to provide better public services to people, ensure an increase in the competitiveness of the regions and are able to independently perform the tasks assigned to them by law. According to the draft, such administrative authorities were those where at least 5 000 people lived. Now, in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, we have heard the arguments of the representatives of the government that 5000 are not such a fundamental criterion, and the government has a very wide margin of discretion here. Thus, the content of the draft administrative reform law dealt with in the spring was, in short, very limited, and no more was included in the draft explanatory memorandum. There were no data on how in reality quality services and competitiveness in every municipality are guaranteed and how municipalities can fulfil the tasks assigned to them by the state. This is where all these problems started. When processing the draft law on administrative reform, Minister of State Administration Arto Aas promised us that the draft laws concerning the law would arrive in the proceedings in the second quarter. Now it's the fourth quarter, and we haven't seen these drafts of content, we don't know anything about them. On 6 October, in an interview with Vikerraadio, you, Prime Minister, said that the law on administrative reform adopted by the Riigikogu was the law on content. It is clear that the Administrative Reform Act, which entered into force on 1 July, is a law on administrative-territorial redistribution. It is very difficult for local governments to make a decision in favour of or against a merger on the basis of the law that has been passed, as it is not known exactly what the accession will entail. It is very bad to say that the government is not in a hurry. They say there's plenty of time. At the same time, we know that local government leaders are negotiating in a situation where they do not really know what they are negotiating. It is not clear which services must be offered, which public buildings must be in the municipality's territory, which do not need to be, which infrastructure must be maintained and which do not need to be. The fact that these things become clear only after negotiations and accession agreements is certainly an unknowing approach to the functioning of local governments. This is illustrated by the fact that to date only two municipalities have submitted a proposal from 213 municipalities to the Government of the Republic. Such a major reform cannot be carried out on the basis of a harsh ax method. Carrying it out merely with your own wisdom, and it is not right to consult with local governments. The Centre Party is not against administrative reform, but the way it is done is not acceptable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-24_U57	The members of the Riigikogu have no further wish to speak, but the Prime Minister does. Please, Prime Minister Taavi Kõivas!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-24_U58	Here was the question of exactly what are the laws that need to be amended, what are their numbers, etc. I'm taking this opportunity to read them. This number 18 also includes all those laws where very minor improvements are needed; we certainly do not need 18 new laws. I have already read out the main functions that are intended to be added to the local authorities, but now I will read out the most important laws that will make changes that will soon enter the coordination circle. There's six of them. First of all, I mention the Local Government Organisation Act, which contains a large number of issues related to local governments, including regulation on joint agencies and agencies to enable sectoral cooperation. However, the provision of a number of specific tasks is also linked to this, whether it be the development of a local and regional business environment, regional development, etc. These are the topics of the Local Government Organisation Act. Changes to the Civil Service Act are necessary in particular in order to allow the joint office to be designated as a local authority. Once again, a number of organisational issues have been addressed here. The Administrative Division of Estonian Territory Act contains a number of topics related to, for example, the transfer of taxes and subsidies, the renewal of general plans, etc. There are a number of transitional regulations. The amendment to the Local Government Associations Act provides for the possibility in the future not only of regional associations but also of regional alliances covering two or more counties. In addition, the Unions may establish a joint representation. All of this is necessary in order to ensure that cooperation between local governments can take place instead of cooperation at the level of rural governments. There is also a need to amend the pharmaceutical law. There is a need to change the restrictions on the establishment of pharmacies in connection with changes in the town's term. The amendment of the Public Transport Act allows local authorities and the Public Road Administration to jointly set up regional public transport centres, to which the Public Transport Administration has to delegate the organisation of regional public transport, which has hitherto been entrusted. This was a list of the main laws to be amended. As has been said, the government is making an effort to have these laws approved by the end of the year, so it is possible to discuss them in Parliament. But the government, of course, can be pleased that your main criticism is that the government should implement its programme even more quickly. So we'll do our best to make it work even faster. I'm glad you like this program. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-24_U59	I will stop dealing with this question.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-24_U60	Members of the Riigikogu Olga Ivanova, Mikhail Stalnukhin, Jaanus Karilaid, Toomas Vitsut, Peeter Ernits, Anneli Ott, Enn Esemaa, Jüri Ratas, Erki Savisaar, Viktor Vassilyev, Mikhail Korb, Kadri Simson, Marika Tuus-Laul, Märt Sults, Kersti Sarapuu, Oudekki Loone, Tarmo Tamm and Martin Repinski have submitted the following question. Olga Ivanova, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-24_U61	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Prime Minister! I would like to introduce a question on behalf of the 18 members of the Central Party Group concerning support for job creation in Ida-Virumaa. In March of this year, a government rendezvous meeting took place in Ida-Virumaa. In the ensuing public press conference, it was proudly advertised that in Ida-Virumaa you could apply for job creation support paid to a company employing at least 20 people who were unemployed in the region. These people must have been unemployed for at least six months. The job creation allowance in one calendar month shall be 50% of the employee's salary, but not more than twice the minimum wage. This is a temporary support that can be applied for until the end of next year. The number of participants planned was 625 people. Today, entrepreneurs have been able to apply for job creation support for more than four months, but the results are not a cause for joy. At the beginning of August, a non-profit organisation had received support. The main obstacle for businesses is that at least 20 people must be employed at a time and all these new workers must have been in the unemployment fund for at least six months. In all of this, we have four questions. Firstly, how many companies have applied for job creation support today, and how many new jobs have been created in Ida-Virumaa in this regard? Secondly, it can be concluded from the Äripäev article that a number of companies have renounced the grant after having examined the conditions for receiving the aid. How do you assess the effectiveness of the government plan with the current state of play? Thirdly, according to the statistics of the unemployment fund, unemployment in Ida-Viru County remains very high compared to other counties. What is the government's plan to reduce unemployment in Ida-Virumaa? One last question. Minister of Enterprise Liisa Oviir has said that she sees great potential for developing entrepreneurship in Ida-Virumaa and the state is ready to contribute more and more. What measures is the government prepared to take so that this great potential can also be reflected in the fall in unemployment rates and the recovery of the local economy? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-24_U62	The inquiry is answered by Prime Minister Taavi Kõivas. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-24_U63	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! I'll answer your question. The first question: 'How many companies have applied for job creation support today and how many new jobs have been created in Ida-Virumaa? ' Job creation support has been applied for and received by three companies to create 81 jobs. In addition, the Estonian Unemployment Insurance Fund prepares with the support of a dozen companies for job creation. For example, the furniture manufacturing company and the sewing company operating in Kohtla-Järve want to employ 50 employees in the coming months, the sound recording company in Jõhvi wants 20 people, as well as the hotel and restaurant in Jõhvi. The metal company in stone oil plans to expand its production and employ more than a hundred people next year. The new metal company, founded in Narva industrial park, needs 20 metal processors in December and the sewing company expanding in Narva also needs 20 people. All these companies are supported in finding, training and preparing people for work. The unemployment fund also negotiates with a number of other companies that are planning to expand. According to the Unemployment Insurance Fund, 200 or more jobs will be created in the near future. The second question: 'The business day article concludes that a number of companies have abandoned the grant after they have examined the conditions for receiving the aid. How do you assess the effectiveness of the government plan with the current state of play? ' The decision to grant a job creation grant is one of several decisions taken by the government at the departure meeting in Narva on 3 March to reduce unemployment in Ida-Viru County. In addition, the government decided to significantly lower the rate of the mining right, which is a significant relief for the entire region and businesses. I believe that this has helped to prevent additional consolidations. Moreover, the VKG has therefore decided to restart two oil shale oil plants and to take back nearly 350 people. At the same sitting, the government decided to apply for funds from the European Globalisation Adjustment Fund (EGF) to provide employment services for at least 800 people for two years. Its total cost is EUR 1,9 million. Since 1 July, 291 people have started to receive services. The Foundation provides retraining and instruction in Estonian language, reimbursement of training costs and travel expenses. There are also companies that create jobs without support. So Delux Dreams, who manufacture beds, mattresses and textile products in Viljandi, decided to open his sewing plant in Narva and employ 35 people. The government assesses the effectiveness of the plan on the basis of how unemployment in Ida-Virumaa decreases in the combined effects of all the measures taken and decisions taken. While, at the end of March, the government had just discussed these issues, there were 7790 registered unemployed people in Ida-Viru County, accounting for 12.4% of the workforce, half a year later, in particular at the end of September, these figures were 6154 people and 9.8%. So unemployment has fallen dramatically in Ida-Viru County, by almost a quarter in six months, which is quite remarkable. The third question: 'The statistics of the Unemployment Insurance Fund show that the unemployment rate in Ida-Viru County remains very high compared to other counties. What is the government's plan to reduce the unemployment rate in Ida-Viru County? ' Question 4: 'The Minister of Entrepreneurship, Liisa Oviir, has said, sees great potential for developing entrepreneurship in Ida-Viru County and the state is ready to contribute more and more. What measures is the government prepared to take so that this great potential can also be reflected in the fall in unemployment rates and the recovery of the local economy? ' I answer the third and fourth questions at once. Although the unemployment rate in Ida-Virumaa is high compared to other counties, as has already been said, unemployment registered in Ida-Virumaa has decreased by 2.6% over the last six months. In addition to the measures already mentioned, the State will also contribute to attracting investors and creating new jobs in Ida-Virumaa. The activities are expanded by the Development of Industrial Areas of Ida-Virumaa Foundation, which, in addition to development, also engages in the integration of new investments into the region. In addition to the expansion of Narva industrial park, industrial parks in Jõhvi, Kohtla-Järve and Kiviõli are being developed. From a perspective of the future, hundreds of new jobs in Ida-Viru County will also be helped by the government's decision to allow low-value timber to be burned as part of renewable energy exports. National measures will also contribute to preventing and reducing unemployment in Ida-Virumaa. In September, the government decided that in May next year, more will be done to improve the professional skills of working people over 50 years of age, lower education levels and lower incomes. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure on studies, meetings of experts, information and publications directly linked to the achievement of the objective of the EUR 3 million has also been allocated by the government to support a large investment measure to promote entrepreneurship. Its aim is to increase investment in technology-intensive industry in Estonia, create jobs with higher added value and increase exports. In addition, in the near future, the government will discuss ways to reduce the energy costs of large consumers in order to motivate companies to invest in Estonia, also in areas where it has been difficult to compete with the Nordic countries. So, as you can see, a very clear priority for the government is to improve the situation in business. It has also produced very clearly measurable results in Ida-Viru County. However, the government has also taken a specific direction to reduce labour taxes, including the social tax rate, increase the tax-free minimum and introduce a lower income refund system. These are all measures to improve the business environment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-24_U64	Questions. Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-24_U65	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Prime Minister! You spoke about this concrete measure in a hypothetical key to the future. I was a little ironically asked whether there could be any way to describe all the fine measures that allow support, but on the basis of the criteria that are quite unlikely to exist. For let's be honest, 20 people registered unemployed in the region who must have been unemployed for six months, well, there are not many who catch this goldfish 20 times! I ask the question in this way: do you also have comparable support schemes specifically for small businesses in Ida-Virumaa that are unable to employ so many people at once, or is this support somehow inclined to one side?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-24_U66	Thank you. The number of unemployed in Ida-Virumaa has decreased by 1636 people. I don't think that's enough. I think the fall in unemployment has been very rapid. In 1636 this country's family now has more confidence. There's no way I'd call it a seeming or insignificant change. Yes, with this specific measure, which Olga Ivanova and the other signatories asked for, 81 jobs have been created at present. But I would point out that, not seemingly, but on the basis of a specific list of accurate projects, there are more than 200 jobs to come. I don't think 200 jobs are irrelevant to Ida-Viru County. I'm sure it isn't. So, in my opinion, this particular measure works, but it is certainly not the only thing, so we need to look at the wider picture. The broader picture shows that unemployment has decreased significantly in Ida-Viru County. In my opinion, the fact that 1600 and more people have found employment is very, very important for Ida-Virumaa and, in fact, for the whole of Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-24_U67	Olga Ivanova, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-24_U68	Thank you. Prime Minister! You mentioned in your reply that the Estonian state has approached the European Globalisation Adjustment Fund (EGF) with a request to grant support to the region of Ida-Virumaa. This amount, which was also approved by the Committee in this area in the European Parliament, is over EUR 1 million. But it also provides for Estonia's own financing, which should be 754000 euros. Do we have any hope of seeing this amount in next year's budget? What are these measures? You said re-training and learning Estonian. Of course, they're always welcome, but there's a lot of money. What else could be done for the economy of Ida-Virumaa for this money?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-24_U69	Thank you. I didn't understand if you found helping people in Ida-Virumaa somehow bad, or if the fact that money goes there from the state budget is somehow negative. I don't think it's negative. Of course, we will contribute the necessary self-financing and we will find the means to do so. Here we really need a decision from the European Parliament and the Council of the European Union, which we do not yet have, but I hope that these decisions will come. It just brings us more resources. The unemployment fund itself has also been prepared to allocate large sums of money from its own resources. If it is possible to get additional money in the framework of pan-European solidarity, I think it is only positive. Of course, if we have an obligation to co-finance or put money on our own side, we will find the money. All the money with which we train people who need training under this measure actually goes nicely to the economy of Ida-Viru, because then there will be better qualified workers who can do the work that local companies can offer there.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-24_U70	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-24_U71	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Prime Minister! I'm gonna ask you about Ida-Viru County under the second rate. At different times, it has still been mentioned, and the previous governments have said, that a large state institution or educational institution should be taken to Ida-Viru County, such as the National Defence Academy, which has been specifically mentioned. Does the current government have any plans to increase the state's presence in Ida-Virumaa?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-24_U72	Thank you. As was said in reply to the previous inquiry, Arto Aas comes before the government when there is a comprehensive picture of all areas by county. We are trying to achieve that every county and, of course, Ida-Viru County can be moved to central government institutions or parts of them. But this plan can be advertised when it has, at least, been approved by the government in principle. It is a little early to mention specific institutions, apart from those that have already been taken away from Tallinn.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-24_U73	Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-24_U74	Thank you. Mr Prime Minister! The figures that you have brought show how much the list of people looking for work has narrowed. But does the government have any idea how many have travelled from Ida-Virumaa to work and live in Tallinn, Sweden or Finland? These people have to work somewhere else and live in two places.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-24_U75	Thank you. I am absolutely sure that these statistics can be taken out. I don't have it with me. But I think that in Ida-Virumaa there are people who do not have a job and whose family is therefore insecurity, much less, almost a quarter less than they were six months ago. It's positive anyway. We know that a very large proportion of them have found a new job in Ida-Viru County. But it is also true that several other counties, where unemployment is very low, have invited people from Ida-Virumaa to work there. If a person living in Ida-Virumaa takes the decision to work in Viljandi, for example, because it is better for him and his family, then neither the government nor Parliament should try to put a hand on it. I described the measures that we have taken to create new jobs in Ida-Viru County. I can say that they have worked very well and that there is even more potential. But, of course, if someone finds a rewarding job in another Estonian county, it will be positive for that person in any case.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-24_U76	No further questions. Thank you, Prime Minister Taavi Kõivas. I'm opening negotiations. Martin Repinski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-24_U77	Honourable Chairman! Prime Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, I want to thank the government for this measure. I thank you for at least thinking and working towards increasing the number of employees in Ida-Virumaa! Of course, this measure is not ideal. That's what everyone understands. It can't be perfect. In this regard, I have three requests. The first request is that this measure should be supplemented and amended. I also talked about this when this measure was only born, even when it was just being discussed, and before that. This is the very right direction, but it should actually be that the condition that a person must have been unemployed for six months should not be included in it, but only then can he or she apply for support. This is not right, because it is difficult for a person who has been unemployed for six months to cope with self-discipline, for example, and it is difficult for him to go back to work in the first place. It would be much better if this person could go now and choose a new job and not wait six months. I do not see why this measure could not be changed in this form at all. In addition, there is a clear need to change the period of validity of the measure. It is certainly wrong that this is valid for one year, i.e. only one year, for businesses to receive support. No company plans its activities for one year and does not start to build a business plan for one year. He's planning it for at least five to ten years. If the aid is intended for a period of one year, it will not be of such value as if it were at least three years old. Then, I think, it would be much more effective. There is certainly a need to change the minimum number of employees. Of course, for our county and region, large companies and large employers are very important, without them we could not do anything, and they also need to be supported, they are very good for us. However, if we look at the context of today and Estonia at all, we will see that it would be much more realistic and easier to create jobs if support were also paid to small companies that employ between three and five employees at the same time. This would certainly stimulate small businesses, and it would also encourage people who have lost their jobs to start entrepreneurship. We imagine a situation where a person is made redundant, for example, from a large group and has the idea of starting a business. This support is of no use to him, for he cannot employ 20 people if he is not a genius or has not received much money from anywhere. So this measure is a very good idea, it is a good idea that the start has been made, but it simply needs to be changed and moved forward with it. The next request is that if you use statistical data, I ask you to also look at how many people are actually at work, not only how many people who do not currently have a job are registered at the unemployment fund. Because if we look only in this context of registration, it is a bit wrong to stimulate the unemployment fund, because they are interested in keeping as few people as possible on account, not that all people are at work. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-24_U78	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-24_U79	If we look at how many people really have a job and what percentage is that of the total number of people who could theoretically work, we can see that this number could be quite different. This may not change very much, but it will certainly change and it will be much more realistic than how many people are on the register of the unemployment fund. There are several reasons for this. One example is that many people can't afford to be in the unemployment fund in purely psychological terms, because they are always being diverted everywhere and basically being sent forcibly, perhaps even where they absolutely don't fit in. I know that because a lot of people have told me how hard it is sometimes morally. Of course, it depends on the service provider at the unemployment fund, but there are also people at work and people are very different. If the state requires them to have as few registered unemployed people as possible, then they must act accordingly. So it's really hard to blame them for something. The third prayer, perhaps, is even one of the most important things that needs to be done, is that you take advantage of the opportunity to communicate with small entrepreneurs in Ida-Virumaa. I understand that when you worked out this measure, you spoke to large groups and spoke well to potential investors who could come to Ida-Virumaa and build something up there. But I'm asking you not to forget those very good small entrepreneurs who have already created something. If they all took a few more workers, it might be much more helpful than large investors, who, of course, are not worth underestimating. All of this is very necessary, both for these groups and for investors. But be sure to invite more small entrepreneurs to the round table and talk to them. They have excellent ideas about how life could develop in Ida-Virumaa and how jobs could be created. Perhaps this assistance does not always have to be financial, it may be moral or some other simple aid that the representatives of the state could provide. Then the jobs would have been created, and then, I think, everything would do much better than it has done so far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-24_U80	Mikhail Stalnukhin, please! Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-24_U81	Mr. Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, 30 years ago, one such Russian-language poem was popular, which in free translation sounded something like this: the winter ended, summer came, thanks to the party for that. I can absolutely imagine the Government of the Republic coming to Ida-Virumaa in March, looking around with a sad face and deciding that the day is too short and the water in the sea too cold, there is something to be done to make the day longer and the water warmer. It's said, it's done. Let it go! And look, in June, you can come and report that the day has been extended and the water has warmed. Fantastic result, come to congratulate this government! It's like people live in some parallel world. I really do not understand how it is possible at all to come up with such arguments that 1636 people are now underpaid at the unemployment fund. It's like people don't know that in spring, road repair begins. All the companies that have slept in the winter are waiting for this season and then employing people. Then the tourist season begins, so waitresses, chefs and hotel staff are hired. The construction season begins, the forest works season begins. It's all connected. Just as the day increases and then shortens again, the economy has exactly the same processes each year. This small number of people, 1600 for all of Ida-Viru County, is the result of the season. This has given people additional opportunities to get a job. But by now, this season is over. I have a favorite place in Narva that I'm not gonna advertise right now. It's a cafe outside the hotel. If I have company this summer, and if I have to, I'll take them there. There's no problem, good kitchen, and everything's fine. When September ended, the kitchen stopped working, three waitresses and a couple of chefs were fired, the hotel is now almost empty and three or four people have been released. That's how it's done, that's how it's done in the world. And come here to report that we did this, this and this, and thanks to this during the summer... Yes, there are always measures that allow us to say that we have done, we have worked. But then came the remote colleague Repinski, who apparently praised it, but did not leave any stone in this wall. This 20 is too big, six months is too long, and everything else that goes on about this thing doesn't work, it just doesn't work. What would work? It might work if we had a transit. As far as I know, there was an organization of Estonian transit companies once sitting in this hall. As far as I know, the number of large trucks crossing the border has decreased about three times, and these people no longer work in Estonia, but they work somewhere in Europe. They're highly qualified drivers, but they just don't have a job here. Perhaps the question is that one Prime Minister once said that Estonia does not need transit. Perhaps the question is that somebody in this hall once began to scream, that there is no need for a gas pipeline that goes by the shores of Estonia, it is dangerous, etc. The Finns and the Swedes probably instigated that yes-yes, they too support. That's what you were talking about, isn't it? As soon as our Parliament had taken this idiotic decision, both Finns and Swedes granted a building permit and the 2 000 jobs that are much more than those spoken of by the Prime Minister have gone to the other side. We could talk about it forever. At first, fantastic political mistakes are made and only ambitions are paid. No one thinks about Estonian agriculture. How much milk used to go to Russia both directly from Estonia and through Latvia? How much this amount has been reduced because of the sanctions that were supported, without even thinking about what will follow, has it not? How much did it go down? A familiar pig farmer told me that in the last few years the number of pig farms has fallen from 920 to 160. I assume this person knows what he's saying. These are incredible numbers. This is also the result of political mistakes. I have this paradoxical conclusion: whether our economy is living better and our people have more work depends on what our government is doing, but the less it does something, the better it may be from a historical perspective. What is happening now, and what is happening later, is all just one correction. I would like to mention once again that it is good in itself if the government comes to Ida-Virumaa, tries to think of us poor, and tries to do something. It is not their fault that they are such that they do not know what really needs to be done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-24_U82	The members of the Riigikogu have no further wish to speak, but the Prime Minister does. Please, Prime Minister Taavi Kõivas!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-24_U83	I'm taking this opportunity to clear up a question that wasn't answered before by Andres Herkel. This issue was also reflected in other issues and speeches. It is precisely why the government decided to put this specific limit on employing people who have been absent from the labour market for a long time. It is not quite the case that this person must have been unemployed for six months in a row. He must not have worked more than a certain number of days in the last six months. But still, yes, it must be an unemployed person. It is not the case that you employ someone from another company, simply by being able to do so at half the cost, because the state partially covers the costs. The second reason is that the abuse of the market, which would be an exceptionally bad thing, would result in the creation of a competing company on more favourable terms. It would not be very fair to companies that have created their jobs without support. Secondly, why have we decided that there must be at least twenty employees, that it is not enough to simply create one or two jobs? We also did so on the basis of basically the same considerations, so that there would not be a situation in which a small business unit would be created, which would not actually lead to a major change in employment in the region, but which could have an impact on other companies in the same area to close their doors. These are the effects we wanted to avoid at all costs. So this threshold has been set with all intent. As far as effectiveness or non-effectiveness is concerned, however, employment statistics are not made by an unemployment fund, which is done by Statistics Estonia. It does so by means of surveys, and it is not as accurate as the unemployment statistics recorded, where we know the result with one person's accuracy. But in any case, we have reason to rejoice that unemployment has decreased by more than 1,600 people in Ida-Virus, and we have reason to rejoice over hundreds of new jobs. I find it difficult to accept what Mikhail Stalnukhin said. Mostly with regard to transit and sanctions. I would remind you, just in case, that the sanctions restricting the sale of Estonian agricultural products to Russia were imposed by the Kremlin, not Toompea. There's a pretty important difference. These sanctions, which have been imposed by the European Union, have been imposed against specific individuals and companies who have been involved in the fact that a large part of Ukraine has been conquered. This is once again something worth remembering from time to time. This was a very clear reaction from European countries, and also from the United States, because conquering sovereign states is not acceptable in today's world. That is why sanctions were imposed, and that is why Estonia, among others, said that Ukraine's independence is worth more to us than the threat of the Kremlin's possible counter-sanctions. Let's get this straight, too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-24_U84	I will conclude the debate on this question. Thank you, Prime Minister Taavi Kõivas.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-24_U85	The next question is presented by Krista Aru, Külliki Kübarsepp, Andres Ammas, Monika Haukanõm, Jüri Adams, Artur Talvik, Ain Lutsepp and Andres Herkel. On behalf of the heirs, Krista Aru, please! Here you go!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-24_U86	Mr. Chairman! Dear Minister, Ladies and gentlemen of the House! A substantial and meaningful, I dare say so, one thing makes me and the whole Group of the Free Party very concerned in the 'Assessment of state tasks' document: there is very little talk about culture, culture in its narrower and wider sense. At the same time, we all know very well that culture in its broad sense means attitude to life, a system of values, all the fundamental views that, together, shape a person's attitude towards work, his attitude towards the state and his understanding of the person's attitude towards others, his associates, as well as his duties and rights. There is a very good system of public libraries in Estonia, which over the years have maintained education and raised the educational level of the entire Estonian population. There are very good museums, excellent performance facilities, community houses and village societies. We also have a network for culture in its narrower sense and it works. It is also characteristic and even understandable that, in the light of the forthcoming administrative reform and national reform, a wider question has arisen as to how and why these public authorities will continue to work in their own field. We know very interesting periods about Estonia's history. Before World War II, in the early years of the Republic of Estonia, the state was also expecting the network of cultural institutions to work hand in hand with educational institutions. Education was the value of everything that cultural institutions were expected to contribute to. In 1935 everything changed. Then cultural institutions were confronted with completely different tasks and national education became important. What kind of paradigm will all our cultural institutions now be put into with administrative reform and state reform? Is there even a conceptual basis that makes sense to our culture in a broader sense? It is not possible to say that we have a state reform if we have not established whether it is necessary for the preservation and successful functioning of a value-based world here in Estonia. Once we have made this clear, we should think about what museums should do. There are very many contradictions in this analysis of public tasks. If, on the one hand, we read that we have very good and well-functioning museums, then on the other hand, it is felt that when so many different, purely legal forms have been applied to these museums, it is not good again. At all, the analysis does not concern the existing network of public libraries, nor does it concern the existing system of cultural houses or community houses operating through local authorities. I admit that maybe it is also my fault that I have not been able to find these answers in this big analysis and this big document. That is why we are very grateful when Arto Aas answers all these questions, which, by numbers, are six, but actually a little more, meaningfully. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-24_U87	Thank you. Please answer the question of the Minister of State Administration Arto Asa!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-24_U88	Good afternoon, good Riigikogu and respected questioners! I'm going to give you a narrower answer to your questions, and I'm going to follow up on the work we did on 'Assessment of state tasks'. I believe it is worth asking the Minister for Culture, who I am sure you know, for more conceptual questions in the field of culture. But the first question: 'Which considerations or proposals have led to a more in-depth analysis, i.e. the issue of focus, namely museums? Why not a library network or performance agencies? 'We were free to prepare 'State mission analysis' and choose the areas of focus. In drawing up the analysis, we did not impose such restrictions that certain areas could be analysed, but others could not be analysed. We prepared reviews of the administration of ministries and interviewed top ministries leaders and, on the basis of the information received, we focused on those areas and structures where major reforms had already been initiated or where at this point the greatest potential for planning the necessary changes existed. We decided to analyse the museum in cooperation with the Ministry of Culture. It is important to note that we analysed not only museums in the Ministry of Culture's administration, but also museums in general. Museums are also held by the Ministry of the Environment, the Ministry of Rural Affairs, the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications and the Ministry of the Interior, where the reform of museums has not been carried out on a large scale so far. Over time, considerable changes have been made to the administration of the Ministry of Culture. The state or state has established the following foundations of performing arts in the administration of the Ministry of Culture: Estonian Drama Theatre, Endla Theatre, NUKU, Rakvere Theatre, Theatre NO99, Theatre Vanemuine, Ugala Theatre, Old Town Theatre House and Russian Theatre. Three foundations (Eesti Kontsert, Estonian Philharmonic Chamber Choir and Estonian National Symphony Orchestra) and two foundations in the sport field (Jõulumäe Tervisportkeskus and Tehvandi Sports Centre) have also been established. Thus, all state performing institutions are now in the form of a foundation, with the exception of the Estonian National Opera, which is a public organisation. As far as libraries are concerned, the government of the state has only two institutions, they are the National Library of Estonia and the Estonian Savings Library, as well as the Estonian Children's Literature Centre with a slightly wider function. The situation of museums is somewhat more diverse. We have state museums, museums managed as institutions and museums, which are essentially departments of state agencies (road museum, fire museum), we have museums operating as a foundation of the state, public-law person museums, municipal museums and private museums. So in the museum field, the picture is much more written than in other fields. We also have a very high share of the structural units of state museums compared to many other European countries. The number of museum employees per 100000 inhabitants in Estonia is also several times higher than in Finland, Norway or the Netherlands, for example. Although the Development Plan of the Government of the Ministry of Culture 2017 has said that only one State Museum, the Estonian National Museum, will remain by the end of 2018, and the rest of the museums will be converted into foundations or transferred to local governments, there was still no comprehensive cross-cutting view of what our museum network will be in the future. The museum network has been organized and the legal form of museums has been changed since 2002, but so far the reorganisations have only been carried out under the administration of the Ministry of Culture and have been approached on a case-by-case basis. Only nine of the thirty state museums operate in the form of a foundation. These are the reasons why we considered it necessary to analyse the museum sector in greater depth in cooperation with the Ministry of Culture and to make our proposals. The second question: 'What is actually seen as a problem with museums when it is generally stated that the reform of museums is going in the right direction, i.e. that the museum network should continue to be organised, the consolidation of museums and their conversion into foundations or the transfer of museums to local government? What is the specific nature of museums and what is the problem here? ' In the museum field, the direction has been chosen to convert state museums into foundations or to transfer them to municipalities, but there was no more detailed picture before the analysis was prepared. We wanted to have a more detailed overview and to find answers to a number of questions. We can say that now the picture is much clearer and, in general, the answers are available in the 'State Task Analysis'. The third question: 'In connection with the formation of foundations, the conversion of existing county museums into local authorities, etc., how will the issue of national cultural heritage be resolved? Who owns and remains responsible for the collections of national cultural importance? " On the basis of the changes already made to the museum network, it can be said that different solutions are possible depending on the collection of museums. In the case of comprehensive collections of national cultural importance, a model has been applied where the museum is handed over to the local government, but the museum collection remains with the state and the museum will use the state museum body on the basis of an administrative contract. In the case of smaller collections, it is also possible to hand over a collection of museums to the municipality or municipalities together with the museum, as it can be maintained and protected equally, regardless of the owner of the museum collection. Question 4: "What are the planned changes to the network of public libraries? Is and in which the state sees its role and support in modernising the network of public libraries? Why is it necessary and who conducts the analysis solely for the purposes of defining "library service levels"? As part of what concept is the provision of library services as a paid service to organisations? " When analysing the functions of the state, we did not analyse the network of public libraries. We have noted the existing plans of the Ministry of Culture with national libraries, i.e. we are analysing and considering whether the services of the Estonian Savings Library and the Estonian Children's Literature Centre can be developed and expanded when working with the Estonian National Library. The Ministry of Culture is also planning to turn the National Library of Estonia into a library competence centre. For example, it is possible that the National Library of Estonia will take over the management and development of the IT infrastructure of Urram from the Ministry of Culture. But for more information, please really contact the Minister of Culture. Question 5: 'The State Support Services Centre already provides personnel, accounting and wage accounting services to some state museums, and several state museums have decided to obtain services from the Centre. On the basis of what analysis is the case assessed to be effective and economical and it is concluded that the transfer of state museum support services to the Centre should be continued? What analyses and assessments are based on the argument that the provision of services by the Centre allows for better conditions for management decisions and the provision of high quality services to institutions? ' I answer these questions this way. The State Support Services Centre started providing financial, personnel and wage accounting services to public authorities in 2013. The service offer was started with accounting staff taken over from the service agencies. In the three years of operation, the number of employees involved in the provision of the service has decreased by 32% in the State Support Services Centre, resulting in a reduction in the labour costs associated with the provision of the service. In addition to saving labour costs, the provision of accounting services through the central service unit allows savings on IT development costs, as public authorities do not need to maintain and develop several economic software. The Ministry of Finance has based its analysis of state tasks on the view that such savings are also possible for accounting services in all state museums. The introduction of common software has created an opportunity for public authorities to develop comfortable working environments, such as a public employee's self-service portal, which makes a number of operational processes in public authorities themselves more convenient and efficient (e.g. holiday planning, asset accounting, placement planning, training planning). When support services are provided by the State Support Services Centre, this creates better prerequisites for management decisions, as common economic software allows all public authorities to obtain operational financial and human resources information from the online reporting environment. In addition to the availability of management information at the institution level, common economic software has created the possibility to receive financial and human resources data in an operational manner, also at the level of ministries and at the national level, which in turn creates better prerequisites for planning sectoral and national strategies. The National Support Services Centre has carried out a customer survey every year among users of its services to assess their satisfaction with services. The results of the studies show that satisfaction has been stable, ranging from 8.3 to 8.7 on a 10-ball scale. Consolidation of the accounting service has also improved its quality in the opinion of the National Audit Office, which audited it in 2013. The last, sixth question: "Which analysis or assessment makes it considered appropriate and necessary for the Ministry of Finance to draw up an overview and analysis of the own revenues of central government institutions, and why is it necessary to harmonise even the principles of earning own revenues? " At a meeting held on 25 August 2016, the Government of the Republic decided that the Ministry of Finance would have to prepare an overview and analysis of the own revenues of central government institutions, develop principles for earning own income and submit proposals to the Government of the Republic by 1 February 2017. The question of self-revenue still raises disputes between institutions. The analysis of the use of the state budget, which includes data on the use of the state budget, external resources as well as resources from economic activities, shows that funding the functions of public authorities from different sources puts the authorities in an unequal position. Since revenue from economic activities and the use of funds earned are centrally unregulated, the institutions have each interpreted the purpose of the funds earned differently. As a result, an overview of the state budget's use of resources shows that the resources generated by economic activity that are earned but not used during the year are increasing from year to year. At the same time, however, resources are being sought from the State's revenue, inter alia, for the priority development of the self-revenue sector. It is therefore necessary to clarify in which case additional earning of own earnings is justified in the performance of the institution's functions. It is also necessary to know in which cases it is reasonable to delegate the provision of services to a third party, for example in a situation where there is no market failure and where the service can be provided more effectively by private or third sector. Complying with uniform principles of self-revenue would avoid disputes as to whether the private sector should be allowed to use public assets for the provision of services. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-24_U89	Thank you, Minister. You have questions. Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-24_U90	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, I cannot fail to ask you when the more important part of the administrative reform will come before us in the form of draft laws that define the municipal and state tasks, and how you view the proposal of the Estonian Chamber of Culture and other organisations, so that the local government's responsibility for cultural work and access to culture is determined more precisely in the Local Government Organisation Act.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-24_U91	Thank you. As the question concerns another subject, I will not be answering for very long. But everything the Prime Minister said to you earlier is, of course, true. In quite a number of areas, we have made a political decision on the additional tasks that municipalities could carry out in the future, and for which they will also receive funding, on the basis of the assumption that local governments will be greater, more capable and their role in organising society will increase. These drafts are being prepared; we want to do this work thoroughly. They will certainly go to the round of coordination in the coming days and will still arrive at the tables of both the government and, hopefully, Parliament this year. That was the answer to the first part of the question. I don't know how to answer the other side right now. I do not exactly remember these proposals, but the general principle of the organisation of local government is that the municipality has a fairly wide degree of autonomy in the performance of its tasks. This capacity will certainly increase after administrative reform. We can see in many areas that it is increasing. If there is enough finance and a large enough scale effect, the authority of an official body will grow exponentially in the municipalities. There is certainly a cultural field to win here.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-24_U92	Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-24_U93	Honorable manager! Honorable Minister! The Road Museum is a nice and promising museum. Did I understand correctly that it is now under the administration of the Road Administration? Is this going to be the case, or is it going to do with him in the future?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-24_U94	Thank you. I hope I'm not mistaken if I say yes, it's the Road Administration department. Quite unusual again. But as has been said, the so-called legal spectrum of museums is what we have very passionately. Now, this museum really is working as a department of the Road Administration, which is not very common, but I have learned that the museum itself is satisfied with the organisation of the work and probably the customers too.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-24_U95	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-24_U96	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you for your answers. I didn't want to put you in the role of Minister of Culture, but you, who have been most involved in state reform and administrative territorial reform, have certainly had to answer yourself the question of how you see the role of cultural institutions in all of this changing Estonia. This is one of the questions facing Estonia, because culture is definitely one of Estonia's strengths.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-24_U97	Thank you. I attach great importance to the role of culture at national and local level. This is certainly an extremely important part. I fully agree with your words from this very remote area that culture and this area as a whole are essential for the survival of the Estonian state and our small people. After all, all the activities we are planning here are designed to support this sector. Consolidation of support services is also designed to enable us to save resources there, work more efficiently, free cultural institutions from such, say, relatively technical work and give it to where the competence for technical work exists. Cultural institutions would then be able to focus on their core activities. Let's see what investments have gone into the museum. In fact, this area is flourishing and flourishing. We record visits and build increasingly prominent cultural institutions and museums. So you can be happy about it, but it is always worth looking for ways to do better.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-24_U98	Arthur Talvik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-24_U99	Thank you! Good Minister, have I understood correctly that among your plans is that you want to harmonise the principles of earning your own income in different institutions? This means that theatres, museums and all other cultural institutions should earn their own income according to the same scheme. Is that it?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-24_U100	Thank you. Indeed, I said that at least the Ministry of Finance will carry out this analysis. The result may also be that different organisations may have different rules, but we would at least like to carry out a thorough analysis once, of the state of play, of the way public authorities behave. We also know from the debates in the office that this picture is well written. This creates certain tensions in reporting, budgeting and relations between institutions, because it is not clear who can earn their own income, what part of it comes to the Treasury, and what remains of the institution, whether earning their own income gives someone an advantage, etc. We'd like to get some clarity in this house. As has been said, we have promised to carry out this analysis by 1 February. There are certainly also proposals for harmonising this practice in this analysis. But today it is early to say whether everyone has to behave the same way or whether foundations, for example, have the same way and public authorities do not. Let's finally make a deal, and we'll figure it out in the house. There's too much confusion right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-24_U101	Ain Lutsepp, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-24_U102	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear Minister, Do you see that there are problems for cultural institutions as a result of the implementation of the Centre for Support Services?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-24_U103	Thank you. The transition may cause some confusion, but for the first three years the State Support Services Centre has done well in terms of efficiency and quality of services. This has given us reason to expand their activities and to bring together other support services. We have already given them the right to organise joint procurement, for example, in order to achieve a scale effect. Not every public authority should go through complex procurement procedures itself, and buying things together is certainly more favourable to the state. Where can problems arise? Yeah, work's changing. Maybe you're used to having an accountant at your side door, and if he's not there at one point, he's a few miles away, it might seem unfamiliar at first. But we see that in general, when this first moment is survived, there is satisfaction. I can make a comparison that the consolidation of real estate and centralisation of real estate services are much more painful. The restructuring of support services has gone significantly more smoothly.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-24_U104	Thank you, Minister. No further questions for you. I'm opening negotiations. Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-24_U105	Mr President! Thank you, Minister, for concrete and clear answers. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Why did I so want to present this question to Arto Asa? In particular, because of the same great plan that we, the Minister of Finance, very strongly asked to remember last week. Everything has a big plan, and every big plan has several small plans, and there are a lot of small questions. We are in Estonia now in the situation where the administrative-territorial reform of the state comes. I think it is the best time to recall that what is one of Estonia's great strengths and values, and for which the Estonian state is definitely there, is Estonia's people and culture in all its statements. If we were to make such a major change in our national organisation, it would be very short-sighted, and I think it would also be completely unforgivable for the future if we forgot those things that have been on a good level in Estonia through the ages. They are education and culture. We cannot forget either education, culture, or all those people who have worked every day throughout the years to ensure that culture progresses and grows, and that education empowers us and teaches us not only to view our peers well, but also to do our work properly and to do our duties well. Once again, if we forget them, they have been re-independated in the history of the Estonian state on several occasions, then no time will be allowed to correct the errors. So I would like the Minister of State Administration, by leading this complex and difficult process, never to feel that culture is only the field of the Minister of Culture, but by planning and making any changes or looking at how Estonia's life can be promoted, to think that we will not stop peripheralization if we centralise it for the sake of austerity. We cannot hold the Estonian culture and language if we let the network of our public libraries fade away. People's libraries may be primarily a matter of local government, but, Mr Arto Aas, there must be a clear understanding in the administrative reform you have launched and implemented that this very network of public libraries has been set up over a hundred and more years, and our generation has no right to let it fade and have no excuse if we allow it to happen. So I wish the honourable Minister, the whole government and all of us the wisdom, the ability and the will to keep what the generations have achieved and to pass it on to the next generations even better, more beautiful and more appropriate with their present. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-24_U106	Thank you. There's no more calls. Would the Minister like a word? No, I don't. We're done answering the third question.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-24_U107	Let's keep going. Today's fourth question is the inquiry submitted by the members of the Riigikogu, Artur Talvik, Ain Lutsep, Andres Herkel, Krista Aru, Külliki Kübarsep, Andres Ammas and Monika Haukanõmme concerning the procurement of a failed ID card. The inquiry has been submitted to Minister of the Interior, Hanno Pevkur. On behalf of the heirs, I would like to ask Artur Talvik, member of the Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-24_U108	Good vice chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, Good minister! The ID card has become such an important part of our lives that we no longer know how to sign without an ID card, not to mention anything else. It's kind of a comfortable, well-portable and pretty well-functioning thing. However, in a short period of time, the Police and Border Guard Board has failed another large-scale public procurement. If last time it was police uniforms and it was more about the police themselves, his working comforts and things like that, this time the I.D. deal failed. This is a truly large-scale procurement, up to EUR 40 million. But I'm talking about things in order. In February of the current year, it was announced that the procurement of ID cards organised by the PBGB could fail, as one of the four companies that took part in the procurement, Veridos, pointed out that the basic technical terms of the procurement were changed just before the deadline, in addition to which the procurement contains many unclear requirements for the future. At the beginning of August, the Tallinn Administrative Court annulled the decision made by the PBA in April, in which the PPP declared the French company Safran Morpho to be the winner of the purchase of ID cards between 2018 and 2023. The decision was challenged by two other document producers involved in the tender: the Swiss Gemalto AG, currently the Estonian ID card manufacturer, and the French company Oberthur Technologies. The Court found that the PBA did not provide logical and observable reasons for the selection process of the winner, i.e. why as many points were given to the various offers as they were given. The Court also considered that the assessment of the PBGB should have been clearly guided by the procurement conditions and criteria set by it and that the reasons for the decision should be verifiable. The time allowed for appeal was 1 September inclusive, but the decision was not appealed by the PBGB. However, a few days after the expiry of the deadline, he announced that the police did not appeal the judgment and that he would continue negotiations with the current range of bidders specifying the signing of the contract. Therefore, the decision has entered into force and the Minister could speak on this issue here. The procurement of ID-cards has resulted in a large number of questionable practices and doubts that the procurement process was biased. The contract is worth up to EUR 40 million, which gives an indication that it is a very large and security sensitive procurement, which is undoubtedly of public interest and of interest. In view of all that I have said here, we have asked the Minister six questions and we hope to have more detailed answers than the fact that things have a red stamp on them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-24_U109	Thank you. I ask you to answer the question to me, Minister of the Interior Hanno Pevkuri!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-24_U110	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good heirs! Surely not all things have a red temple on them. There are very few papers in Estonia that have a red stamp on them in proportion. But I'm going to start with maybe a moody clarification on the clue of a representative of the inquisitives, as if the police uniform procurement had gone wrong. The police don't have uniforms, the uniform has potatoes, the police have uniforms. But I'll come to the questions. The first three questions are converging in substance. For the sake of the tenogram, I recall that they concerned the judgment, my assessment and how the cancellation of the contract was. If the inquisitors allow me, I'll answer them together. It should be made clear, and as a preliminary point, that the administrative court did not annul the tender in its decision as a whole, but only the part of the procurement decision declaring Safran Morpho's bid to be successful. As the tender as a whole was not cancelled, the PBGB was also entitled to negotiate with the bidders. The Police and Border Guard Board was in fact able to choose, as you pointed out in your inquiry, whether to appeal the judgment, re-evaluate the offers or cancel the contested tender and start a new tender. So there were quite a few choices to make in this situation. In the Police and Border Guard Board a separate Procurement Committee was set up for this process, consisting of representatives of the PBA, the Information Technology and Development Centre of the Ministry of Internal Affairs and the Ministry. In addition, we asked for a side-by-side look at the Commission, because it is a very large and important procurement, as well as representatives of the State Information System Authority. The Procurement Committee opened, analysed and concluded that it would be the most fair to all bidders to cancel the tender and start a new tender. It is also important to conclude a new contract as soon as possible, taking advantage of existing competition and of those who have shown interest in the award of the contract. In order to do so as practically as possible, it was organised on 13 September. a meeting with all the bidders, where the PBA explained its decision and presented a further action plan. In my opinion, the PPP has behaved correctly and all those involved in the procurement have been treated equally when making this procurement or, in particular, when announcing a new procurement. Of course, our interest and our aim are to find a solution as soon as possible to the situation. It is appropriate to go further to the fourth question, which concerns how progress can be made and how the current agreement can be extended. Let it be said, as the heirs themselves said, that this is a strategically important service for the Republic of Estonia and Estonians. We clearly understand that this service must be uninterrupted. We can't promise that we won't issue IDs at any time. We know this and the heirs know that the current agreement with Gemalto AG will end in 2017. Given the complexity of this procurement and the process of producing ID-cards, we have the knowledge that it takes a year and a half to launch the whole process if we move on to a new bidder or to an old bidder. It was therefore clear that, if a new procurement is to be carried forward, the continuity of the ID card service must be ensured in any case. We agreed with the current service provider that in 2018 the current contractor will continue to provide the service to the Estonian state on the same terms and on the basis of the current price list, which means that there will be no additional costs for us. We are based on the price list so far, and the current process does not make the service any slower for people or the state, or, as I said, no more expensive. If you ask how it was possible to extend this contract, I will say that the Public Procurement Act provides for exceptions and that it was possible to use some exceptions. On the fifth question, you asked how I felt about this event as a whole. You said the sentence was destructive. I don't really want to agree with that. The court gave its opinion, as I said, on a part of this procurement, he did not cancel the entire procurement. So the verdict certainly wasn't destructive. According to the Court, as you yourself mentioned, the award criteria were not sufficiently detailed and the decision-making process should be better justified. This, of course, will be taken into account by the PPP when drawing up the terms of the new procurement, the evaluation criteria will be described in greater detail and the decision-making process will be even more clearly disbanded. If you look at the PPP's procurement as a whole, let's mention only two figures here: the PBA has organised 216 public procurements over the last year and a half and only four of them have been challenged. True, these have been the biggest procurements. But in the case of large purchases, of course, those who lost have a great interest in arguing that maybe they could still get the big deal. So no wonder that the competitors who are on the market want to have a contract. I don't see anything out of the ordinary around here. You asked lastly how much I appreciate the risk of corruption and other illegal activities in the procurement of the PBGB. My clear view is that in all public authorities, including the PBGB, the procurement process must comply with all applicable legislation and there is no possibility of any deviation. All possible risks must be mitigated and the necessary measures taken. I dare say that there is no greater risk of corruption in PPP procurement than in other public procurements, rather the opposite. Given the internal control of the PBGB, as well as the possibility of ministerial supervision and, as you yourself pointed out, the increased public interest, I do appreciate that the risk of corruption in PPP procurement is rather lower in comparison with other public authorities and other procurement agencies or bodies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-24_U111	Thank you. You have questions. Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-24_U112	Honourable President! Honorable Minister! You said that the PBA had a further action plan, a specific action plan or a plan. Could you please specify what the plan is?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-24_U113	Thank you for your question. The plan is very simple: to make a new procurement. It is our wish, as the Court asked of us, to write down two important elements, the evaluation criteria and the assessment based on them. We hope that we will be able to make a new procurement on this basis and that everything will go without creating any gaps in the production and certification of ID cards.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-24_U114	Arthur Talvik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-24_U115	Thank you! Good minister! How much does this failed procurement cost the state? An old contract has been extended for a year and a half, that's all. So is there going to be a new procurement or is theren't going to be a new one? How much is all this going to cost? The other part of the question is, did the so-called plans for this procurement include that such an important document could be made for Estonia, or at least certification could be done by a local company, our own company in Estonia, also in terms of security?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-24_U116	Thank you. As far as the cost is concerned, it may be that this additional year will mean savings for the country. As I said, we have agreed with the current contractor that they will continue to produce a year's share of ID cards in the same volume and at the same prices as the previous call for tenders. Procurement tends to have a tendency to become more expensive over time and we do not know until the results of the new procurement are clear. So right now, at least as far as I know, we have no additional costs due to the continuation of an existing agreement. What the new covenant brings, we'll see later. As for the other side of the question, it is worth keeping things separate here. One thing is the identity card physically and the other thing is certification. Certification is currently done by Estonia's own Certification Centre. This procurement still concerns the existence of a card and the security of the card itself and the security of the smart card that is on it (with the English word chip) as well. The way signatures are certified is separate.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-24_U117	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-24_U118	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, You said that the PBA has made an amazing deal, most of which have succeeded, and everything is very well done. However, as a member of your government, you will know that the government has approved the decision that a procurement department will be set up under the State Support Services Centre. Will, in the near future or next year, the police and border guard procurements also be transferred to that centre? Do you think this is meaningful and forward-looking?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-24_U119	Thank you. I'm sure some of the deals will go over there. We must look at this now, because the so-called transfers to the State Support Services Centre are currently under way. We are still arguing with the RTK (which is short for the name of the centre) about the conditions for how and how the accounts and people are moving across. But yes, I see that it is reasonable to hand over certain procurements, that is precisely the effect of scale. There are certain specific procurements that we will most likely not be able to deliver. So I believe that if, for example, we were to face the same question in a year or a half, this figure would be less than 216. I very much hope that the number of contested procurements is not four, but is zero or at least four lower. But it depends on the market. It is usually the case that it is not the person who orders the service, but those who offer the service who argue. Those who have offered, but who did not turn out to be the winner, believe that they exactly have the best product. My suggestion to tenderers has always been that if they see any places in the tender documents that are questionable, they should ask these questions first. It is certainly less promising to argue in retrospect than to make documents and "procurement" requests clear and unambiguously understandable to all tenderers already during the procurement process.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-24_U120	Ain Lutsepp, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-24_U121	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear Minister, Who, according to the court, is responsible for non-quality procurement, and was there security risks in this failure?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-24_U122	Thank you. There were no security risks. The Court said that it could have been more understandable how the PPP's tenders were assessed. It's not bad when more is explained. It's never bad. But I don't want to say that this procurement failed in that sense. We received three very good international providers operating on the European market. Gemalto, Oberthur and also Safran Morpho are very serious players. I very much hope that they will also participate in the new procurement and we will have a good ID-card service provider. But I don't quite agree with it as if the procurement had failed. We found the best bidder in the procurement process. Should I have given more reasons? In retrospect, I heard I could have explained more. Whether the new tender will be won by the winner of the previous tender, I do not know today.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-24_U123	Thank you. Minister, there are no further questions for you. I'm opening negotiations. Arthur Talvik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-24_U124	Mr. President! Thank you, Minister, for your answers. There's one thing I don't want to agree with. The fact that this procurement did not fail, as the Minister said. The fact is that the procurement failed and, above all, it failed because of vague or incomprehensible evaluation criteria. Therefore, there was also an opinion, as if the whole procurement had been covered by a shadow of bias, which may be difficult to prove today, but in any case the fact is that the Court also found that the evaluation criteria were incorrect. If, indeed, the PBA makes more than 200 purchases a year, most of them are the procurement of pens and boots or other such items. As big procurement as this is the procurement of police forms (thank you for pointing out that these were forms) and the procurement of ID-cards is a greater responsibility. No one has taken responsibility for the failure of ID-card procurement. The failure of the procurement of police forms led to the prosecution of several people who were dismissed, laid off or transferred to a job with less responsibility. This is an important detail that should be included in the procurement of ID cards: if it failed in such a way that it was acknowledged by the court, then someone should take responsibility for this failed procurement. Of course, we could move forward and talk about procurement as such and that it is already a wider national problem, why so many large procurements fail and how much money we lose with such unsuccessful procurements, let alone loss of reputation. I hope that the new procurement will be constructive, transparent and will not be sued. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-24_U125	Thank you. Would the Minister like to speak? No. We're done answering the fourth question.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-24_U126	Let's keep going. Today's fifth question is the inquiry submitted by the members of the Riigikogu, Toomas Vitsut, Peeter Ernitsa, Viktor Vassilyev, Aadu Musta, Anneli Oti, Jaanus Karilaadi, Erki Savisaare, Jüri Ratas, Tarmo Tamme, Enn Esmaa, Dmitri Dmitriyev, Andrei Novikov, Oudekki Loone, Vladimir Velmani, Valeri Korb, Mikhail Stalnukhin, Kersti Sarapuu, Märt Sults, Kadri Samson and Mailis Reps concerning the underfunding of the Rescue Board and the lack of rescuers. The inquiry has been submitted to the Minister for the Interior. On behalf of the heirs, please ask Toomas Vitsuti, Member of the Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-24_U127	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Minister, thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The 20 members of the Central Party Group that have just been read out have submitted an inquiry to the Minister for the Interior, motivated by concerns about the deterioration of the quality of the rescue service. In our view, this is due to the constant reduction in the number of rescue officers and to the payment of insufficient wages to them. The Government of the Republic has decided to limit the number of employees in the general government sector by an average of 0.7% between 2016 and 2019, including the number of employees in the Rescue Board decreased by 121 persons over the year. If the honourable Minister for the Interior has repeatedly stressed from this remote control that the ceiling for the severing of the number of rescuers is already in place, there will still be quite a significant reduction in their number. On the 20th of October, we learned that the rescue command of Tallinn's Lilleküla works 13 instead of 50 rescuers, and when someone leaves that job, this job will soon be laid off. Even if this job is maintained, there are still few rescuers, because a young rescuer's net wage of just over EUR 500 does not motivate young people to work as a rescuer. What's there to deny, as always, is precisely about money. In this case, at least EUR 10 million missing from the Rescue Board in order to maintain the current rescue capacity. The same applies to support for volunteer commandos. The share of these commandos has become quite important in our country. They, too, need resources to do their job. At the end of the week, the Committee on Legal Affairs will visit the possibilities of voluntary rescue in Pärnu County and the islands. It is already known that there is a shortage of resources. That is why the Central Party Group has put forward five questions and we are asking the Minister for the Interior to answer them.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-24_U128	Thank you. I ask you to answer the question to me, Minister of the Interior Hanno Pevkuri!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-24_U129	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good heirs! It's always good to have a discussion with you on the subject of salvation. Let the introduction, of course, be given in response to your question as to whether there could be more money in the area of salvation, so of course there could be. Where can't I? In the field of rescue, too, indisputably. Now, let's get to the questions. The first question relates to the plan for moving forward with the rescue service. It is worth saying, as an introduction, that there has been no reduction in the number of commandos in Estonia since 2012. We have 1703 savior, team leader and team leader positions, and this number has remained unchanged in recent years. The main changes that have been made in the area of rescue have mostly concerned either office work or management positions. There have been almost no changes, specifically at the level of the savior. We still have 66 life-saving rescue commandos all over Estonia. The latest figures show that a life-saving rescue team will be able to reach the person in need in 93% of cases in 15 minutes at the latest. We have also measured the time of the rescue team's arrival at the scene, an average of 9 minutes and 58 seconds last year. By the way, it's just a little mid-shot that this 9.58 is, for example, a shorter time than in the Nordic countries. The public has also talked about the intra-annual fluctuations in the number of rescuers. As we know, the special feature of the rescue service is that the number of people coming to work depends on when people graduate from the Väike-Maarja Emergency School or the Emergency College of the National Defence Academy. The reception for the rescuer's specialty takes place twice a year: in September and January. As a result, the recruitment of rescuers has focused specifically on July and August and November and December, which is why the total number of rescuers is low in June and October. I will try to answer the second and third questions together. They concern the amount of money and the financing of volunteer commandos. As I said, if it were possible to contribute more money, we would, of course, do so. In fact, however, the budget of the Rescue Board has increased in recent years. But if you ask me if it's grown to the extent that I would have liked to see, my answer is no. Has it grown to the extent that we, along with external means, can provide first-hand rescuers with what they need? That's the growth we've had. Also in the 2017 budget, which is on your desks, the financing of the Ministry of the Interior's administration as a whole will increase by EUR 16.5 million and we will have EUR 4.1 million to cover staff costs. Of course, we would like to see the budget growing faster in the Rescue Board. We have reviewed the sustainability of the Rescue Board and ordered the sustainability assessment of the Rescue Board in a ten-year perspective. We will present these results to the public next week. On the fourth question, you are asking how the Rescue Board is moving towards its goal of reducing the number of drowning deaths. I am also extending this issue to fire deaths, i.e. how we can even move towards a lower number of accidents. I will give you just a few activities, for example, and there will certainly be more, but I will bring some here. One important area is clearly prevention, in particular prevention, which helps to make the living environment safer. We would like to see a certain mark on bottles, in cooperation with economic operators, such as alcohol producers. Right now, it's voluntary. But when we look at the number of deaths from fire, we see that quite a certain part of them are related to alcohol, whether it is the wrong use of the fireplace as a result of alcohol, the falling asleep with smoke, or so on. It's exactly the same with drowning deaths, going swimming drunk means we're losing a human life. The focus of prevention work is on children and young people. In the first stage of school, the level of initial education for swimming should be increased. We have discussed in the Government of the Republic whether and how we can increase the number of swimming lessons. We are looking for these opportunities in collaboration with the four ministries. The safety awareness of the population needs to be improved. This concerns all campaigns, starting with the smoke detectors campaign and ending with the injury death prevention campaign. I'm sure we'll continue with that. We have a good opportunity to talk today about the credibility of the Rescue Board. This is definitely what we use in the transmission of messages. We are trying to step up cooperation with both the Police and Border Guard Board and the Maritime Administration in particular with regard to the use of life-saving equipment on water bodies. The last Rescue Board campaign focused on rescue equipment, especially life jackets. In the field of prevention, the state can make use of a number of possibilities, for example, water safety training for conscripts. We plan to continue the theoretical and practical training of young people in military service. If we look at the number of water deaths, we must remember that the greatest risk of drowning is young people of military age. Our desire to continue these preventive measures is great, and we will do so. The biggest problems facing the Rescue Board in prevention are, as I have already mentioned, related to alcohol, but we also have to mention tobacco and drug problems here. The logical conclusion is that the activities of the Rescue Board alone are not sustainable, but we need the involvement of other areas of government, particularly the Ministry of Social Affairs. Speaking of prevention, if we have checked the fire safety of some 16,000 homes in the last few years, we would be happy to increase this figure by over 20,000 next year. Let's see how many of our commandos can go to people. The fifth question is about home fires. Let it be noted that there are 200,000 homes in Estonia where the heating source is a solid-fired heating system. In these homes, a professional chimney sweeper must be used to clean heating appliances, fireplaces and chimneys. What we want is for the chimney sweeper to control the presence of a smoke detector in the future. That way, we could control a lot more homes than the few dozen thousand that the commandos control. In this way, we could, in cooperation with chimney sweepers, significantly increase the percentage of prevention. Hopefully we'll get to the point where the chimney sweepers will report to the Rescue Board if there are any problems. We would also like to see the control of non-residential buildings being helped by private operators. I already mentioned the increase in the number of visits to homes, and I also mentioned the Ministry of Social Affairs. I can't get over or around the fact that fireplaces in homes are the place where people really need help. Together with both local authorities and people in the social field, it is our desire to create in some way a service or support for heating and electricity systems that will help people. On average, as our experts say, the cost of running a single fireplace is EUR 2 500-3000. When we talk about people living alone who have a need to fix a fireplace, it is clear that it is very difficult for them to come up with this amount. We are planning a meeting with the Ministry of Social Affairs on this issue in November to discuss what opportunities could be available to help people clean up their fireplaces. Let's look at the number of fire deaths this year and take a five-year trend. Yeah, the number of fires has come down, but right now we're still more or less on the same level. The next step also requires people's own contribution. National control can only draw attention, but whether the fireplace is in order, whether the flue is clean, whether the chimney is clean, whether a person falls asleep with smoke or not depends primarily on the person's own understanding of safety. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-24_U130	Thank you. I'm afraid I don't have that stats on me. I'll send you an e-mail after the exact details of the number of vacant posts and the number of completed posts. But as I said, you have to consider the two bumps in the year when people graduate from the rescue school. As I said, we have not reduced the number of rescuers and we have not reduced the number of commandos either. If we have problems hiring rescuers, first and foremost because we have not been able to find these people on the market. I guess the savior's profession is a little different. It is often the case that a person comes to work and then goes to school and learns from the work at the Väike-Maarja Salvation College. It's not that classic that I come from high school, I go to school, and then I go to work. Rather, the order is the opposite.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-24_U131	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-24_U132	Thank you, manager. Minister, thank you very much. Toomas Vitsut asked half my questions about vacant places. But I think one of the reasons why these vacant places are not being filled is that it's possible to get a paycheck for the people at work so that the rescuers don't quite disperse. When 11 rescue commandos were shut down, there was a rumor that the rescue structure would not be cut further, that it was a limit you couldn't go down. But it looks like they're still going down. I ask you this: what is the relationship between vacancies and graduates, how many graduates should come from school to fill the vacancies? I don't really believe in that. I think that the number of people coming from school is trivial compared to the number of vacancies.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-24_U133	Thank you. So far, we've been able to fill these places. As I said, the situation of the rescuers working in the commandos is a little different, because most people are recruited first and then sent to school. Let's look at the summary 2015/16. for the academic year. A summary by the National Defence Academy showed that 100% of the graduates of both the Rescue College and the Police and Border Guard College went to work in their specialty. So those who come to study, they go to work. As I said, I will send precise figures to Toomas Vitsut, how many people were at work as of October 1 and how many seats were available. In the case of these vacant places, we also need to add an "star" to it, but we are going to write this explanation and send this answer in writing.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-24_U134	Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-24_U135	Thank you. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. Today we have approved the agenda, which states that on Wednesday we will first meet the 2017 state budget. In answer to our question, you said that if it were possible... Where's the D.O.D.'s money mostly going next year?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-24_U136	Thank you. It should take a long time to present where it's going. If the Centre Party Group has any wish, I would be happy to come and introduce the distribution of the entire budget of the Ministry of the Interior. But roughly half of our budget goes to the Police and Border Guard Board and about a quarter goes to the Home Office with the Defence Police Department. The part of the Defence Police Department wouldn't want to say as a percentage in this Chamber either, but the total number of our budget is known. About 2% gets Alert Centre (I'll tell you in the head), about 4% gets Internal Defence Academy and about 15% gets Rescue Board. This is the percentage distribution between our services. In total, we have a budget of just over EUR 400 million, including border building facilities. If you take them out, the sum, if I remember correctly, is 376 million euros, or 1.7% of GDP.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-24_U137	Thank you. In the area of rescue, too, wage payments in different regions have a certain degree of differentiation. With regard to the assembly of the Rescue Board, fortunately, with the assembly of the Rescue Board, for example, in Ida-Virumaa, the situation is slightly better than in police or border guards. Since people working in the rescue sector are usually local and the requirements for rescuers are slightly lower than the requirements for policemen, we have had the opportunity to maintain a fairly equal level between regions, but we do not know what future awaits us. If, for example, the police and border guards are compared to the rescue system, it turns out that the rescue system is in a slightly better position. The flow rate in the Rescue Board is also the lowest among our agencies, at 4 to 5%, while even in the Ministry it sometimes reaches 15%. If you take off Google or any other search engine and kick in, for example, 'Savior Salvation Salaries', you will certainly find a very large advantage that savers have: a 24-hour shift, which allows a very large number of rescuers to work in another job as well. This has caused the rescuers to have been quite loyal to their jobs.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-24_U138	Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-24_U139	Thank you, Mr. Vice Speaker. Minister, thank you very much. Honestly, I don't understand why you have to bullshit us like you did before. Colleagues asked about completion, and you told us how you don't know the bill and how it has to do with no people being taken, and how it has to do with, I don't know, the graduation cycles. This is bullshit! In September, Tauno Suurkivi, Deputy Director-General of the Rescue Board, said that almost 10% of the posts, or 167 posts, were not completed, most of them being places for rescuers, not office officials. He also said that it was a critical line, that it would no longer be possible to carry out tasks as we go below it. Against this background, it is, of course, very nice that no command has been shut down, but if there are no people there, there aren't really any rescuers. It's completely incomprehensible to me whether it's physically painful for you to tell us the way things are or why it's so messy.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-24_U140	Thank you. There was a question I answered that I didn't have an exact account with me. In wishing not to cause crap, as you say, I said I would send the exact data to the e-mail. I said very clearly that we need to look at the period for which we are taking out this information. The way people come and go to the Rescue Board depends exactly on when people end up at the National Defence Academy and then go back to the commandos.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-24_U141	Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-24_U142	Honourable President! Honorable Minister! Getting a job with Estonian medical staff in the Nordic countries is a common problem. Will Estonian rescuers also migrate to the Nordic countries in search of better incomes?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-24_U143	Thank you for your question. I haven't heard. Perhaps there are a few examples, but there is no problem with a scale like that of healthcare professionals with rescuers.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-24_U144	Ain Lutsepp, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-24_U145	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear Minister, My question concerns the small island and other places beyond the centres. I'm asking about the recent accidents on Piirissaar. What has been done after what happened in Piirissaar, and what is going to be done to ensure that aid is available more quickly and that there is also the ability to prevent certain situations?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-24_U146	Thank you for your question. Estonia is quite unique in the sense that we keep a professional commando or Ruhnu, Kihnu and also Vormsi on three permanent settlements. We've recently completed a completely new rescue house on Vormsi, which, I hope, will also become a little local meeting place. I've heard it's being used for this. I'm guessing this is really the proudest building on Vormsi Island right now. As for what happened on Piirissaar, the Mayor of the Municipality turned to several members of the Riigikogu to arrange the water intakes there. These water abstractions have actually been repaired and the EAS has also supported the municipality of Piirissaare. From our point of view, the most critical and most important thing is undoubtedly that the rescue equipment that is there is working. In recent years the repair or acquisition of rescue equipment has been supported, both the purchase of pumps and the repair of the equipment have been supported. Even after these last events, the Rescue Department's people, along with the local command, reviewed the rescue equipment. We have to bear in mind that in remote areas, the ability to save is in many respects linked to the existence of volunteers. There are surprisingly many volunteers on the border island, considering the size of the community. Sadness is that a large part of them work on the continent, and response to events can therefore be difficult. I guess that's the subject we're going to have to deal with. The sums involved in the response are undoubtedly the largest in the smaller islands, where there are also professional commandos. Kihnu, Ruhnu and Vormsi also have the price of one trip, compared to Lilleküla, Nõmme or the downtown commando, several times, even more than ten times. Nevertheless, we know that on these islands we must continue to hold the professional commando. The question of how we can ensure the existence of commandos and rescue services in the small islands will inevitably arise from looking at the future, knowing at the same time that keeping this service there is awfully expensive for the taxpayer.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-24_U147	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-24_U148	Madis Milling, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-24_U149	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. What happened on Piirissaar was, of course, extremely dramatic. We don't know if there'll be any more accidents like this. Let's hope not. The municipality has now fixed water abstraction sites with its own expense and letters, as you mentioned, for this tiny community. I think there are 50 to 60 people living on this island. The EUR 9800 cost of deepening and cleaning water collection sites is a huge amount for them. I know that the municipality also turned to you to get help to cover these costs, but unfortunately, no aid has come from the government or the ministry. Is it really EUR 9800 that is beyond our government and the Ministry of the Interior?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-24_U150	Thank you, Minister. You have questions. Thomas Vitsu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-24_U151	Thank you, President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. I am pleased that you are not pursuing rhetoric like that of the Prime Minister in providing answers here. He usually starts his answer in such a way that he has good news for us: since all things in our country are done more effectively, money can be saved anywhere. At least you admit we need more money. But you said we had 1703 savior positions. Recently, it became clear that very few places have been filled, for example, in the Lilleküla rescue command. How many of these 1703 posts have been filled?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-24_U152	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! There are 115 volunteer rescue commandos in Estonia. They are not allowed to be formed according to the Rescue Board's plan, as support for the already existing voluntary rescue teams will take place at the Rescue Board's "border." Specialists of the Rescue Board have said that if the funding remains at the current level, voluntary rescue is not sustainable in Estonia, sooner or later some volunteer commando will have to go to jail. Volunteer rescuers are very motivated, but the technique is what breaks down from time to time. For example, the Rescue Board has no money to give for unexpected repairs. But now my question. Support for voluntary rescue teams is voluntary for local authorities. Now, I'm asking you to speculate a little, but can this be turned into a local government obligation?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-24_U153	Thank you. Even if I really wanted to, I'm afraid it won't work. We have the autonomy of the municipality. The Constitution of the Republic of Estonia gives the municipality this freedom. We know very well what the Supreme Court's decision says: if we should impose any obligation on the government, we should also indicate the sources from which it is financed. The sum of this is still the taxpayer's money that we are redistributing. So, in terms of making this support compulsory, I am a little skeptical. As far as the increase in volunteers is concerned, there are currently more than 1900 volunteers in Estonia. If we put other levels on the command elder and savior level, as mentioned in the inquiry and where there are 1703 employees, then it can be said that there are a little over 2100 employees in the professional system. If you take it purely statistically, you can say that there has never been as much reactive rescue resources in Estonia as there is now. Similarly, if you take a purely numerically and look at Excel's table or chart, it is clear that the resources directed to volunteer rescuers have never been as large as they are now. There are 1.4-1.5 million euros or more this year. But the fact is, the more capable the volunteers are, the more they expect the state to have a partner relationship in mind. We would like to see this relationship not get worse, but grow stronger. After all, we are going to give the Salvation Union, as one of the changes next year, the resources for the activities of the umbrella organisation, also to the rescue societies themselves. Then the salvation societies and the union can work out these relationships. We had an agreement with the Salvation League that this would happen. Yeah, it's a little bit, but a little bit we're still moving towards giving company money. I say here, on the subject of volunteers, it is not 'land rescues', but'sea rescues', that it has been decided today that funding for voluntary maritime rescues will increase by almost 100% next year, a little less, by 80% and a little more. So far, marine rescuers have not had a basic facility such as the one available to rescue societies, but now there is a decision. So we are moving towards more equal principles in the construction of the rescue system, both in marine rescue and land rescue societies. Of course, if at all possible, the voluntary rescue system will be very helpful to the national professional rescue system. This plow must be drawn and this field plowed, so that it is even richer.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-24_U154	Arthur Talvik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-24_U155	Thank you. Good minister! The Rescue Board is the poorest state office, if you could say so. That's where the lowest wage is paid. On the other hand, we live in a time when the importance of the Rescue Board grows every day. That's the time. You said you needed more money earlier. I know the study or audit that was done now also says that more money is needed. Similarly, volunteers need more money, as said by the Rescue Board's own human master's thesis. What are the amounts needed per year to keep both voluntary and professional rescue systems sustainable?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-24_U156	Thank you. This sustainability analysis will be presented in detail next Monday. We have an agreement with the author that we will not comment much on the exact figures before. But the orders of magnitude we're talking about have actually been through the story before. The average grant for voluntary commandos is EUR 5000.7000, with a slightly higher rate for some command with a higher response capacity. The head of the Rescue Board's own master's thesis says that if it were at EUR 30000, the voluntary rescue company would have the capacity to repair and maintain the car and perhaps to put a little bit of capital into the cost of maintaining the command building. The capacity of rescue societies, especially voluntary rescue societies, is very different. There are very good volunteer commandos, I mean from the point of view of capital, but there are also such commandos where the car is standing outside and cannot be used in winter. So the dissonance is pretty big, but you can also talk about averages. As I said, we are now contributing a voluntary rescue system of the size of 1.5 million, but if we were able to contribute 5 million in size, then, I think, our voluntary rescue system would be quite well maintained. With the professional side, things are a little more complicated. Maintaining one professional command, taking into account the maintenance of machinery, that the maintenance of new machinery is more expensive, as well as the investments made by Riigi Kinnisvara AS, requires EUR 500000-600000 per year. It is clear that there are ten times the difference between the amounts allocated to volunteers. But this difference is mainly due to personnel costs and car maintenance costs. Everyone here can draw their own conclusions on how much money we really need. It's easy for a professional rescue system. First of all, we have the debts associated with the fleet. Even if next year we replace nearly 90 vehicles, tank cars, container cars and also main cars, the debt of certain basic cars will remain, we will not be able to replace everyone, and we also have the debt of spare cars. Secondly, personnel costs. Of course, we would like to see the wages of rescuers growing at least at the same rate as the average wage growth in Estonia. We cannot guarantee this now, because we will have a 3% increase next year, while the macroeconomic forecast shows a growth in the budget in the wage outlook of 4 to 5%. So we already have a little hole in there. I guess that's where everyone can draw their own conclusions. If we wanted to ensure wage growth compared to the average rate, the deficit would still amount to millions of euros per year.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-24_U157	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-24_U158	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, It must be difficult to overestimate the work of the Rescue Board and the rescuers, which is very important and necessary for all of us. You promised to send details of the Agency's completion. We can probably see them through the Centre Party.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-24_U159	We can send them to you, too, no problem.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-24_U160	Thank you. However, my question concerns an overview of what I am sure you have. Are there any differences in assembly by county? Are there any difficulties in filling posts in Ida-Virumaa, for example, and do the rescuers in Ida-Virumaa also have some odds, just as the judges do, or rather one judge, and the police and prison services? Is that also the case at the Rescue Board in Ida-Virumaa?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-24_U161	Thank you. It is not a question of whether or not this is too much for us. It is likely to be possible to find this amount in the state budget, but the question was something else. When I received a letter from the parish elder on the subject, the parish elder asked for support to fix the water intakes. The elder's letter did not mention that it had already been done. Secondly, it makes sense that before we make some kind of provision from the state budget, we will see if money has been provided elsewhere for the same purpose. In fact, there was an EAS decision to support the municipality. It's also been through the media what that distribution was like there. Last time I checked, the Postman wrote about it. If you disengage the Postman yesterday, you will see that there is a very detailed response from our advisor Marko Põllu of the Rescue and Crisis Management Policy Department. I am not going to spend time reading the paper here right now, but there are reasons why and how many grants have already been decided to grant the municipality.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-24_U162	Thank you, Minister. No further questions for you. I'm opening negotiations. First Thomas Vitsu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-24_U163	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Minister, thank you very much. This time, you weren't as convincing in your answers as you were on previous occasions, because how long you're gonna be repeating the same thing. Words should be followed, but there are no works. The problem is essentially divided into two parts. One part of the problem is money: there is too little money and this little money cannot be done enough to make our rescue system sustainable. The EUR 16.5 million that you say will come next year will probably not be divided into 10 million for the rescue sector and 6.5 million for all the rest. But 10 million would be the minimum that would help to maintain to some extent the level that the rescue system currently has. The level of the rescuers will surely be indicated by how quickly they arrive. Response times are relatively good, but there are also questions. How great are the forces reacting? Who's going to show up? Will there be enough people to really be able to do the job effectively, or will they go there and eventually only wipe out the ashes? You said there were no people to take from the market. I'm sure you would, but there are rules in the market that still apply to the market. Those people should be paid the salary at which a person can be hired on the market. With the money you're offering, you can't hire anyone to work. Those people who come from the Salvation College in July and October will come to work for you, but soon they will see that they get a little over 500 euros. They're young people. I can't imagine a bank in Estonia granting a mortgage to a person with such a salary, but a young person needs to rebuild his life. The thing is, you're just paying people too little. There is nothing to do if we want a proper rescue system, then people must be paid a decent salary. Now volunteers. As I understand it, the main problem with volunteers is that there are plenty of volunteers across Estonia and many places, but it is often the case that there are very active people in some places, but there are no techniques, in some places there are the opposite, there are techniques, but there are no people. This same Kihnu is an example that we are going to see with the Committee on Legal Affairs on Friday. In fact, the most intrusive thing about Kihnu is that there's a hovercraft that's probably pretty expensive, but the key to it is on the mainland. How do you use that Beamer if there's no key? Probably the problem is that there is no one to give this key because there is no right person to move the Beamer. Whether you find enough money or not still depends mainly on political priorities. If the rescue area is a priority, you'll find the money. If not, this area will continue to struggle and not be sustainable.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-24_U164	Thank you. Arthur Talvik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-24_U165	Mr. President! Good minister! In my opinion, security is one whole, no matter what, internal or external. I am very sorry that these budgets are not seen as uniform in the Estonian state either. In several countries, a balanced approach to the various aspects of security is being looked at and taken. Our priority is obviously the Defence Forces. Alongside the Defence Forces and external security, internal security and internal security have remained part of the orphanage. In turn, within the internal security or security of the orphan child, it is precisely the Rescue Board and the rescuers. A few days ago, the Prime Minister presented the budget here. He said with pride, you could even say that he punched us in the chest, that he had good news for us: the wages of the rescuers rise by 3%. I thank the Minister very much for the thought that this increase should be at least 4 to 5% in order to keep the wages of the rescuers at a constant pace. I would like to emphasise once again that this is the state agency with the lowest wages at all. I would also like the Minister to see him stand up for the saviors more. I know very well that the Minister's own father was a volunteer savior, and he is very familiar with the subject. The second part of this issue is the same voluntary rescuers. The fact that there is a network of voluntary rescuers across Estonia is very positive. The way they have developed is also generally very positive. Indeed, there are problems in some places. There's a good car in one place, but there's no people, there's good people in another place, but there's not enough technology. However, in order for the voluntary rescue system to remain sustainable, it is still necessary, let's say, to find the means of maintaining the technique to take down the frustration of the rescuers. As the Minister mentioned here, I would also like to thank you very much for this confession, so that the voluntary system is sustainable, the state's support should also be at least three times, if not five times, compared to today. Here too, we need a serious way of saying, a leap of development or a leap of support. I have an appeal to the Minister: please stand up more strongly for the rescuers and for the state's attitude towards the rescuers to be at least the same as that of the police officers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-24_U166	Thank you. Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-24_U167	Dear Deputy Speaker! Minister, thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I also have an appeal to the Minister: do not come to Parliament to disperse. I understand that there may not be any bill to be taken. But the reason the Rescue Board is under-completed has been publicly declared by the Rescue Board itself. They have a recruitment limit because they don't know if there's gonna be another wave of layoffs or not. The second and unofficial reason, of course, is that the payroll fund for these vacant posts can give a little extra pay to those who are working. The fog that doesn't come up with enough people just isn't true. It doesn't make sense to tell us here if we know what's really going on. As regards the 3% increase in the payroll fund, in a situation where the average wage increase in Estonia is 7% and last year it was more than 5%, these salaries are in fact no longer competitive on the labour market. So here we need some structural change and a change in thinking. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-24_U168	Thank you. There's no more calls. Would the Minister like a word? Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-24_U169	Happy Members of the Riigikogu! Like I said, we could talk about the rescue area for a long time. Those of you who know anything about this have the right to speak. When it comes to miscarriage, I will say once again that there is no restriction on recruitment in the Rescue Board. The Rescue Board has been clearly told to let them go if they want to. The question is whether we have sufficient resources to do so, but for both the Rescue Board and the Police and Border Guard Board, the government has decided that there is no national recruitment limit or cut quota. This is not the case this year, next year or the following year. Do we want to pay our people a better salary? Of course we do. What are the chances of that? Taxpayer's options. There's nowhere else to take the money from. When we look at whether it is possible to channel more money into this area, it is clear that this depends on the opportunities of the taxpayer. Do we want to put more money in there? Of course we do. Next week, when we introduce the sustainability study, which is an external view of the operation of the Rescue Board, we will broadly consider two or three options. Firstly, we will continue with the current resources and the current structure, where wages will not grow, but we will keep the whole system up. Secondly, we will jointly find money in this hall and in the government to contribute more to the rescue service. Thirdly, if there is no more money, but we want better conditions for people, then we need to pull it together. These are three choices. I would argue that in every area there are exactly the same choices, as in the rescue system. We have these discussions ahead of us. I call on everyone to participate in this debate and to discuss jointly what opportunities are. Maybe we can increase volunteer participation, maybe the volunteers themselves say that they can do more than they get a little more money. I do not call it a national rescue system, but a professional rescue system is a little less, so a volunteer comes up a little more and a win-win situation arises. These are the choices. This can be discussed further next week, and this issue will certainly have a lot of page space. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-24_U170	Thank you. The answer to the fifth question is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-24_U171	Let's keep going. Today's sixth item on the agenda is an inquiry by members of the Riigikogu Uno Kaskpeiti, Martin Helme, Henn Põljaasa, Raivo Põldaru, Mart Helme and Arno Silla about illegal immigrants in the Republic of Estonia. The inquiry has been submitted to the Minister for the Interior. Speaker Uno Kaskpeiti, member of the Riigikogu, on behalf of the interviewers, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-24_U172	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Mr. Minister of the Interior! Ladies and gentlemen, whose lines have become thin. Despite the sparse lines, however, I will introduce the inquiry to the Minister of the Interior about illegal immigrants in the Republic of Estonia. The media has shown that the Estonian authorities held Muhammad Ibrahim Uthmani, a Sudanese citizen, on the territory of our country in 2013. This person had entered the country unhindered, crossing the control line. He applied for asylum, probably to get away from expulsion. Today he has received both a residence permit and a work permit. In view of the above, we have six questions for the Minister of the Interior. Firstly, why is the PBGB unable to prevent illegal border crossings? Secondly, why was this person granted refugee status when he entered the country illegally and allegedly made false statements about himself? Thirdly, as we know, this person has been in orbit by the police as a result of irregularities since his arrival in Estonia. Can we give an overview of his irregularities and how the ministerial authorities have reacted to it? Fourthly, how many similar border offences have there been in the last three years? Fifthly, how many of these illegal immigrants have applied for a residence permit and how many have received it? Finally, how does the PBGB intend to ensure further border controls to prevent illegal entry? Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-24_U173	Thank you. I ask you to answer the question to me, Minister of the Interior Hanno Pevkuri!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-24_U174	Honourable Vice President! Let's get to the questions right now. The first question is about the capacity of the PBGB to prevent illegal border crossings. Just as the heirs and, above all, the representative of the heirs know very well, the Estonian border is guarded by the resources that we have to use. We will certainly do our utmost to reduce illegal border crossings. The facts show that. Compared to last year, the number of illegal border crossings on the green border has decreased by almost half. Let us summarise the number of cases of irregular migration (including cases of misuse of visas): there have been 370 such cases in nine months of this year, most of which, or 239, have been misusing visas. This figure includes people detained at border crossing points. In the area between the border crossing points, i.e., as I said, 31 people have been detained this year on the green border, the number reached 60 in previous years. So this frontier-building work that we have started has already produced results and illegal border crossings on the green border have been reduced. The second question is why a particular person was granted refugee status. Let it be said, in the introductory words, that the procedure for international protection is closed, it is not public. The Police and Border Guard Board has an obligation to keep confidential the data on the applicant and to respect the principles of personal data protection. I cannot provide you with detailed information on this procedure here. But there is a need to explain this process. If a person is caught illegally at the border crossing point, he or she is known to have the right to submit an application for international protection at the time of the hit. Estonia has acceded to the Geneva Convention on the Status of Refugees. Consequently, the procedure shall also be initiated when a person has applied for international protection. It is necessary to clarify the situation in the country where the person comes from and whether the circumstances in which he has left it are sufficient to give him international protection. I can comment on the procedure of the Police and Border Guard Board so much that I myself have examined it and I can say that the circumstances of this person's departure from his home country were, in the opinion of the PBGB, sufficient to grant him international protection. The third question is about this person's police presence in orbit. We asked for an extract from the criminal record, which can also be made by the inquisitors. It turned out that the person in question had not been punished as of 14 October, according to the criminal record. The public has been talking about cases where he has had contact with the police, as the inquisitors themselves know. Question 4: "How many other similar border offences have there been in the last three years? ' I'll tell you the numbers of applications for international protection. Last year, 231 applications for international protection were submitted to Estonia, which was 47% more than in 2014, when the number was 157. But s. a As of 1 October, this figure had fallen to 75. Clearly, this figure will not be as high this year as it was in the previous year or the year before that. The number of border applications was 59 in the previous year, with 33 in the nine months of that year. It seems that this figure doesn't come as high as it was last year. We will immediately look at decisions rejecting international protection at the border. No applications were rejected in 2014, nine applications were already rejected in 2015 and in nine months this year we refused to grant international protection directly at the border in 12 cases the opposite is true: applications are submitted less than in previous years, but the number of rejections is increasing. The fifth question is how many have applied for a residence permit and how many have received it. The figures here are that in 2014, there were 20 beneficiaries of refugee status, 21 in 2015 and 40 this year. The main reason for this year's increase is that there were many applications last year and the decisions have been transferred to that year. This year there are fewer beneficiaries of subsidiary protection: if there were 57 of them last year, there have been 18 of them this year. Residence permits for family members were granted last year 22, this year in nine months 16. Applications were rejected for the whole of the previous year 102, and 47 have so far been rejected for this year. The procedure was closed in 44 cases in the previous year, which was completed in 17 cases (i.e. the international protection procedure). Entrepreneurship, learning and family migration must also be taken into account when discussing decisions to grant a temporary residence permit. For entrepreneurship, in nine months we have made fewer decisions on granting a residence permit than last year: last year these permits were granted 28, this year they have been granted 15. In the case of family migration, these figures are more or less in a similar proportion, i.e. about 1,400 people will arrive after a year. The number of people moving permanently to Estonia is about the same. The number of residence permits granted for work is somewhat lower than last year: 1659 permits were granted last year, 1242 permits were granted this year. There have been considerably fewer permits under the external agreement; there has been a change in certain principles. Less students were also registered as of 1 October. It should be borne in mind that these figures may still change in October when the school information begins to become clear. The sixth question concerns the future. I'm sure the inquisitives will know that our main focus is on building the border right now. Once we have built the border and also covered the border with electronic surveillance, it is clear that our ability to catch border crossingrs will be significantly improved. I dare even say that it will not be possible to cross the Estonian border then in such a way that we will not know about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-24_U175	Thank you. You have questions. Raivo Põldaru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-24_U176	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. These are nice figures that fewer people have crossed the border and there have been fewer detentions. But is that really the case? Maybe they're coming over, but we don't know about them because we can't hit them? But my question is a little bit different: what about those people who weren't told?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-24_U177	Thank you. I am still commenting on the beginning of the question. However, I dare to assume that our knowledge is now much better because there is also widespread information among smugglers, that the Estonian state is building the border and that the border has already been cleared. These crossings, which we do not know about, I dare say so, are less. But what about these people? It's very simple. When a decision is made at the border, the person is sent back to where he came from, or is refused entry, and the person must return to where he came from. If a person applies for international protection and is already on the territory of the Estonian state, the procedure for international protection will be in place. If a negative decision is made, an injunction is made to leave Estonia. Thereafter, the specific case will be taken into account and the person will be sent to the country from which he came, or sent back to the country where he or she is established, followed by a return procedure.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-24_U178	Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-24_U179	Thank you, Mr. Vice Speaker. Good minister! That's actually the point of what you said last time. These people are not caught at the border, they are caught on the territory of Estonia. The same was true of this particular case. After all, all the figures you've counted here were about those caught on the territory of Estonia. As a result, they cannot be returned, but must be granted international protection. We asked you quite clearly. We didn't ask about the criminal record. Of course, an extract from the criminal record we can order ourselves. That's not what we asked. We asked what the people's contacts with the police had been. How many times has his name been called, has he been sentenced to arrest, has he been fined, has he been assigned a community service? That's one question. Question number two: if he's a crook like he is, will he lose his residence permit and be expelled?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-24_U180	Thank you. I cannot comment on the detailed details of the procedure for a particular person here. I can admit the police have had contacts with him. They've been examined with the DA's office. In particular, I am not going to report the details of this offence procedure. I'm familiar with these events when he's been in contact with the police, and I've reviewed them. If you can comment on it at all, it's only the perpetrator, with the permission of the prosecutor's office. As we know, if the case is within the competence of the prosecutor's office, it is a matter of commenting on the prosecutor's office, as a police authority, to comment on the police.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-24_U181	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-24_U182	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good minister! However, some details have been made public in the media: this Sudanese citizen attacked a security officer in a shopping centre and repeatedly punched him in the face, threatening to kill him. The prosecutor's office closed the criminal proceedings in September, finding that there was no public interest to continue the proceedings and that Muhammad had concluded from the case that the offence could be punishable. Do you consider such impunity justified and how such special treatment follows the principle of equal treatment?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-24_U183	Thank you. I am absolutely convinced that the DA's office did not apply special treatment. It was based on the specific circumstances of this case, as it did in any other case. The prosecutor shall decide whether or not to initiate proceedings on the basis of his or her own inland dimension. There certainly was no special treatment for this person. As far as I know, he has to pay EUR 250 to the state's revenue. The prosecutor's decision to close the case was based on § 202 (1) and (7) of the Code of Criminal Procedure. Why the DA's office made that decision, you have to ask the DA's office. I find it very difficult to comment on the work of the prosecutor's office here.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-24_U184	Jaak Madison, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-24_U185	Thank you, Honourable Vice President. Good minister! I will ask more specifically about the procedural procedures of the Sudanese citizen Muhammad Ibrahim Uthman. What are the possibilities for these procedural procedures to be made public? This is certainly a well-founded public interest, since there has been a greater media coverage and a 'greater problem', precisely in connection with its infringement and the termination of its investigation due to a lack of public interest. This, of course, is once again a subjective argument as to whether or not there is a public interest, but under what conditions are procedural procedures accessible, under which conditions could they be made public and whether it is in your power? The Home Office is the police chief. As a minister, would you be able, for example, to issue a regulation so that these operations are public?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-24_U186	Thank you. The procedure is supervised by the prosecutor's office and a decision has been taken on this matter. The supervisory authority of the Public Prosecutor's Office shall be the Ministry of Justice. In this case, the police carried out a pre-trial procedure and on 30 March a file was sent to the Northern District Prosecutor's Office. The Northern District Attorney's Office can decide which of the details of this procedure are public and which are not. Some information has been received by the public, it has been available on newspaper columns, as the heirs themselves mentioned. Whether and how much additional procedural information can be obtained can only be said as a judge by the prosecutor's office.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-24_U187	Uno Kaskpeit, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-24_U188	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Mr. Minister! In your words, the border has been cleared and everything is fine. It's a dream, of course. But in fact, at the border, the forest has been cut down, and with great technology, everything has been turned upside down, and there are many places where several metres of bush has begun to grow and where there is no possibility of patrolling because there is no limit. So that the border is like a well-guarded, it's a mist. But when do you think the border will be so clean that it can re-establish patrolling on every section? At present, patrolling in many places is not possible at all.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-24_U189	Thank you for your question. We have received the first full project sections from the designer and we wish to start building procurement as soon as possible. First, of course, there is the need to build access roads and networks and then start concrete construction. The whole border project we need to complete 2018/2019, but the truth is that while we are building, border patrol activities are somewhat complicated. This is just as with home repairs: while repairs are being made, life is somewhat more complicated, but when repairs are completed, it is much better. It's exactly the same with border construction. I agree that the bush is growing quite fast. The border project provides the means to maintain the border even during construction. Next spring comes again, figuratively speaking, to start the saw and cut the bush. There is no need for additional mowing on the sections where construction activities are carried out. I very much hope that construction procurement will succeed, there will be no further procurement disputes that were discussed here in the previous or previous questioning, and we will be able to start building operations as soon as possible. I hope that next year the construction work will also be physically seen when the border facility starts to look like what we will see at the border in two or three years' time.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-24_U190	Arno Bridge, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-24_U191	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. Are there any data on the number of persons who have received a residence permit in Sweden or Finland but who have come here and stayed here?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-24_U192	Thank you. The European Union has the principle of free movement. If people have obtained legal residence permits in some countries, they have the right to move within the European Union without going through additional checks.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-24_U193	Minister, thank you. No further questions. I will open negotiations and ask for the speech chair of the Riigikogu, Martin Helme. Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-24_U194	Dear Deputy Speaker! Minister, thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, This case has all the signs of bad politics and bad political behaviour. Let's start with the simplest things. This was an illegal border crossing. Of course, we did not have a border guard three years ago, nor are we now guarded, yet the current state power does not deal with preventing illegal border crossings. We will receive people at the border, be registered and dealt with. In fact, people should be prevented from accessing Estonian territory, so we should not deal with them here. Three years ago, the Estonian state did not have this capacity or political will, nor does it now. Okay. A person comes illegally to Estonia, gets caught somewhere on half of Estonia, then he immediately says the magic word 'asyl', and, behold, wonder, he gets it, even though he comes from a country where there is no reason to give asylum to those who come from. Sudan is not the kind of country from which we should give asylum to everyone. What the Minister of the Interior was blurring to us here again, how he can't tell us about personal data or publish file information is, let's just say, cover-up. It's just a routine cover-up. We all understand that this is a political decision. All a man has to do is raise his hand and talk to him. We have also realised that this person misrepresented himself during the asylum process. This is also no reason to lose a residence permit in Estonia. Go on. A person gets in trouble with the police all the time. We didn't ask the DA about the specific case, we asked about all the contacts with the police. Only one of these contacts has reached the prosecutor's office, the procedure for other incidents is in the hands of the Ministry of the Interior, and it is also for the Ministry of the Interior to publish. Will the Minister come forward to tell us that the PPP under his command will not allow this information to be disclosed, that Vaher will tell the Minister that it cannot say these things in front of Parliament? Are you kidding me? Although a person has broken the law, and although there is a paragraph to withdraw a residence permit, the residence permit is not taken away from him. What can we conclude from this? If you're black and you call yourself a refugee, you can do whatever you want, break the laws you want, and nothing happens. The police won't hurt you, the DA's office won't hurt you, only the stupid Estonians have to comply with the law. And then they ask why people are not in favour of admitting immigrants, why we are so intolerant or what stupid words these are, which will be released immediately! We compare the attention to this case with the intensity of what the Estonian state authorities, in particular the Ministry of the Interior, were investigating the arson of Vao. Is it not possible to be racist when a black immigrant attacks local people? Absolutely possible. It is entirely possible that this case also had such motivation. He threatened to kill a man, and he also promised to bring his friends back from his homeland so he could kill them more safely, but no one is looking into it, rather the power of the state is helping to cover these things up. We are seeing a clear pattern here, which we have seen repeatedly and for a long time in all Western countries, where the crimes committed by immigrants are not like crimes. However, there are always malicious people who point this out and who do not want us to live in a society where there are rules for the indigenous people to work, comply with laws and pay taxes, and other rules for immigrants who can live free, as if they never use a language learning facility, and may violate the law. Suddenness and, in general, the destruction of any authority of state authority is what has been done in this case.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-24_U195	Good waitress, thank you! No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. An inquiry has been answered.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-24_U196	We are going to the seventh question, which was made by members of the Riigikogu Monika Haukanõm, Ain Lutsepp, Artur Talvik, Külmiki Kübarsepp, Jüri Adams, Andres Ammas, Krista Aru and Andres Herkel on the 14th day of September 2016. An inquiry is given about the organisation of the Valkla Home and the security of the community and it bears the number 245. The Minister for Social Protection, Margus Tsahkna, will answer the question. I ask the representative of the speakers of the Riigikogu's speech chair, Monika Haukanõmme, who introduces the inquiry to the Estonian public.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-24_U197	Mr President! Minister, thank you very much. I'll give you a little introduction. The proportion of people with mental disorders in the disability population is increasing; therefore, the special psychological need is overwhelmingly the primary cause of disability for people of working age. Providing care for those in need is primarily a family responsibility under our constitution and family law. If the family cannot cope with caring for their loved ones, the principle of subsidiarity requires the local government to provide assistance. This includes people with disabilities, but it excludes people with mental disorders, because this group of people is the maintenance and responsibility of the state. This is largely the case from Soviet times when all people with mental disorders were hidden away from the public in large institutions, often located in the forest, in old manor buildings. In the early 1990s, however, more thought began to be given as to how to provide a living and more inclusive environment for people who were then hidden out of sight. They began to think about people who could live in an open society outside so-called closed nursing homes with sufficient outside support. The process of deinstitutionalisation has been long and complex, as the new approach requires getting used not only to people living in special care institutions throughout their lives, but also to society in general. It is also clear, however, that even with the greatest effort, we will never achieve a situation where all people with deep mental illness can be integrated from nursing homes into society, because there are still those who are dangerous either to themselves or to others. Therefore, we also need up-to-date special care facilities where people who are directed there by a court order live. The one and only place where special care is provided 24 hours a day by court order is Valkla Home in Harjumaa. It is managed by AS Hoolekandeteenused, the largest provider of special care services in Estonia, which is a state-owned company. Officially, 94 seats are provided for customers with a court order at Valkla Home. The current situation, where from time to time the number of customers reaches 110, must be considered as unacceptable, creating sharp tensions between customers, employees and the village community. For years, Valkla Kodu has had a difficult time updating the content of services and ensuring the security of customers and keeping them on the premises of the institution. Major investments have been made, so-called "perimeters" have been built ever higher and conditions have been sought to bring them into line with the actual situation. Despite the investments made, the village community of Valkla lives in an atmosphere of fear and uncertainty. The running client has spooked and attacked people and abused foreign property. The village community has been looking for understanding and solutions to its concerns since 2013, but still in vain. Another problem is that clients, old people with dementia syndrome, live in conditions that do not meet their real health and needs, i.e. they are held behind bars in prison conditions, even though they need specific care. With the help of the European Regional Development Fund (ERDF) funds, the process of abolishing the type of community-based nursing homes from the Soviet era has begun. Valkla Home is an institution that needs a very thorough renovation or even losing. Why? The current Valkla Home is located in a completely inappropriate place in view of the target group. It's a long way from an ambulance, there's no doctor on the scene, not to mention specialist medical care and psychiatric nurses, rescue services, and the police. There is no specialized and qualified staff in the region and the owner must deliver the employees from Tallinn every day. On this basis, we have put four questions to the Minister for Social Protection. We would like to have an overview of the state's plans of how solutions to the problems of caring for clients by court order will be envisaged in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-24_U198	Thank you. I ask the Minister for Social Protection, Margus Tsahkna, for the speech of the Riigikogu, to answer an inquiry, which bears the number 245.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-24_U199	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good questioners! I'll read your questions and answer them, then we can discuss them. The theme of Valkla Home has been on the agenda for a long time, it is a special institution, and there have been questions there for years. We're trying to solve them as we can. Questions about the organisation of the Valkla Home and the security of the community are as follows: The first question: 'If a person is directed against a welfare institution, it is the responsibility of the service provider to ensure that the customer does not leave unauthorised premises or territory and does not endanger himself or others. What steps have the Ministry of Social Affairs, together with AS Hoolekandeteenused, undertaken to protect and increase the security of ordinary citizens living in the area of Valkla from customers with special needs under the order of the court after the network garden has been built ever higher? Do you think what has been done so far has been enough to prevent escapes? ' The second question: 'The Social Welfare Act may restrict the right of free movement to a person who is placed in a welfare institution under a court order. The court therefore assigns the person to the service, but there are no clear instructions and rules on the extent and manner in which the service provider may restrict the freedom of movement of the person to whom the service is addressed by a court order. The village community of Valkla has proposed the implementation of electronic surveillance with the aim of quickly finding and returning the escaped customers to the service. Have you analysed the proposal and, if so, what result have you achieved with regard to the possibilities of implementing electronic surveillance? Is and how the law needs to be amended so that the rights of on-call workers are clarified? ' The third question: 'There are many people at Valkla's Home who, according to their diagnosis, should not be included: demented elderly people, alcoholics, autists. Some demented old people are more likely to stay there until death, although this is clearly not a suitable place for them. How have customers in Valkla's Home not meeting the needs and objectives of the service? What are the selection criteria for the place of service and do you consider that Valkla Home-living customers are directed towards the service in the best interests of those in need? ' Last question: According to the website of AS Hoolekandeteenused, together with partners, they have submitted funding requests to the Ministry of Social Affairs for the closure of six large nursing homes and the establishment of new and modern service places for residents there. Unfortunately, Valkla Home is not on the list of institutions that are closed or renovated and does not meet the requirements of the service or the expectations of the community. What is the Ministry's vision of the future of Valkla Home and of clients who are reluctant to provide services under the court order? ' I will now answer all these questions because they are crucified and embedded in such a more or less logical order. I would like to introduce the fact that people with disabilities are part of society, live with us and beside us, and under the constitution they are under the special care of the state and local authorities. In 2012, the Riigikogu of the Republic of Estonia ratified the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, thereby promising to protect and promote the rights and inclusion of persons with disabilities in all areas of life. I hope that everyone in the hall will understand that the lives of Valkla Home clients and their loved ones are certainly not easy. Because of their state of health, no one wants to enter such a closed establishment and often for years. The appointment, care without consent, extension and suspension of a person's consent shall be decided by the court of the Republic of Estonia. Although this has been indirectly requested in the inquiry, as Minister for Social Protection, I cannot make assessments of the Court's decisions or question their right and accuracy. The Court will deal with the cases in the light of all the circumstances and in the light of the assessment, inter alia, of whether less restrictive interventions have been used and whether previous aid measures have not proved sufficient or other aid measures cannot be used. Let us remember that the court decides to place a person in such an institution and take these measures for a maximum period of one year and that this decision will be reviewed regularly. The maximum length is one year. AS Hoolekandeteenused has also submitted statements and opinions to the court if the person receiving the service is not eligible for the institution and no longer needs the service. So the care services of AS Hoolekandeteenused who deals with these people have also sent this information and corresponding statements to the court. The need for services shall be assessed by the court at least once a year. So the year is the longest period and at least once a year the decision will be reviewed. I do not want, nor can I as Minister, to evaluate and comment on these decisions. AS Hoolekandeteenused has given priority to providing more substantial and efficient services and has made a number of changes to the organisation of work. Among other things, family groups have been set up for the target groups, including a separate group for the recovery, a psychologist, operational supervisors and masters for the guidance of mobility and work activities. They are complemented by leading supervisors and senior supervisors. We have concluded a contract, i.e. AS Hoolekandeteenused has concluded a contract with a psychiatrist from the North Estonian Regional Hospital who serves people in Valkla twice a month. AS Hoolekandeteenused has increased cooperation with rehabilitation teams. A risk assessment data sheet shall be completed for each person and a hazard warning plan shall be drawn up. These activities allow for an earlier identification of risks and faster and planned intervention. The Ministry of Social Affairs has allocated funds to improve the security of Valkla Kodu and has undertaken a number of activities in recent years. I bring here a list of activities undertaken after the in-house activities mentioned above. First, video surveillance has been improved in general rooms and outdoor areas, including motion sensor luminaires, to monitor what is happening in the territory even in the dark. Secondly, a panic-button system has been put in place to ensure that all operational supervisors have the possibility to call for assistance. Third, double door exit systems with an electronic locking system have been established. Fourthly, all the windows in the accommodation and operating spaces involved in the provision of the service are covered by a safety net. Fifth, fences of the courtyards have been established, the existing garden has been replaced against a new, higher and impenetrable garden, roofs of galleries and interior balconies are secured. Sixth, the building is surrounded by a fence. You understand that there have been a wide range of measures. We are talking about cases that have disturbed the community when certain people have left the premises of the institution. [[Interjection. The manager's ringing the bell.]] I don't think these people are bothering the community very much right now. But these numbers are as follows. In 2013, there were 17 arbitrary departures in Valkla, six in 2014, five in 2015 and three arbitrary departures in 2016. Despite the fact that there have been three escapes this year too, looking at these figures shows that the number of unauthorised departures has decreased thanks to the actions mentioned above. In the last year, it was one person who, despite the measures, was able to leave the institution three times. The person whose escapes have caused problems in the village community of Valkla and who has found repeated media coverage has left the institution arbitrarily three times in 2015 and three times in 2016. Therefore, in the context of recent years, it can be said that there have been problems with the same person. I can't judge here, but it's a systematic behavior. Both staff and persons are employed to ensure that escapes are not repeated and that their continuous supervision is ensured and that their leisure time is actively furnished. For example, a person has a daily schedule in cooperation with experts; he or she is engaged in both work and domestic and household work. According to the Ministry of Social Affairs, this person has not tried to escape in the last three and a half months. Speaking of electronic supervision in the context of the so-called anklet, it has to be understood that those in Valkla who receive this service have not given their consent to receive social welfare assistance on the basis of their mental status, or that other social services have not produced results or cannot be used. The purpose of the service provided at Valkla Home is to ensure that the ability of the person receiving the service is preserved and increased and that the service provider has a safe living environment within its territory. Under the law, electronic supervision is an alternative measure and is used in a criminal custody system, which is another area. However, the reason for obtaining special care under a judicial order is not the commission of an offence, but a situation arising from a person's mental state where the person's ability to understand or control his/her behaviour is limited. The ability of those receiving the service to understand the meaning and consequences of their actions as well as the rules and agreements in society in general may not be sufficient, to say the least, to apply electronic supervision. One of the prerequisites for the implementation of electronic surveillance is that a person knows that when he leaves a particular territory, the monitoring tool sends a signal and the procedure follows. Nor does the so-called anklet prevent escape and it is not physically difficult to remove it. In view of the above, it is unlikely that electronic supervision of persons receiving special care under a court order would help to achieve the objective of the service, i.e. to maintain or increase the individual's ability to self-maintain. If you look at the case of this particular person, you can see that there has been a great deal of ingenuity and ingenuity, and that an electronic bracelet, which is actually easily removable, may not fulfil its purpose. In addition to being an action in a completely different area, it may not achieve a result. I myself believe that actively dealing with this person and keeping him there on the ground will perhaps help to better solve his problem and the problem of other people who want to leave. It should also be borne in mind that a person sent to a closed establishment has already been subject to an extreme restriction on the freedom of movement of a person, and imposing an additional restriction would mean restricting freedom in so-called double volumes. The current process of development and transformation of special care services will identify the needs of the users of the service. The aim is to use needs-based assistance measures in the provision of services, including, for example, those with high supervisory needs. However, the need for the service provided at Valkla Home has decreased year after year. If there were 174 people there four more years ago, there are currently 104 people, 10 of whom are minors for whom specialized rooms have been adapted. Substantial development of services, including staff training, well-designed guidance for problem situations, risk assessment and the creation of better targeted services for target groups (e.g. psychiatric long-term care, provision of services in smaller units, etc.) will play a role in reducing service needs. However, the provision of special care for a certain group of persons during a certain period of life is necessary under a court order. This is likely to continue and special care will continue to be provided 24 hours a day by court order. No request for the reorganisation of Valkla Home in the first round of projects applying for European Structural Fund funding has been made. The Ministry of Social Affairs is currently preparing the terms of the second round of requests for funds for the same measure, under which attention will also be paid to the future of Valkla Home and the possibilities of reorganisation. When submitting an application, solutions must be found to the questions on the form and location of the sites to be reorganized. The resources of the European Structural Fund are linked to the objective of making a substantive reform of the special care system, and it is precisely as heir Monika Haukanõm said that large institutions with relatively inhumane conditions must be reorganized into smaller institutions that are more evenly located across Estonia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-24_U200	Minister, thank you. You have questions. Arthur Talvik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-24_U201	Good President! Good minister! That was a nice talk about all kinds of honeys. This has also been said to the local community. Nevertheless, over and over again and over and over again, it occurs that someone, even the same person, gets out of that institution. Somehow it doesn't make any sense what its real reason is when the garden is built higher. Is it not one of the reasons that there are few staff, that the salaries of the staff are low and that the responsibility of the staff is not commensurate with the size of the salary? Plus, is it worth keeping such an institution in a place like this? It's also a big question mark.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-24_U202	Thank you. I also brought out the statistics in my reply. After all, these problems were not related to just one person in the past. Indeed, there has been a significant change in the organisation of work. If there were 17 arbitrary departures in 2013, then now we are actually talking about one person who has gone out three times in the last year and three times in that year. Rather, I would like to say that these measures have probably had some effect. This particular person, as I said in my reply, is dealt with completely separately because it is known that a person has this tendency and urge to escape. If you yourself have been there and seen the measures that I have read here and which have actually been introduced, then I hope you will understand that the community there can really live more calmly now. But it doesn't give me any guarantees, I mean it. AS Hoolekandeteenused and his staff will certainly make an effort. We know that wages are low in the whole social field, especially in institutions and special care institutions. It is certainly difficult to find staff in this institution, which has specifically been sent under a court order. I don't want to say the opposite at all. But we still have a plan, along with AS Hoolekandeteenused, to think about how we can reorganize Valkla Kodu in such a way that those who in the future need this service provided under a court order in a closed establishment will definitely have the same service. These people could be as few as possible; we should be able to distribute this thing across Estonia. Today, Valkla Home is really the only institutional care center under a court order, but we have this topic in focus.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-24_U203	Monika Haukanõmm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-24_U204	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. You also said at the beginning of your answer that the theme of Valkla Home has been up for a very long time. In addition to the village community, the Estonian Psychiatric Society is also very critical of the location of the special care service provided on the basis of this court order. He has pointed this out and said that the service is provided in the wrong place, far from the populated places. 20 times in a week, there is an ambulance, there is no doctor on the scene, let alone a psychiatrist, there are no psychiatric nurses, rescue services, and the police are far away, and the nearest police station is 20 kilometers away. That means you have to go there all the time. I want to know exactly where the right place for these people is, because it's obviously not Valkla.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-24_U205	Thank you, good questioner! I can assure you that during the last year, when we have prepared for the reform of special welfare institutions, there has been a very serious debate with local communities all over Estonia. How can I put it politely? Nobody wants these people with them. I am not talking at all about people who receive services under a court order, i.e. residents of the Valkla Home, but also residents of a regular special welfare institution. I myself have participated in some debates and have also seen video recordings of these debates. They are anything but argument-based; they are emotional debates. I understand all of this very well. Clearly, the whole purpose of the special welfare reform is for us to divide these large institutions behind the forest, far from the support services, into smaller ones, so that they are closer to the community and services. But if we look at people assigned to such institutions on the basis of a court order, I don't know today about the place or the community that is willing to accept them. That's a very difficult question. We have taken the line that we are not doing a special care institution to accept the wishes of the community, because we need community support. This is a complex problem that needs to be resolved. If it is usually justified that there is no financial capacity or resources, we now have almost EUR 60 million to use to reform the special care system. In the second round, we will certainly find the means to have some kind of working place and a solution for the Valkla Home.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-24_U206	Minister, thank you. No further questions. I'm opening negotiations. Artur Talvik, speech chair of the Riigikogu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-24_U207	Good President! Ladies and gentlemen, Good minister! Valkla's nursing home is where it has been for years. Even before people with special psychiatric needs were brought there 24 hours a day under a court order, there was still a nursing home for people with special needs. The local community was actually used to this nursing home. Then one day, not too long ago, people with special psychiatric needs were brought there 24 hours a day under a court order. The words used in this area have become very complex, but we are talking about people who have already committed some kind of crime. This has led to very serious opposition in the community. The main problem is that these people who are held there under a court order will be released. They have gone home to the people living near the nursing home, scared them, and thereby completely disrupted the community's sense of security. This has taken place from year to year. Restoring a sense of security is, however, a very difficult process. The Minister said that in the last two years, there has been only one person who has left six times. If he hasn't left there in three and a half months, then taking the mathematical average, he'll probably get out in about half a month and then he'll be in trouble again. Despite the fact that the money has been spent to build the garden higher and put nets on the windows. I'm coming up with community proposals. The main and perhaps most reactive proposal is to move this department of people who are held there under a court order from this nursing home at all. As my colleague Monika Haukamm said, the Psychiatric Society has also pointed out that Valkla is not a good place to provide such services, because the police are far away, the ambulance is far away, the doctors are not on the ground enough, etc. The salaries of the staff of the welfare institution are a very serious problem. They cannot be charged with sufficient responsibility or attention for this poor salary in order to prevent such troubled people from getting out of it. I see that the Minister has something more interesting to do, and he is not listening to what I have to say at the moment, but I want to point out to the Minister once again that such a round talk that we are always taking action and discussing is no longer a criminal. Breaking the security of the community has been so fundamental that it may not be improved in any other way than to move this service from this place to a place where it is better to offer it. Now the minister's gonna lay out his hand and say he doesn't know where this better place is. In any case, this better place is definitely closer to the police and the ambulance, and there are more doctors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-24_U208	Good waitress, thank you! No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. An inquiry has been answered.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-24_U209	We will move to the eighth inquiry by members of the Riigikogu Marika Tuus-Laul, Mailis Reps, Mikhail Stalnukhin, Viktor Vassilyev, Heimar Lenk, Toomas Vitsut, Kersti Sarapuu, Olga Ivanova, Erki Savisaar, Peeter Ernits, Anneli Ott, Oudekki Loone, Valeri Korb, Dmitri Dmitrijev, Märt Sults and Kadri Simson on 13 September anno Domini 2016. An inquiry is about the budget deficit of the Health Insurance Fund and bears the number 242. Finance Minister Sven Sester will answer the question. Please ask the representative of the speakers of the Riigikogu's speech chair Marika Tuus-Lauli, who will introduce the inquiry to the Estonian public.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-24_U210	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Mr. Minister! Members of the Riigikogu! Our inquiry into the financing of healthcare has indeed been submitted to the Minister for Finance, because Mr Ossinovski, Minister of Health and Labour, is already aware of the views on this issue. As everyone remembers, according to the state budget, the health insurance fund's losses this year should have been EUR 9 million, but in six months it rose to 33 million. However, Mr Ossinovski estimates the deficit to be 20 million at the end of the year. At present, the deficit is covered by around 114 million euros accumulated in the sickness fund's reserve. If we go on with the same system, by 2020, we'll be out of reserve. Mr Ossinovski has also come up with a number of points of view, of which, by the way, very many overlap with those of the Centre Party that we have come up with, how to improve funding. He has given a number of examples. Perhaps it is necessary to abolish the reduction in social tax or to impose a ceiling on maternity, sickness and care benefits. But we have read a lot about the media that the Minister of Finance has also taken positions here. One of these points is that we could review the patient's own contribution. Several proposals have been made here. We are, of course, categorically opposed to this, because the absolute ceiling is here. There are a number of other proposals that the Minister of Finance has opposed. We all know that healthcare funding is now in a very bad position, and we can see that this situation will be even worse in the future. However, we have not seen any long-term strategic plan being made to improve it all, even though there have been many times in power and many years in power. We ask why this has not been addressed before. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-24_U211	Thank you very much. I ask the Minister of Finance, Sven Sester, for the speech of the Riigikogu, who responds to an inquiry, which bears the number 242.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-24_U212	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear Members, Ladies and gentlemen of the House! I will answer your questions about the budget of the Health Insurance Fund. First I read the question and then I read the answer. The first question: 'You have proposed a solution to the need to increase the patient's own contribution in order to balance the budget of the Health Insurance Fund. In Estonia, the patient's own contribution reaches 25% today, which is one of the highest in Europe, and according to WHO and OECD estimates it reaches a critical limit. In the light of the above indicator, how do you comment on your proposal? ' The size of the holding, as well as the allocation of this burden between the different groups of the population, must certainly be discussed. Health insurance must be structured in such a way that, in the event of health problems, the treatment is also available financially to the person. The specific number is average and does not describe the situation of the population groups that are better or worse affected. There are people who are willing to pay and who are also able to pay more for better healthcare, just as there are people who cannot. As a large part of the ownership is related to dental care, the adult dental benefit system, which will be in place in 2017, should reduce the burden on patients to some extent. The possibility of improving the situation of less-insured groups would be, for example, if essential and proven medical costs were taken into account when determining income support. The Ministry of Social Affairs could analyze it. These are just a few options, but I would stress that a comprehensive solution must finally be put on the table by the Minister for Health and Labour. The second question: 'The solutions proposed by the Minister for Health and Labour include the abolition of the 0.5% reduction in social tax. How do you feel about this proposal? Where do you get the money to make it up to you? ' Stopping the reduction in social tax does not bring more money to the health insurance fund because the loss of income as a result of the tax reduction is compensated by the formula given to the health insurance fund by law. With the tax amendment, the compensation formula written into the law will enter into force next year, so that the sickness fund will still receive a share of wages equal to 13%. The reduction in social tax revenue is offset by other revenue from the state budget. The third question: 'Do you support the idea that money for compensation for incapacity for work should be paid from the unemployment fund instead of the sickness allowance? ' From the point of view of the state budget, this does not change anything, because the money does not add up. The question is whether this will result in the system becoming more effective or not. In essence, it would make sense for all work-related benefits to come from one place, i.e. the unemployment fund. At present, these things are divided between the Health Insurance Fund, the Unemployment Insurance Fund and the Social Insurance Board. When fragmented grants and benefits are brought together in a single institution between different institutions, this should create prerequisites for the system to be effective. Perhaps there would also be a greater capacity to predict the costs of work capacity benefits and to take the risks into account, as the unemployment fund has comprehensive information and an overview of the field of work. Question 4: How and with what measures do you think the financing of the health system should be made sustainable? ' First of all, I recall that the budget of the Health Insurance Fund will increase by EUR 66 million next year and will continue to grow just as fast. The current annual income of the Health Insurance Fund, which is EUR 1 billion, will be added to EUR 300 million in four years. At the same time, everyone agrees that we need long-term solutions for financing health care, because the working age population is falling and society is ageing. Internal reforms are also needed to make better use of the health fund's money. There's still a lot of work to be done here. In addition to the planned growth, however, it is possible to find money by raising existing taxes, launching new taxes or reducing the costs of another area of life or when they are growing more slowly. Question 5: 'Considering your party's long-term membership of power, the question arises as to why you have not done anything before to ensure the sustainability of healthcare funding. This is a problem that has been going on for years, and the WHO has also pointed out this. ' In coalition governments, responsibility is generally distributed so that problems and solutions are brought to the table by the minister responsible for the field whose work it is. The last of my party associates on this post was Marko Pomerants more than ten years ago. At the same time, I can say that the officials of the Ministry of Finance, as well as I as Minister of Finance, have been actively involved in the work of the Social Security Reform Committee, which is responsible for presenting such proposals to the government for decision. These proposals have been tabled today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-24_U213	Minister, thank you. There are some questions. Marika Tuus-Laul, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-24_U214	Thank you. You mean that we can only improve this funding if we introduce new taxes or play with this money on the basis of the Excel table. I am asking in this way what is the optimal percentage of GDP that could finance health care. In Estonia, this percentage is really small, barely 6%, but the European average is about 9.5%, I am not talking about America, where it is much higher. It's not normal to try to heal people with that kind of money. Besides, we can see that people's health is deteriorating and that the number of healthy years is falling. We need to come up with something new in this system, not go on like this, just take it away from somewhere and put it somewhere else. What are your suggestions when you look at the broader picture?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-24_U215	Thank you. What's interesting is that if you make proposals, you'll be halfway there. In the introduction to your question, you said that you do not have to raise taxes or implement new taxes or reduce the costs of some areas of life or create slower growth there. I'm gonna ask you where you think that money might come from. Let us always try to answer that question. Money doesn't come from the budget.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-24_U216	Minister, you have to answer here, not ask questions. Or is that a rhetorical question?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-24_U217	Yeah, but as a questioner can ask what he wants, so I can give the kind of answer I want to give here. I mean, every time we want to spend, we have to think about where the money comes from. We have agreed to this point that the health care system is solidarity-based and based on the fact that as much of the social tax is coming, the health insurance fund also has a profit position. Yeah, there are some other revenues, but mostly we can talk about the fact that the income base still arises from social tax. In addition, state budget compensation is now also at issue, as social tax will be reduced by half a percentage next year. The Health Insurance Fund, as I told you, doesn't suffer. As far as the short term is concerned, I think that we will be able to work more effectively on the basis of the money available when looking at our internal resources. I have told you this before: doctors' appointments will be missed because patients will stop visiting the doctor even though other patients need to be admitted; in the same case, the same studies will be carried out in different hospitals; the deficiencies of information systems or other reasons cause information not to move from one hospital to another. Different measures will help to ensure that money is used as efficiently as possible in the existing system.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-24_U218	Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-24_U219	Honourable President! Honorable Minister! You said a few moments ago that this formula, on the basis of which the deficit of the health insurance fund is compensated each year for other revenue from the state budget, was fixed by law. Where does this formula come in?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-24_U220	Thank you. It's fixed for today. The coalition agreement also states that if, from 1 January, 33% becomes 32.5%, with a price of EUR 41 million, it will be credited directly to the sickness fund from other revenue of the state budget. This money is available today and it is also in the state budget. If you look at the state budget in the full picture, you will also see that in the state budget this protection is provided for the health insurance fund. The Health Insurance Fund doesn't lose any money.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-24_U221	Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-24_U222	Thank you, Mr. Vice Speaker. Minister, thank you very much. I would, of course, point out that the Coalition Treaty is not a law. But I will tell my colleague Ammas that it was really in this disgusting cluster law. We had Ossinovski on the Commission today, who also spoke about the downside of the Health Insurance Fund, and showed us a table that has been approved by the government. In fact, next year the health insurance fund will be less than 2.1 million, and from there the health insurance fund will be happily balanced for all the following years. According to the budget, this year's Health Insurance Fund had to be less than 9 million. So far, however, it has been agreed that minus will be drawn to 25 million, in the meantime it was even bigger. Who makes these forecasts, the people of the Ministry of Finance, the people of the Health Insurance Fund or the people of the Ministry of Social Affairs? Who do we have to dip in the tar and the feathers from the bluff they're feeding us all the time?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-24_U223	Thank you. That's a good question, I'll open it for a while. There are two forecasts: a revenue forecast and a cost forecast. The income of the Health Insurance Fund comes mainly, as I mentioned earlier, from the social tax that comes from our salaries. The forecast of the Health Insurance Fund's income is made by the Ministry of Finance. Please note that we have adjusted this forecast upwards, i.e. the Health Insurance Fund is gaining more and more oxygen than in previous forecasts. Perhaps wages will increase faster than we have expected, which in turn means that the Health Insurance Fund will have more capacity and opportunities than was expected. In the light of this, I have called for a sober reflection on every expenditure we make, because a situation in which the revenue base is increasing so intensively cannot last for long. Wages hardly grow so intensely and strongly for years and years. It was about the revenue side. It's a positive side if you're wrong in the way that you've expected less revenue, but there'll be more. The other half is the cost side. The costs are really forecast by the sickness fund itself, based on various criteria and objectives. Some positions are so-called open, for which it really predicts what will be next year. I will give you, for example, those loose positions where this time there were the biggest failures, if you could say so. One of the open positions was the cost of health care, with an extra cost of almost EUR 8.8 million in the first half of the year, mainly for specialised medical care. The second cost of overspending, when we talk in the context of the half-year, arose with temporary incapacity benefits. There was an overspending of 7.1 million euros in half a year. The Health Insurance Fund itself explained that this was due to the increased use of sick, care and maternity leaves. The third was the overspending of drugs. The hepatitis C medicine caused the majority of this, but there were other medicines that were overexploited. We have now looked at the past that has happened over the past six months, why this excess has been like this, and whether any conclusions are drawn from it. But I'm sure it's worth looking into the future. As early as last autumn, I put the board of directors to the heart of the Health Insurance Fund that they must take responsibility for their words, and the draft budget they bring to the board's table must be appropriate to the possibilities and must act on the basis of their best knowledge. Well, then, the answer was that this is the best way to know. If we look to the future, we will see that certain changes are also taking place in the near future. So what's going on? First of all, we will see that there will be additional revenues in the near future, due to better collection of social tax, which is not, for example, in our latest forecast. When the primary budget was set, the sickness fund was not yet aware that there would be additional revenue. Secondly, certain decisions have been taken in the Health Insurance Board. One of these is the negotiation between the potential originators and the country in order to lower the prices of the medicinal products. This should lead to savings of almost EUR 1 million a year. The Health Insurance Fund has put on the table issues and coefficients for overwork, which should give the Health Insurance Fund some buffer and some oxygen in the future. Of course, the budget has not yet been approved, but it provides knowledge and can be expected that if forecasters forecast the cost base correctly, we will not have to see such a failure in the coming years, mainly on the expenditure side. Once again, more revenue has come, which gives the opportunity to carry out the decisions made.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-24_U224	Monika Haukanõmm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-24_U225	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. Point 10.46 of the Programme of Action of the Government of the Republic states that by May 2016, you and the Minister of Health and Labour should have carried out a sustainability analysis of health funding and also put forward proposals. The proposals came at the end of the summer, but I don't think they've been approved. Within this same task, you had to analyse the possibilities of additional healthcare funding and even the idea of creating 'personal health accounts' has been proposed. What do you think about the idea of creating personal health accounts, and where do you see the possibility of raising extra money for health care?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-24_U226	Thank you. I'll start from a distance. At the beginning of the question, you said that the proposals have not been accepted. We have not had very big discussions yet. We have had partial discussions on possible additional funding, but there has not been a big debate, which is 'demography'. I think that these things are still ahead of us, some proposals have also been made. I have a positive view of health accounts on my own, and I support them. Of course, if this idea were ever to be implemented, it would be necessary to negotiate the details, because the devil is in the details, but I would be willing to talk about it. You asked about any additional revenues. I guess there's been a lot of suggestions on the table. Some of them are perhaps on a higher flight, starting with the taxation of energy drinks, it seems to me, the analysis at least shows it, too narrow a niche, it wouldn't give an effect because administration is too expensive to cover up to quite a number of other things. Mr Ossinovski has spoken, for example, about the sugar tax. Any such proposals must always be viewed on two sides: on the one hand, administration and potential revenue base, and on the other hand, behavioural changes related to health, whether or not innovation will produce the desired effect. There will certainly be and will be proposals in the future. But as far as medical records are concerned, I wouldn't be ashamed of the debate on this subject.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-24_U227	Let's move fast. Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-24_U228	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. Actually, it's worse than that. I read in Postman's article that the order of the joints' endoprosthesis has grown from one and a half years to three years. If no extra money is found, these people will suffer three years waiting in line. But I have a very brief question for you, you can also answer briefly. Do you recognise that the budget of the Health Insurance Fund is not sustainable and that the government is responsible for funding?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-24_U229	Thank you. As you probably have noticed, I think that in the long term, any organisation will not be sustainable if its costs are constantly above income. I do not think that any organisation, including the state, will be sustainable, by the way, even though you have proposed several times to put the country into deeper and deeper debt. Eventually, all of this will have to be repaid. I think that any organisation, if it does not control itself, will not be sustainable in the long term, including the Health Insurance Fund.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-24_U230	Minister, the way it has happened now is that there are no more questions. Thank you very much. I'm opening negotiations. Riigikogu speech chair Marika Tuus-Lauli, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-24_U231	Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Minister, Yes, I really wanted to know, or rather we wanted to know, what the government coalition was planning and what the Minister of Finance was planning to do to improve the financing of health care today and in the future. We know that we are talking about two 'negative': one is present and short-term, and the other is long-term and requires a much larger plan. But I got the answer to the question, the question to me, what would I do? Well, what would I do? I guess there's a lot of these things. I think the Minister of Finance should still think about why our economic growth is so narrow now and why we do not want to boost the economy. One should think about why we are not thinking about how to increase production or why people have left Estonia and why they do not want to come back. Of course, I would also wonder if we could not have saved the huge millions that have gone to Estonian Air or to ferry procurement or to Tallink, or even to a proud ministry house. These are all the sums that could have been saved. Of course there are more, I'm not going to name everyone here. In any case, the Minister had the impression that the financing of health care was okay and, if we really want to, we could increase the amounts in the budget. But things aren't really working out. There are 184000 people in line for specialized medical care. We'll never know how many people haven't gotten in line because they just haven't succeeded. They'll be told they'll have to call back in two weeks and then try, but they still won't get that time. Even worse, it's in hospital. Family doctors are also overloaded, and the waiting time for the chronically ill to get to the family doctor is ten instead of five days. As a result, the burden of emergency medicine continues to increase, as people do not get treatment on time. In fact, over the last three years, the number of patients admitted to the EMO in a life-threatening situation has increased by more than a third. The cure is more expensive there, and then there's a danger to human life. So Estonian health care is chronically underfunded, and this problem, as you know, is long-term. The WHO and the OECD have repeatedly pointed this out, but over the years the problem has been getting worse. Looking at our overall demographic situation and our ageing population, which requires even more money for health care, we need to think more about what to do. If we want our high-level medical care to continue in the future, we will have to come up with a bigger plan. What the Minister said about increasing own contribution is not worth talking at all, because we have an own contribution of almost 25% at present, which is an absolute ceiling. Already 15% ownership in Europe is said to be no longer available. But 25% is already completely unacceptable. If we're still thinking about some sort of replay, I just can't imagine it. The current situation is actually alarming. You have made a number of points in the press. For example, the number of treatment cases may be reduced. This is a statement taken directly from the press. Indeed, why, for example, are unemployment sheets (such as sick leave, maternity leave, adoption sheet, care sheet) financed from the budget of the Health Insurance Fund? Why is the birth certificate money taken from the medical allowance? The birth is not related to the disease. It's exactly the same thing with the maintenance sheets. Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-24_U232	Yeah, sure, three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-24_U233	From the point of view of the state budget, I understand that this money must be taken from somewhere. It's like lifting from one pocket to another, but you gotta think about it. In any case, it would be very helpful to keep people on the medication. We are, of course, disappointed by Mr Ossinovski's sudden change of heart. He said for a very long time that health care is chronically underfunded and cannot go on like this, we need extra money. But suddenly, as if overnight, he began to say that there is still plenty to squeeze out of health care, that it can be done at the expense of favorable medicines, with medical queues, that hospital overwork can be limited and made cheaper, that is what has already been done with next year's budget, and that there is also the possibility of raising the visit fee and the hospital's bed-day price. The Minister of Finance has also said that these prices are long overdue. So, again, it's still a matter of ownership. I say we can't go on like this with the funding of health care. I can't even imagine where we're going like this. When it is said that hospitals have spent too much this year and that hepatitis B has been treated too well, and why so much treatment is needed, it is just embarrassing to listen. The Minister can't say that! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-24_U234	Thank you. More... Yes, it is. I ask the Minister of Finance of the Riigikogu to speak to Sven Sester! Five or eight minutes?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-24_U235	From time to time, I wonder if all this stuff I'm saying is gonna help or amplify a story. But you can't keep quiet about injustice, you have to do things. I'm not just talking about the saying that you said hepatitis B, even though it was hepatitis C. It was just one word. I also do not want to dwell on the fact that you presented a tirate on what the government is doing to make Estonia attractive and add value to economic growth, as well as attractive companies. There wasn't a word of it in your inquiry, but in your introduction you presented a long tirate on this subject. I think we have different opinions here. My understanding has always been that by making the whole Estonian environment more attractive, we are only increasing the possibility that entrepreneurs who create added value will come here and we can channel this money to both the health insurance fund and everywhere else. I want to talk about the fact that I'm worried about the Health Insurance Fund and the medicine, too. Your rhetoric, which you used when speaking about this speaker, does not offer solutions. My rhetorical question to you was that. Right, you don't have to propose solutions, you don't have that task. The government is thinking about how taxpayers' money would be distributed to all things, from Tallinn to Tartu Road, teachers' salaries, health insurance and pensions to investments and rescuers, so that the quality of life would be as good as possible. It's being dealt with. In two days' time, when this is the first reading of the state budget, I expect you to give me a little smile and constructiveness. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-24_U236	No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. An inquiry has been answered.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-24_U237	Let's move on to the ninth question. It was presented by Riigikogu members Andres Ammas, Krista Aru, Monika Haukanõm, Jüri Adams, Külmiki Kübarsepp, Andres Herkel, Artur Talvik and Ain Lutsepp on 13 September 2016. The inquiry is about the preparation of the Insurance Cooperatives Act, number 244 and is answered by Minister of Finance Sven Sester. I ask Mr Andres Ammas, representative of the speakers of the Riigikogu, to introduce his inquiry to Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-24_U238	Honourable President! Respectable members of the Riigikogu! Respectable Minister of Finance! The Free Party and the Ministry of Finance share a common love of mutual insurance companies, i.e. insurance cooperatives. There are no such ones in Estonia at the moment, but if there were, we believe that the business landscape in Estonia would be much more diverse and the availability of insurance services would be better. A little more than a year ago, a meeting of the Committee on Monetary Affairs discussed this issue more closely. There we heard from a representative of the ministry how this regulation could be born. Now it has been a year, and since the Minister does not have the right opportunity to tell us how this year has passed in this respect, eight members of the Free Party Group have reluctantly formulated an inquiry to which the Minister can hopefully delight us all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-24_U239	Thank you. I ask the Minister of Finance of the Riigikogu to answer question No 244.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-24_U240	Mr President! Your optimism infects us all in this hall. I mean your optimistic voice. Now, I'm gonna give you an overview of an inquiry that bears number 244. This is an inquiry into the preparation of the Insurance Cooperatives Act. I will read the question first and then the answer. The first question: 'Why has the draft approved by 30 April 2016 not been sent to the public coordination circle so far? Why doesn't the Ministry stick to their work programme? ' The Ministry's work programme consists of planned activities and activities that have been added to the work plan on an ongoing basis, as was the regulation of mutual insurance companies, i.e. insurance cooperatives. A large part of the planned activities is the transposition of European Union law, which sets specific deadlines. Delay may lead the European Commission to launch infringement proceedings involving financial sanctions. This year, the work plan of the Insurance Policy Department includes the development of a draft law amending the Insurance Activities Act relating to the transposition of the Insurance Economy Directive, as well as the draft law amending the Insurance Activities Act and related other laws, i.e. the transposition of the so-called PRIIP Regulation, which has already been submitted to the Riigikogu. The work plan includes, in cooperation with the Ministry of Justice, an amendment to the horizontal regulation concerning the sanctioning of financial supervision subjects, the need for which is also due to European Union law, the intention to develop a law on law enforcement, which has been sent to the coordination circle, and a draft relating to the completion of the law enforcement reform. As of 1 January 2017, the Law Enforcement Act also applies to the supervisory activities of the Financial Supervision Authority. As all these drafts relate to a specific deadline, the Ministry has considered their completion to be important, given also that the interest in mutual insurance companies has been theoretical rather than practical. Therefore, because resources are limited, the analysis of the regulation of mutual insurance companies started later than expected. The second question: 'Has the Ministry prepared an impact analysis, what are its main aspects? ' The Ministry has started to develop an intention to develop, which also shows whether and what impacts need to be further assessed, including which countries' experiences still need to be analysed. Question 3: "How can the experience of Finland with insurance cooperatives and the usability of this experience in Estonia be characterised? ' Finland's experience in this field has not yet been analysed by the Ministry. Question 4: How do you assess the damage to the freedom of economic activity caused by the long-term ban on insurance cooperatives? ' In Estonia, potential market participants have never shown any interest in legitimising such a form of business; such concern, proposal or wish has not been addressed to the Ministry. The fact that, under current law, an insurer cannot be established on the basis of reciprocity, such as a profit cooperative, can be regarded as an obstacle to the freedom to conduct a business, but this does not mean that it is necessarily a disproportionate violation of the freedom to conduct a business. Question 5: "What is the state of development of the regulation of insurance cooperatives and when will the intention to develop, who is to be involved and when can the draft be reached in the Riigikogu be made public? " We have started preliminary work and are putting together a plan for development. The design plan should describe, inter alia, the problem and target group to be addressed, the objective, the possible solutions to the issue and the comparison with the legal order of other countries, the significant impacts and the future action plan. Based on the results of the analysis and involvement, it can be assumed that the new regulation is necessary and whether we are developing a new law or amending the existing law on insurance activities. The Ministry of Finance has made it clear, among other things, which issues raise questions about how to deal with issues relating to mutual societies in a regulatory way and which decision-making points we have. Interest groups have emerged who might be interested in establishing such a form of insurance cooperative and have started to investigate the laws of other countries, including Austria, Germany and Latvia. Since there is currently no cooperative insurance in Estonia, it is planned to involve subjects who may have a theoretical interest in carrying out cooperative insurance activities and who may have a relationship with cooperative insurance activities. The aim is to involve as far as possible. According to the revised work plan, the intention is to send the draft work programme to the coordination circle at the end of this year. It is difficult to predict the time to reach the Riigikogu, which will also depend on feedback from interest groups and the workload associated with the Estonian Presidency of the European Union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-24_U241	Minister, thank you very much. However, there is one question for you and there is another. Let's get to the questions quickly. Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-24_U242	Honourable President! Honourable Minister, thank you for your answer. However, I would like to clarify this time a little, if possible. What is the probability that this bill will reach the Riigikogu in 2017?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-24_U243	Thank you. As I told you a few minutes ago, we really want to do this work thoroughly. I didn't start to list here the institutions we want to turn to in this process of engagement. But just in order for you to understand this cardinal, I mention the Financial Supervision Authority, the Insurance Association, the Insurance Broker Association, of course, the ministries that have to give feedback in this process, the Chamber of Agriculture and Trade, the Farmers' Confederation, the Farmers' Confederation, the Association of Construction Enterprises, etc. There are a lot of those on this list that we want to involve in this process and from whom we expect feedback. As you know, in the legislative process, there is always a need to listen to the views of all parties, and on this basis decisions can then be taken later. I'm telling you honestly, there's no reason for us to just hold on to anything. We have also said before that we are going ahead with this process. I do not want to give to you and this is not a viciously designed, specific promise, because if there is a situation where there is a need to stop processing other drafts in order to fulfil this promise for some reason, then the principle of reasonableness must always be observed and what is important at that point. I hope that there will not be such a situation where, at some point, we should suspend the procedure for another draft and, as a result, we could be subject to some sanctions. So believe me, there's no maliciousness, we've begun the process. We've made it clear, like I said, what we should investigate. We have made it clear to ourselves the parties with which we would like to carry out this process, and we have also started analysing national practices. With all of this, we have started and, frankly, we are really trying to keep this process going. Keeping a leash on in a good way, if you could say so.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-24_U244	Dear colleagues, we are still in the process of asking about the preparation of the Act on Insurance Cooperatives. Next, Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-24_U245	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, You spoke very nicely about the experience of other countries, such as Germany, Austria and Finland, during the preparation process. Have you been familiar with Estonia's own experience? I am thinking, above all, of the pre-war Republic of Estonia, where the activities of mutual insurance companies were very honored, it brought income to the economy and improved the business environment in Estonia, contributing to all the good things that we want to do today.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-24_U246	Thank you. As I said before, there is no cooperative insurance in Estonia at the moment, but of course the situation before will also be reviewed. Today, many laws have been amended in many countries, and business creation has also changed over time. Some nuances that were common at the time may not now be. I'm not going to point out what I meant by that. But, of course, all nuances and knowledge will be looked at during this process. The aim is always, especially with regard to entrepreneurship, to make a law that starts to work and is attractive to all parties. So, of course, best knowledge. If you have any ideas on how to make things better, since it is now receiving a letter of verbatim, use the opportunity to provide information by the Free Party.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-24_U247	Minister, thank you. No further questions. Is there a desire to negotiate? It's what you want. I'm opening negotiations. Speaking in position, Andres Ammas.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-24_U248	Honorable manager! Honourable colleagues! Honorable Minister! A man's word, a bull's horn. Members of the Free Party Group, inquisitors, would really be very pleased if this draft was still being prepared while Sven Sester is Minister of Finance. It would be really annoying to start explaining this to the next minister again from the beginning. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-24_U249	Thank you. No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. An inquiry has been answered. Dear House, in the meantime, I will give you a little information: we are on our way to a free microphone, so there are three more questions left. So anyone who wants to speak there, get ready!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-24_U250	Let's move on to the next question. This is today's tenth inquiry, an inquiry submitted by Riigikogu members Andres Herkel, Artur Talvik, Külliki Kübarsep, Andres Ammas, Jüri Adams, Krista Aru, Monika Haukanõmme and Ain Lutsep on 26 September 2016 concerning the excise duty on heavy fuel oil, bearing the number 255. The request is answered by the Minister of Finance of the Republic of Estonia, Sven Sester. I ask the representative of the speakers of the Riigikogu's speech chair, Artur Talvik, to introduce his inquiry to the Estonian public.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-24_U251	Good President! Good minister! Ladies and gentlemen, We're talking a lot about fuel excise lately, but today I'd like to talk about oil oil excise specially. We have put, rather, Mr Herkel has already asked the Minister a written question on 6 September 2016 and we have received a very comprehensive response to this. This reply confirmed that the use of heavy fuel oil has increased exponentially since the end of last year. This is mainly linked to the fact that heavy fuel oil excise duty is much lower than the excise duty on diesel fuel and the blending of heavy fuel oil can lead to a poor but profitable blend of fuel, which can be marketed with high profits. I would point out that profits are generated through tax fraud because, perhaps you have noticed, heavy fuel oil has a much lower excise duty than diesel. The officials of the Ministry of Finance have not denied the existence of such a fraud scheme. Allowing heavy fuel oil to be consumed as motor fuel without the payment of an equivalent fuel, or diesel excise duty, is a tax fraud, has been confirmed by Lauri Tolumees, chief specialist in the Department of Customs and Excise Policy. The press has repeatedly addressed the subject under dramatic headlines, such as 'New tricks of fuel traders', 'The increase in excise duty paved the way for fraud', 'Fuel mixers cripple car engines', etc. I regret to say that all fuel traders get a bad reputation because of these little fraudsters. One of the drawbacks, according to experts, is that a favorable but unquality mixture is damaging car engines. In response to this written question, the Minister confirmed that the Ministry would submit proposals to the meeting of the Cabinet in September. September's over, remember, it's October. I'd love to hear it! In any case, it is to be welcomed that such proposals are being made. The attempts to solve this matter have been made several times, but there's always a jam. Now we still want to know what it is, why they're stuck and how this is gonna be solved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-24_U252	Thank you. We've come to the answers. I ask the Minister of Finance of the Riigikogu to give a reply to inquiry 255 concerning heavy fuel oil and its excise duty.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-24_U253	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear heirs, I will answer your questions regarding the excise duty on heavy fuel oil. First the question, then the answer. The first question: 'What are your conclusions on statistics on the release of heavy fuel oil for consumption in 2010?2016, where is the explosive increase in consumption due to the difference in excise rates? ' The exponential increase in the release of heavy fuel oil for consumption can be discussed, particularly by looking at the figures for the previous year and this year. The main reason must be sought in the amendment to the Act on Excise Duties. Indeed, as of spring 2015, special-purpose diesel taxed at preferential rates is no longer allowed to be used for heating purposes. It is understandable that consumers are looking for more favourable alternatives both from lower-taxed fuels and from untaxed renewable fuels (e.g. chips or pellets of wood). This cannot be regarded as tax fraud. The tax authority is working hard to find people who try to use heavy fuel oil of good quality as motor fuel. Such persons will, of course, have to pay the excise duty and fines on diesel if they are caught. The second question: 'Why has the Ministry of Finance not intervened in the long run by allowing fuel blending based on a fraud scheme to take place? To what extent has the country therefore lost excise duty? ' It is important to make a distinction: if heavy fuel oil is used as boiler fuel, there is no talk of fraud; the use as boiler fuel is overwhelming. As a preventive measure, the tax authority has left heavy fuel oil under supervision from its excise warehouse to be released for consumption, which means that until the final consumer reaches the product, the fuel business operator will have to inform the country. The deceivers, of course, operate predominantly outside the law. However, the experience of the tax authority shows that the use of heavy fuel oil as motor fuel is not massive. There have been some caught-ups, but there aren't very many of them. It should be taken into account that the use of diesel fuel in today's diesel engine is associated with high risks. Poor fuel can damage nozzles and the power supply system, and the warranty will certainly be interrupted. Such cases have already been reported in the media. If we estimate that 5% of the heavy fuel oil released for consumption was misused as motor fuel, we will be able to talk about an estimated tax loss of EUR 1 million in 2015. The third question: 'Is it true the journalistic statement that the initiator of this scheme was Rain Rosimannus, a Reform Party member, who took the form of the coalition talks on excise duty, which made fraud possible? ' As I said in reply to the first question, the increase in heavy fuel oil consumption was and is mainly the result of the decision to ban the use of special fuel for heating from spring 2015. This was a collective government decision aimed at reducing the permitted use of special fuel, leaving this possibility only for agriculture and fisheries. The conduct of excise fraud is not dependent on the government currently in office. Question 4: 'If the release of heavy fuel oil for consumption as motor fuel without payment of the equivalent fuel, or diesel excise duty, is a tax fraud, as the Ministry's official confirms, how has the Tax and Customs Board dealt with the detection and prevention of such fraud? What specific cases have been investigated and in which cases have law enforcement authorities been contacted? ' I already mentioned that the tax administration is applying the supervision of heavy fuel oil. This is the most important measure. In addition, random checks are carried out on highways to discover the quantities of heavy fuel oil and liquid combustible material coming to Estonia, mainly by means of trucks. Where appropriate, the fuel shall be kept under surveillance and the owner of the goods shall lodge a security calculated on the basis of the rate of excise duty on diesel fuel. Risky operators with reasonable suspicion of non-tax fuel use will also be checked. As a result of the monitoring, the tax authority has started two tax proceedings in 2016 because it sold heavy fuel oil similar to diesel and it went into use as motor fuel. In the first tax procedure, the amount of the tax was set at EUR 280000 and the amount of the second procedure is specified. Question 5: 'What solutions and at what pace does the Ministry of Finance offer? ' In a memorandum presented to the meeting of the Cabinet in September this year, we proposed additional criteria for better distinguishing heavy fuel oils similar to diesel from other fuel oils. The memorandum has not yet been discussed, but it will certainly be done in the near future. The proposal is to tax high-quality heavy fuel oil at the same rate of excise duty as light fuel oil and diesel, taking into account additional criteria. The criteria were developed in close contact with experts in fuel chemistry. The task was complicated because the differentiation of the rate of excise duty and the same criteria need to be applied in the same way to heavy fuel oil and oil shale fuel oil. Under the Energy Taxation Directive in the European Union, oil shale fuel oils are considered to be heavy fuel oils. The Directive makes it possible to differentiate the rate of excise duty on the basis of fuel quality. The Ministry of Finance hopes to present this amendment to the government after it has been discussed in the office at the end of this year. The final completion of the draft law and discussions with stakeholders and tax authorities on the implementation aspects will take some time. After being in the government office, the bill must also pass through the ministerial coordination circle. It is predicted that the release of heavy fuel oil will be reduced several times if the legislative amendment enters into force. Consumers replace heavy fuel oil partly with oil shale fuel oil and partly with other options (natural gas, heat pumps, pellet heating, chipping wood). Then the competitive conditions of honest fuel companies will be improved, as it will become more difficult for a tax fraudker to market heavy fuel oil as motor fuel. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-24_U254	Arthur Talvik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-24_U255	Thank you! Good minister! You mentioned that there are so-called companies suspected of tax fraud. Can you name one of them if they exist? The other half of the question: was the so-called package of measures you presented to the government also discussed, for example, an electronic consignment note that would accompany a driving car?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-24_U256	Thank you. First of all, the first part of the question whether I can name these companies. I can't, it doesn't fall under the powers of the Minister of Finance. The Minister of Finance does not give orders or orders to the Tax and Customs Board, nor does he receive daily feedback on procedural procedures. This principle of independence is clearly regulated here. I do not have such a direct relationship with the Tax and Customs Board, even though I am the Minister of Finance and the Tax and Customs Board is under my direct authority. They are, by their nature, an independent agency which supervises all parties. That was the answer to the first part of the question. As regards whether it is intended for electronic surveillance, the answer is yes. We're working on it. This work involves, on the one hand, the Tax and Customs Board, on the other hand, the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications and, on the other hand, the oil union. Indeed, the aim is to have the fuel flow within the territory of Estonia electronically monitored at all times by means of the so-called electronic delivery note, from the moment the fuel arrives on the territory of Estonia, and beyond when the fuel reaches excise warehouses and a specific point of sale. This is one of our priorities. We can see that it will quite actually be able to eliminate the additional competitive advantages of the future fuel market, which have been the result of non-payment of taxes.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-24_U257	Ain Lutsepp, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-24_U258	Mr. President! Dear Minister, You mentioned that the loss of tax revenue is about EUR 1 million. When would it be possible to retrieve it?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-24_U259	Thank you. I'm going to make this picture even wider. Mr. Artur Talvik asked about the e-mails. I think that if we can actually complete the electronic transmissions, instead of the hypothetical million euros we talked about, we will win ten times as much. I'm not gonna rule it out. I think that the so-called 'hole' on the market, which has arisen because the state is unable to control the trade flows of the fuel market to the end, is much larger. When we talk about electronic delivery notes, we are not only talking about heavy fuel oil, but all types of fuel go under the so-called electronic delivery note. I guess we're talking about a lot more money then. In that sense, Artur Talvik had a very good question. That is really what we are doing.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-24_U260	Minister, thank you. No further questions. Negotiation. Do you want to keep it? No, it's not. I'm closing the negotiations, I'm not opening them. So the question has been answered.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-24_U261	Let's move on to the next question. It is numbered 265 and was presented by Riigikogu members Kadri Simson, Marika Tuus-Laul, Märt Sults, Kersti Sarapuu, Mikhail Stalnukhin, Valeri Korb, Oudekki Loone, Andrei Novikov, Enn Esmaa, Tarmo Tamm, Martin Repinski, Viktor Vassiliev, Erki Savisaar, Jaanus Karilaid, Anneli Ott, Aadu Must, Toomas Vitsut, Mailis Reps, Siret Kotka, Mikhail Korb, Dmitri Dmitriev and Jüri Ratas on 17 October 2016. The question is about Estonia's excise policy compared to neighbouring countries. The answer is Minister of Finance Sven Sester. Please contact Kadri Simson, representative of the speakers of the Riigikogu's speech chair, who will introduce the inquiry to Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-24_U262	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I will introduce the question of our excise policy in relation to our neighbouring countries. We must start by congratulating the Minister for Finance, who has been very operational, because the inquiry was handed over only a week ago. Estonia has already completed one step of its three-stage plan to increase excise duties on motor fuel. This year the rate of excise duty on diesel and petrol increased by 14% for diesel and 10% for petrol. The plan includes an increase in excise duty in 2017 and 2018. While, at times, the increase in excise duties on fuel is justified by the fact that the tax later goes to improve deficits due to consumption, i.e. road construction, in recent years this apology has been abandoned and it is quite frankly acknowledged that excise duties have been raised in order to fill the state budget. This is one way to cover the holes that come into our budget due to the non-collection of classic taxes. Here, however, it comes down to the fact that excise duties cannot be increased indefinitely, because we have open borders, especially towards our southern neighbours, and the differences between excise duties on fuel will affect both the competitiveness of our companies and where they obtain fuel. That is why we have five detailed questions for the Minister of Finance. We are interested in whether we can raise taxes, despite the fact that our southern neighbours do not have such plans, and also against the fact that if we do, what burden will be on the Tax and Customs Board. Will the planned tax increases also take the form of amounts received by the state budget in the following year and the following year? I am not going to read all the questions, because it is more convenient for the Minister of Finance to read them himself and then to answer them himself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-24_U263	Thank you. Now I ask the Riigikogu's speech to reply to the inquiry by Sven Sester, Minister of Finance of the Riigikogu, and I ask him to answer an inquiry that bears the number 265!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-24_U264	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good heirs! Dear Members, I will answer your questions about excise policy in Estonia and neighbouring countries. First of all, I will read out the question, after which a specific answer will be given. Question 1: 'How much higher is excise duty on tobacco in Estonia on 1 January 2017 than in Latvia? How much does this difference in excise duty lead to more work for the Tax and Customs Board? ' On 1 January 2017, the rate of excise duty on cigarettes in Estonia is 63.5 euros per 1000 cigarettes, a proportional rate of 30% of the retail price. In Latvia, this rate is 56,2, we have 63.5. In Latvia it is EUR 56,2 per 1000 cigarettes and a proportionate rate of 25% of the retail price. A better picture of excise differences is provided by the minimum amount of excise duty to be paid. In Estonia, it will be EUR 104.98 per 1000 cigarettes in 2017 and EUR 93.7 in Latvia. The excise difference will decrease in July 2017 when Latvia raises the excise duty rate to EUR 58,2 per 1000 cigarettes and the minimum amount of excise duty to be paid will be EUR 97 per 1000 cigarettes. There is no change in the proportion of excise duty in Latvia. According to the nine months of this year, the revenue from excise duties exceeds the budget's expectations. Tobacco excise has been collected by 77% of what was planned for 2016 and the quantities of cigarettes have not decreased compared to the same period in the previous year, rather the figures for eight months show an increase. The second question: 'The difference between Estonian and Latvian excise duties on alcohol is clearly reflected in border trade. What problem do you consider such trade to be going on today in the former border crossing buildings? How much excise revenue will the Estonian state lose in connection with such trade? ' Estonia's excise duties were higher than Latvia's rates when it joined the European Union. In 2004, excise duty on beer was 87% in Estonia, 103% in 2005 and 98% in 2016. Thus, the excise duty on beer in 2016 cannot affect the border trade in alcohol more than it had in 2005. The difference in excise duties on strong alcohol has increased over the years: if Estonian excise duty was 18% higher in 2005, it will be 55% higher in 2016. At the same time, retail prices was emphasised that retail prices in a comparable proportion between Estonia and Latvia do not differ, as retailers' mark-ups are different and VAT rates are also different in Estonia and Latvia. As regards the collection of excise duties on alcohol, according to nine months of this year, the collection of excise duties on alcohol exceeds the expectations of the budget. Alcohol excise duty has been collected by 76% of what was planned for 2016. It is estimated that the quantities of strong alcohol may decrease by 10,6% during 2016, of which 6,5% is the impact of border trade and 4.1% is the result of a decrease in consumption. The Ministry of Finance estimates 10 million euros per year as the effect of alcohol purchased from private persons from Latvia near the Estonian border on the receipt of excise duty. The third question: 'The summer 2016 economic forecast of the Ministry of Finance takes into account that excise duties on alcohol may be even EUR 3 million less than this year. How do you justify a reduction in excise duties in a situation where the rate of excise duty is rising? ' The accruals revenue for 2017 will decrease compared to the accruals revenue for 2016, as there will be twice this year's supply of alcohol. First, it took place in January, before the increase on 1 February, and second, it will take place in November and December, before the increase on 1 January. As a result of the accumulation of alcohol, the quantities for 2016 are artificially higher. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure on studies, meetings of experts, information and publications directly linked to the achievement of the objective of the programme or measures Question 4: 'According to VAT refund information for international purchases by the Tax and Customs Board, the refueling of transport companies in Latvia and Lithuania has increased this year. Estonia has also decided to increase the excise duty on fuel by 10% in the next two years. Have you talked to your colleagues about this from Latvia and Lithuania, and how much do they intend to increase their excise duties on fuel? ' Latvia will raise the excise duty on unleaded petrol to EUR 436 per 1000 litres next year from the current level of EUR 411. The excise duty on diesel fuel will rise from the current EUR 333 to EUR 341 per 1000 litres in Latvia next year. Latvia has a significant increase in LPG excise duty: from EUR 161 to EUR 206 per 1000 kilograms. Whether Lithuania plans to increase excise duties on petrol and diesel fuel, we do not know at the moment. Question 5: 'What do you think of the idea if the excise duty part of the price of the goods were reflected in the same account as today's VAT? ' The recording of excise duties on account, in the same way as the recognition of VAT, should not be an objective. The calculation of excise duty differs from the calculation of VAT. In the case of VAT, the seller is aware of the price of the product, whereas the excise duty does not normally depend on the price and the seller has no information on when and at what rate the excise duty has been paid on the product. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-24_U265	Thank you, Minister. Let's move from here to the questions. Please, Andres Ammas!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-24_U266	Honourable President! Honorable Minister! I'm sure you read or were informed last week about the published study of Emor. The conclusion was that Estonians would no longer go to Latvia for alcohol if the price difference between Estonia and Latvia was about half or 10% less than the current 20%. How do you comment on that, maybe we could make more money like this?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-24_U267	Thank you. The question is always whether a country should make its own policy, especially excise policy, based on border trade. This is what I think we should ask ourselves. We should look at the overall impact of border trade on a specific country's excise policy. A similar question could be asked about border trade between Denmark and Germany, Finland and Estonia, and between Finland and Russia. By the way, Finland is increasing excise duty on tobacco, with their current excise duty on tobacco being several times higher than the excise duty on tobacco in Estonia. A similar question may arise as to whether, in a situation where there is a lower excise duty on tobacco in Estonia, it should do so or not. The effects of border trade are always looked at and, as I mentioned earlier, the effects of border trade remain within the context of their nature, as has been taken into account. As a result, today we should not take country-wide decisions based solely on border trade with a volume of 5 to 6%. This is not just the case between Latvia and Estonia. If goods in neighbouring countries are taxed at different excise rates, it has been the case that purchases are made in a neighbouring country, but there is a need to monitor what the overall impact will be. We follow it every month. I have also said that, in the case of strong alcohol, I would like to see more closely whether this market will fall faster in the future than we have expected. But, frankly, in other positions, let's take even lean alcohol and beer, we see that there's practically no correlation.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-24_U268	Kadri Simson poses a second question in the field of excise policy in Estonia. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-24_U269	Minister of Finance! When you answered the fourth question, you read very quickly the planned tax increases in Latvia. I heard it was supposed to be less than 4% this year, too, if a quick head count doesn't let me down. This year, too, diesel excise increased by 4%, while Estonia raised it by 14%, and next year it will increase by 10%. Does Estonia's plan to increase excise duty at an early pace also entail additional costs? For example, how much do public transport rates rise? Or is it planned that, for example, the city will have to compensate for the increase in excise duty from its own budget to the state budget?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-24_U270	Thank you. I think that Tallinn's free public transport will certainly not reach all places, if you mean Tallinn. As regards the increase in excise duty rates, the increase in the excise duty rate on unleaded petrol to EUR 436 from the current EUR 415 represents an increase of 6.1% in Latvia. Or, for example, if the excise duty on liquid gas rises from EUR 161 to EUR 206, it means an increase of 28%. I would rather follow three aspects, and I would also recommend doing so in future studies. First of all, border trade, which we have already touched on here today. Secondly, the secret market that we have not talked about today, but it should certainly always be topical how much the possible increase in excise duty can affect the potential secret market. Thirdly, I think that this is the most important thing, and that is what you started asking about, and that is what needs to be taken into account in people's behaviour. You have questioned the question of whether healthy behaviour is the priority on which it is based. I can assure you, as Minister of Finance, that I believe that we should always have item number 1 in mind when we are talking about the taxation of vices. Our goal should be to minimise the consumption of such things. I think these are the three aspects that we should follow in parallel. You asked about the ability. True, last year, when the coalition agreed to increase excise duties, another important nuance was agreed, namely to increase the capacity of the Tax and Customs Board. By this I mean that the Tax and Customs Board will receive an additional EUR 20 million from the state budget so that stationary and mobile screening systems can be produced. According to the Director-General of the Tax and Customs Board, such one-off investments have never existed before. This will certainly contribute to these aspects, which are also linked to the secret market, for example.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-24_U271	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-24_U272	Thank you, manager. Minister, thank you very much. You will have to admit soon that excise policy has actually run into a dead end for the government. Let me give you an example of this same increase in alcohol duty. We basically know that next year we will already get EUR 3 million less excise duty. That's not a reason to be hoarded. I would like to mention, for example, the receipt of September, which was less than last year's receipts. So where's this hoarding going? For example, the Ministry could look at the polls of Emor. I think it's worth believing in Emor. These volumes and scales are still huge. Why are we creating jobs for our neighbours? The city of Valka is building new shops and shopping centres to collect money from Estonians. Is that the purpose of our country? But I'm asking who came up with this interesting idea that they're gonna monitor the drivers carrying alcohol with the cameras. This must be something unique in the European Union.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-24_U273	Thank you. It seems that the nature of your questions is always such that within 50 seconds of the scheduled minute you are making assessments of whether they are wrong or correct, this is a separate issue, and in the last ten seconds you are trying to ask a question. I'm still forced to respond to your assessments, too, at least I'm trying to do that. I would simply stress once again that, in raising excise duties, our main focus should be on whether we can achieve a situation where, firstly, and most importantly, health behaviour associated with a particular vice will become better, so that this vice will be less widespread in the future, and secondly, there will be a specific fiscal impact, i.e. there will be additional resources in the state budget for possible other expenditure. I made an estimate and compared salaries in Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania, but also in Finland and Sweden. I also turned the conversion into liters. I would also like to inform you that Estonia's average salary in 2016 is 1137 euros, in Latvia the average wage is 863 euros this year and in Lithuania 752 euros. These are the official salaries for 2016. If we take the price of a litre of petrol along this side, together with excise duties of course, we will see that an Estonian person can buy 1075 litres of petrol from his salary, a Latvian person can buy 846 litres and a Lithuanian person can buy 723 litres. That's the difference. As far as your real question is concerned, who is the person who suggested that we get these devices, I say that there is nothing weird about it. Europe as a whole has moved on to the so-called "automated number identification systems." This will contribute to the detection of possible fraud, and I believe that you too, although you are currently in opposition, support the fact that all Estonian citizens and, of course, the entrepreneurs who are on the Estonian market would act honestly and no one would have a competitive advantage due to the non-payment of taxes. I think it does not matter whether a person is in the opposition or in the coalition, this value assessment should be the same for both of us.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-24_U274	Uno Kaskpeit, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-24_U275	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. I am surprised, Minister, by your blue eyes. In addition to the Alko1000 in Valka, which is located at the border inspection post, there are four more liquor stores. The last two opened only a week and a half ago. There is not only Latvian-language advertising on these windows, but also Estonian and Finnish-language advertising. Whatever liquor store you're going to, they're all full of Estonians, and they open at 8:00 in the morning. I don't know where you're going with this talk about improving public health and less alcohol consumption. This is ridiculous.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-24_U276	Thank you. There was no question, it was an assessment. I'm not even going to comment on that assessment right now. I've told you my story. You see, I'm still commenting. But you can't keep quiet! I've told you there's a border trade, it's 6 million in size. I have also told you about the fiscal figure. I have said that 10 million euros in the middle is the money that will not remain in Estonia in connection with border trade. It's a completely calculated, completely counted number. Rather, the figures given in the forecasts are even higher, i.e. border trade has not been at the level expected.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-24_U277	Thank you. You just remembered the following words: Stop singing. That's how the song goes from there. Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-24_U278	Thank you. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. I understand that excise duty is one of those things that can complement the state budget. Could you name another source from which the money comes to the state budget?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-24_U279	Thank you. I don't agree with you. I have said here earlier in answering one question that, when it comes to evil, it is alcohol or tobacco, our focus is on making excise policy make people consume less of these things. This should be our main objective and I think that this is one of the fundamental objectives of all the parties involved in lawmaking. The resulting fiscal revenue is a secondary objective. You asked what was the country's potential income other than excise duties. Look at the share of excise duties in the state budget. I am really telling you that the total amount of excise duties compared to other forms of income is not at all that high. I would like to give you an example that excise duties on alcohol are expected to be EUR 256 million in the state budget next year and EUR 210 million in tobacco excise duties. At the same time, for example, social tax is expected to receive EUR 2.68 billion, VAT EUR 2.1 billion and a total of EUR 739 million in legal and personal income tax. Of course, 256 million is a large number, I do not disagree, but when we talk about proportions, excise duties are certainly not the main form of income in terms of the state budget either. As I mentioned earlier, social tax is almost ten times higher.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-24_U280	Minister, thank you. No further questions. What about the negotiations, do you want to? I don't see any wishes. I don't open negotiations. An inquiry has been answered.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-24_U281	Let's move fast to questioning 12. It was presented by members of the Riigikogu Enn Eesmaa, Tarmo Tamm, Viktor Vassilyev, Siret Kotka, Toomas Vitsut and Kadri Simson on 15 June 2016. The inquiry submitted is about Estonia's membership as a non-permanent member of the United Nations Security Council in 2020 and is number 235. Reply by Minister of Foreign Affairs Jürgen Ligi. Please contact Enn Eesmaa, representative of the speakers of the Riigikogu Chair, who will introduce the inquiry to the Estonian public.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-24_U282	Ladies and gentlemen, Ladies and gentlemen, We submitted this question in June. In the meantime, the UN has become the new Secretary General, Estonia has become the new President, and we also have a new Minister of Foreign Affairs compared to that time. However, the five questions asked by the six thought mates have kept up - to - date. The text of the inquiry begins as follows: 'Dear Minister of Foreign Affairs! In addition to NATO, the European Union, the OECD, Estonia has set itself the goal of becoming a non-permanent member of the United Nations (UN) Security Council in 2020. Estonia joined the United Nations in 1991, and since then Estonia has constantly increased its role in the United Nations. ' There are many examples. Thus, in 2005, we submitted our candidacy as a member of the United Nations Security Council (UNSC) for the period from 2020 to 2021. If Estonia turns out to be elected as a non-permanent member of the UN in 2019, it will be one of Estonia's greatest foreign policy goals after the Presidency of the European Union. Membership of the UN Security Council guarantees us greater international relations with other countries of the world, but it is also a great responsibility and a difficult task. The total impact on Estonia due to the non-permanent membership of the UN Security Council is even difficult to predict. It is clear that as a temporary member, the Estonian state will become even more the attention of the countries of the world and will be one of the decision-makers of security policy. In this regard, as I said, we have five questions for the Minister to answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-24_U283	Thank you. I ask the Minister of Foreign Affairs Jürgen Ligi of the Riigikogu to answer the question. An inquiry shall bear the number 235. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-24_U284	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! I'll go straight to the questions and answers. The first question: 'What does Estonia get from being a non-permanent member of the UN Security Council? ' It seemed to me that there were some answers in the question, but I still mention these advantages. This will certainly give Estonia the opportunity to keep a greater focus on certain topics that are important to itself. It allows international engagement on security issues, contributing to resolution of crises and conflicts, standing up for the interests of the democratic world in general, and making Estonia more visible than a well-functioning state that respects human rights. But it is also not remote that we are getting strong support for the skills of our authorities. It's one effort that generally doesn't happen that much every day. The Lithuanian experience was very positive. Lithuania was active and this confirmed our considerations. On the second question, it has been argued that the opinions of Taavi Rõivas and Toomas Hendrik Ilves differ on this ambition, asking whether I agree with the opinion of the Prime Minister or the President and why. It seems to me that the President has not, in fact, been so opposed to this matter, at least not lately, his views have softened. When I have spoken to him about this, he has drawn attention to the problems that this entails. These are undeniably correct considerations. If we take an ambitious view of international matters, which we really have little interest in, this could cause us unnecessary tension somewhere. When decisions are taken in the Security Council, which we do not support ourselves, we are, as if, overly involved in these decisions. But there is the other side: that is what we want decisions to be made with our participation and speaking to us. You don't always get what you want, but being involved is a value in itself. Question 3: 'If Estonia becomes a non-permanent member of the UN Security Council in 2020, how many additional costs are planned for this? ' Additional expenditure is estimated at about one million a year in both years. It is for personnel, space and also economic costs. Fourthly, it is asked that if Finland did not become a member of the Security Council in 2014, although it had a stronger position than Australia and Luxembourg, why did this happen? This, however, depends much on the political affiliation of the countries, has been thought by analysts, and on how strong the campaign is. Australia received the necessary two thirds of the votes in the first round of the elections. Australia's reputation and influence are expected to be very high. In the second round, Luxembourg received its votes partly because it had never been a member of the Security Council before, Finland was. However, these countries cannot be compared in such a unique way. Luxembourg made an extremely powerful campaign, and the minister personally drove around the world, but not everyone regards it as such a priority. There is also a question of how to ensure Estonia's success in applying for non-permanent membership of the UN Security Council. Well, that's a very versatile effort, isn't it? This means active action at UN headquarters in New York and Geneva, i.e. active membership in UN-related organisations, i.e. participation in development and humanitarian aid and peacekeeping, and an active attitude towards the International Criminal Court. We are counting on the image of Estonia's e-state and all the practical things we can offer the world, on the development of the freedom of the Internet with which we have dealt, and on the active activity of international organisations and, of course, on the strengthening of bilateral contacts. I myself have already met with the foreign ministers of a number of countries and have put my arguments before them. Question 5: "In what ways does Estonia have better prospects than its competitor, Romania? What makes Estonia's candidacy weaker than Romania's candidacy? ' Now, indeed, there are two candidates from our region, the second being Romania. We appeal first of all to the fact that we have not been members before, but Romania has been a member four times, and also to the fact that Estonia is a small country that can better understand other small countries and better represent their interests. We're introducing our e-governance options. But this is all just the beginning, we're specifying our campaign messages right now, the main job starts next year. The weakness of Estonia is, of course, that Romania has been in the UN longer and has more foreign representations than Estonia, and its geographical representation is good. But we will try to compensate for this, for example, with the support of Finland. We've already asked for advice and help. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-24_U285	Thank you, Minister. You have questions. Enn Frontland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-24_U286	Thank you very much. Thank you, Minister, for these answers. We were talking about the president's opinion on the subject we're talking about today. I'm sure you talked about President Ilves, too. As a minister, have you already had the opportunity to speak to the new Head of State about these matters?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-24_U287	Thank you. I've had a chance. This incident was arranged before his appointment. But was it a crucial issue? I'd rather not. It was just a keyword, but we talked about things that might be easier to talk about before a person takes up that job.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-24_U288	Jaak Madison, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-24_U289	Thank you, Honourable Vice President. Good minister! I'm sure it's a very grateful undertaking. I think it is very important to make a good campaign and to ensure 'win over' Romania, because the place in the Security Council is very important, especially for Estonia, given our security context. I do not have the state budget bill for next year in front of this paper, but the Ministry of Foreign Affairs' budget is still in relation to the other ministries, especially the budget for next year, which has basically not increased at all. How do you assess how this will affect the start-up campaign, our ability to lobby effectively enough to overcome the Romanians, while no additional resources are foreseen in the budget? What about the money and the ability?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-24_U290	Thank you. I would point out that defeating Romania is not our goal. It would be much better to agree with Romania that they would not even compete with us so much, but whether this can be achieved is a question of their own. We are likely to have a higher priority in this area, but we also have our own opportunities to stand out. Of course, we have a budget problem. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs also falls under the same criteria as others, reducing the state's operating costs and the number of public employees is one of the quantitative elements of the government administration reform. This is certainly why the External Action Service is suffering somewhat. I think the government can still discuss whether this will continue to be the case in the future. The ambition to be more represented, however, is also an argument. We have our limits, but we can do things with few means. We do not use all methods that maybe be used by another country. We do not spend money in the form that some countries are prepared to do and have done in history to win a vote. But, as I said, I have already had time to speak to the right representatives of several countries on this subject during my usual visits, and diplomats will certainly talk very much, within the limits of the existing budget.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-24_U291	Thank you. No further questions. I'm opening negotiations. Speaking chair of the Riigikogu Enn Fronta, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-24_U292	At this late hour, I'll be very brief. I believe that the questioners agree with me that the desire to become a non-permanent member of the UN Security Council by 2020 is quite important, if not more. Moreover, among the advantages is what the Minister mentioned, that an extraordinary opportunity for the entire generation of diplomats in Estonia will be offered to deal professionally and very seriously and extensively with these regions and the problems of these regions, which we do not normally deal with. Take, for example, the African countries in all their diversity. European and even transatlantic relations are a daily matter, they are dealt with, but these remote areas are out of focus. That is why it is important that this campaign is being carried out. If you allow me an ambitious comparison at this late hour, as an older person, I remember very well how John Kennedy explained why the Americans decided to go to the moon. Not because it's easy, but because it's hard. I think that what Estonia is now trying to achieve is to become a member of the Security Council is worth the effort. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-24_U293	Thank you. No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. An inquiry has been answered.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-24_U294	Good fellows! I'm happy to announce a free microphone. I ask anyone who wishes to take this opportunity actively after a hammer hit! Since there's no call request, I'm not gonna open a free microphone. The sitting is adjourned. I thank you and wish you the strength of our work! Closure of the sitting at 21.25 p.m.
