ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-30_U1	Dear Riigikogu, good afternoon. We will begin the Monday session of the 16th working week in plenary. Is there a desire to hand over drafts or inquiries? March Sults, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-30_U2	Honourable President-in-Office! Ladies and gentlemen, I have a draft decision of the Riigikogu to hand over. Since the Minister of Education and Science gave very vague answers to some of the same questions, he basically stated the fact that teachers are working at school under-burdened at the load limit of 1, but our teachers are working with an average load limit of 0.82. I am passing a draft on the basis of § 91 (1) of the Law on the Rules of Procedure of the Riigikogu, according to which a national substitute teacher system should be set up, which I will now call a buffer chamber. This means that teachers working in under-time schools would replace sick and absent teachers if their qualifications were appropriate. This would eliminate the stress of school leaders and teachers caused by the absence of substitute teachers. This claim that schools are autonomous units is not quite true because schools are part of a large school network and this network must work as a single whole. So the minuses and the pluses have to be balanced. Where do we find the resources? It is extremely easy to find the resources: not working at the expense of the Innove Department, which should carry out further training, and at the expense of the Sponsor's resources. The Buffalo House could be set up as a competing entity with the Hoorator. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-30_U3	To make it clear to the House that this is the Riigikogu's decision to propose to the Government of the Republic. That was not said by the supplier of the bill. Mailis Reps, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-30_U4	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the Riigikogu! As is customary in the Riigikogu, the political groups go to county visits. The faction of the Centre Party also went to another party in Viljandi. It has to be said that there was concern about the water traffic in Lake Viljandi at the meeting with the people. Since there were a number of questions, we have received an inquiry from the Minister for the Environment. It is a concern that Lake Viljandi has a large number of water users who, according to local people, do not take into account the current standards. In particular, those who use jet skis and catheters are not aware that the maximum speed of the watercraft in Estonian inland waters is 30 kilometres per hour. Judging by the eye, their speed is often higher. The main concern is that the jet ski drivers are speeding up, and they are also a threat to fishermen, holidaymakers, kayak sportsmen and boat-lords. Consequently, we have four questions. We want to know what solutions are offered to the concerns of the residents of Viljandi County, which have been the subject of correspondence with the Minister of the Environment, the Mayor of the Land, as well as members of the City Council and the City Government. A majority of the members of the Central Party Group have signed an inquiry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-30_U5	Representative of the Government of the Republic Heili Tõnisson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-30_U6	Mr. Chairman! Good Riigikogu! The Government of the Republic is launching four draft laws today. Firstly, the draft law amending the law implementing the common agricultural policy of the European Union. Urmas Kruuse, Minister of Rural Affairs, represents the Government of the Republic of Estonia in the proceedings of the draft law in the Riigikogu. Secondly, the draft law amending the Construction Code, the Construction Code and the Planning Act and the State Fees Act. Kristen Michal, Minister of Economic Affairs and Infrastructure, will represent the Government of the Republic in the proceedings of the draft law in the Riigikogu. Thirdly, the draft law amending the Aliens Act, the Citizenship Act of the European Union and the Identity Documents Act. Fourthly, the draft law amending the Aliens Act and related amendments to other laws. Hanno Pevkur, Minister of the Interior, represents the Government of the Republic in the proceedings of these two draft laws in the Riigikogu. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-30_U7	I have adopted five drafts and one inquiry on behalf of the Bureau. We deliver them on the basis of the Home and Working Procedures Act. Incoming check, please! 78 members of the Riigikogu are present in plenary, missing 23. Adoption of the agenda. I have no comments on the agenda. Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on the agenda for the 16th working week of the third plenary session. Please take a stand and vote. 77 members of the Riigikogu were in favour of the adoption of the agenda, no one opposed, with one abstention. The agenda is confirmed.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-30_U8	The first question to be considered is the question of Henn Põlluaas, Martin Helme, Mart Helme, Uno Kaskpeit, Jaak Madison and Arno Bridge. Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-30_U9	Dear Speaker! Prime Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the Conservative People's Party will have an inquiry into the conclusion of an agreement with Prime Minister Taavi Rõivas with the United Nations Refugee Agency. In April of this year, Eesti Päevaleht wrote that in March this year the government had to conclude a direct agreement with the UN Refugee Agency UNHCR so that Estonia could participate in resettlement programmes. It has been claimed that this agreement has been stuck on the coordinating circle of ministries somewhere. Our questions to the Prime Minister are as follows: What is this agreement trying to achieve, and what obligations does it entail for Estonia? Why is the conclusion of the agreement blocked, or what are the ministries arguing about? Does the initiative to conclude the agreement come from outside Estonia or from the Estonian Government itself? How far is the agreement's coordination in ministries and when will it reach the Riigikogu and the European Union Affairs Commission? Which ministries are opposed and which are in favour? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-30_U10	The inquiry is answered by Prime Minister Taavi Kõivas. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-30_U11	Honourable members of the Riigikogu! Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. I will respond to your inquiry into the conclusion of an agreement with the United Nations Refugee Agency. The first question: 'What is this agreement trying to achieve, and what obligations does it entail for Estonia? ' The purpose of the cooperation agreement between the Government of the Republic of Estonia and the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR) is, in particular, to clarify the procedure and process of resettlement in cooperation with the State and the Agency. This is a general framework for cooperation, which will agree on the activities of both parties and on the technical side of resettlement. It is important to note that in the framework of the conclusions adopted by the Justice and Home Affairs Council of the European Union on 20 July 2015, Estonia is currently able to organise the adoption of 20 people without an agreement. It is not a matter of imposing obligations on the country, but of a bilateral agreement fixing the resettlement process as such. The second question: 'Why is the conclusion of the agreement blocked, or what are the ministries arguing about? ' On 30 March, the Ministry of the Interior sent the relevant ministries and authorities to coordinate the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Estonia and UNHCR on the resettlement of refugees and requested feedback by 14 April at the latest. To date, in cooperation with the Ministry, it has been found that 20 people are being brought to Estonia on the basis of the above-mentioned Council conclusions, which provide the basis for this, and a separate cooperation agreement is not needed. In the process of resettlement of 20 people, we want further information on the practical arrangements for resettlement, and then we can decide whether and in what form it is reasonable to conclude a bilateral agreement. I would point out that this is not an international agreement, but a cooperation agreement, which does not require a mandate from the Riigikogu, because it is a matter falling within the competence of the government. Question 3: Does the initiative to conclude this agreement come from outside or from the Estonian Government itself? According to the data confirmed by the UNHCR, cooperation agreements with countries that have long been engaged in resettlement have not been concluded, but are working from years of experience. For example, Sweden started redeploying people in need of international protection as early as 1950. At the same time, the Agency wishes to conclude a cooperation agreement on resettlement with start-up countries, including Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania, in order to establish the principles of cooperation and thereby support those countries that have no previous experience of resettlement. Question 4: 'How far is the coordination of the Treaty in ministries and when will it reach the Riigikogu and the European Union Affairs Commission? Which ministries are opposed and in favour? ' Having thoroughly analysed the need for an agreement, the Ministry of Social Affairs and the Ministry of Justice have found that there is currently no substantive need for such an agreement and resettlement is also possible in the light of the Council's decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-30_U12	Questions for the Prime Minister. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-30_U13	Good manager! Good Prime Minister! You said that this agreement was not urgent, but there are over 50 million people in the world who can be said to be a refugee. How much has Estonia ever supported this, I think, quite important organisation in the world?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-30_U14	Thank you. With regard to the exact amounts, we can reply in writing. But I can now say that, in terms of Estonia's contribution to development and humanitarian aid, as a percentage of GDP, the second highest among the Member States that joined in 2004 is Malta. We have allocated our development and humanitarian aid in two ways. Our most important destination country has been Ukraine, Afghanistan has historically also been important, and the crises in Syria and Syria are increasingly important. But part of this assistance has been provided through international organisations, including a number of UN agencies. If you want a detailed breakdown, it is certainly possible to send it in writing. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs is the one keeping track of these sums.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-30_U15	Raivo Põldaru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-30_U16	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good minister! Can you tell me how many countries in the world have entered into an agreement that we now have in the future?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-30_U17	Thank you. I do not know the exact number now, but, as I said, we are not, on the basis of what we know, entering into this agreement. We also have different options for resettlement these people. In deciding whether or not we will enter into such a cooperation agreement in the future, we will be guided by a practical need.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-30_U18	Jaak Madison's question.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-30_U19	Prime Minister! One thing is to help refugees on the basis of the European Union's action plan and the recommendations of the European Commission, but very active speeches are also heard by representatives of the United Nations and, specifically, the UN Refugee Agency UNHCR. One thing is also what we see in this Parliament and how it feels from our perspective, but how does it feel to you, as Prime Minister and the highest representative of executive power, how strong is the pressure or influence of the United Nations Refugee Agency to be more open, to accept more refugees and to contribute more to joint work programmes? How strongly do you feel about the pressure or influence they are trying to make the UN Member States contribute more?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-30_U20	Thank you. Personally, I have also felt, for example, at the meeting with the leader of UNICEF, the need for greater support for Lebanon, Jordan and Turkey, so that in these countries sufficient resources are available to help refugees, so that children who have fallen into war refugees can be educated to have drinking water, food and basic living conditions. This clearly requires more resources. It is not so much a pressure, as it is a distraction, so that the developed countries can be more shouldered. It serves two purposes at the same time. On the one hand, it is very humane to help war refugees in the immediate vicinity of their home. Many of them are convinced that it will be possible to return to Syria in the future. Secondly, from the point of view of developed countries, of course, it is also rational enough, because helping people in Jordan, Turkey and Lebanon is significantly more effective in terms of the benefits of every euro or dollar invested than accepting all these people, either in Europe or in the wider developed world. So there is a certain logic here as to why it is also worth contributing with resources to the work of such international organisations, so that they have sufficient funding to carry out their mission.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-30_U21	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-30_U22	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Prime Minister! Your party partner, Urmas Paet, has pointed out that the Nordic countries have accepted immigrants without any quotas and without compulsion, voluntarily. He has pointed out that Estonia wishes to become a Nordic country and has said that we could follow the example of the Nordic countries and also accept immigrants without any quotas or pressure. How do you feel about this position?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-30_U23	Thank you. First of all, Estonia has tried, for its part, to help people who are in real trouble according to their abilities, and we have already helped a couple of families within the framework of the resettlement programme. I believe that we are able to help more than the 19 people who have now come to Estonia. But I do not think that there will be a mass of war refugees coming to Estonia in the near future. All speculations and intimidations in this direction have proved to be in vain. You referred to my partymate, but what many of your partymates have promised is more inappropriate.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-30_U24	Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-30_U25	Thank you, Mr. Speaker. Good Prime Minister! I don't suppose we really think all these people are war refugees. These include people from Eritrea, Iraq and other places where there is no war. But your other party partner, Kaja Kallas, performed in the last 'Forum' with very bold statements, which, I would say, is quite a different tone than the talk you are talking about right now. Kaja Kallas confirmed that we need these people and that they will solve all our problems. We understood that he had in particular labour problems and other demographic problems in mind. Do you agree with Kaja Kallas in principle, or do you think Kaja Kallas is too enthusiastic and naive about this?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-30_U26	Thank you. The chance that we will solve demographic problems with the help of war refugees is very small, because the likelihood of such considerable numbers of war refugees arriving in Estonia is very modest. If we look at demographics more broadly, it would still contribute to the sustainability of demographic processes if more children were born in Estonian families. We know that now the birth rate continues to be below the recovery level. It would also help if more and more people settled abroad found their way back to Estonia. The latest survey by Statistics Estonia confirms very clearly that, if you look at the migration processes of Finns, Ukrainians and Estonian citizens, for example, the balance of migration has been positive and the impact on the population has been rather positive, without significant numbers of war refugees reaching Estonia. So in short, the probability that so many war refugees will come to Estonia to have a significant demographic impact or impact on the labour market is very modest. But, of course, all those who come are welcome to participate actively in society and contribute to employment.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-30_U27	Uno Kaskpeit, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-30_U28	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Mr. Prime Minister! We are talking about the 19 refugees who have been accepted in Estonia. As I read and learned in the press, they don't really care about work or want to go to it, and they don't learn the language. Actually, I think there's a problem with the interpreters. As I understand it, two of them have sued the Estonian state, because they have been given too little money. How do you look at this thing and what do you say?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-30_U29	Thank you. The first thing I can say is that your data, fortunately, is once again misguided. As far as I know, no one has sued the Estonian state because the Estonian state does not pay enough social benefits. The question has been, to my knowledge, what is the specific nuance of legal protection for these people? There are certain technical differences. I think there is nothing wrong with this in itself if these issues are discussed. Certainly, the Estonian state has not deliberately treated anyone badly, on the contrary, we have helped these people and there is certainly no way to blame them for anything morally, but if it is a question of legal protection in legal nuances, then it is possible to clarify the details. As for the second part of your question, when you spoke about the fact that those who have come to Estonia, as if they do not want to work, I cannot confirm that either. On the contrary, everything has been done so that people can find employment. At least one person has already found a job and some are actively looking for a job. So this story, as if they didn't want to work, doesn't seem to be true to me. If underage children are accompanied by war refugees, there is still a plan for them to go to school in the autumn and get an education like all children.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-30_U30	Thank you, Prime Minister Taavi Kõivas. The members of the Riigikogu have no further questions. I'm opening negotiations. Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-30_U31	President-in-Office of the Council. Mr. Prime Minister! The migration crisis is something that is clearly not just a matter of the day. Nor is it, although it has often been said from this board, the issue of picking up a political point. This is a process that threatens the whole of Europe, including Estonia. I was therefore very pleased to hear today's answers from the Prime Minister, who at times expressed himself as if he were a member of our party. It seems to me that the government, too, has come to the conclusion that this is a very serious and very challenging process. This means problems with employment, cultural acclimatisation, children's schooling, translation, it means a lot of social problems, nutrition problems, etc., because these people come here from a very strange environment in our cultural space. Thank you once again, Prime Minister. In dealing with this issue for about a year, you have reached the same position on many points that we represented a year ago. I think it's very welcome. This shows that Estonia is not rushing to show solidarity, but very realisticly and soberly appreciates the opportunities that we have. I do not want to criticise the government here, but I would like to say that I hope the government will continue on this course, because only in this very serious and not at all, in the process that ends today-to-morrow, can we remain who we are, namely Estonia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-30_U32	The members of the Riigikogu are no longer willing to participate in the negotiations, nor is the Prime Minister. I will close this item.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-30_U33	Our next inquiry has been made by such a team of authors: Kadri Simson, Toomas Vitsut, Aadu Must, Siret Kotka, Mikhail Korb, Viktor Vassiliev, Valeri Korb, Oudekki Loone, Kersti Sarapuu, Anneli Ott, Olga Ivanova, Jaanus Karilaid, Enn Eesmaa, Mikhail Stalnukhin, Andrei Novikov, Dmitri Dmitriev, Marika Tuus-Laul, Vladimir Velman, Martin Repinski and Märt Sults. On behalf of the heirs, Kersti Sarapuu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-30_U34	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Prime Minister! On 4 May, members of the Centre Party Group submitted an inquiry to Prime Minister Taavi Rõivas regarding the situation in Greece. On 8 July last year, Greece submitted a request for financial assistance to the European Stability Mechanism. At the extraordinary session of the Riigikogu on 18 August, the coalition ambassadors supported the draft Memorandum of Understanding between the European Commission and Greece, the third package of aid for Greece. The memorandum stated, for example, that the reform of the VAT system, the abolition of exemptions in the tax system as a whole, the achievement of a new quality of tax collection, the implementation of the reform of making the pension system sustainable, etc., would be essential to improving Greece's situation, achieving fiscal objectives. The memorandum also included an asset development plan, which envisaged the privatisation of a large number of public sites. For example, it indicated 14 regional airports with a delivery deadline of March 2016. Although the intervening time has passed without the alarming news, the spring has again brought new clouds of concern to Greece. The finance ministers of the euro area decided to cancel the planned extraordinary meeting by the end of April, where a new disbursement from Greece's third aid package would have been discussed. The Athens Stock Exchange reacted to the news with a strong fall. According to Poul Thomsen, Head of the IMF European Division, despite Greece's apparent efforts to improve the tax collection system, tax evasion has increased and tax collection has decreased. If, for example, in Greece, 55% of households do not pay personal income tax, the comparison is that the figure is 2% in Portugal, 5% in Ireland and 18% in the euro area. In June, Greece will have to pay back EUR 650 million to the IMF and EUR 2.3 billion to the European Central Bank in July. For these repayments, Greece needs a new payment from the third aid package. There is therefore a repeat of the previous scenario that Greece needs a new injection of money, but the reasons for giving it are difficult to find. Last week, of course, brought us news. After an 11-hour meeting, the eurogroup finance ministers reached an agreement that allowed Greece to pay out the next tranche of EUR 10.3 billion. At the same time, we also know that in the case of Greece's aid loan payments are made in several instalments and that the EUR 7.5 billion in June should allow the costs of servicing the debt to be covered and the outstanding invoices to be paid. We have asked the Prime Minister a number of questions and, despite the changes in the situation, we still want answers to them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-30_U35	The inquiry is answered by Prime Minister Taavi Kõivas. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-30_U36	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen of the Riigikogu, I thank you for asking me about this very important issue. The truth is, as you yourself pointed out, that the circumstances have been somewhat clarified since the question was made. However, it is appropriate to deal with these issues here in the Riigikogu, so that we are all in the same information room. I will answer your questions in order, as usual. Question 1: 'How do you think Greece has fulfilled its commitments in the Memorandum of Understanding? With what value might their efforts be appreciated? ' I consider it important that, at the meeting of the Eurogroup on 24 May, the institutions reached an agreement with Greece. Thus, the unbiased evaluators of the institutions, or those to whom the Council of the European Union has granted this competence, are on the way to completing the first survey of the Greek programme. The European Commission, the European Central Bank and the International Monetary Fund have assessed that the Greek programme can proceed. The market is constantly assessing Greece's development, the interest rate on Greek government bonds traded on the market has declined since agreement was reached and stock prices have increased again on the stock exchange. The objectives referred to in the introduction to the inquiry have been met. For example, a larger primary surplus was achieved last year than was expected when the programme was approved in August 2015 with a surplus of 0.7% of GDP. The planned deficit was 0.25%. At the beginning of the programme, VAT reform was carried out and early retirement benefits were abolished in the pension system, health insurance payments for pensioners were increased. 14 regional airports and the Port of Piraeus have been privatized. The banks' balance sheets have been cleaned up and less programme resources have been spent on recapitalisation than planned. Of course, however, it must also be taken into account that the impact of structural measures can only be seen over a longer period of time. With regard to this Greek programme, it cannot be said that its implementation has gone smoothly and that further efforts will inevitably become more difficult if easily available reform crops are exhausted. Question 2: 'In Question Time on 20 April this year, you answered the question about Greece that Greece was meeting its objectives in November and December. You also confirmed that Greece has taken a number of measures to reduce tax fraud and has carried out a number of privatisations. Why have these measures not worked and, according to the IMF, tax evasion has increased? ' Greece has gradually implemented measures to improve tax collection and tax receipts have also increased. The fact that 55% of households do not pay personal income tax, referred to by the IMF, does not merely mean tax evasion. It refers rather to the principles of taxation of the earnings of Greek private individuals, which have allowed a number of deductions to bring their income tax liabilities to zero. I would like to draw your attention to this as an instructive example of what exceptions to the tax system can do. The second period of the programme provides for measures to improve tax collection, including the creation of an independent tax and customs office, as well as a comprehensive reform of personal income tax, which should reduce the distortions referred to. Question 3: 'In information class, you also mentioned the participation of Minister of Finance Sven Sester in Ecofin, which was to take place the day after Question Time. However, this planned meeting, where the new payment to Greece was also to be discussed, did not take place. What was the reason why the euro area finance ministers' meeting was cancelled? ' This was supposed to be an unscheduled meeting that would have taken place if Greece and the institutions had reached an agreement between them by then. There was no agreement at the end of April. Finance ministers met on 9 May. By then, the institutions and Greece had broadly agreed on further activities, and the Greek Parliament had already voted on a new reform package on pensions and income tax. According to the Eurogroup statement of 24 May, the institutions have given a green light to the end of the survey. Under the proposal, the next payment would be EUR 10.3 billion, split into several parts, if the revision of the review programme was approved. The next payment will only be decided once countries have approved their internal procedures, reviews and amendments to the Memorandum. And the fourth question: 'Do you think the next payment to Greece will be made according to the plan and the summer will come without unpleasant surprises? ' The euro area finance ministers estimate that there are all the preconditions for countries to be able to assess what has been done in the first period of the Greek support programme in the coming weeks and to approve the amendments to the memorandum that will ensure that the budget, financial stability and economic development objectives set out in the programme are met. The next review of the programme is expected to take place in the autumn. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-30_U37	Questions for the Prime Minister. Anne Sulling, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-30_U38	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good Prime Minister! Today's news is such a message that the IMF will not give Greece a cent until it sees the European Union's plan for a substantial reduction in the Greek debt burden. This is about reducing interest rates, shortening the repayment period and extending the payment leave to a significant extent. What is our position on this issue, given that the IMF is sceptical about the sustainability of this programme?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-30_U39	Thank you. It is important to know that debt relief is not part of the first review, nor is it part of the memorandum. This is a parallel process that was allowed to be considered in the 2015 Euro Summit statement after the first review. The IMF has also made this a precondition for its financial participation in the programme. On 24 May, the Euro Group already discussed the issue and agreed on the following principles: Firstly, the write-off of the principal of the debt is excluded and any debt relief measures must remain within the framework of European Union law and the ESM or EFSF basic acts. Secondly, Greece's legitimate need is assessed on the basis of financing needs, which include budget deficits and loan service payments. Following the programme, i.e. after 2018, financing needs in the medium term should remain below 15% of gross domestic product and subsequently below 20% of gross domestic product. Third, Greece will have to reach a primary surplus of 3.5% of GDP from 2018. Finance ministers are of the opinion that, following these principles, it is possible to promote market access in Greece, to gradually replace public debt with private debt, to smooth out the repayment profile, to motivate Greece to continue in order to clean up the economy and, of course, also after the end of the programme. So these were the plans of the finance ministers and they are also in line with what Estonia's official position has been, i.e. categorically 'no' to reduce the bulk of the debt. That would be unfair, in our opinion.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-30_U40	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-30_U41	Good manager! Good Prime Minister! I'm glad to hear something was agreed. This €86 billion third aid package will save the Greeks from €650 million in June and €2.3 billion in July. But tell me how the Greek debt has changed over the last three years and when the fourth aid package will come.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-30_U42	Thank you. All these aid packages are, after all, made in the faith and belief that there is no need for new aid packages to be implemented correctly. But life has been diverse and the latest election results in Greece, and the referendum also led to the fact that, in fact, the burden on the Greek people did not decrease, but rather increased, as the country's responsibilities continued all this time. However, I very much hope that the Greek Government and Parliament will also complete the third package of assistance to the maximum extent agreed upon, and we do not have to come back to the subsequent programmes. As I described, the logic of this aid package has been for the state to get back to the market in a perspective. However, we recognise that this has so far gone much harder in the case of Greece than in the case of some other countries. Many in this Chamber probably no longer remember that many other European countries have been programme countries, but they have been very successful. Let us remember Ireland and Portugal, for example. In these countries, it was possible to get out of the programme so-called successfully. As far as the Greek debt burden is concerned, the sum of the amounts has rather been on a growing trend. In these programmes, this has been addressed by structural reforms, the impact of which is very long-term, but at the same time very important. Privatisation programmes also seek to mobilise so much private capital as to reduce public debt. This is one of the most important objectives.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-30_U43	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-30_U44	Thank you, manager. Prime Minister! It is clear, after all, that without writing off the loans, Greece will not be able to emerge from the crisis in any way. I don't know what kind of scheme that would be possible. The IMF has taken the same view. The IMF actually demands that refunds be frozen until 2040, and the IMF will not come to the table until there is a solution available to the ministers of the euro area. However, some tax figures in Greece are completely unusual: 55% of households do not pay personal income tax and the tax-free minimum of EUR 9500 is higher than in Germany. According to a report published on Friday by the Greek Ministry of Finance, the tax gap reached EUR 1 billion in March. What formula should Greece serve these loans if this is continued and nothing radical is done? This is not really possible and the IMF has taken a rather rigid stand. How do you comment on the IMF's position?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-30_U45	Thank you. I shall comment on this in such a way that the write-off of the debt would be a simpler way of resisting Greece. I believe that this would be unfair from the point of view of all other countries, including the Estonian taxpayer. This would actually mean that Estonia should pay for the same commitments that you have mentioned and several other commitments that have been made. And I don't think that's fair. So it is perfectly understandable why the finance ministers of the euro area, as well as the prime ministers, have not accepted the IMF's proposal to write down the debt. We prefer to write-off debt that Greece is making structural reforms, actually improving tax collection and reducing very generous benefits. I am willing to agree with you that some of these benefits have indeed been very generous. Wage levels have also been very high in Greece compared to gross domestic product, while a number of other public expenditures have been very high in comparison with the country's gross domestic product. The sustainable emergence of Greece from the crisis cannot be such that they continue to spend the same amount of money and then someone will write off their debts. The sustainable solution must be that expenditure must be brought down in a sustainable way. This means that structural reforms also need to be carried out in order to ensure that, even if we look far away, spending is not over-exploited. Only then can these loans be served. Other countries can make the service of loans to the maximum, but cannot pay off these loans for Greece. As regards your reference that 55% of households do not pay income tax, as I said before, in response to your inquiry, it is not so much because there are very many exceptions to the Greek tax system that this is a bad issue. With these very many exceptions, there has been a situation where very few people pay a tax at all. This is, in my opinion, an instructive example for all those who say that there should also be more tax differences in Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-30_U46	Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-30_U47	Thank you, Mr. Speaker. Prime Minister! We certainly also agree that these loans should not be written off, and for the simple reason that it is Estonian taxpayers' money. That is why we also opposed Greece from the outset, because it would simply not have been wise to go risking our money in such a difficult situation. And now we're stuck. For all those who understand the economic situation, it is clear that if Greece is forced to pay back these debts in full, it means a deteriorating standard of living for the average Greek person, whether he is an employee or a pensioner, for 20 to 30 years, and the root cause of the problem, i.e. that joining the euro area destroyed their competitiveness throughout the common market, it still does not. When we talk about reducing interest and pushing payments 20 or 50 years away, we are actually losing money. Well, that's not a write-off in terms of name.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-30_U48	Question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-30_U49	But do you agree that if we give up interest, we're gonna lose our money?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-30_U50	Thank you. No, I do not agree with this definition to the end. Estonia, for its part, has made capital contributions to the crisis mechanisms and provided guarantees, but the way in which funding is carried out there more precisely and the way in which it is possible to obtain loans and to continue lending with these guarantees is already specifically the role of EFSF and ESM. And this does not mean that there are inevitable additional costs for countries to make certain concessions on interest, but rather to give up interest income. But on the other hand, this crisis aid has never been planned, as I understand it, as a profitable business project. Rather, the question is that if we had given up solidarity between 2009 and 2010, if the crisis was at its peak in the European Union, it is very likely that not only Greece, but possibly even several European Union countries, would have become insolvent. And its impact on the European economy, in my opinion, would have been greater than what has now been done to support Greece through its reforms. Even if this path of reform has not always been quite smooth, it is still much more sustainable than letting the country go bankrupt and accepting this shock across the European economy. This would have caused the same wave as Lehman Brothers' bankruptcy in the financial markets of the United States. As an interesting coincidence, Greece's GDP in 2009 was more or less of the same size as Lehman Brothers' balance sheet.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-30_U51	Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-30_U52	Thank you. Mr Prime Minister! A few days ago, a meeting took place between the Russian President and the leadership of the Greek State. There was a lot of writing about it. I would like to ask you if you could comment in a few words on the results of this meeting. Doesn't such meetings mean that Greece is looking for another way out of the European Union to improve its financial situation?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-30_U53	Thank you. I didn't attend this meeting, so I can rely, like you, on the information that has reached the press. But that Russia, as a lender, would be a serious alternative to either the European Union or the International Monetary Fund, I do not believe. If we look at the financial situation in Russia, it is not a good thing. The Russian budget has been in a very large deficit this year, while Russian reserves have decreased very rapidly. So that Russia has a resource and also a desire to participate as a creditor in solving the problems of another country, I do not consider it very realistic.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-30_U54	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-30_U55	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! The Greek reform programme, which aims to achieve a modern state, including public administration, is very diverse and multi-level. But what of the few major reforms that have been implemented today allows us to believe that Greece will ever be able to ensure economic growth and the sustainability of all its national activities?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-30_U56	Thank you. If you now try to respond briefly, the most sustainable effect will, of course, be on structural reforms that, for example, foresee the amount of pension expenditure in 10, 20 and 30 years' time. For example, conditions that allow early retirement, or too low retirement age, are things that can be improved by changing the situation. It is possible to increase the retirement age or reduce retirement too early, but it will not have an immediate effect in the same year, but will have a very high effect in 5, 10 and 30 years' time. These are, let's say, the most effective things, so-called structural reforms that will help prevent very high costs for the country in the very distant future. That's one. The second issue, with which Estonia has experience since the early 1990s, is that the fundamental right path is to privatise state-owned companies which are not essential for security and strategic reasons. It will also create additional opportunities for economic activity, increase market share and certainly also increase transparency if private owners can decide on these companies. This has been the case in Greece recently, and this is one very important part of the reform. If I remember correctly, the third programme planned to bring it together to the tune of EUR 25 billion. And the third issue, which is the fastest response to the matter, but what I think comes in the third order after these'very structural things', is cost savings. In the case of all kinds of expenditure, be it social benefits or public expenditure on public administration, etc., it must be assessed very soberly whether the expenditure that has been incurred for decades is still affordable to the State as to whether it is possible to continue with this number of civil servants on a sustainable basis. These are, in fact, things that each country must constantly monitor. Greece has clearly survived several decades beyond its capacity. I think there is no doubt here, and there is no politically incorrect way of saying that, because I think it is a completely irrefutable fact that Greece has lived several decades beyond its capacity. It is therefore particularly important that they review and do so with a very critical view of their expenditure, including running costs, as long as their budget is still in real balance.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-30_U57	Thank you, Prime Minister Taavi Kõivas. I'm opening negotiations. There are no negotiating requests. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-30_U58	And now an inquiry by Riigikogu members Andres Ammas, Artur Talvik, Andres Herkel, Külliki Kübarsepp, Ain Lutsepp, Krista Aru and Monika Haukamm. Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-30_U59	Honorable manager! Honourable colleagues! Honorable Minister! The cycle of responding to our enquiries is so long that some circumstances may change considerably from the moment we make inquiries until now. In particular, I would remind you that on 1 April the Authority suspended the certificate of AS Avies because the company had not complied with the safety requirements. As a result, the air link with Estonia's major islands was cut off. The local operators were, of course, sad about this and said that the lack of regular air services would seriously harm the economy. Of course, each company has taken into account both the transport of its goods and the planning of missions by specialists and cooperation partners with high quality and uninterrupted shipping and air connections. The situation required swift and decisive intervention. It must be acknowledged by the government that it has been resolved relatively quickly in the sense that the call for tenders was announced and that the results have already been obtained today, the call for tenders has ended. A new flyer has been selected for these routes. However, when you read local newspapers, island newspapers, the concerns of local entrepreneurs are not really over. It was hoped that, if a new tender had already been made, the companies' good facts could also be true: quality, number of connections, size of aircraft, etc. However, this procurement did not go so well. The cheapest offer was preferred, but not the highest quality offer. In addition to the five questions that we have asked in our inquiry, we hope to receive a response from the Minister responsible to the criticism of economic operators about procurement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-30_U60	Kristen Michal, Minister for Economic Affairs and Infrastructure, will answer the question. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-30_U61	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Good heirs! First I will answer the questions of inquiry and then we will talk about the other text of the inquiry and the questions that have come up in the meantime. But as usual, I read the questions and then I answer them. The first question: 'What are the possibilities for the temporary continuation of air services on the Tallinn-Kuressaare and Tallinn-Kärdla routes until a new carrier is found through the tender procedure? " A perfectly logical question, we asked the same question in our own house. It turns out that the Public Transport Act and the Public Procurement Act do not allow the conclusion of temporary contracts without public procurement with a new carrier in order to maintain air connections. Regional air connections are not essential services for law purposes. In the Emergency Act, the vital service provider is a state or local authority or a legal person whose competence is to perform a public administration task defined as a vital service. According to the law, MKM must ensure the operation of airports as a vital service, but regional air links have not been highlighted. Nor does the Public Transport Act mention such an obligation. This is where one of the problems of air services in the islands emerges. If it was found that the carrier was already in a hurry to comply with the safety requirements and his certificate was suspended, your question would, if possible, have been mentioned, which we have examined, i.e. in the event of taking the temporary carrier, the Ministry and the municipalities would also have been able to tender for the renewal of the air service for a longer period of time, if necessary. However, there was no such possibility, and since there was a loud desire on the ground that the air connection should be restored as soon as possible, I will also refer to the letter of Saaremaa operators, but I will quote it later, a call for tenders was made quickly to make the connection as short as possible. Today, as you said, the company that won the procurement is clear. Flights begin at the beginning of June, the precise day will be determined by county governments. Public procurement on the lines Tallinn-Kuressaare-Tallinn and Tallinn-Kärdla-Tallinn won the public regular service of Transaviabaltika. This proved to be the lowest bid on both routes than the three tenders found to be acceptable. Now I want to clear up one of the things you mentioned right now. I read in the paper that the mayor of Kuressaare says that he offered somewhere and somebody EUR 200,000. That's a pretty weird thing to say. The mayor should know that if the procurement has been announced under certain conditions and taking into account the size of the subsidy granted by the county government or the state budget, and the procurement is already in the final stages, then I would have said that I would have given the city money, but you see, the foolish procurement organisers from the ministry and the county government did not want to take it, the others, to put it mildly, are inferior. Getting out can be done with the money that's meant to be made. It would not have been in accordance with the law to leave the procurement out of such a conversation. We imagine, however, that the procurement would have been suspended on this point, and the mayor would have started looking somewhere, not from his own pocket, but from the city's budget, as he elegantly expressed in the paper, at EUR 150,000 or EUR 200000. Let's say it was fast, in a few months. Then a new call would have been made, but flying would not have recovered by June, but, at best, by September. This would certainly not have been in the interests of either islands or businesses. I also want to disprove another idea here. That is, the way in which the procurement is organised is that we choose someone who is going to be second or third on the basis of the indicators and then give him a lot of extra money, because we like it that way. It should be said to my friends on the islands that this is already a situation referring to the publication of the Penal Code. I think it needs to be straightened out because, as an islander recently told me, there will not be a day when the islanders and the giants would say that they are equally satisfied with their connections. We can agree with that, but I can also say in advance that in 2016 and 2017 we will continue our analysis of air connections. In 2018, there will be a new call for tender with sufficient time and in 2019 there will be new pictures of land and sea. Anyone who wants to participate in this debate is welcome. Secondly, in what circumstances did the Ministry not accept the authorisation of SkyTaxi SP as a substitute carrier for the offer of AS Avies? ' By decision of the Authority of 1 April, AS Avies suspended the AOC of commercial air transport (AOC is this designation). According to the regulations of the European Parliament and of the Council, the Minister for Economic Affairs and Infrastructure is obliged to suspend the operating licence of AS Avies until the certificate is renewed. According to the contract with Avies, another air carrier could not be used to fulfil its obligations as the operating licence and AOC issued to Avies were suspended. Consequently, the assignment of another air carrier for the transfer of rights and obligations by virtue of the contract is unacceptable from the point of view of public procurement law. If the contrary was interpreted, the person would be able to obtain the performance of the contract outside the procurement procedure. In other words, it would be possible for the contract to be performed by a person who has not participated in the procurement procedure as a tenderer. The takeover of a contract or the assignment of a claim is contrary to the general principles governing the organisation of public procurement and is therefore prohibited. The third question: 'How will the proposals made by Saaremaa and Hiiumaa operators regarding the timetable and the aircraft serving the route be taken into account in the procurement terms and in the selection of the carrier? ' The wish of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, but also of Saaremaa entrepreneurs, was to restore air connections to the islands as soon as possible and to organise it in accordance with the conditions required by the Public Procurement Act. As the 2016 state budget had already been adopted, the ad hoc support provided for by the state budget had to be taken into account. Maybe you can't make a deal. Rural governments were involved in the work of the Procurement Committee as local representatives. The timetable negotiations with the tenderers were carried out in accordance with the terms of the procurement. The proposals of Saaremaa and Hiiumaa entrepreneurs and the local community have been taken into account as much as possible. I will also give examples. For example, the route and departure times of the trips were taken into account when designing the procurement terms. The first trip from Tallinn to Kärdla will take place at 7 a.m. and the evening trip at 5 p.m. The first flight arrives from Kuressaare around 10 o'clock in Tallinn, the weekend was accompanied by a Saturday flight, and the residents are guaranteed to sell tickets at the local airport, including Kärdla for cash. The contract was awarded on the basis of the basic terms of the previous public procurement, including the requirement for an aircraft of at least 19 seats, the facts and the performance of the aircraft on both routes, and the amount of the ad hoc subsidy granted by the State budget for 2016. A contract can be awarded on the basis of the most economically advantageous tender. The assessment of the price offers was based on the assumption that at least 12 trips will take place in one week from Tallinn to Kuressaare to Tallinn and 12 to Tallinn to Kärdla to Tallinn. The need for ad hoc public transport support paid from the state budget was assessed for one trip on the routes Tallinn-Kuressaare-Tallinn and Tallinn-Kärdla-Tallinn. The evaluation of the tenders revealed, as has been said, that the most advantageous bid was submitted by the Lithuanian company Transavia. And as I referred to earlier, the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications will carry out a broader analysis of how to ensure good quality regional air connections in Estonia as a whole in the future. New public procurement is planned in 2018. The fourth question: "How is it going to learn from the mistakes of the previous procurement when carrying out the new procurement? ' If you refer to Avies' problems with safety requirements, it is not possible to subjectively assess possible future security problems in the organisation of procurement under the Public Procurement Act. The criteria for participation in the procurement shall be the existence of an operating licence and an AOC and shall be subject to strict rules. If these rules are not complied with, the Authority will be able to react and our steps will come from there. I think we all agree that no compromises must be made on air security and that the Authority must remain demanding in the future. In more detail: where do I see bottlenecks in the provision of a temporary connection and what would allow more time for procurement than exceptional circumstances arise? This is what I referred to earlier, and this is a question of legislation. For our part, we are doing a more in-depth analysis that if we start a new procurement in less than two years' time, we will have more or better quality connections for the same money. And if there are those who are willing to contribute financially on the ground, then the county governments, or whoever is responsible at that moment, will receive the money gratefully and use it specifically for air connections. Question 5: How do you assess the economic and regional political damage of the lack of air services and what are you doing to reduce it? ' As I mentioned earlier, I quote here the letter from Saaremaa entrepreneurs. April 22nd: 'Saaremaa entrepreneurs ask MKM to quickly find ways to restore high-quality air connections within the framework of the tender procedure announced on the Tallinn-Kuressaare route. The procurement procedure may last for months and the experience gained so far with public public transport procurement shows that subsequent disputes may further prolong the finding of a new carrier. However, we hope that the air traffic between Tallinn and Kuressaare will be restored by the beginning of the summer at the latest and that the procurement conditions and the selection of the carrier will take into account the experience so far and the proposals made by Saaremaa operators regarding the density of the timetable and the size of the aircraft serving the route. " That's what we came from. Within the national budget, there was an open call for tenders. The air link will be restored by the beginning of June. However, procurement was only possible with the money provided for in the state budget. If we had started looking for extra money, the recovery of air services would have been delayed for months. Given the economic interests of the islands and the high season of approaching trips, I do not think that this would have been a wise choice. Speed is important because air connections are important for the local economy and bring money to island operators. As regards the average capacity of aircraft, the average capacity of the 19-seater aircraft on the Kärdla route was around 40% and the Kuressaare route was around 50%. Once the connections have been quickly restored, the average fill rate can rise and even bigger plans for the future can be made. As I said, we'll do a more thorough analysis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-30_U62	Questions for the Minister. Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-30_U63	Thanks for the answers. I'll ask for more. Logically speaking, the budget should now have left the money for air connections in April and May. Let me get this straight. And couldn't this remaining money have allowed a bigger plane and more trips, for example, until the end of the year?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-30_U64	Thank you. I gave you an overview, but I'll try to repeat it briefly. This procurement could still be organised within the limits of the annual subsidy. If this was to be organised on a larger scale, as you asked, then the real situation could have been that the procurement would have failed, because we would not have had the cover, and the air routes would not have been restored for several months. On this point, which came later, that someone would like to give extra money, supposedly even from future merger subsidies in a few years' time, there would not have been a procurement, as you understand. So, in fact, the amount of subsidies, i.e. what is in the state budget, was based on the amount of subsidies, and on this, the procurement was carried out.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-30_U65	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-30_U66	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, Good, of course, that the problem was solved relatively quickly, but the interregnum was still there, and Avies' problems were already visible before that. Why, though, was plan B not to cause any of this trouble, the air route would have been in progress? And can you in any way appreciate the damage that arose during this period for the business of Saaremaa?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-30_U67	This international procurement was then assessed by the criterion of flight time and the cost of air tickets from the subscriber to the site of construction of the vessels. And the Procurement Committee called the company and said that it was interesting that they could not find the prices and schedule of the tickets to the Tallinn-Kuressaare air tickets. I can see why they didn't find them. So that's why the procurement might have gone wrong. And Marko Kaldoja, the CEO of Saare Golf, represents the perception and concern of tourism entrepreneurs. He says it's just incredible how, on the one hand, millions are thrown to the wind, on the other hand, a situation is allowed to arise where a better level of quality lies behind a few tens of euro. It points out that the tenderers who did not win the contract charged a slightly higher price for one trip, but offered more comfortable flight conditions. And Marko Kaldoja says that he believes that it is necessary to provide a high-quality service first, so there is also hope of increasing demand. So this is the answer to the fact that the fill is 40% for one island and 50% for the other. He points to the fact that if there were a bigger and more comfortable plane with more baggage and people really dared to fly with it, it would probably be better to be filled. And Marko Kaldoja rightly claims that the current choice and solution is not in favour of the development of the tourism sector. So, on the one hand, it is nice that the procurement was made quickly, but on the other hand, it is a pity that our good and analytical government has been a little slow this time and will take a few more years to analyse the situation and propose solutions. Maybe you could've gotten faster. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-30_U68	The members of the Riigikogu have no more wish for negotiations. The minister does. Please, Kristen Michal, Minister of Economy and Infrastructure!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-30_U69	Honourable Chairman! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! I'd still like to put the cause and effect in order. Mr. Ammas here, I think, confused a little with cause and effect, not maliciously, but friendlyly, but he did. The reason, however, is that Avies, as a company, was unable to take care of his safety issues. That's the first reason these flights actually stopped. The law does not give the State the opportunity to choose someone to fly there outside the procurement. We have already gone over this issue with you, which means that the quick procurement was the only option, and that is what we did. If we had started looking for extra money or something else, we would not be discussing the need for air services to be restored by June, which is important for the economy of businesses and islands, but could, at best, be achieved by September. In fact, this was the choice, and it is not worth cursing here that the state should analyse enormously. There was a choice, either to move on quickly or to start collecting money, looking and looking around. In this case, the solution would have come well later than the high season of tourism. We made such a choice that we restored air services as soon as possible, and I think it is important for the islands. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-30_U70	This inquiry has now been discussed.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-30_U71	Thank you. I briefly touched on the fact that associations in any case bring customers and economic benefits to Saaremaa entrepreneurs. If we had risked playing at the border in organising these procurements, the hole in the connections would have been longer and the damage would have been greater. I'm saying that the damage was still smaller than that. There's no way I can tell the exact size, no one's measured it. Now, from this first part of the question. In my first reply, I tried to point out that I think this is a question that was also up in our house and was also here asking about the fact that we actually do not have the opportunity to take a temporary carrier when the air link is interrupted. If we had had such an opportunity, we could have taken the temporary carrier and perhaps organized this procurement with more time. So it is rather a matter of legislation. I cannot say that there is a bottleneck here, but I can say that we do not currently have such an opportunity in the law. But I repeat, we also had the same question upstairs, i.e. how to prevent this hole so that someone else could fly right away and take more time for the procurement.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-30_U72	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-30_U73	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, There have been a number of paragraphs in your answers that raise new questions. First of all, this analysis: has the starting point been set, has it been put to work yet? Secondly, the same legislation that prevents a rapid response: are you planning to change the law, is it being dealt with? And third, don't you think that the low capacity of airplanes is largely due to the fact that many foreigners just don't dare fly those little fleas?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-30_U74	There were three questions. First of all, the analysis is yes in the process. The initial task has been given and the analysis will look at the possibilities in the future as a whole, say, from 2019 (in 2018 should be tendered), i.e. in what way intra-Estonian taxpayer subsidised air connections could be considered from then on. And if we're so far away from this analysis that we can share it with the parties, we'll share it and start discussing it with them one by one. Luckily, we have time for this now. The second question was about the size of the planes. People are different. Some people don't really like shaking on a big plane either. I've been on a smaller plane. If there's still a storm warning and you land in Tallinn, he's still shaking and there's nothing to do. But I admit, of course, we would have liked it if the cheapest offer had been made by the bidder who had the biggest planes. We would have been very pleased with that, wouldn't we? I think the islanders would have been happy, and even the giants probably wouldn't have been jealous. But right now, as I said before in reply to the question, we must respect the outcome of the procurement. There's no way we can't "dot" the procurement so that someone else or a third can win. We can't do that. There's no way we're gonna get out of here, either. You had a third question about legislation. I admit that I believe that legislative changes will be discussed in this same analysis as to whether they should be added to it. But once again, it is up to the legislator to decide which services are on the so-called list. As you know, there is a huge amount of money going to the ferry connection to ensure the islands are connected. So the connection as such is still guaranteed, but the air service is not on this list today. It is therefore a bit of a matter of legislation; the legislator must also think about it.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-30_U75	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-30_U76	Thank you, good Chairman. Good minister! On the legislative side, so much so that you are the practitioner who carries things out, and you will certainly see these problems and shortcomings much better and more immediately. In this sense, I think your recommendations would be the most appropriate. The second question is how you have organized communication with municipalities and communities. At the very beginning, your tone was quite ironic about the mayor. How did you communicate with communities and local government leaders in this procurement? We went to Ida-Virumaa at the end of last week. It was strange that the people of Ida-Virumaa were amazed that the government would come and sow them with money, but no one would ask where they needed money or whether they needed it at all. Did the same thing happen in this procurement?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-30_U77	First of all, I thank you for this recommendation. If we have legislative proposals, we see that there are bottlenecks, we will try to address them in this analysis and report them. That's definitely what we're gonna do. Second, how was communication? As I pointed out, this procurement committee also represented a rural government which, in fact, brings together the interests of local authorities and talks questions on the ground. The county government was there. Saaremaa entrepreneurs wrote a letter during this process. So I guess that was communication after all. And once again, the main wish, as Mr Ammas referred to earlier, was that the air service should be restored as soon as possible. That's what we actually got to. Today we are in a situation where we can say that this connection will recover from June. My irony, which was correctly captured, was that the mayor, after the announcement of the procurement, said that there was money somewhere he could have given. The problem with such a word of mouth is, in fact, one of two: either when you go to the border of the law or when you cross the border of the law, you break the contract, you start looking for money and you don't reconnect the air as soon as possible, or you ask the good mayor where you used to be, where the money is. If there is money, it will certainly be possible to contribute to air connections in the future. This money doesn't exist today. Today it's just a story. All the more so, I find it very odd that the mayor, after the purchase, during the procurement, or after the practical selection of the winner, must be informed that he offered the money. This is a very strange situation.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-30_U78	There are no further questions for the Minister for Economic Affairs and Infrastructure. I'm opening negotiations. Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-30_U79	Honorable manager! Honourable colleagues! Since the Minister so kindly said that anyone who is interested in or excited about this subject is welcome to speak with you, I will start right here. Let me remind you a little bit of what the island operators said when this air link was cut off. I have also read the comments of entrepreneurs in the newspaper Our Earth and from there have chosen three stories to bring to you. First of all, once again, honor and praise the Ministry for the quick procurement. Everybody's happy about that. But if this procurement was already made, if the story went so badly that Avies had to be interrupted in half, then the heirs really do not understand why the wishes of Saaremaa entrepreneurs could not have been taken into account immediately. It seems to me that although these few hundred thousand are undoubtedly big money, it is that if money is needed for another thing in Estonia, these millions will still be found. At the moment, finding additional money for this year's budget so that the participants in the procurement could make better but more expensive offers could be completely excluded. That is also how I understood the Minister's answers that it was not even discussed, that was not the way it was meant to be. Why there was no plan B, as Mr Herkel referred to, has indeed not been understood by Saaremaa entrepreneurs, for example. They don't understand why the odds, the dangers, weren't thought of before. And if the Minister knows that the laws are restrictive and obscurant in this regard, then perhaps as legislators we could have changed this situation earlier, making the necessary changes to the laws. One sentence at the beginning of the Minister's speech was even a little shocking, I would say, although it is true that this is not about vital services in the context of the law. I'm sure it's right, but it sounds very cruel and a little dangerous. I will say once again to those who are not from the West-Estonian region, what these entrepreneurs in Saaremaa have really wanted. They have requested more flights instead of a 19-seater aircraft, either 33 or 40 seats, and possibly more flights instead of the current 12 connections. Tourism operators in particular have meant that they would be interested to have more connections over the weekend. It has been pointed out that there is also a need for communication from Saturday morning and Sunday night. And now about the three entrepreneurs in the paper telling their story. First of all, the owner of AS Baltic Workboats from Margus Vanaselja, who says they have an international company, customers have not been able to fly from Europe to Saaremaa for weeks and the company has had to use its own plane or other transport. I do not see that anyone can or would like to compensate for the damage suffered by this company. Another entrepreneur, Mark Muru, the manager of OÜ Alunaut, tells the story of how their company participates in one of the largest types of international public procurement, where one assessment is also based on the time and cost of visiting the place of work, i.e. Saaremaa. Winning the procurement would be very important for this undertaking. The results were not yet known at the time of the publication of the newspaper. I'm asking for more time!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-30_U80	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-30_U81	The next question is submitted by Andres Herkel, Monika Haukanõm, Artur Talvik, Jüri Adams, Andres Ammas, Külliki Kübarsepp, Ain Lutsepp and Krista Aru. In the name of the heirs, Külliki Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-30_U82	Good Chairman! Happy few remaining ambassadors! I think you mostly listen to presidential candidates, but let's talk a little bit about political parties and their nature through the prism of funding. We presented a collective appeal to 'Stop party overeating! ' a new inquiry into the reply of the Minister of Justice last September. Namely, a group of people came together in 2011 who said that Estonia's political culture needed a change. Why? Because we feel that this policy has a bad taste for man. This is largely linked to the funding of political parties, accompanied by two keywords: 'corruption' and'misuse'. And that, in many ways, also determines our rules of conduct. We feel that the conditions of competition between political parties and political movements at all are shifting. This was also acknowledged by the National Assembly, as a result of which it is possible to come up with collective appeals from 1 April 2014. On 18 October 2014, 3940 signatures were submitted to the Board of the Riigikogu, the content of which was that the funding of political parties should be halved and no more money could be paid to political parties than they are able to collect themselves. The national contribution should be divided between the different types of support. The election campaign support should be distributed equally between all full lists and operating support should also be provided. According to our proposal, the lists of both the Riigikogu and local governments should be supported, based on the number of votes received in the elections. On 24 April 2015, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs discussed this appeal and decided to choose the least of the six possible versions: to resolve the problem by other means, i.e. to hand over the referral to the Ministry of Justice. It was also made clear that the Ministry of Justice would resolve the issue on the basis of an action plan for the implementation of the Coalition Agreement. Reference was made to point 4.29 of the Coalition Agreement: 'We are harmonising electoral laws and analysing ways of stimulating political competition (including maximum advertising costs, bail-out, state-owned institution and proportion of electoral circles). We are seeking consensus on the introduction of changes. ' Since this point fits quite indirectly with the objectives of the referral to the Members of the Free Party, in April 2015, the representatives of the Free Party submitted a detailed question to you, to which you replied in September. In your reply, you repeatedly indicated that, on the basis of the government's work plan, you will be conducting an analysis by December 2015 and will make proposals to clarify the policy system, including the regulation of political advertising. Today I attended a meeting of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, where this analysis was first presented. Our seven questions, I think, will also provide an opportunity to present this analysis. Of course, we expect the Minister to make proposals on how to improve the monitoring of political party funding. We also want to know what the political parties' electoral debts are. The Free Party was the only party that was able to carry out its election campaign without any debt. We also want a little thought break or an analysis of why electoral alliances are not supported. Would it not be reasonable for the electoral alliances to be able to participate in the Riigikogu elections in the future? Then perhaps the subject of decoy ducks would be resolved in a more reasonable way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-30_U83	Urmas Reinsalu, Minister of Justice, responds to the inquiry. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-30_U84	Honorable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable representatives of the people! Honourable heirs! The following are the answers to the questions of the Members of the Free Party. How far have you reached on 14 September 2015 with the analysis promised to the Riigikogu, who will perform this analysis and what are the results? Analysis of the problems of the reform of the Estonian political system was carried out by officials of the Ministry of Justice, in particular the advisers of the Public Law Service of the Legal Policy Department Ebe Sarapuu, Paloma Krõõt Tupay, Sander Põllumäe and Heili Kaares. This analysis has been submitted to Parliament's Committee on Constitutional Affairs. It was just this morning that I introduced this analysis to the members of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, and I would like to hope that this will be the first starting point or a rejection point for more in-depth discussions. In the analysis, a number of proposals have been put forward by the Ministry of Justice regarding the revival of the political system and the guarantee of transparency and the prevention of unlawful or condemnable, immoral practices. More specifically, the analysis has indeed concluded that changes to the system of national compensation mandates should be considered in the Riigikogu elections so that it also takes into account the proportion of votes received by the candidate in the constituency compared to the so-called closed list or the list of political parties. The next step could be to consider the Finnish electoral system, which means that there would be no national lists in the elections. I think it makes sense that if one model is applied in parliamentary elections, it makes sense to apply it analogously in local elections in a unitary country. The second round of topics relating to this analysis relates to the possibilities of broadening the referendum. Here the Ministry of Justice proposes a model that has also been practiced in several European countries. The central starting point for the analysis was the Austrian model, where, in addition to referendums that are binding on the authorities of the state, the failure of the draft law or the failure to find support in the referendum will lead to the dissolution of the legislator, new elections, it is also possible to hold 'non-binding' referendums. This means that the referendum is not binding on the legislator in terms of disbanding, nor is it mechanical, that its will should be realised and maintained until the overturning referendum. Here we have mentioned the establishment of consultative referendums, the 'folk hearing institute'. In addition, there is a separate package of proposals relating both to the organisation of the system of funding for political parties and to ensuring more effective supervision of the funding of political parties, so that we can say that these rules also work, they are respected. The second question is what steps the Ministry of Justice intends to take to amend existing party law, to equalise the conditions of competition and to reduce the state budget funding of political parties. Here, in itself, the analysis reached a couple of fundamental conclusions. Firstly, it is quite possible to significantly reduce the funding of political parties by public authorities, by the state, and this step should be considered in parallel with the review of the catalogue of electoral costs or funding restrictions by other political parties as a whole. And we have put forward proposals for our package. Firstly, possible restrictions relating to electoral costs, both the possible upper limit of costs and mechanical restrictions in terms of different types of campaigns. An example is also available in Estonia. This is the so-called restriction rule for outdoor advertising in an active campaign. Secondly, an effective system of supervision must be ensured so that the rule of uniformity or equal competition is not undermined by public funds, but from that point on. As regards, in particular, changes to party law, the analysis proposes such an arrangement. Today, we have regulated the funding of political parties so that there is one rule that says how this amount is divided, but the amount itself, which is actually the rate of funding, comes from the annual state budget. This in itself is not in line with the logic of the rule of law, I say here. This very important instrument, which concerns one of the tools of democracy, should be more clearly defined in a specific framework law, the so-called party constitution, or the party law in Estonia, on the basis of which and with what predictability the resources are distributed to political parties. Here is one suggestion to abandon such a discretionary decision, not in a derogatory sense, but simply to lift it out of a specific budget line number, where it is not possible to hold a real political debate about how much it really is and on the basis of what logic it is developing and to bring it to the level of party law. I think that party law should give an automatic answer as a specific formula here in order to be able to define both the upper limit and very clear allocation criteria. In order to increase uniformity, the analysis proposes that the starting point for this distribution should not be the number of seats in Parliament mechanically, but the number of votes cast in elections. This could be the primary or fundamental basis of the formula. One rule in law could certainly be applied on the basis of predictability, which in itself is not unconstitutional. This is done, for example, in the case of the salary of senior civil servants. In particular, at one point, at a certain time before the elections, Parliament will hold a political debate and, if necessary, change this ceiling, either by reducing or increasing it. However, this moment must be long enough before the elections, so that it does not become a measure of relative political majority in the political system in order to achieve tactical advantage. The next question concerns the fact that I stopped in my reply last autumn on the increase in the cost of the Tallinn media and found that, at least in part, this money has been used for the election campaign. What are the sensible measures to prevent this from happening again in the 2017 elections? And the next question, with the permission of the heirs, I will put these issues together, is the granting of additional powers to the Committee on the Supervision of Financing of Political Parties. What do I consider reasonable, and when will I make a proposal? The analysis does not specifically mention Tallinn's cases, but the cost of Tallinn in the social debate has clearly been a tone topic. Here are two central things that we should be doing within the remit of the Committee on the Financing of Political Parties. One thing is that it is not a question of imposing penalties in itself. We certainly must also follow the ultima ratio principle in this area, i.e. real monitoring measures, to achieve a situation where we can prevent unlawful behaviour. Firstly, more extensive powers should be conferred on the Commission for the Financing of Political Parties, both in terms of the amount and in terms of the number of subjects to which it applies. I am thinking of both the specific public organisation that uses public funds in the election campaign and the individuals or political forces that will benefit. Thirdly, it would, of course, also apply to advertising channels if they did not comply with the injunction to refrain from unlawful conduct. Secondly, it is important that the Commission for the Financing of Political Parties is also clearly entrusted with the powers of the law enforcement body. That doesn't mean they're gonna be patrolling the street. The point is that they would also have the right to take statements, statements from third parties. What I consider reasonable and what has been done in a number of countries, and what has been said to us in international recommendations, is that, in certain cases, we would reverse this burden of proof. The persons on whom the Commission has come to the conclusion that there is a breach of the rules or abuse of the use of public funds should itself prove that their burden of proof should be reversed. And then there are a number of specific proposals that both the OECD have recommended to us and the National Audit Office has pointed out, among other things, the need for a broader definition of political advertising. It is strongly recommended that they be considered in some form in this analysis. I think it makes sense to look at the future of the analysis, and I expect a serious debate to arise in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs when the Ministry of Justice is ready to provide all the necessary assistance in developing possible forms of amending the law. Next question: How do you assess the proposal that the task of the Political Financing Monitoring Committee would also be to establish and supervise the procedures for the use of the expenses benefits of members of the Riigikogu? Here I am saying that I consider it important, as a general principle, to have this Parliament, the legislator's right to self-regulation in mind. But when I looked at, for example, the German Union Day Members Act, or the Abgeordnetengesetz, there are expenses, i.e. the costs to which a Member, say, subjective rights entitled for the purpose of serving himself, are actually established at the level of the law. We have taken it to a lower level and, in certain cases, these issues, as you can see, are being tried to regulate further, to seek agreements within a political culture. But I think that there could also be a starting point in Estonia in order for these things to be used and discussed in a purposeful way, in which case MEPs have the subjective right to receive support for the performance of their duties. Secondly, as far as supervision is concerned, the Office of the Riigikogu carries out a formal supervision, i.e. an examination of the accounting documents. But in itself, when it comes to making false statements, documents are wrong, or a transaction is fictitious, law enforcement is already a matter of police supervision. Here I think it would be pointless to build up a model different from the general system. However, I do think, as well as the good practice of a member of the Riigikogu, that state assets must be used in a sustainable and rational way, to avoid wasting. It would probably be wise to move towards objectives relating to common sense or public sense of justice (e.g. the use of benefits which are in line with common sense) being those which are furnished by the good practice of the Member. And then one parliamentary body would evaluate good practice, say whether it is reasonable or not, and decide whether it will be followed by legal measures that are "sanctioning" (e.g. a claim for reimbursement). This is actually a good thing to do at the level of the law if it is a matter that needs to be regulated. The next question is about debts, i.e. what is the debt of the parties. It is true that, in every quarter, parties have to say how much they have outstanding obligations, but this is not really public information. I called on the Committee on Financing of Political Parties to request that this list be issued to me, but the representatives of the Commission replied that this information was not publicly available on a quarterly basis. Only public information is annual reports, but in itself these annual reports are only available for the previous year. The state budget allocation of the parties is available on the website of the Political Financing Monitoring Commission. Specifically, the first quarter of this year's allocation from the state budget amounted to EUR 1353170, which was distributed proportionally between parliamentary parties on the basis of seats received in Parliament. In addition, there is a smaller amount of funding for extra-parliamentary forces. In theory, those forces who received fewer votes are also entitled to this money without seats in Parliament. As far as the issue of electoral alliances is concerned, there are no concrete proposals for local electoral alliances in this analysis, no changes to the system are planned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-30_U85	Questions for the Minister. Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-30_U86	Thank you, good Chairman. Thank you, Minister. I have two questions. In your analysis, did you also arrive at a comparative analysis of other European countries? What are the direct and indirect grants? According to our analysis, direct subsidies are very high as compared to Germany, for example: the German direct payment is EUR 0.25 per voter, and in Estonia it is EUR 10 There are 5.4 million direct grants. Have you calculated how many indirect grants there are in Estonia, in addition to the expenses of parliamentary groups, the fees paid by the leaders of ministers, rural governments and local governments? What are your proposals for action? Different reports say that there must be a level playing field through funding. What is your vision, through which measures would it be best and most effective to implement?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-30_U87	Thank you. Yeah, we analyzed different facets. This is indeed a big issue. For example, when we talk about Germany, there is one thing that is directly, according to the law, the financial allocation paid to political parties. At the same time, Germany has, for example, laid down, as a 'public burden', that public media are obliged to submit election ads to parties, to give them free air time. For private television and radio stations, the rule is that they must not charge more than 35% of the advertising fee generally charged to political parties for the transmission of advertising clips. In general, with our culture, it is to put such restrictions, not in line with, at least the current practice or understanding, on media organisations. The right thing is that in democracies, these issues have been set out differently when it comes to resource distribution, fair play and equal conditions rules. They have been defined differently in different countries and, if there are problems, these rules are sought to be as detailed as possible. The general rule is that, of course, absolute equality cannot be achieved mechanically. In Germany, too, it is acknowledged that equality must be guaranteed, it must be based on the outcome of the previous elections, and it is clear that then, inevitably, subsidies must also be distributed in proportion. We know, for example, the case of France, where the former President of the French Republic is actually at trial with the question of whether he took counselors in order to obtain, figuratively speaking, a political advantage by recruiting party workers for the election campaign. Yes, such an issue has arisen in France, for example. General recommendations concerning the use of public funds. In transition societies, we can see that this matter has been put in more detail and that problems have also emerged. There is a clear ban in several countries. It has been understood that drawing this line, which is political advertising, and what is currently being held by the mayor, minister or other person, in order to provide some public information, is still going to be 'helpful'. In a number of countries, it has been clearly stated that during an active electoral campaign, public authorities (specifically municipalities and public authorities) do not perform any media work in connection with the campaign paid, except for the submission of current job reports. We have this comparative analysis. And I think, as always with these analyses, it is possible to develop good rules from its surface in relation to another political resource that gives advantage to someone who is in the coalition, for example, and ideas on how it can be reasonably ensured that these rules are not abused. In Britain's political space, efforts have been made to build it, first and foremost, on the basis of the logic of the two-party system, the preservation of which is clearly intrigued by the larger parties, where things are actually symmetrically established. Let's say the Prime Minister gets one pay, the opposition leader has to get the same pay. The Prime Minister has an official car with bodyguards, opposition leader in the same way. This is how the number of advisors in the shadow office is structured. In order to achieve this balance, efforts have been made to create different systems. As we will see specifically in one of the Tallinn cases, this question has come to light. Consequently, this balance must be re-established with legal instruments if political culture is not sufficient.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-30_U88	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-30_U89	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Good Minister of Justice! How would you describe the priorities of a country in which it is almost impossible to find the EUR 4.9 million needed to raise the cost of school lunch from the state budget, but where, at the same time, the state budget will find money to fund political parties without problems? As Minister of Justice, how do you describe the priorities of such a country?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-30_U90	Thank you. I think that the funding of political parties cannot certainly be a priority in ensuring the socio-economic functioning of the country or in ensuring that welfare tasks are carried out. It has probably been reasonable that this amount has been reduced by a few percentage points over the years; it has remained quite unchanged. The question of whether it can be significantly reduced has also triggered a public petition. My answer, and the clear message, is that it can be significantly reduced. But the starting point is not that I say write down one or the other amount in the state budget. In fact, there is no doubt here for the legislator that there is a place for political choice to define it in one way or another. But what I'm saying is that the way it's done by law right now is the wrong place behind the state budget, like a single real estate object. It is also possible to debalance this very important system of how democracy will materialise with a democratic system if, to put it another year, the funding of political parties is set at EUR 500 million and the next year is zero. Such games undoubtedly destabilise the functioning of a democratic system. If you rank or hierarchize any costs here, there are certainly places of general government contraction in order for the state to be able to fulfil its social welfare tasks, to help protect fundamental social rights.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-30_U91	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-30_U92	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, Your answer to our last, seventh question about local electoral alliances was very laconic in the short term. However, I read from it that no steps are planned to ensure equal conditions of competition for electoral alliances. Correct me if I'm wrong, and you're still up to something. But I would like you to discuss this issue for as long now as the previous answers. The problem is very serious, one of the election subjects gets money from the state budget, the other gets nothing. And when local governments become bigger, the logical idea is that electoral alliances will even lessen their chances and inequality will deepen.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-30_U93	Thank you. There are a number of serious issues here. As I said, several problems have also come up today in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. It marked whether it would be possible to block state budget subsidies for political parties who had been convicted of criminal offences, to apply it as an additional penalty in some way, etc. I said I fixed everything, and we'll give you more detailed answers. We are fully prepared to carry out a separate and more thorough analysis of this, too, if it is still of interest to the inquisitors. Equal treatment must be treated equally, this is a general principle of uniformity in democracy. When we talk about political parties' electoral alliances, or even citizens' electoral alliances, at national level, the current legal order does not in itself allow them to do so. And I think that the scheme that was created, that the establishment of parties has been lightened or relaxed and that the thresholds for the formation of political parties have also been reduced, has been a reasonable course. The electoral alliances formed for one election, for the elections of the Riigikogu, have certainly had the aim of creating at least a presumption of political responsibility Now, with regard to local electoral alliances and their funding, the analysis at the Ministry of Justice highlighted the question that, when it comes to local life issues and there are permanent electoral alliances in the local government, the electoral union group has also been elected, whether the local government has the right to allocate funds for its own political activities. It's a debateable question. We know that in larger municipalities, certain costs are minimally reimbursed, especially from the urban council. I'm sure that's a question. If we have a question in legal terms, also looking at the international recommendations on the political system, whether there is a lack here and it can be said that the situation is unconstitutional, because we do not have electoral alliances, I will say no. The question of ensuring equal treatment with individual candidates arises as to whether a permanent funding scheme for the electoral federations is possible here. This means whether, in this case, for example, an individual candidate who has run for election and has been elected should be funded continuously for four years, or whether there is an analogy here with the funding of political parties who have stayed at the door. It is possible to develop this topic into groteskin so that a strange activity should be developed, a candidate's salary or something like a civil salary that did not find support in Switzerland. Clearly, this issue has not been taken into account here. In the case of larger municipalities, could this question be considered, and would the Constitution itself allow this? I think that, yes, the Constitution would certainly allow this to be achieved by guaranteeing certain conditions. Whether it is politically rational or not is a separate political debate place. Such a proposal has not been proposed on the subject of this political reform. It is quite possible to consider this in itself, but it requires a certain institutionalisation of the electoral union and we must clearly distinguish the facts. In reality, if we take a certain step towards defining his personality, if he is given money on a permanent basis, and so on, that means that we can, in some ways, talk about the formation of local political parties. I remember that the creation of local political parties was, in fact, under discussion in the process of making a comprehensive revision of the last party law. It was abandoned for various political reasons, based on the principle of Estonia as a unitary state. In some countries, however, they do exist either within a larger territory or within a local government. There is, however, a subject that certainly needs to be resolved. This is a question of the radical change in the structure of the electoral body in the course of the administrative reform. As the dome of ten members in the larger municipalities is set out, it is quite clear that we are actually reaching a situation where the electoral body has fewer than 202 members. In this case, the question arises as to whether this issue should be dealt with in parallel with administrative reform, even at the level of constitutional change or at least at the level of proportionality of the electoral body.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-30_U94	Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-30_U95	Honourable President! Honorable Minister! With regard to the analysis you have introduced here, and which I have already been able to read a little bit, you could almost say that the beauty of a long time. There have been some of the problems that have been discussed in this Chamber for years, if not decades, and they have also been offered solutions. But I ask you, as an experienced politician, whether, according to your knowledge, any of these things will become a law. And if so, what would fit primarily with the ideals and vision of the current coalition?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-30_U96	Thank you. In this analysis, which has indeed been made as such a passionate legal instrument, I did not go into the search for a political common ground in order to form some kind of conditional coalition of support or to find support from the surface of an existing coalition. I presented this passionately in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, where there are representatives of all political forces, and I certainly intend to present the conclusions at the meeting of the cabinet and to all the political groups in Parliament who have an interest in it. On one of the most acute issues, the question has also been referred to by the heirs, I think it would be wise to find a legally realised solution this year. This concerns the granting of additional powers to the Commission in the field of Political Financing Supervision. There's a problem here, by the way. I'm a little bit divided myself, too. Indeed, the international supervisory bodies also say that, firstly, this supervisory body must be independent, and secondly, you must give it additional powers. But here, in the case of Estonia as a small country, there is an optimum place, which is actually unrealistic, that we are figuratively building a 'kapo 2', a huge apparatus. I think this is the point of considering whether we actually have sufficient supervisory powers today, if there are probably a couple of practical advisors at work in this committee, but still only a few. Perhaps we should still consider giving this competence to some bodies whose main activity is based on supervision. We're talking about the National Audit Office. The Finns handed it over to the National Audit Office. In Latvia, this competence is even in a separate anti-corruption office, which is a little bit like one of our Defence Police Department units dealing with corruption issues. It has been criticised whether they are really independent of the executive power. So I think this is something that should be dealt with first. I think that it is possible to make possible changes to the party law, so that we have a model of funding for political parties there, defined as a 'public budget tail' principle, completely without stretching. As I pointed out, administrative reform knocks on the door and could be more beautiful if, in parallel with the administrative reform, the legislator considered increasing the competence of local authorities in this matter or in the future in the election of the Head of State.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-30_U97	Minister, there are no further questions. Thank you. I'm opening negotiations now. Riigikogu speech chair Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-30_U98	Mr President! Dear Minister, Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! You could really say with this analysis, the beauty of a long time, but it's a bit of a scratch that doesn't know if the Ministry of Justice remembered that this analysis could be done when we asked for a second question. As Külliik's Hatter said in his introduction to the above question, this is not the first question. We submitted an inquiry in September last year, and then the analysis was promised by December. In April we submitted a new question, and now this analysis has come. Thank you. The analysis was six months late, but the content, I must say, is quite positive in some respects. There are some conclusions here on how this painful problem, which has been accompanied by the quite egotistical funding of political parties in Estonia, could be resolved rationally from the beginning. The fear is, of course, that the analysis will be followed by the following analysis, and in the end this amount will not decrease or decrease in the state budget, we will keep theorizing and theorizing, just as the Minister of Justice plans to come to the Riigikogu the day after tomorrow with a talk about how the volume of legislation should be reduced. On this point, I would say that the analysis has now been carried out, that the volume of further analysis could be reduced, that the funding of political parties would simply be cut off by half of the state budget and then go on with all the next steps. Yes, philosophically, I agree with some of the things that are written here. Restrictions on the campaign by type of campaign have been discussed for a very long time. They could be made, but not simply in such a way that one type of advertising is limited and the other flourishes at its expense. And in fact, the effect of the restriction on outdoor advertising is that advertising is done outside the active campaign period, and that outdoor advertising is not lost. That is well known to the Minister. The cap on campaign costs is again an issue that has been discussed for a very long time. Let's get this over with. Indeed, together with this reduction in the funding of political parties, steps could also be taken to reduce the temptations to use this money every year. In a methodical way, I also think it is right that this money should not be an amount from the state budget every year, but should be treated differently. But as long as the reputable government leaves it in the state budget at 5.4 million and nothing changes, the Free Party will present with each new state budget eight versions of how half of this money could be used more efficiently, just as we did last autumn. Another right principle, which we have also emphasised, is that the number of votes for political parties would be a more reasonable basis for obtaining a reduced state budget contribution than the number of seats in the Riigikogu. A couple more marks. First of all, the permanent issue is cost benefits. Yes, Parliament's right to self-regulation sounds nice, but in my opinion it is essentially absolutely clear about the money that supports political parties. This could be granted to the Commission for the Financing of Political Parties. The only alternative to the fact that this money does not go essentially to support the party's work is if it is simply used for personal purposes by some people. So it would be perfectly justified if the Committee on the Monitoring of Financing of Political Parties, as we raised in our questions, were to address this problem as well. All the more so since several successive Riigikogu Boards have not managed to regulate this issue properly. As regards the funding of electoral alliances, I would like to say yes, they are very clearly in an unequal situation, and the larger municipalities are also deepening it. I would ask no one to understand this way if we were to raise this problem so that we would like to raise more money from the state budget to the electoral alliances. I think that simply the money that the political parties have half of the current amount should be used fairly so that local electoral associations can also be part of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-30_U99	Thank you. And now for the speech. Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-30_U100	Thank you, good vice chairman. I would like to bring here two points as to why it is necessary to tackle the reduction in funding for political parties or at least to rethink this system. We in Estonia have a very strong feeling of the stagnation of political ideas, and the question of political responsibility is under very great question. It is always felt that politicians are not able to take responsibility. And this, I think, is because we have an excess of financial resources that doesn't make people think that political parties are non-profit, a form of civil society. We must take them as a form of civil movement, not as an independent, stand-alone status that is not equal to active citizenship. We do not grant direct public subsidies from the state budget to civic societies, but they have to write projects for grants at all times. Here we should think about whether we should start granting more direct aid to these associations, too, or whether the party, as one form of civil society, could be in a slightly more equal position with them in the form of lower subsidies. Election unions are already "local parties" today. They are one form of partnership and increasingly have to do with the Political Financing Supervisory Commission. Bureaucracy is entirely there for them. Now it is simply a question of whether they are also given the opportunity to open an official account so that they do not have to deal with matters through private individuals. It would still provide a direct channel for grants. It was tried to say that it would not be possible to talk about this until they had no formal status. It's totally there, maybe there's only half a step left to go. The issue of funding political parties is important. And more knowledge and information would be given to the citizen, as well as to the increasing desire to produce more frequent referendums.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-30_U101	Thank you. I will close the negotiations. So the question has been answered.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-30_U102	We will move on to the fifth inquiry by members of the Riigikogu Andres Ammas, Monika Haukanõm, Artur Talvik, Andres Herkel, Krista Aru, Külliki Kübarsepp and Ain Lutsepp on 7 April, including. The request for information submitted is on the promotion of economic forecast and economic growth and is numbered 202. Finance Minister Sven Sester will answer the question. I am pleased to ask the Riigikogu's speech chair to be presented to the Estonian public by Andres Ammas, the representative of the heirs!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-30_U103	Honourable President! Honourable colleagues! Honorable Minister! Once again, I am pleased to present a brief inquiry, which the Minister is about to answer. Let it be said in advance that this will relate to one of our next questions, as well as to our colleagues' inquiries. So the Minister has a rare chance of resolving this issue further. Our inquiry was inspired by the sad message that the Ministry of Finance reduced the economic forecast made last autumn by 0.6 percent and announced that this year the Estonian economy is likely to grow by around 2%. Already in the autumn of the budget debate, I dare remind you, the members of the Free Party Group asked the Minister several times on which his optimism for more growth was based. He was very optimistic and said it was even conservatively planned. It didn't go that way, though. We do understand that the intuitive desire of the Ministry and of many financial people in general is to inject optimism rather than pessimism into the public and then look for positive signs in other economic forecasts, on which we ourselves can predict faster economic progress. But our opinion is rather consistent with the opinion of the Chairman of the Estonian Fiscal Council, Raul Eamets, who says that he thinks that the Ministry's forecast is full of wishful thinking, because there are no signs of improvement in the global economy. In this respect, it is appropriate to recall that the economic growth of the past year actually remained well below the forecast. In the summer of 2015, growth was expected to be 1.7%, while by the end of the year real economic growth remained 1.1%. We believe that the current government is talking quite a lot about economic recovery, confidently and dynamicly, but we do not see any signs of what the government is actually doing to boost economic growth. Our companies are often not competitive internationally, there has not yet been enough funding for R &amp; D, there has not been a flexible increase in people in employment, there is an increase in bureaucracy, and even though the first attempts have been made here to tame it, there are no signs of results yet. The use of European money to boost the Estonian economy has also stretched. So we find the situation worrying. We look forward to what signs the Minister of Finance will present to us immediately of the improvement in the global economy and the Estonian economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-30_U104	Thank you. Following the speech of the previous speaker, I invite the Minister of Finance Sven Sester to answer the question of the Riigikogu Chair. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-30_U105	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear Members, I will respond subsequently to the questions you have asked concerning the promotion of spring economic forecast and growth in the Ministry of Finance. I'll read the question and then I'll answer it. 'With what concrete steps does the government fulfil one of the main objectives of the Coalition Agreement to boost economic growth? What drafts does the government intend to submit to the Riigikogu, which decisions to take? ' Economic recovery is one of the priorities of the government in the country's budget strategy. To this end, labour taxes will be reduced by 0.5% from the beginning of 2017 and by an additional 0.5% from the beginning of 2018. The exemption shall be increased to EUR 205 per month by 2019. In addition, a new initiative will implement the refund of income tax on low-paid people. All of this will leave nearly EUR 100 million for people and businesses to consume, save and invest next year and over EUR 800 million in 2017/20. A number of other measures have also been targeted at economic recovery. From 2017, the turnover of small enterprises will be exempt from VAT up to EUR 40000. In total, over EUR 600 million of EU funds are planned to be channelled into R &amp; D in the 2014-20 period. An additional EUR 8 million per year will be allocated to research. The large investor investment support pilot project will start next year with a volume of EUR 3 million. Investments in roads, connections, industrial areas and competence centres have a regional impact. For problem sectors such as the oil shale sector and agriculture, adaptation support is provided. The second question: 'What structural reforms is the government planning for economic recovery? ' The government will continue to pursue the objective of tax policy: to reduce taxation of labour while increasing higher taxation on consumption, resource use and vices, which will contribute to increasing economic activity. Reducing the tax burden on labour will help to increase incentives to work. In addition, there is an operational capacity reform that will help people who are partially able to work but are currently away from the labour market to return to the labour market. The reform will review the methodology for assessing performance and propose activation and support measures. In order to improve the functioning of the public sector and to achieve a situation where high-quality public services are available throughout Estonia, the government will also implement an administrative reform during the 2017 municipal council elections. The third question: 'You have argued that in the coming years, the global economy should take off. What is your hope based specifically on and on what basis do you expect Estonia's exports to increase? ' With regard to the external environment, the Ministry of Finance uses the latest forecasts of international institutions such as the European Commission, OECD and Consensus Forecasts as a prerequisite, which will be adjusted, if necessary, by peer review. This is therefore the expectation of market participants and analytical centres that the global economy will recover. One of the most common indicators for forecasting exports is external demand, i.e. a forecast of imports from trading partners. In 2015, external demand was weakest in recent years, in particular due to the deep fall in Russian imports. Along with this, Estonia's export of goods and services turned to a downgrade of 1.1%. External demand will be strengthened in 2016, in particular as a result of this same slowdown in Russian imports and the gradual recovery of the Finnish economy. From 2017, global economic activity is expected to improve, which in turn will support the development of our main trading partners and thus create better opportunities for faster growth of Estonian exports. The 2016 export forecast is conservative. An increase of 1.6% of exports is expected to be below the expected increase in external demand, which is now 2.9%. The recovery of export growth this year is indicated, inter alia, by the external trade statistics of February, according to which exports of goods increased by 7% compared to a year earlier. In addition, the export order portfolio has improved in recent months, in particular with regard to the high share of electronic products in the export structure. According to the latest forecast published by the European Commission, Estonian exports will increase by 1.8% in 2016 and 3.6% in 2017. So our forecast is comparable to that of the Commission. Question 4: 'On the basis of the calculations made by the Ministry of Finance, a structural deficit of 0.14% will occur in 2018, which is by law not to exist. What measures do you intend to cover the deficit, or do you intend to amend the law? ' This is also the fifth question: 'What new taxes and excise duties are you planning to fulfil the promises of the coalition agreement, such as the increase of teachers' salaries to 120% of the Estonian average or the funding of science at the level of 1% of GDP? ' I will answer these questions together, because the questions and, as a result, the answers directly overlap. In order to cover the forecast deficit, the measures already planned in the national budget strategy last spring, such as road user charges, the development of a new packaging excise law, the possible taxation of e-cigarettes and the improvement of control measures in the fuel sector, are planned first. These measures have been planned for the state budget since 2018 and the corresponding drafts will be submitted to the procedure during the next year. In addition, it is planned to introduce a reverse charge on metal used in construction, to save management costs for ministries and to continue the dividend payments of state-owned enterprises. There is no plan to introduce new taxes compared to the spring of last year. In the course of the four-year national budgetary strategy procedure, we set the target for the structural surplus for 2017 and the target for 2018/20. The structural balance for 2008. According to the strategy adopted, the national budget will be in structural balance in the coming years and in particular in surplus next year. Question 6: 'All the increases in excise duty introduced by the so-called cluster bill last year have not met the expectations as a source of budgetary cover. For example, according to the Ministry of Finance, excise duties on alcohol are expected to be 9 euros less this year and 15 million euros less than initially planned in the coming year. Are you considering correcting the mistakes of a draft that was born in haste, such as the elimination of an increase in VAT on accommodation establishments? ' Tax collection forecasts shall be adjusted for each subsequent forecast due to the economic environment, legislative changes and other apparent circumstances. The decrease in the consumption of excise goods was taken into account, but indeed it turned out to be slightly higher than expected. We will follow these developments very seriously. However, this is not a fundamental problem, as the reduction in consumption is one of the objectives of increasing excise duties on alcohol and the current budget collection is higher than if excise duty had not been raised. At the same time, there is ongoing monitoring and analysis to respond to problems in a timely manner. Last year, the risks involved were very clearly recognised when drawing up the draft excise duty increases. In addition to continuous monitoring, a more in-depth analysis of the impact of the law on excise goods will be carried out next year. Several successive increases in excise duty have taken place by then and the impact on consumer behaviour is clearer than it is now. The government is not yet planning to propose a change in the VAT rate for accommodation services. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-30_U106	Thank you, Minister. You have questions too. Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-30_U107	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, Unfortunately, I still find this side of economic recovery and growth to be scarce and poor. The first measure you mentioned was labour taxes. Indeed, social tax is going to be reduced, but quite a few, so its impact can be questioned. But here comes my question: what is the government's proposal in this case to ensure the sustainable financing of the health care system? After all, this reduction is about health insurance money. How can this be sustainable in the current economic situation and also in view of the decline in population? I think you should talk about what you should do to make the economy live, not about reducing one tax by half a percentage in one year or another.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-30_U108	Thank you. I disagree with your interpretation, and I reserve the right to say it. Having also read the Free Party's economic programme, I think that your proposals, where you foresee an increase in personal income tax, are not in the right place as a measure of a recovery programme. I don't think it's going to boost the economy. I think that, in order to stimulate the economy, particular attention must be paid to labour taxes, which is one of the most important things. We must compete with other countries, creating new jobs. You too should, if you want to be a right party, review your actual measures and see the reduction of labour taxes as a step forward. As far as funding for health care is concerned, you had a very good point. True story, Estonia is not only an ageing society, but an ageing and shrinking society, unfortunately it is at the moment. In this regard, once you have noticed, the public sector is also reducing itself, both this year and in the coming years. There is nothing to do, we live in an ageing and shrinking society. At the same time, the Ministry of Social Affairs will develop and analyse what measures should be taken in the future in this situation. I understand that in the near future, the Ministry of Social Affairs will come before the government and the whole society with these analyses. There will certainly be a number of ways to propose to society. We are in fact in a situation where not only on the pensions side, but also on the health side, it is no longer possible to move forward with the models that have been used to date. Sooner or later, we will discover that social tax will not be able to cover all the intentions that we have hoped to implement, from the increase in the salaries of doctors to the introduction of new medicines on the market and the provision of various medical services.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-30_U109	Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-30_U110	Thank you. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. You said the government would continue its financial strategy. Does this mean that local government funding will in principle continue to be subject to the same rules that were in recent years, and in essence they will only rely on their own opportunities?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-30_U111	Thank you. In reality, that is not the case. There's always a question of numbers, we always have to have background material to compare with. If we look at the reference materials, including the pre-crisis year of 2008, when we had the highest levels, we will discover that local authorities are currently receiving an increase of EUR 150 million. If we look at the government's recent steps, which are reflected in both the state budget and the four-year budgetary strategy, we will see that the government is channelling a one-off amount of EUR 65 million to local governments to stimulate local authorities to join. With this money, local authorities will be able to carry out the investment projects they need. But I think that even more important are the constant nature of the measures behind this one-off support, even the last agreement that was made in the coalition and which, as a financial projection, is also seen in the country's budgetary strategy. It will allocate 15 million in 2019 and 25 million in 2020 to strengthen the "local' revenue base. This is not a one-off decision, it is a continuing principle. So there will be changes that will very clearly strengthen local authorities. We are taking an interest education to which EUR 15 million will be channelled through local authorities in the coming years, or the financing of local roads, on which it was agreed that it would be increased by an additional 5 million. These are all measures that improve the financial situation of local authorities.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-30_U112	Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-30_U113	Honourable President! Honorable Minister! According to Statistics Estonia, Estonia's GDP increased by 1.7% in the first quarter of this year compared to the first quarter of last year. In doing so, Statistics Estonia says that the increase in the collection of excise duties on alcohol and fuel, which shifted from the end of last year to the first quarter, had a significant impact. How do you comment on this at 1.7%?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-30_U114	Thank you. If last year was 1.1%, then 1.7% will certainly be constructive in dynamics. If you're asking specifically about this number, it'll definitely indicate improvement. As regards stocks and paying attention to them, it has been the practice of Estonia all along the way and it is perfectly understandable from the company's point of view that before possible increases in excise duty, companies are storing products with lower excise duties. The same was the case last year, in stocks just before the increase in excise duty, for specific excise goods. There's nothing weird about that. Looking at the size of the stocks now, it can be said that more was available than could be expected. The virtual depreciation of these stocks, i.e. the reduction of excise duty by this percentage in the following months, makes sense in turn. If excise goods are mobilized for three, four, or even six months and all excise duties are paid on them, it is natural that the excise duty receipts will decrease in the coming months. There's nothing weird about that. In essence, it can be said that the State has received lower rates for excise goods, but has received earlier excise duties.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-30_U115	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-30_U116	Thank you, manager. Minister, thank you very much. We always compare ourselves with our neighbours, and the size of economic growth must also be compared with that of our neighbours. It must be acknowledged that in Lithuania and Latvia, growth has been about five years higher than in Estonia. And if you look at the forecasts and the European Commission's estimates, they will continue to have more economic growth than in Estonia. But Latvia is also doing things quite differently than the Estonian state, and I think that because of the Estonian state's policy, the Latvian economy wins a lot. For example, Latvia recently issued very large amounts of government bonds at a very favourable price, and this money they are probably still channelling into the economy, they do not cover running costs. Secondly, they have a completely different excise policy. The amount that the Latvian state currently wins from Estonia's excise policy is still quite large. I think it's even possible to put it around GDP. Thirdly, we are taking an agricultural policy in which our country is the only country in the European Union that has ignored transitional subsidies. If we read today's Äripäev, we will find out that Estonia's newest barn, which has been made with PRIA grants, has a 1000-headed dairy herd, but its cows are sold to Latvia and Lithuania. Don't you feel that we should review our policy?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-30_U117	Thank you. You brought a number of facts to the table in your introduction to the question and, together with them, your assessments. I will try to open up the background to your introduction to the question. We must look at the whole picture, i.e. the growth of other countries as well. I think that the aim of all countries should be to take maximum action to ensure that the economy grows. My dogma has been and will continue to be, that growth must be one of the main objectives. As the economy grows, it gives us the opportunity to pay higher salaries, to grant subsidies and to distribute additional money in sectors where national priorities exist. You mentioned Latvia and Lithuania as an example. If I look at next year, the current forecast is that Lithuania will have an economic growth of 3.4%, Latvia will have 3.2%, and we will have 3.0%, these are potential growths in next year, 2017. At the same time, looking closer to the Nordic countries by looking at our other neighbours, which I am sure we want to reach, Finland is expected to grow by 0.9% next year and Sweden by 2.9%. So we have 3.0%. The euro area average is 1.7% this year, with 1.9% next year. We have these figures of 2% and 3%. If we take 28 countries, the European Union as a whole, the average will be 1.9% this year, and 2.0% next year. So there is always a need to compare comparables. As regards Latvia's bonds, I am not sure that Latvia issued its bonds in order to undertake new investment projects. I think he did it by refinancing his earlier loans. It was more of a question. Surely it should not be forgotten that if we have a lower debt burden, that means that we also have lower interest costs. That's the money we can channel somewhere else. I have said this before, and I repeat here that bonds should not be an end in themselves. Just because money is cheap doesn't mean you have to spend it right now. Then there must also be ideas about whether to use it for infrastructure objects, for some infrastructure objects or for other stimulating measures. We must always consider that the loan must be repaid. If we lived on an open bill, where it was known that we would never have to pay back, then it would be a different situation. I'm sure I am, but I think you, a good questioner, too, that the loans must be repaid regardless of what the money is used for. And that's how we have to act.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-30_U118	Monika Haukanõmm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-30_U119	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. The second question you answered was that one of the structural reforms that will help to revive the economy is that you need a labour capacity reform. Of course, the work capacity reform is the right initiative, because it is important to value people and certainly to create a more positive image of people with disabilities or inability to work. As we know, we have about 110000 disability pensions, about 40% of whom are already working. About one third are disability pensioners 100%, which is why we cannot expect them to contribute actively. So there are relatively few people left who still need to be helped into the labour market. The government aims to get 10,000 people to work with this reform. How much do you assess the impact of the work capacity reform on economic recovery? It can't be very big, but you've definitely done the tests.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-30_U120	Thank you. It has already turned out from your question that at least one third of people are in any case out of the picture. If a third is already on the market and a third can never enter the market, there will be a third to be placed on the market. I think we both share this idea, as you said in the question, that this reform is important for Estonia. Some have said that, you see, with the implementation of this reform, our unemployment is rising statistically, rising from around 6.3% today to quite a number of base points, that we are, like, artificially increasing unemployment. I don't think we should be ashamed that this percentage will increase. Rather, we should focus attention on stimulating the entry of these people into the labour market. As a minister of finance, I really know a lot of numbers by heart, but I am not going to give you a specific number right now. If you have a strong desire to find out, I think we can also tell you the exact number of the expected positive effects of the work capacity reform. An analysis of this has been carried out. Just in case, I'm not gonna give you any numbers here, but I'm sure you can get it. In essence, however, this reform is in the right direction and should not be ashamed to say it.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-30_U121	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-30_U122	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable Minister of Finance! I must say that your optimism and your faith in the good course of the Estonian economy make you jealous. I do not see it as so good, nor can I possibly understand the things that confirm the continuing good state of the Estonian economy, especially as regards entrepreneurship. Would you be so kind as to mention three to five very specific things that are good in Estonia and which contribute very much to the success of entrepreneurship, especially during this government.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-30_U123	Thank you. That's a good question. I will base my answer on perhaps great goals. Many of these so-called good things are actually still being implemented. This is about priorities. If we want to revive the economy, we need to think about what are the measures that could boost the economy. In my vision and, as I understand it, in the vision of the current government coalition, it is essential to pay attention to labour costs. It's number one. If you ask what that means in its nature, as I said before, it includes a reduction in social tax, an increase in the tax-free minimum and a refund of income tax to low-wage earners. Measures that leave more money either to the employer or to the employee. These are tax measures. When we talk about possible support measures, our priority is, once again, economic recovery. These are measures that we see in KredEx, EAS and various other structures that either help to bring investments into Estonia or, on the contrary, direct Estonian entrepreneurs outside with export refunds. This is another example, for which specific financial resources can certainly be seen in the state budget as well. Three. I think that these activities, the money that is directed towards science and education, will eventually come back to the economy. Someone has said that the best economic policy is education policy. As you know, one of the priorities of the current government is to channel money into these sectors. Fourthly, I would like to mention the business environment. The internal agreement of this government has been that we want to move into a society where taxes are easy to pay and it is difficult not to pay taxes. And if you notice, over these years, work has been done to eliminate unfair competition for non-payment of taxes, which has inevitably been the case over time and which will certainly continue in some respects. Even the last reverse charge of metals is again an example of how companies in a particular sector that work honestly pay taxes are very difficult to compete because there is inevitably tax fraud in the sector. After all, the country's clear interest has been to create a fair competitive environment, which in turn will revive the economy again. These are measures that will all, to a greater or lesser extent, boost the economy. More talk is generally about tax measures, but in fact this package is much wider.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-30_U124	Arno Bridge, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-30_U125	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. Of course, we did not receive an answer from you to Tarmo Tamm's question about transitional payments for farmers. I will then ask you: can you, as Minister of Finance, give us two, three or four specific reasons, and you yourself say that you love facts and factual answers, why, unlike other European countries, has our government decided stubbornly not to pay transitional payments to farmers? Isn't that considered necessary or what it's about? I'm waiting for an answer. We should put an end to the situation here in the Riigikogu that we are asking time and again about these transitional allowances, but there is no answer. That's why we're asking again that we can't get an exact answer. Why is there no need to pay our farmers?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-30_U126	Thank you. I've actually said it more than once. If you look at the receipts on your personal bank account, I don't know what you've got there, but the salary comes in there and maybe somebody else will pay you some money, then you'll be watching the full picture of what's personally coming in there for you. I think it is worth looking at the whole picture in agriculture, too, and going individually to the general picture. What do I mean by that? When comparing the previous European financial period with the period from 2006 to 2013 with the period from 2014 to 20.2020, we see that, overall, there will be an increase of EUR 226 million for the agricultural sector. Yes, I agree with you that the top-up, or transition support, has been reduced in part. But let us look at the whole picture, with more money coming into the sector in the whole picture. In addition, I would like to say that if you look at the recent government decisions, both in the previous financial year and now, in the spring, when the country's budgetary strategy is already agreed in the first phase, you will note that the government is directing taxpayers' money specifically to those sectors that need it most. Today, this spring, an additional 4.6 million has already been agreed to be allocated to the agricultural sector. A number of measures were agreed last year: the same amount of 4.6 million, 3 million at the end of the year, 2.2 million for the purchase of canned products, etc. All this money is, in fact, taxpayers' money aimed at helping the sector in difficult times. So look at the whole picture.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-30_U127	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-30_U128	Thank you. Good Minister, look at the agricultural sector as a whole. It is not just a question of Estonia, but of exploiting the competitive opportunities offered by the European Union's single market, which the government is currently ignoring. But I have two other questions. You call it a structural reform that social tax will be reduced by 1% over two years. The Health Insurance Fund is down, and the negative will increase even further under the influence of this decision. You have not mentioned the specific funds, the budget lines from which the sickness fund minus is covered. Secondly, where can two or three governments read a very specific comprehensive plan of measures that stimulate and strengthen the business environment? You bring out a lot of talking points, but what are these things that you can say specifically that the government will do them by that date? At present, we do not see measures to improve the business environment as a whole.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-30_U129	Thank you. Sometimes I feel like I'm talking to deaf ears. I will try to speak as concretely as possible, on the basis of facts, as clearly and precisely as possible. I'm gonna tell you this, but you're gonna say no, the government hasn't said anything. I'd tell you it's the other way around. If you say there is a percentage point here and there, do you know how much a 1% reduction in social tax will save companies money according to a four-year country's budget strategy? Perhaps by asking the other way around, how much money does it take out of the state budget? Do you know what that amount is? It is over EUR 300 million. A reduction in social tax of 1% over four years means that more than 300 million euros will be lost in the state budget. That's the money. If you say it's not money, I just don't share your opinion. It's as simple as that. I think you're being unfair when you say it doesn't play a role. If you ask whether it would be reasonable to reduce the social tax by 2% or 3%, then yes, of course, but there must also be a cover for this money. It is simply impossible to lower, in which case it must be done at the expense of something. At present, financial cover has been found for this reduction. As regards the financing of health care in particular, it is the Riigikogu who ultimately approves the budget of the Health Insurance Fund together with the state budget. If you note, it has been decided that there must be a balance between revenue and expenditure.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-30_U130	Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-30_U131	Thank you, Mr. Vice Speaker. Minister, thank you very much. I will also return to these same agricultural payments. It's in the ear that there's as much money as there is. We have a lot of money in Estonia. We did not have any trouble transferring 2.8 million for the visa agreement in Turkey or 2.5 million for the reconstruction of the refugee structure. In addition, we have more than 7 million refugees in our budget. 100 million will be spent on celebrating the Presidency of the European Union and the 'Estonian Republic 100'. 240 million will be spent building new school buildings while schools are being shut down. There is no shortage of money in Estonia. It is a question of priorities where money is spent. The question to which, I think, all our colleagues have tried to get an answer is why we do not have a priority for agriculture then.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-30_U132	Thank you. I was just wondering when you'd get to the refugees, thinking that sooner or later you should get to it. I saw that, interestingly, your name is not among the questioners, does it really happen that when we ask questions, we do not reach the refugees? You finally made it, whether you wanted it or not. However, if we go to the question itself, we leave the introduction aside, then I think no, you are wrong. I think the Minister for Rural Affairs is following very closely what is happening in agriculture. If you have noticed, I have previously listed the measures that our taxpayer's money has put into this sector over the last year. This shows, after all, that these are not just words but real actions, this is real money that has moved to both pig farmers and many other sectors.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-30_U133	Jaak Madison.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-30_U134	Thank you, Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu. Good minister! I would like to remind you that as long as the money is spent on refugees, the issue remains. So get used to it, it's everyday! But I'll come back to the refugees. This is such a fun subject where taxpayers' money can be buried, so I think it is also a perfectly legitimate issue from a public perspective. When we separated 2.8 million from the stability reserve within the framework of the Turkey agreement, then okay, the agreement is the agreement. However, the problem now is that the visa waiver agreement may not be realised, after all, Turkey today threatened that the whole agreement would go off and be abandoned. I would now like to know if this EUR 2.8 million has already been transferred, and if it has been transferred, but the agreement is going to drag water, if we can get that money back. Or, if we have not transferred this money, will we be relieved of the obligation to transfer this EUR 2.8 million if the agreement does not materialise?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-30_U135	Thank you. Whether physically transferred or not, we can specify that. There is no secret here, transfers are made by the Treasury, not by the Secretary of Finance with his signature. I think the transfer is complete, but let's clarify it and let you know, even separately, after that. As you know, Estonia's share of this large three-billion-dollar project really was in the order of 2.8 million. It is based on agreements which both parties have concluded with each other, at the Council, or European leaders' level. According to my information, all these agreements have been honoured right now. I have no indication on this subject that these agreements will not be honoured. Well, that's always an emotional question, but I'm asking you to be more careful in the future with words like 'waste of money'. It can give you the wrong idea. I am not sure that all the financial investments and the financial expenditure that the state makes are a waste of money, including on issues relating to refugees. But, of course, you'll have a chance to serve it this way.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-30_U136	Minister, thank you. No further questions. I'm opening negotiations. Riigikogu speech chair Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-30_U137	Honourable President! Respectable members of the Riigikogu! Honorable Minister! As heirs, we really hoped that today we would hear some new, fresh ideas or ideas for reviving the Estonian economy. It didn't go so well today, though.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-30_U138	Thank you. I now ask the Riigikogu speech chair Tarmo Tamme!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-30_U139	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, thank you very much. I would like to thank the Free Party for the opportunity to debate this matter. The biggest problem for the government is that they're stuck in their dogma. When it comes to agriculture, what we argue about every day is equal competition. Such a simple example: the Latvian state has supported its farmers with more than 100 million, which the Estonian state could have done, and this now gives them the opportunity to buy the Estonian herd. It's that simple, it's a question of equal competition! When we are talking about excise policy, it took the Lithuanian State four months to realise that they have been failing with excise policy. The Estonian state has not yet understood. And I can't imagine what will happen if, according to the law adopted, we have another 10% excise duty next year and 15% increase. Already 50% of heavy goods vehicles are refueling in Latvia, Lithuania and Poland. I hope that somebody still calculates the money that the Estonian state is missing. Looking at the arrival of the last few months, the light should start flashing. Now, in my opinion, one of the important things that this is about the Estonian state's unwillingness to borrow for investments. Let me give you a concrete example. When the Minister was once the esteemed Juhan Parts and Ivari Padar, they caged there somewhere in the swamp on the Tartu highway, and the story was that the construction of the Tallinn road costs about 2.5 to 3 billion kroons. If the Estonian state had taken a loan at that time and built this road, it would now have seemed that it had been obtained without it. I don't think we could build a road with the same money now. If a loan and a road had been built in its time, what would it have meant for the Estonian economy! Even today, if the infrastructure were to be built on a loan, it would earn back the money. The economy of South-East Estonia and South-Estonia as a whole is in many respects stuck to the fact that the transport connection is so poor. I think it's best for the government to think about it here. There is no point in bragging that we are the country with the lowest credit burden in the European Union. What does that really give our economy? I don't think it's gonna do anything. It is worth investing in the economy with a loan. This does not mean that we should borrow for running expenses, pensions, health insurance, etc., but the economy is boosting the entire state budget. I think the government should give up its dogmas and, even if so, look at the loan or think about issuing bonds. In short, something could, however, stimulate our economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-30_U140	Thank you. I don't see any more calls. I'm closing the negotiations. An inquiry has been answered.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-30_U141	Let's move on to the next question. It is presented by Riigikogu members Jaak Madison, Martin Helme, Henn Põlluaas, Mart Helme, Uno Kaskpeit and Arno Sild on the 12th day of April. The question is about the effectiveness of Greece's financial situation and the third package of aid, bearing the number 206. Finance Minister Sven Sester will answer the question. I ask the representative of the heirs of the Riigikogu to introduce the questioning of the speech chair Jaak Madison!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-30_U142	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good minister! Ladies and gentlemen, Almost two months ago, an inquiry has been made, which is certainly topical today too, because the financial situation in Greece has not shown signs of improvement, but rather an escalation of the crisis. But let us recall more precisely the content of the question. On 18 August 2015, the Riigikogu approved a Memorandum of Understanding between the European Commission and Greece, which agreed to a third package of assistance of up to EUR 86 billion. The main objectives of the aid programme until August 2018 are to restore fiscal sustainability, ensure financial stability, foster growth, competitiveness and investment and modernise public administration. Given the fact that Estonia's participation in the European Stability Mechanism is 1.3 billion euros, of which we have paid up 148.8 million euros, it is appropriate to have a better overview of the success story of Greece and the situation of Estonian taxpayers' money in this investment. We have therefore put four questions to the Minister. Firstly, how has Greece fulfilled its commitments under the third aid package? Secondly, how much has the debt burden of the Greek State been reduced? Thirdly, how can we comment on the rumors that part of Greece's debt needs to be extinguished? Here I add a remark that, as the IMF has quite strongly emphasised this need, one can also comment on the IMF's demands and recommendations and the real capacity to meet them. The last question: how much, and during what period, are the first repayments of loans to Greece coming?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-30_U143	Thank you. I now ask the Minister of Finance of the Riigikogu's speech, Sven Sester, to answer the question, which bears number 206!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-30_U144	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and I will answer the questions you have asked concerning the financial situation in Greece and the effectiveness of the third aid package. Question 1: 'How has Greece fulfilled its commitments under the third aid package? ' Greece has so far fulfilled the commitments set out in the third aid package. The primary budgetary position target after the 2015 programme was achieved. The result was a surplus of 0.7% of GDP. The programme required at least a deficit level of 0.25%. In order to achieve this, the VAT and pension system, i.e. the health insurance component of pensioners, was reformed and the possibilities for early retirement were limited and budget management was strengthened. During the first period of the programme, three grant loan payments were made to Greece and two operations related to the recapitalisation of banks. All these payments have been made only after a number of preliminary actions, with a total of more than 60 names. According to an evaluation carried out by the institutions, the commitments contained in the Greek aid package have generally been met and, therefore, a recommendation has been made to terminate the first review of the programme. Amendments to the Memorandum of Understanding resulting from the first review of the aid package shall be submitted to the Riigikogu for publication of an opinion in accordance with the applicable procedures. The second question: 'How much has the debt burden of the Greek state been reduced? " Greece's debt ratio is expected to decrease from 2017. However, there is currently a lower level than expected for the approval of the 2015 programme. Greece's debt ratio was 176,9% of GDP in 2015. In August 2015, the debt ratio in 2015 was expected to be 196.3%. I would point out that it was 176,9%. In August 2015, when looking at 2016, Greece's debt ratio was expected to be 200.9% of GDP in 2016. The current forecast says it's going to be 182.9%. And when we look at 2017, the August 2015 forecast said that Greece's debt ratio would be 198.6% of GDP in 2017. The forecast is now well below, and instead of 198.6%, we see 181.8%. The third question: 'How do you comment on the rumors that part of Greece's debt should be extinguished? " Most countries, including Estonia, have said that the principal part of the debt is not an option. This is also explicitly stated by the statement of the July 2015 Euro Summit on Greece. What we are talking about is the burden of servicing Greece's debt. On 24 May, the Eurogroup agreed to consider debt relief measures including an extension of the loan repayment period or interest leave or a reduction in interest rates. The debt relief measures can only work conditionally, i.e. Greece must be prepared to meet all its commitments. Question 4: How much and in what period are the first repayments of loans granted to Greece coming up? 'The repayment of the Greek loan and the interest payments to the EFSF will start in 2023. Up to 2031 payments will amount to EUR 3 billion per year. The repayment of loans under the third ESM assistance programme will start in 2034 and annual payments will increase to around EUR 1 billion over the repayment period. Greece started making interest payments from the moment it received the loan. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-30_U145	Minister, thank you. You have questions too. Raivo Põldaru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-30_U146	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. You spoke about the commitment that has been accepted, which Greece should still fulfil. Perhaps you can tell us where there is still room for improvement on what other accepted commitments still need to be fulfilled?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-30_U147	Thank you. At present, Greece is in a situation where its primary surplus, or surplus before servicing loans, is about 0.5%, i.e. it is balanced with its income-costs if it did not have to serve the debt in the Estonian language. The aim is to reach the 3.5% primary surplus by 2018 at half the primary surplus. Measures are also foreseen to ensure that Greece reaches this level. Perhaps the larger ones are linked to the pension system, which is expected to generate additional income in the order of 1% of GDP, and the tax reform, which gives the second around 1%. Smaller measures are also coming. However, many things have been done. VAT differences have started to be seriously lost, etc. Let us say that the major things that will give additional victory in the future have been dealt with and, as you know, the Greek Parliament is taking or has already adopted a number of important new measures in the context of the next review of the programme.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-30_U148	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-30_U149	Thank you, manager. Minister of Finance! Whether this percentage is 180 or 185, 186, in itself are such high percentages and so large amounts that I do not know whether there is a formula or a table that would actually indicate whether this money can actually be repaid. The IMF is probably of the opinion that it is not real that Greece is able to repay these loans and that some of the Greek loans must be written off, written off or frozen until 2040. But I ask what happens to the stalemate between the IMF and the finance ministers of the euro area. How's this gonna work out? It seems to me that the IMF won't give in this time, and if it doesn't give in, then this program can't go on. How do you comment on who will be on top of this, either the IMF or the finance ministers of the euro area?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-30_U150	Thank you. Well, now again, the facts and estimates got a little mixed up. What I mean by that is that the IMF isn't in there financially right now. The total cost of the programme is 86 billion and the ESM has the knowledge that it will have to put out all of this 86 billion in this period until 2018. What the finance ministers of the euro area have said is that they would be happy to see the IMF come in. Maybe the other way around, on your question of whether the program will collapse, I'll say no, the program will not collapse, because right now the program is working so that the IMF is not in it financially. The IMF has always been at the table when negotiations with Greece have taken place. The IMF has given its knowledge-how to the European Commission and the European Central Bank, as well as Greece, at the negotiating table. And it's been very grateful. From the IMF's point of view, the problem is not in the coming years, but in some 15 years, somewhere in 2040. According to the IMF, the current measures at that time are unlikely to be sufficient to enable Greece to serve the loan. Of course, it's always important how big your debt is, but even more important is the question of whether you're capable of serving that debt. Sometimes there may be a situation where a very small debt is very difficult to serve. If as a normal person, for example, you take a very high percentage loan for a short period of time and you need to pay it back quickly, then you may face a very big problem. At the same time, if you take a very long-term loan at very low interest rates, it is possible to serve it, even though the loan is large. The question is always what are the other instruments at the time of servicing the loan, which give the possibility to serve the loan, perhaps even less, than there are other countries whose shoulders do not have such a large loan. We're in the middle of a negotiation right now. The IMF has said that additional measures should be taken if we do not achieve such a surplus or, let us say, the level that is needed. This has also been discussed at the meeting of finance ministers and there are practically agreements on how to automatically implement additional measures if necessary.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-30_U151	Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-30_U152	Thank you, Mr. Vice Speaker. Minister, thank you very much. When we discussed the aid package for Greece here in August, you said that Greece would receive money against reforms. He's got some of the money, but now he's been dragging forward for months. This is not because the IMF and other creditors are arguing, but because Greece has not made the important reforms that were conditional on them. This, in turn, is due to the fact that Greece is faced with a substantial choice of whether the standard of living for people will fall steadily and continuously in the coming decades, because it will have to serve such a huge loan that it will not be able to invest anything nationally or socially, or if the creditors will still provide relief, prolong debt repayment somewhere behind the horizon, which is why the problem remains for children. The Estonian Government has confirmed that it is by no means willing to write off debts, but that the repayment of the debt is to be pushed somewhere behind the mountains, there is no such definite tone. Maybe you'll tell us now a certain word about pushing it behind the mountains.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-30_U153	I do not agree with you, mainly because Greece has not fulfilled its promises, as you said. This, by the way, has not been contested by the IMF, which you mentioned earlier. Both the ESM and the IMF have approved the proposal to complete the first survey. Both state that the commitments made by Greece to obtain financial liquidity under the programme have been fulfilled. We've been talking about this right here at the Riigikogu Hall, the things they were supposed to do last year were about 60. They have fulfilled these obligations, as the IMF has stated, from really reforming the gas market to privatisation and from state statistics, the independence of the tax administration to even improving the sections of tax evasion and tax fraud in criminal law. All the responsibilities they had to assume have been fulfilled. It hasn't come easy on them. As we have seen on the news, 'battles' have been fought both in the Greek Parliamentary building and outside Parliament, on the streets. Of course, these measures have meant changing certain living standards for people, which is inevitable. It is no longer possible to continue with the standard they had before. But they have fulfilled their obligations. What we are talking about right now is not looking back, we assume that this side is done. Now we will see if the next measures that are intended to be put into effect will produce the effect that has been expected. It's been discussed with the IMF. However, earlier promises have been fulfilled.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-30_U154	Minister, thank you. No further questions. I'm sorry, there's still one more question. Don't leave the Riigikogu's chair yet! Jaak Madison, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-30_U155	Thank you. At the end of this place, we were talking about loans, and I got a tail. How far could the repayment of loans be delayed? As I recall, in August last year, this issue went through ELAK. At that point, the finance ministers were prepared for a week for Grex, Greece's departure, nothing happened, everything is stable, and life goes on beautifully. But then Grexit didn't come, and the first repayment of the loan had to start in 2023, if I remember correctly, or 2022. If we are talking about postponing the repayment of loans now, how much do we postpone it? Does this have to be a consensual decision or is this decision to be taken, for example, by qualified majority in the Council of Finance Ministers? What is it supposed to look like, and how far is it going to be pushed forward?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-30_U156	Thank you. There is no specific agreement, and there is currently no indication to which reference could be made. Various scenarios have been proposed, the IMF has proposed longer-term schemes and the ESM has also proposed several schemes. But there is no agreement now, and any agreement, if it were to be concluded, would, of course, have to be discussed here too, in a parliamentary state it would have to be decided by the Riigikogu. I, as Minister of Finance of the Republic of Estonia, would not be in a position to decide whether to change the essential conditions for which the length of the loan agreement is certain. This would, of course, be discussed before the Riigikogu, there is no second chance, and I also think it is very right that there is no other option.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-30_U157	Honourable Members of the Riigikogu, do you have any more questions or do I allow the Minister of Finance to leave the Riigikogu's chair of speech? Okay, no more questions. Are there any requests to speak and I will open a round of negotiations? I won't. An inquiry has been answered.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-30_U158	Let's move on to the next, seventh question. It was presented by Riigikogu members Kadri Simson, Märt Sults, Mikhail Stalnukhin, Valeri Korb, Vladimir Velman, Oudekki Loone, Andrei Novikov, Dmitri Dmitriev, Enn Esemaa, Tarmo Tamm, Martin Repinski, Erki Savisaar, Jaanus Karilaid, Anneli Ott, Aadu Must, Viktor Vassilyev, Siret Kotka, Mikhail Korb, Peeter Ernits and Toomas Vitsut on the 20th day of April 2016. The question submitted is about the prospects for growth and bears the number 212. The answer is Minister of Finance Sven Sester. I ask Tarmo Tamme, representative of the speakers of the Riigikogu Chair, to introduce the inquiry to the Estonian public!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-30_U159	Manager! Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, thank you very much. This inquiry is a bit of a repetition of the inquiry made by the Free Party, but perhaps it is therefore easier for the Minister to respond. The published Ministry of Finance's spring economic forecast did not bring any positive news. Compared to last year's forecast, both 2016 and 2017 growth forecasts have fallen. This year's growth forecast was adjusted to 0.6 and next year's growth forecast to 0.4 percentage points below. In doing so, it does not improve the statement that last year's economic forecast was lower for reasons beyond our control and that growth in the coming years will depend primarily on the external environment. With only external economic growth, it is really difficult to reach the top five countries or become a new Nordic country with the same level of prosperity, but more flexible than the present Nordic countries. In the shadow of the spring economic forecast, the Ministry of Finance also published a long-term economic forecast until 2060. The forecast estimates the largest annual growth rate for Estonia in the period under review at 3.3%. Estonia's gross domestic product per capita is projected to reach the level of Germany and Finland in 2033, Denmark and Sweden in 2039 and we will reach the level of Luxembourg by the end of the period considered. All of this, however, only if the economic growth of these countries is non-existent over the period considered. Minister, we also have four questions for you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-30_U160	Thank you. Minister, I would now ask you to sit here in the Riigikogu's speech to answer an inquiry that bears the number 212 and speaks once again as does the questioning of the Free Party about the prospects and prospects of economic growth.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-30_U161	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear Members, I will be happy to answer questions and later debate with you on issues relating to economic growth. I have already emphasised this and I would also stress here that, if the economy does not grow, we will not be able to pay child support in the amount that we would like, raise wages, or afford any other investment that we would like to make. Next, however, I will answer the questions you have asked concerning the prospects for growth. And I'll apologize in advance if some reruns come in. The first question: 'If the nominal deficit is forecast to be in 2016. In line with the economic cycle, the structural deficit is likely to need a correction in 2018. In order to reduce the budget deficit, both revenue increases and expenditure reductions are necessary. What is the government's strategy for improving the structural balance in 2018? ' I repeat my thoughts, which I have already said in response to an earlier question. In order to cover the forecast deficit, the measures already planned in the national budget strategy last spring, such as road user charges, the design of new packaging excise duties, the taxation of e-cigarettes and the strengthening of the control measures in the fuel sector, are planned first. Revenue from these measures has been planned for the state budget since 2018 and the corresponding drafts will be submitted to the procedure during the following year. In addition, it is planned to introduce, as I really mentioned earlier, reverse charge on metals, look at the management costs of ministries and continue to pay dividends to state-owned enterprises. There is no plan to introduce new taxes compared to last year's coalition agreement. During the four-year country budgetary strategy procedure, which ended a few weeks, to be precise, a month ago, we set ourselves the objective of a structural surplus in 2017 and of a structural balance between 2018 and 2020. And that's what we're doing. The strategy has been adopted to date and we reviewed all our cost-benefit structures during the adoption of the strategy. And now we are really in a situation where the state budget is in structural surplus in 2017 and structural balance in the following years. The second question: 'How should Estonia reach the five richest countries if Estonia's economic growth is about the European average or a few percentage points? What measures are planned to be taken to accelerate this? ' As I have already responded to previous respondents, economic recovery is one of the priorities of the government in the country's budget strategy. I repeat here that the top priority is to reduce taxes on labour. We will reduce social tax by half a percentage point in 2017 and by half a percentage point in 2018 as well. We will also increase tax-free income to 205 euros per month by 2019, i.e. the tax-free income rate will rise by 10 to 15 euros each year, reaching 205 euros in 2019. In addition, income tax refunds, which have not been used by the State as a measure, will be implemented as a new initiative for low-wage earners. All of this will leave nearly EUR 100 million for people and businesses to consume, save and invest next year. As I mentioned earlier, I would like to reiterate here that you have a comprehensive picture: in addition to tax measures, there are a number of other measures aimed at economic recovery. One example is the increase of the so-called VAT-free limit agreed at government level between months and half ago for small businesses from EUR 16000 to EUR 40000. The financial resources allocated to R &amp; D activities are planned to reach EUR 600 million over the period 2014 to 2020. But today there is also a completely new measure on the table, which is also seen in the country's budget strategy as a pilot project for 3 million major investors in investment support next year. So it's really starting next year. Of course, we also invest in roads, industrial areas, competence centres with regional impact. The third question: 'What assumptions have been made for a long-term economic forecast until 2060? What is the probability of such a scenario happening if today's government continues its economic policy? ' I will answer. The Ministry of Finance uses the assumptions established on a uniform basis for the whole of the European Union agreed by the Economic Policy Committee of the European Union to assess the long-term sustainability of fiscal policy in the preparation of the long-term forecast. The long-term forecast uses three inputs: population projections according to Eurostat, the assessment of labour force participation by age group and gender according to current trends and the convergence of labour productivity growth. Labour productivity growth is slowing in Estonia, moving towards European average levels. In essence, this means that our economic growth is determined over the long term by productivity growth and demographic factors. Estonia's GDP per capita is projected to reach slightly above 90% of the average GDP of the European Union, taking into account its purchasing power. Our real convergence will stop because the average growth in labour productivity in us and Europe will converge and we are in a relatively poor demographic situation during the period considered: the number of people of working age is falling faster than the average in the European Union. These are relatively simplified calculations and assumptions that take into account current general trends and convergence theory. It is therefore possible for the government to influence these forecasts through economic, educational and population policies. The government's planned steps to boost growth will support forecasts and aim to achieve faster growth. The long-term forecast is technical in nature and does not take into account the government's efforts to increase growth potential. The fourth question: 'The chief economist of the SEB Group, Robert Bergqvis, found in a religious discussion with Postimees that Estonia has a low debt burden, which shows that the government may be too cautious, or borrowing should be taken to increase the competitiveness of the economy. How could Estonia's economic growth be affected by issuing government bonds or borrowing to invest? ' I will answer. Estonia has assumed a conservative commitment by the State Budget Act to keep the structural fiscal position of the general government in balance or in surplus. In view of the uncertain economic environment, the trend in the ageing of our population and the expected decline in the European Union's structural funds after the end of this budget period, from 2020 onwards, current prudent fiscal policies can be considered to be very clearly justified. At the same time, the volume of investments in Estonia in recent years has been at the top of the European Union. The government's contribution to investment in fixed assets in Estonia has averaged 5.4% of GDP over the last five years, which is one of the highest among the 28 European countries. As regards the issue of government bonds or the borrowing of loans, this is not an end in itself. I've said that before. This does not automatically ensure economic growth, but is a possible instrument for achieving real objectives. For example, in the coming years, the government has decided to invest EUR 170 million in the construction of the Kose-Mäo road in four lines. The construction of Rail Baltic is also expected as a major investment. Both contribute significantly to our economic growth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-30_U162	Thank you. You have questions too. Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-30_U163	Honourable President! Honorable Minister! You have said for many times today that the government's priority is to reduce taxes on labour. One of the basic labour taxes, although perhaps not formally, is also unemployment insurance. Why is the current government consistently refusing to lower the level of unemployment insurance contributions, although I recall that both the unemployment fund and the employers have made proposals in this regard?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-30_U164	Thank you. You see, those good listeners who follow us online will hear the introduction to your question and think that the keywords are 'government', 'consistently' and 'no'. It's not like that, and the real questioner knows it's not like that. If we look back in history and this was not at all a long time ago, we will see that the unemployment insurance rate was 4.2%. At one point it was lowered to 3%, and at the other point we saw that it was lowered from 3% to 2.4%. So, actually, there's been a fall. But the question was still that it was refused, it was not to be humiliated. It's not like that, it's out of the question. I think that, at one point, there is certainly a need to revise the levels of unemployment insurance. Well, there is always the question of whether the reserves gathered there are enough to withstand the crisis that may ever come. That is one particular question that comes with it. I fully agree with you that a reduction in the level of unemployment insurance contributions would certainly also be a measure for lowering labour taxes. If we look at what the government has done over time, it has lowered income tax, lowered social tax, increased the income tax-free minimum, now also created income tax refunds for low-wage earners. There has never been such a measure before. Essentially, people with a salary of EUR 500 per month will get their entire income tax back, everything they have paid back to the state. There's never been a thing like this before! We have directed ourselves to the sector that needs us most. To date, we have already taken a number of measures to reduce labour taxes. I think that in the future we will also look at this question you have put forward on the possible reduction of unemployment insurance contributions. We are now seeing that further measures to reduce labour taxes have worked and will continue to work in the near future.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-30_U165	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-30_U166	Thank you, manager. Good minister! It was good to hear about the measures you are all taking, people and entrepreneurs will win. But you do not want to talk in any way about where people and businesses are losing, and this is an excise policy. I ask you this: are excise increases an economic stimulus or a moderation for the government?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-30_U167	Thank you. We've taken a big picture. What does the big picture mean? It is precisely during this government period that we are making efforts to ensure that labour taxes fall, and because of tax neutrality, if any tax increase, we are paying attention to vices, consumption and pollution. These are the three things that we will then pay attention to 'tax-neutrally'.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-30_U168	Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-30_U169	Thank you. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. Speaking of economic growth at all, I think there are two things that we should be talking about in more detail, namely export and import, say, the mid-term balance and, on the other hand, inflation. When the balance sheet is about how our companies live, inflation is about how our people live. That is why I have a question for you. In recent years, the word 'inflation' has disappeared from our lives. Is it useful to show how people live when we talk about economic growth? Or where's the word?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-30_U170	Thank you. The task of the opposition is always to ask critically, and I think that is the right thing to do. If we had high inflation, the opposition would ask why the government has taken such steps that inflation is so high. And if there was deflation, the opposition would ask how, so that we now have deflation in the house, how it was achieved. Yeah, your question was right. If we look at last year, the average increase in people's wages was 6%, to which deflation gave another half a percent increase, or services-goods cost half a percent. Thus, real wage growth was 6.5%. In Europe and the world as a whole, the term "normal' is considered to be "inflationary' of 2% if any such a word can be used here. This is the level of inflation that should stimulate the economy. Europe has worked hard to achieve this 2% inflation rate. Perhaps the most prominent example is the central bank programmes, which buy different bonds and issue additional money to the markets. This is one example. There's no wonder behind our deflation. This comes mainly from the depreciation of our commodity prices, in particular oil, which has taken place over time and which is automatically reflected in other products, one of whose input components is oil or energy sources. This year, we should reach a 'lightly inflationary situation'. I don't think we're seeing more than half-percent inflation. However, inflation is expected to reach the magnitude of 2.6 to 2.7% in Estonia next year. But, yes, true story, we've had deflation for years in a row.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-30_U171	Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-30_U172	Thank you, Mr. Vice Speaker. Good minister! You were talking about the big picture. Very good! This big picture means that we must, of course, look at our economy in conjunction with our neighbours and our main markets. What is of particular concern to us, and what has been said by both employers and experts, is that we have a shortage of labour. This has led to exceptionally high wage pressures, which in turn means that companies will lose profitability and investment opportunities, productivity and competitiveness. A government matter or a government task, if it wants to boost the economy, is to alleviate or balance this problem. We understand that the government cannot start making children, but the problem of labour shortages can be solved by means of taxes. Unfortunately, as colleagues have pointed out, it is those taxes that increase the competitiveness, export capacity and productivity capacity of companies. And this talk of vices gives us little comfort. Do you have a different plan?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-30_U173	We have a certain plan, and this plan will take us forward. This plan is aimed at all people in Estonia, including the 27-year-old single women, and this plan will ultimately lead us to the growth of the Estonian economy. And, as you can see, Estonia's average economic growth compared to Europe's average economic growth should be higher both this year and next year in the context of the 19 countries of the euro area and the 28 countries of the European Union.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-30_U174	We move on here, in one of the Nordic Parliaments, in the Riigikogu. Next, please, Küllik Hatter!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-30_U175	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good minister! I didn't understand the answer you gave Tarmo Tammele. You have pointed out that the government is only planning to rise on two tax topics: vices and consumption taxes. Is fuel a vice? In my opinion, however, we should look outside Estonia, more to the European Union's markets, in terms of competitiveness. And if, through fuel, which is part of production and transport costs, we place a small and medium-sized enterprise at government level and, in Estonia's understanding, a large enterprise, which is a small enterprise within the meaning of the European Union, in an unequal position from the point of view of the conditions for which they produce at all (i.e. how they reach the market), how can the government still maintain and revive our business environment?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-30_U176	No, the fuel's definitely not evil. There are three things: vice, pollution and consumption. Some experts certainly want to say that the fuel clearly has an environmental indicator. My former predecessor, Minister of Finance Jürgen Ligi, has, I think, called it an environmental reward in the light of the logic of fossil fuels, and several politicians have classified it under consumption taxes. No, I'm sure fuel has nothing to do with vices. Wicked is rather alcohol, and tobacco is still our vices. As far as the question itself is concerned, of course, we must look at the whole picture, see that when the environment changes, vices spread or consumption increases, how can we so-called neutrality be created by lowering labour taxes? As I have already mentioned to you, in the next four years, both employers and employees will receive a very large monetary victory from reducing labour taxes. Of course, when we are talking, for example, about the logistics sector, I think that diesel is such an important component in the logistics sector that the increase in excise duty there is greater than their gain from reducing labour taxes. If we look at another sector, we will rather see that a reduction in labour taxes will give a very big victory compared to, for example, fuel price increases.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-30_U177	Arno Bridge, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-30_U178	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, can you tell me how much the current decline in agriculture has a negative impact on economic growth? We know that dairy cattle are reduced by 10,000 dairy cows every year, pig rearing is reduced, etc. How much is this a brake on overall economic growth?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-30_U179	Thank you. I think that any shrinking sector will in any case give the economy a negative backlash. This is the case both in the agricultural sector and in all other sectors. It is certainly right that efforts must be made to ensure that dairy production, as well as pig farming, can remain competitive. As you know, the government has made financial contributions here. It may always be a question of whether these financial allocations are sufficient or not. This is a separate issue, and it is always about pensions and teachers' salaries, for example. Even with the construction of Tallinn's Tartu highway, you will build two kilometres and then it will be said that it would actually have been necessary to build four kilometres during this period. Similarly, in each sector, this is always a question of whether one or the other measure is sufficient. We certainly need to pay attention to that.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-30_U180	Minister, thank you. No further questions. There are no requests or speeches. So the question has been answered.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-30_U181	We will move on to the eighth inquiry by Riigikogu members Andres Ammas, Monika Haukanõm, Artur Talvik, Ain Lutsepp, Andres Herkel and Krista Aru on the third day of May. The requested information is about the country's budget strategy 2017 to 2020 and bears the honorable number 215. The answer is Minister of Finance Sven Sester. I have the honour to ask the representative of the speakers of the Riigikogu Chair, Andres Ammas, to introduce the inquiry to the Estonian public!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-30_U182	Honourable President! Respectable members of the Riigikogu! I'm honored to stand before you again on the remote to introduce another question. And I'm especially glad it hasn't been a month, and we already have the answer to questioning before us. It's an extraordinary thing to say about that. Indeed, our enquiry concerns the country's budgetary strategy. Let us say, from a positive point of view, that there is something in this strategy that the opposition also likes to raise defence spending, to build a border, to channel money into R &amp; D. But there's a lot of things that don't make us happy. And it seems to me that many of the problems in this strategy have been completely overlooked and bypassed. When the current coalition began to come together last spring and discussed the coalition agreement, it was reasonable to start by writing down the problems that must be resolved in Estonia's life, and the coalition agreement was born on their basis. However, in our opinion, the budgetary strategy has been drawn up 'politically', and the electoral promises of the various parties have been taken and tried to satisfy them as best as possible, and the coalition agreement to be fulfilled in about this style, so that, well, if the sots are making a lot of money, we give them 15 for the municipalities first and then 25 million, maybe we still need to manage with them, maybe give them some money. Or if 15 years have not been dealt with by the border, now this problem can be solved heroically, built up by the border, etc. But this document does not, in our opinion, give the Estonian economy a momentum. And I think it would be pretty unfounded at all to expect us to see something from there from 2020. We feel that when European money decreases and what happens then, the government does not think much, come or the flood. In some respects, this country's budgetary strategy is not very ambitious. For example, poverty was considered a problem in the coalition negotiations in Estonia, but the absolute poverty rate is only expected to be reduced by 5.9%. We all know that we have a problem, that we have too many adults without special and professional education, and that knowledge-based production is largely behind it. But also in 2019, this group is still seen as up to 26% of all adults. In our view, it is not exactly something to brag about. But what worries us most is that two vital areas, for reasons we do not understand, have remained part of the budget strategy for the orphan child. These are education and internal security. The cost of education as a ratio to GDP is decreasing. And as the audit of the National Audit Office revealed some time ago, by comparing the budget strategy with the Estonian internal security development plan, there will be 400 million euros missing in four years. We are very pleased when the Minister disproves our concerns and answers these questions as thoroughly as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-30_U183	Thank you. I now ask the Riigikogu to speak to the Minister of Finance of the Republic of Estonia, Sven Sester, to answer his questioning!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-30_U184	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Of course, I have the great honour to be before you and to answer all the questions concerning the country's budget strategy 2017 to 2020. I'll start with the first question right now. The first question is this: 'The real growth of the economy is planned for around 3% per year in the budget strategy 2017 to 2020. What assumption has Estonia's economic growth been seen to be faster than the average in Europe? ' Between 1996 and 2007, Estonia's GDP grew by an average of 7% per year and the average GDP of 28 European Union countries by 2.5% per year, i.e. the difference in growth rates was more than double. This major difference was explained by the rapid conversion in favourable economic conditions, which increased our purchasing power in terms of GDP per capita, from 38% of the European Union average in 1996 to 76% in 2014. According to the forecast of the current Ministry of Finance, Estonia would reach 82% of the European Union average by 2020, based on the average increase in 2016 to 2020, which would be 2.8% in Estonia and 1.9% in the European Union per year. Given Estonia's convergence potential, whose reference value should not be the European Union average, but rather the richer northern neighbours, the current projected difference in growth rates can be considered justified. As aggregate growth is also influenced by demographic factors, labour productivity growth can also be compared to the EU average. Between 2001 and 2007, productivity growth in Estonia per hour worked averaged 6% and in the European Union an average of 1.7%, i.e. the difference was more than three times the difference. The current forecast assumes an increase in labour productivity of 3.1% between 2016 and 20.20, which should also be actually achievable given Estonia's convergence potential. The European Commission estimates around 1% of the European Union's average potential for productivity growth. Question 2: 'The aim of the coalition is to raise teachers' salaries to 120% of the average wage in Estonia. At the same time, the budgetary strategy envisages an increase in teachers' salaries of only 2% per year. What internal resources are expected to achieve the necessary increase in teachers' pay? ' I will answer. In 2015, according to the Ministry of Education, the average wage for teachers in public schools was 1165 euros, which is 109.4% of the average wage in the country. Repeat: 109.4%. The average wage of municipal school teachers was 106.6% of the average wage in the country. Therefore, we are not far from the goal that the coalition has planned to achieve by 2019. In our budget strategy, we have already planned additional resources for teacher wages by spring, unlike many other areas. In addition, we have agreed in the government office that, in the case of private schools, we will take more account in the country's budget strategy of channelling funds into teachers' salaries. In the autumn, when a new economic forecast is completed, we will also get a more comprehensive picture of our financial capacity. For example, by 2016, the state finally allocated 6.4% of the resources to increase the teachers' payroll fund. As a result, the exact average wage growth in 2016 will become clear at the beginning of 2017, and then the government will be able to make new decisions when drafting a new country's fiscal strategy. Additional opportunities for wage increases can be created, in particular through the organisation of the school network. For this structural reform, the government has planned nearly EUR 205 million. The third question: 'On the basis of state control calculations, the budget strategy is missing EUR 400 million over four years by comparing it with the Internal Security Development Plan. How will the achievement of the objectives set out in the development plan be ensured in an ever-increasing security situation? ' I will answer. As Minister for Finance, I am of the opinion that all sectoral development plans must be drawn up on the basis of the financial opportunities agreed in the country's budget strategy. On the contrary, it is not possible to manage public finances because there are always more wishes than there are opportunities. The government has made its decisions on the country's budget strategy from 2017 to 2020 and all ministers need to be guided by planning and setting priorities for their area of government. The field of internal security has been satisfied with the total number of applications after the Ministry of Education and Research. Satisfied requests relate to the construction of the eastern border, the social guarantees for internal security staff, the issuing of identity documents and the operational security costs (from the renewal of the weaponry to the capacity building of the rapid response agents). Since 2015, special attention has been paid to financing non-military parts of the National Defence Development Plan, which also means mainly strengthening the area of internal security. In addition to the above, it has been decided to make real estate investments related to internal security for a total amount of EUR 20,5 million, including the construction of Vändra and Vastseliina rescue commandos and the design and construction phases of the Pärnu internal security joint building. The resources allocated to internal security in 2017 are likely to increase further, as ICT costs, external money, co-financing volume and maintenance costs for the buildings transferred to the RKAS will be specified in the autumn and are therefore now taken into account in the national budget. There has also been a fundamental decision on an increase of at least 2% in the Internal Security payroll fund. It is important to know that the internal security authorities have for years received the resources for wage growth through the prioritisation of the area. How these funds have been used will be shown in the autumn's Ministry of Finance's salary analysis. It is also important that, while the government has agreed on the objective of saving management costs, the internal security authorities did not have to implement a cut last year, nor did they have to implement a cut this year with a spring decision. Question 4: How will the sustainability of healthcare funding be ensured in a situation where, despite chronic under-funding of medicine, you will reduce the social tax to 32.5% in 2017, resulting in a reduction of €42.7 million in healthcare funding? ' As a result of the reduction in social tax, the income of the health insurance fund will not change, as the state will ensure that the health insurance fund receives the same amount of income as if the social tax had not been reduced. To this end, an automatic compensation mechanism has been introduced in Section 10 (4) of the Social Tax Act. According to this, the Tax and Customs Board transfers an additional amount from the state budget to state health insurance funds. This amount is expected to be EUR 41 million in 2017, EUR 88 million in 2018, EUR 93 million in 2019 and EUR 98 million in 2020. Before talking about extra money, we also need to discuss possible structural reforms that will make our health insurance system as a whole more effective and direct people to their health. In this light, personal health accounts have been discussed, as well as the purchase of services from private hospitals and doctors, if they are more effective than public hospitals. In order to improve competition, consideration should also be given to possible steps in the pharmaceutical market. As one concrete step towards improving human health, I proposed to the government that the costs incurred by the employer to promote the health of the worker up to EUR 400 per year should no longer be considered as a special advantage from 2018. The government supported this proposal and this bill will soon reach the Riigikogu. However, I see economic growth as a key issue when it comes to financing health care. As the Estonian economy grows fast enough, wages and health insurance budgets increase and the pay gap between medical staff and Finland decreases, which is one of the drivers of the increase in the cost of the health insurance fund. Question 5: 'In order to strengthen the revenue base of their governments, only EUR 15 million will be foreseen in 2019 and 25 million in 2020, which are far from compensating for the real needs to carry out national delegated tasks. In addition to the so-called administrative reform, how is the capacity and sustainability of local authorities intended to be achieved without sufficient income for them? ' I will answer. The income base of municipalities will increase mainly as a result of the growth of the Estonian economy and the growth of gross wages in the coming years faster than prices. Municipalities automatically receive 11.6% of the gross income declared by their residents, in addition to having several other sources of income. Thus, about 60% of local governments' income will increase tax revenues by 27% by 2020 compared to 2015. This is more than twice the rate of inflation, and so the real purchasing power of local governments increases. The debate on whether the municipal income base is sufficient to carry out the tasks is as old as the municipalities themselves and will certainly continue during the preparation of the administrative reform and later. The costs of public tasks delegated to the local level are fully covered by the state budget in accordance with the law, and there are no current disputes between the state and local authorities in this respect at the moment. The fact that we have a municipality that deals with things for which the law does not oblige it, such as maintaining national propaganda media, offering various free services, etc., shows that in at least one case the revenue base exceeds the required volume of mandatory tasks to a significant extent. My party has proposed the idea that the income tax to be paid to municipalities, i.e. the same 11.6%, could be differentiated by law according to the economic potential of the municipality, which is characterised by, for example, the average wage of the municipality or county. Municipalities should generally be able to cope with their tax revenues and such a model could free many municipalities from the trap of the Equalisation Fund and motivate them more to support entrepreneurship which creates new and better paid jobs. If the local economy grows and new jobs are created, the extra income will remain with the municipalities. The real capacity of municipalities, however, is most affected by administrative reform, which allows for the pooling of competences and the more efficient use of the local authorities' revenue base to provide public services. I would point out that the government has planned to pay out EUR 65 million in merger grants in addition to the funds intended to increase this revenue base, which will certainly not only cost the merger but will allow municipalities to invest in infrastructure and better services. In addition to the increase in the income base mentioned in the inquiry, the following four years will be accompanied by an interest support for municipalities: EUR 6 million in 2017, EUR 15 million in 2018 and beyond. In order to achieve energy savings, grants to renovate kindergartens and nursing homes will amount to EUR 26 million, EUR 2.2 million per year for waste management, etc. A number of external aid measures are also targeted exclusively or to a large extent at supporting the activities of local authorities: action in urban areas EUR 95 million, strengthening the competitiveness of regions EUR 156 million, organising the school network EUR 205 million, childcare and care services for children with disabilities EUR 39 million, saving energy in street lighting EUR 43 million, water management infrastructure EUR 144 million, ICT infrastructure in schools EUR 11 million, making childcare and nursing homes energy-saving, etc. For example, when creating state secondary schools, the state will also take part in the costs incurred by local governments. In short, together with the administrative reform, which will increase the administrative capacity of local authorities to carry out their tasks, a major leap will be made in the capacity of local authorities over the next four years to provide better services to the population, supported by an increase in the revenue base of 15 million in 2019 and 25 million in 2020. Question 6: 'How much is it planned to invest in local roads so that they will not be part of the orphan child next to the reconstruction plan of the Tartu road? ' I will answer. The principles of maintaining roads are laid down by law. According to the Local Government Organisation Act, the maintenance of roads and streets is the responsibility of the local government. This is an important and substantive task of organising local life. It is the duty of the state to maintain state roads. It is important to remember this so that the jacket and the button do not get confused. The legislator has provided that local authorities must keep local roads in order, so it must also finance them. The calculation formula for the equalisation fund for municipalities in the State Budget Act also takes into account the resources necessary for the maintenance of municipal roads. The municipality decides on its own budget priority and makes the best possible use of its own resources, including both income tax and equalisation fund allocations, ad hoc supplementary payments for road maintenance, own income, loans, etc., with a view to the interests of the local population. As roads are the main type of transport infrastructure, it is natural that their maintenance requires the attention of the road owner, who is the municipality or city for local roads, the state for state roads. Can I have a little more time?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-30_U185	I think that the MPs are so active that the Minister can say no to everything else he has in his heart. You can't really give more time to answer an inquiry. But the minister can be as thorough as he wants to answer questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-30_U186	Okay, let's get on with the questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-30_U187	Thank you, Minister of Finance Sven Sester! And first of all, you'll have a chance to talk everything out of Valeri Korb. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-30_U188	Thank you. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. After such a sharp and beautiful speech on the fifth item, I am even embarrassed to ask now. But the story is that despite the growth in GDP of 2% to 3%, the Minister of Education here spoke quite poorly about the budget a few months ago when we discussed the future of private schools. To be honest, we haven't finished these negotiations yet. But when we talk about next year, I want to ask you what's going on with the budget right now, is there a hole in it or not?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-30_U189	There's no hole in the budget, believe me. We have just approved a four-year country budgetary strategy and there is a balance between revenue and expenditure. It wasn't easy, because there's always a lot more wishes than there's a chance. But there's definitely no hole in it. The state's budget strategy is a public document; it can also be viewed on the website of the Ministry of Finance. No, the holes aren't in there. And if I come here as Minister of Finance in the fall to defend the state budget, then before that, I will also forward to you the state budget documents for next year, and you will see that there is no hole in it, too, there will certainly be a balance between costs and revenues. Rather, we have even set an ambitious target for next year to keep a structural surplus of 0.2%. I take this opportunity because the President of the meeting said that my response time is currently unlimited. So I will answer correctly the questions I had been asked. In particular, I have missed questions 7 and 8. So I am taking this opportunity to answer these questions, too, so that nothing is left in the air or incomprehensible. The seventh question was this: 'How will the connections between buses, trains, aircraft and ships necessary for Estonia's harmonious development be ensured in the volume specified in the transport development plan 2014 to 2020? ' I would say that here. First of all, as I have already mentioned earlier, the development plans must be based on the budget volumes agreed by the government and all ministers must make choices on the basis of priorities when implementing the development plans. 2017/2020. A total of €267.2 million of public tax money is planned to support public transport by 2010, amounting to €66.8 million per year. With the country's budget strategy, we also allocated EUR 9 million of this to Elron's lease payments for diesel rolling stock, for example. The European Union's new period will reconstruct or upgrade 105 kilometres of road section with a total cost of EUR 208 million, renovate or upgrade 110 kilometres of railway section with a total cost of EUR 87 million, connect and improve environmentally friendly and low-carbon transport systems, including inland waterways, maritime ports as well as different modes of transport. The total cost of the five sites is EUR 49 million and the total cost of the new road sections is EUR 45 million. Question 8: "How will the objective of providing every rural family with a reasonable price for communications be achieved if only EUR 23 million over a four-year period is foreseen to improve access to the Internet? " Here, too, is the answer to that last question. According to measurements by the Technical Surveillance Authority last November, at least 85% of Estonia's territory is covered by 30 megabit connections. And if the whole problem is solved by cable, one estimate is that the cable needs to be delivered to 80,000 households. This would cost around EUR 1.2 billion, or EUR 15000 per household. I doubt these households would spend money like that if it were up to them. Looking at these numbers, as part of a longer-term solution, I see the extension of the air-mobile data transmission area to each forest-based internet cable rather than being transported, but it is certainly a matter of negotiation. As a reminder, the base network EstWin, which is connected to cell towers, has also been created. Much of this makes it possible to provide fast 4G mobile data communication to a large part of Estonia's territory. If we look at the future, by 2020, we plan to build a core network covering 6600 kilometres of the country. To date, half of it has been completed at 3300 kilometres and between 2007 and 2014 the state has made a total of approximately 28 million euros towards the construction of the broadband base network. 2014/2020. €40.5 million of support for the development of new generation broadband networks will be provided for in a forward-looking way by 2020. Together with the self-financing of the beneficiaries, the total investment in the basic network will be EUR 81 million over two periods. In addition to the availability of the basic network, it is also necessary to support the expansion of the high-speed broadband access network in areas of market failure. To this end, the administrative burden of building a communication network needs to be reduced by simplifying the relevant legal framework, supporting community initiatives, and also looking for additional ways to connect the "last mile" areas of market failure. Support for the last mile will also be provided by a number of Leader LAG strategies that will support the establishment of broadband infrastructure that meets the needs of both the community and businesses. And in the near future, i.e. if possible in the first half of 2016, the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications will prepare a comprehensive analysis of fast internet connections with proposals for the establishment of the so-called last mile. In line with the proposals being put forward, the government can also plan its next steps to improve access to the Internet for families in rural areas. Thank you, Mr Korb, for the opportunity to answer.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-30_U190	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-30_U191	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, You are a very great optimist, and you have given us encouraging and inflammable messages. One of them was that the revenue base of the municipalities is growing due to economic growth. I now ask how much economic growth this year is from today until 2020. We've just corrected one forecast downwards, but I understand it seems to you that optimism seems to be continuing at the end of the tunnel. What are these forecasts, and how much will this local government revenue base grow? I doubt the proportion of this, I doubt, is that it will grow in comparison to other things if we do not change the rate of income tax.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-30_U192	Thank you. Don't doubt it! If the economy is growing, we will also be able to make certain investments, we will be able to raise wages. It's correlated with each other. That's right. I am sorry, but I have just left a full overview of all euro area countries, including Estonia, on the table. But if we look specifically at Estonia, as I said, growth will be 2% this year, next year 3%, i.e. now a forecast has been made that this growth will be in the order of 2,8 to 3% in the coming years.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-30_U193	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-30_U194	Thank you, good Chairman. Good minister! I actually have three questions. First, I'll start with local governments. First of all, there is EUR 80 million for the administrative reform. Why is it wasted in three years? Why is it not the government's priority to do this over the next six months, for example from 1 October, and also to pay out benefits? Public services are rigid, paperwork is not human-centred. We need resources for human-centred services. Secondly, there have been very large gaps in the provision of internal security services. How do you patch them up? And thirdly, as far as I know, there are 36 kilometers a year on which you can put a new asphalt. The action plans and development plans of rural governments during the boom have collapsed, people are upset. What is your message to the people?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-30_U195	Thank you. I've tried to write it down. You've whined about what you've prepared from your paper in a minute. I'll try to answer you as I see fit. Let us start with the administrative reform first. The administrative reform is not meant to be 80 million, but to be of the size of 65 million, this is the current estimate. And it is scheduled to be paid out to local governments in three years. In addition to these one-off payments, this 65 million, as you know, will later be provided for under the Basic Facility: 15 million in 2019 and 25 million in 2020. It provides permanent funding to all local authorities, initially in the form of lump sums and later in the form of basic grants each year. As far as internal security is concerned, I do not remember the exact location of your question. But if this is the same context as your fundamental question, so-called priorities for internal security, then, as I said in my response, internal security is clearly one of the priorities of the government's agenda. The government actually has five priorities. If one of them is economic recovery, then the other is security and the resulting internal security. In addition, the government pays attention to low-wage earners and families with children, and to related activities and grants. The last priority is peripheralisation and state reform as such. These are government priorities and security are clearly among the priorities, not only in words but also in actions. As I pointed out in my reply, since the cuts in programmes, i.e. in the area of internal security, management costs will not be cut in volume as in the case of other ministries and end up with wage increases. The priorities of this government relate to cultural workers, social workers, educational workers and internal security. These are the four priorities to which the government directs taxpayers' money, for example, for public sector wage increases. Perhaps, in the notional sense, if the Minister for Rural Affairs or the Minister for Finance wants to raise salaries in his area of government, he will have to find money for this in terms of internal resources, in the context of 'efficiency'. But yes, security is definitely important.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-30_U196	Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-30_U197	Thank you, Mr. Speaker. Minister, thank you very much. Of course, this country's budget strategy, I read it through, is a very beautiful document. There's a lot of good things out there, but I'm extremely, how to say, skeptical or pessimistic. First of all, of course, I do not believe that half of this will be fulfilled, even if the current government remains so long. Well, there's an election in the meantime, so there's a lot of promises on the other side of the election. And secondly, I don't think this government will last long enough. But you were talking here earlier about improving public services in connection with administrative reform. I understand that this is not directly your area, but we have learned in recent times that the network of DMC offices is being gathered in Estonia, that it is no longer possible to get license plates and take exams everywhere. Here we draw a clear gap between rhetoric and reality, which, in my opinion, characterises this country's budgetary strategy. Do you ever notice that rift?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-30_U198	That question was a little scattered. I'm sorry I'm interpreting it like that. It would certainly be the easiest thing to say with regard to the question of whether or not. I think that would be the easiest answer. I'm taking this opportunity to say no, I don't see the salmon right now. However, I am surprised that you did not use the word'refugees' in your question. That's what you've usually done, but this time you missed this opportunity.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-30_U199	Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-30_U200	Honourable President! Honourable Minister, I would first like to congratulate you on two things. You have now presented your team's aggregated answers much more dynamicly and smoothly than you did in response to our previous question. And secondly, I got this long-awaited new idea, your party's idea of a municipal income base. That's very nice. However, it still worries me that we are taking it as purely hypothetically, even though your optimism does not allow it well, but that economic growth is not as great as you have planned. What do you suggest as Minister of Finance to the government? Are you going to let the budget get even worse, take this money out of reserves, or are you proposing to cut costs?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-30_U201	Thank you. First of all, when we talk about ideas, what I presented here is definitely one of the thoughts of our party. And we want a debate on this issue to look closer at the trap of the Equalisation Fund and talk in a big picture about strengthening the revenue base of local governments. We would certainly like to hold discussions on this issue. Believe me, there's no shortage of ideas. As Minister of Finance, I would like to come up with a number of issues in the near future relating to economic recovery, before you and, as soon as possible, before the government, starting from stimulating mature companies to start paying out dividends. I am talking about mature companies that are no longer in the so-called aggressive investment stage. In one of these briefings, I also opened a bit more of a simple business account topic. You could say that I have these thoughts all slowly ripened, and in the near future I would like to come to a larger discussion circle. They all actually contribute to economic recovery. I have said this several times, and I would like to emphasise once again that we can talk about anything here, but if the economy does not recover, if we do not take measures to revitalise the economy, then we will not be able, by definition, to raise wages or build new roads. Now your question is that if growth does not meet expectations, what was expected, what will be done in this situation. Of course, the whole picture is being looked at. If we look back in time, even in the previous year, as you yourself pointed out, a higher growth rate of 1.7% was expected, but it came at 1.1%. And notice, tax receipts were once again better than expected. It's actually an interesting anomaly. The fact that taxes were better received could be correlated with the fact that the economy is growing and the tax is better received. But the economy didn't grow so well, even though taxes were better. There is, I think, a general change in values which we have advocated that paying taxes is easy and non-payment of taxes should be difficult. Here we need to look at the whole picture if the economy does not grow or, more importantly, in this context, the revenue is not received to the extent expected. Surely, then, the measures that you have raised will give us an indication of what we should do in this situation. As you will remember, we had a very deep crisis here. 2008/2009. In 2008, when there was a real crisis, Estonia was also prepared to convene the so-called Crocodile Commission to make real cuts in its daily costs. However, it was unique in Europe and there was no such thing elsewhere in Europe that there were cuts in the costs of their daily activities, but also in public wages. At the moment, we do not see any such crisis anywhere that we should make clear cuts. Rather, in the last six years, as I have said, a structural balance or surplus has been planned, but also a nominal deficit every year. And in four years of this last six years there has been a nominal surplus, i.e. a planned deficit, and a real surplus. In this sense, it can be said that these plans have maintained a conservative line and rather based on a 'lower base of income', in fact tax receipts have been better achieved. So I still do not see any such risks that we should start changing the budget. If we look at 2016, the current year, we can also say that our tax receipts are better now than what we planned.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-30_U202	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-30_U203	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, We have a number of very important documents, one of which is definitely 'Knowledge-based Estonia'. And this strategy foresees that public funding for R &amp; D should already have reached 1% of GDP, in the private sector to 2% respectively. However, we know very well that this year this public funding has reached 0.78%. And if we add $8 million next year, this percentage won't get much better, we won't get to 1%. At the same time, the government office also stresses that R &amp; D is one of the priorities, priority development. Where is the contradiction here, and how should this conflict now be overcome?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-30_U204	Thank you. Actually, there's no contradiction. The emphasis on your question was that it should now be 1%. But, in fact, we do not yet need to achieve the 1% target by 2019. And if you're looking at dynamics, we're going in that direction. We'll find out the final GDP figures later, but according to me, it's not 0.78%, but 0.81% and 0.86%, if I'm not mistaken. There will certainly be a final clarification, but the dynamics are now in the 1% direction. What concerns me much more is the contribution of the private sector to the funding of science. If the so-called public money is 1% and we are close to there at 0.84% or 0.86%, we are getting closer to this 1%, then there is concern, yes, private funding. The contribution is still small, and that is certainly a cause for concern. We do not need to be ashamed in Europe of the public contribution to the funding of science. It is clearly larger in the Nordic countries, but in general, in European terms, we have nothing to be ashamed of. However, in terms of private sector financing, we are very down, that is a concern.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-30_U205	Viktor Vassilyev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-30_U206	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! There's money. Speaking of financing health care, you rightly said that everything depends on the growth of the country's economy. And there is this thing like the percentage of GDP that goes to healthcare, and it's been 6% once in the last few years, once in 5.9%. It was then suggested that this year it should be 6.1%. In other developed European Union countries, this percentage is much higher. But that's not what this is about. Indeed, when the state budget was published at the end of last year, it turned out that the percentage of that year was only 5.2, so almost a whole percentage lower. It's 6.1% and 5.2%, so it's a 0.9% fall. How do you explain that? When GDP rose by 3.8%, this figure could not have fallen by a whole percentage.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-30_U207	Thank you. If you look at the Health Insurance Fund, which is financed purely by social tax, and you notice, there has been a very clear increase in the funding of the Health Insurance Fund. Wages have risen quite well, 6% last year. So you can also see that money has actually come into the medical sphere or sector.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-30_U208	No further questions. Thank you, Minister Sven Sester.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-30_U209	I hope you've got some explanations.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-30_U210	I'm opening negotiations. Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-30_U211	Good Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, I still want to make a few points again, because I didn't get a real answer to them. And since this is a minister who runs our super ministry, i.e. all the fields go under one minister's control, which is where a very large decision-making and exclusive competence comes out, and he also has an assistant minister with him, there are a few things to talk about. First of all, about the same local government topic. The Riigikogu is currently discussing administrative reform. I do not consider it reasonable that the accession grants relating to administrative reform are allocated over several years with a clause that the government may also decide that all the municipalities that have joined the great promise that they will receive accession grants will be deprived of it, because the government will decide so. The year 2019, the time for the last payment, is clearly linked to the elections of the Riigikogu. I'd like to see that, let's say, by the first quarter of 2018, all payments would have been made. Secondly, our country's operating model has evolved and the KOKS, or Local Government Organisation Act, does not reflect the services that people need more today. We need to make the functioning of our country more flexible, people-centred, needs-based and opportunity-based. At present, the concept of public service already shows a rigid model for the functioning of local government, which does not make sense. Internal security. We're talking about rescue, border guarding, law enforcement. I would also like to bring in the capabilities of the investigative bodies, which are under-accounts of all kinds. We are talking, even if we are dealing with tax fraud, which puts an honest entrepreneur in a very unfair position. He doesn't understand why he's being punished, why those who commit serious tax fraud are not punished. Yes, in a few years, human resources costs have perhaps not been reduced as much as elsewhere in this area, but so much damage has already been done that there are major shortcomings in the provision of services. The emotional safety of the people - even so that the police move around the streets between the villages - has disappeared. It is still a question of how faith and willingness to help people are to be restored. As an intermediary, they brought a very large or, let's say, moderate number of savings. But did you notice that these numbers have come at the expense of crowding people? The number of unemployed is increasing, but we do not have any plans, as is clear from today's agenda, to revive the business environment so that it has a real outcome. Of course, I know excise duty is consumption tax, but excise duty on fuel is not just about transport companies. This also applies, for example, to a metal-working machine, which has to order a service so that its metal and metal elements can then reach the supplier. Similarly, dairy farmers do not use large firms, but it is very important for them to be able to remove milk from their farm and ultimately to deliver their produce to the store. Finally from the same road thing. I know that the country has 36 kilometers of capacity to put on a new asphalt cover a year. The question is whether the government's budgetary strategy also prioritises the possibility of life on land. During the boom, county governments have compiled huge development plans that allow new routes. But today they are very dissatisfied because these roads are not coming, even though the rural governments are unable to explain why they are no longer coming. The question is, how much of a rural man is being punished. First, you have to have two cars and pay more excise duty. In addition, all shops and other services will be shut down, and you will have to start going to the center more and more. That doesn't make any sense. However, my appeal is that we should also be as realistic, as close to life and as human-centred as possible in the country's budgetary strategy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-30_U212	The members of the Riigikogu have no more wishes to participate in the negotiations, but the Minister does. Please, Minister of Finance Sven Sester!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-30_U213	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen, for giving me the last word. I want to thank you. I want to thank you for the good discussion we had today. It's good to discuss. We may have different opinions, we may have different information fields, we may have different knowledge of one thing or another at the moment, but I liked this discussion today by its very nature that we expressed our thoughts. I reiterate here that there are not very many of you in this Chamber for all the listeners that I think we should pay more and more attention to economic recovery. We've talked about this a lot today. We have been discussing what this economic recovery means. I'll go over it again. By reviving the economy, most people certainly mean different tax measures, and I do not want to make this any less important. I think that paying attention to reducing labour taxes is one of the key issues in today's competitive conditions with other countries. And I think we need to pay attention to that. However, in addition to tax measures, there are support measures related to the implementation units established by the state of Estonia, Estonia, KredEx and a number of other entities, where, on the one hand, efforts are made with taxpayers' money to make foreign companies come to Estonia, and, on the other hand, efforts are made to ensure that Estonian companies are able to export outside. Thirdly, apart from tax and support measures, research funding, related investments, is important. And fourthly, measures relating to our own national regulation, which will improve our business environment, are still important. The same primary employee register is a good example where some companies lost the competitive advantage of simply not paying taxes on their employees. I am not only talking about the use of competitive advantages and the non-payment of taxes on the social side, that people did not have social guarantees, but I am also talking about this, as seen by the state and the entrepreneur. Once again, I stress that we are making efforts to revive the economy. But I understand that different political parties have different priorities: who wants to focus more attention on child support, who wants to focus on another segment. We will not be able to do all this if the economy does not grow at the level we hope it will. I think this should be our highest priority. Thank you for this discussion.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-30_U214	I will conclude the debate on this question. Thank you, Minister of Finance Sven Sester!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-05-30_U215	And now and now, a free microphone. [[Manager's hammer strike.]] Thank you. The sitting is adjourned. I'll see you tomorrow! Closure of the sitting at 19.33 p.m.
