ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-18_U1	Good morning, honourable Riigikogu. We will begin the 5th working week Tuesday session of the 4th plenary session of the Riigikogu. First of all, ladies and gentlemen, there is the opportunity to pass on drafts and enquiries. Erki Savisaar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-18_U2	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I am honoured to present an inquiry to the Minister of Entrepreneurship, Liisa Oviir, signed by nine members of the Riigikogu. The inquiry concerns the activities of the Enterprise Development Foundation. The objective of Enterprise Estonia is to develop entrepreneurship and regional policy in Estonia, which should contribute to the achievement of the long-term strategic goals of the economy and to the development of enterprises that can export and produce greater added value. The Foundation provides a large part of the European Union's structural support, as well as national support for which ad hoc assistance is required. If the funds have not been used for their intended purpose, the grant must be repaid to the foundation. Between 2004 and 2006, EAS offered a tourism promotion measure in which 48 grant applications were granted. Including support to OÜ Ermamaa, which was linked to President Toomas Hendrik Ilves, to which more than EUR 190000 was allocated. We know that the tourism farm was essentially not open there, and we ask why the whole amount is not being recovered, but only part of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-18_U3	Ain Lutsepp, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-18_U4	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! On behalf of seven members of the Free Party Group, I would like to address the question to Mr Hannes Hanso, Minister of Defence. The inquiry concerns the efficiency and transparency of defence costs. This year, Estonia spends 2.17% of GDP on national defence, which is a major contribution compared to most other NATO countries. The Estonian state budget is quite tense. This means that we are about to reach the limit of our capabilities in terms of defence costs. Estonia has been made more effective in the field of internal security, the Border Guard, Police and Migration Board has been brought together and employees have been made redundant at the Rescue Board. The same things have also been done in many other areas. The defence sector has so far been excluded from the list of such improvements, as this area has rightly been considered particularly important in ensuring Estonia's security. The security situation following the occupation of Crimea has called for effective military cooperation with allies and the strengthening of independent defence capabilities. At present, Estonia has the opportunity to critically review all defence activities in order to find places where money has been used inefficiently or inefficiently, and to really channel this money to improve training, equipment and motivation for defence forces and to upgrade armaments. In this regard, the free party has six questions for the Minister of Defence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-18_U5	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-18_U6	President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the EKRE Group, I will give Foreign Minister Jürgen Ligi an inquiry into our shipguards. Today exactly three years have passed since our shipguards in India were unjustly arrested and charged with illegal fuel refueling, arms handling and entry into territorial waters. There is no need to stress in particular that these are unfounded accusations and innocent people who did their job. Our Ministry of Foreign Affairs in the foreign minister's name at the time...
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-18_U7	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like you to pay attention to the speaker.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-18_U8	... considered that this was not a national issue that should be interfered with because these people knew the risks. Fortunately, this point of view has been abandoned. Now we have some questions for the Foreign Minister. What's the status now? What has the State Department been up to lately? The government approved a treaty on the exchange of criminal criminals and the transfer of prisoners. Is this deal signed with India? Would the Minister of Foreign Affairs think that if the ship's guards were to be brought to Estonia as criminal criminals and they were to be punished? How can they be released from this unfounded criminal charge and to what extent has cooperation been made with other countries whose citizens have been convicted of the same case? What assistance has been requested or received from the European Union? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-18_U9	Thank you. There are no more requests for referrals of drafts and enquiries. On behalf of the Management Board, I have adopted three inquiries and the Management Board of the Riigikogu processes them on the basis of the Home and Working Procedures Act. Ladies and gentlemen, please let's do a presence check. 84 members of the Riigikogu registered as present, missing 17.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-18_U10	Let's go to today's agenda. The first item is an overview of the activities of the Government of the Republic in the implementation of European Union policy. Before we go to that, I will briefly present the procedure for dealing with this item. First, the presentation of Prime Minister Taavi Rõivas will be up to 30 minutes, then the presentation of Kalle Palling, President of the Committee on European Union Affairs, will be up to 20 minutes. A member of the Riigikogu may ask an oral question to each of the rapporteurs. Representatives of the political groups will be present during the negotiations. At the end of the discussion, the Riigikogu will not take a decision. I would like to ask for Prime Minister Taavi Kõivas to speak on the floor.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-18_U11	Honourable Chairman! Honourable Riigikogu, ambassadors and guests! Once again, the time has come to set goals for the European Union. The European Union is not faced with a choice of whether or not to be, but more and more we need to answer the questions of whether the path chosen and the cooperation that has been done so far have been the right one. We need to explain more and more convincingly to the public the choices and decisions that have been made. Following the Brexit referendum, we launched the so-called Bratislava Process to make choices between openness and closure, between a global and a protectionist Europe. It is a process of finding solutions to burning problems such as security, internal security, the economy and employment. This certainly does not mark the beginning of a new, non-liberal era, nor is it a departure from European values and policies that have brought success to Europe. At the same time, we must face the truth that not all have gone excellently, and not all problems can be solved overnight and only at European level. The European Union, like all other political projects, is constantly developing. He's not perfect, but he's the best form of supranational cooperation we have. Honourable Riigikogu! The British's decision to leave the European Union really affected both Europe and the United Kingdom like a cold shower. The speech presented at the Conservative Annual Congress on 2 October gave the first explanation of how the new British Prime Minister, Theresa May, will see the future. Despite our hope that the United Kingdom would seek as close a relationship as possible with the European Union, this speech was very welcome to us. Although there is still about six months until the application is submitted and much can happen during that period, we still have to rely on the UK leaving. It is also quite unlikely that the model of future relations will be based on the current four fundamental freedoms or even the model of the customs union, as in the case of Turkey. The future can therefore lead to less cooperation with the British than with Norway, Iceland, Switzerland and Turkey, but I believe that more than just a free trade agreement. In addition, clarity is needed in the UK's involvement in other policies, such as justice and home affairs, and, of course, in the area of defence. I am, in spite of everything, an optimist and I hope that the final outcome of the negotiations will be balanced and that it will maintain as close a relationship as possible between us. However, some important conclusions can already be drawn. First of all, I can say that, in the near future, the most important thing is cooperation and results for the 27 Member States of the European Union, and only then will we have to deal with the Brexit negotiations. Secondly, we need to improve cooperation with the United Kingdom through multilateral organisations such as NATO, as well as regional and bilateral relations. Thirdly, leaving the British means leaving a very influential and like-minded Member State, which in turn means that cooperation between like-minded Member States becomes even more important when the speaker leaves. The sooner we accept that the referendum is not reversible, the sooner we can find the necessary solutions. Honourable Riigikogu! One of the main topics in the forthcoming Council discussions is free trade. During the last year, discussions on trade agreements between the European Union and third countries have repeatedly stalled. Although the European Union is the world's largest trading bloc, the state of the agreements between Ukraine, the US and Canada shows that we need to find a way to solve real problems and, unfortunately, also dispel the untrue. The European Union has been at the forefront of globalisation because free trade has meant creating prosperity for its citizens, fighting poverty in the world and also contributing to peace and stability through close economic relations. Estonia has won a great deal from free trade. At the same time, we also need to understand those for whom globalisation has caused anxiety and uncertainty and who have therefore become an easy target for populists today. The President of the Council, Donald Tusk, rightly said in Tallinn: we must provide citizens with additional security in order to remain as open as we have been in the past. It is therefore important that economic growth reaches everyone. Prosperity pie and economic opportunities do not become greater as a result of colca-atricism and do not contribute to additional welfare. Our future must be based on the possibility of creating, producing and exporting research-intensive services and products. I would like to quote here the recent Economist article: 'Consumers and workers suffer the most from trade barriers. A study of 40 countries suggests that the end of trade would lead to a 28% reduction in incomes and a 63% reduction in incomes among the poorest decile. " If it were to be extended to new trade agreements and an even greater free trade zone, just as the end of trade would be very damaging, additional trade would bring great benefits. As you can see, those with relatively low incomes will win the most. Freedom and free trade do not mean freedom of rules or anarchy. On the contrary, we must be among the fronts so that global trade is both rule-based and rule-based and respects fair competition. It is therefore important that Europe continues to enter into agreements with co-ordinate countries, particularly developed industrialised countries, which help to promote world trade on a rule-based basis and are economically balanced. Honourable Riigikogu, good ambassadors! The weight of Europe's word in the world is largely determined by how good and strong its economy is. No one doubts that a large internal market is necessary for all European countries to remain competitive and successfully contribute to the global economy. Reforms in the markets for goods, capital and services must also continue in order for Europe to be able to engage in the digital economy. Different sectoral market regulation hampers opportunities to create economies of scale that are supported by e-commerce solutions and which, for example, have been successfully achieved in the US. Although the example is contagious, the best national market in the world is not enough. I am pleased that Estonia has the image of a successful and dignified digital state as a result of years of hard work. Many would like to be a little more cool than anything else positive. Among other things, Estonia's unusualness is fueled by a somewhat insane dream of combining Estonian and Finnish e-governance and our offer of value in the form of virtual residence, which has already aroused a wide range of interest. The Riigikogu has also played a very important role in creating Estonia's progressive digital design, especially as a leader in the collaborative economy. We have chosen, in my opinion, the very right way to embrace new technology quickly and to find solutions that support development. I believe that, through our own example, we have, among other things, managed to achieve that the creation of a digital single market, as a priority for the European Union in the short term, did not give rise to any major debate in Bratislava by signing a declaration. "Digital" already belongs to most of the vocabulary, which is because some countries still have a very strong accent. Ladies and gentlemen, As we know very well, the condition obliges. As a digital state, we have therefore proposed that the free movement of data in the future in the European Union should be a separate fundamental freedom. According to the solow productivity paradox, any basic technology, such as the internet, takes time to provide the full economic effect of productivity and well-being growth. No one doubts that the internet will change both the economy and society throughout. In order to achieve this goal, we need to create a legal and investment environment in the near future that will support the development of modern digital infrastructure, including, of course, in our north-east. We also need to ensure a regulatory environment in Europe that supports the data economy and is not hampered by location restrictions or other obstacles. This has to happen in a way that does not question the individual's right to privacy and does not create a situation that separates Europe's digital internal market from the rest of the world. The free movement of data, as the fifth fundamental freedom, allows it to be seen both as an enabler of all other fundamental freedoms and as an end in itself. Last week, a large Swedish communications company spelled the goal of creating a gigabit society in the territory of the terabyte. The second issue I would like to make sure to address in the context of the economy and the internal market is unity. Just as border controls within Europe hamper economic activity, so our cut-off is one of the most important glass ceilings in our economy. It doesn't have to be like this. However, changing the situation requires constant effort and commitment to the objective. I have already mentioned cooperation between Estonia and Finland in the field of e-governance development, which can lead to completely unique solutions for many countries. This Friday, a very determined work will result in a ceremony for the signing of the BalticConnector financing agreement for the Estonian-Finnish Energy Security Association. The European Commission finances this project quite uniquely at 75%. Our next energy security project is to create a fully synchronised regional electricity market, both in terms of market and infrastructure, which took a large part of my visit to Sweden and Denmark last week to explain. The first step is to carry out a study and to map technical and financial possibilities for connecting. I hope that this project will be feasible through Poland or the Nordic region already in the next budgetary period of the European Union. But, of course, technical work must be done, a long-term budget must be designed and solutions sought with the countries concerned. An equally important long-term project is Rail Baltic rail connection. Lately, it has once again caused a heated controversy, but I firmly believe that the writers have acted in good faith. A comprehensive examination of the project will ultimately do only good, even if it is difficult to reach full consensus on such a large-scale infrastructure project. The ongoing additional cost-benefit study will help to resolve a number of the issues referred to, such as the choice of route, profitability assumptions and expected trade flows. I would like to highlight here some important aspects of Rail Baltic that have been called into question so far. First, cooperation in the region. This is the largest cooperation project in the history of three or four countries. I would say that this is even a historic opportunity to connect the region with Western Europe. Although Estonia has, to a large extent, been the leader of the project, which may occasionally be reminiscent of reluctant taming, the interest of Finland and other countries in the project is also felt. It has once again breathed life into the dream of the Tallinn-Helsinki tunnel as well as inspired the Finnish business sector. To date, three Baltic countries and Finland are connected to the Imperial Railroad with Russian rail width. It has not been hoped that Russia would be interested in anything more than directing raw material flows through its infrastructure and 'Divide and rule! ' the implementation of the principle for East-West Corridors and Projects. It is therefore easy to create a situation where we are more competitive with other Baltic countries than with cooperation partners. Instead of opportunities, more problems are often seen. We need Rail Baltic to connect ourselves to Western Europe, both strategically, politically and economically. In ten years' time, it should not be true to say that the Baltic countries are an anomaly in Europe, where the train can only travel east. The Rail Baltic route is strategically important to Europe as a missing link and it is quite obvious that the eastern-west direction of Europe is not prioritised or financed. Secondly, profitability and economic opportunities. Of course, construction itself creates new opportunities and can bring about strategic infrastructure investments in the region. However, this is not the main thing, even if it is the result of difficult compromises. The most important part of Estonia's trade and cooperation partners is precisely in Western Europe. The key to Rail Baltic's success is the ability to take over an important part of international trade between the Baltic States and other neighbouring countries, and also to create new and rapid mobility opportunities for the growth of passenger and freight transport. To achieve this, an optimal route, good quality of service, high reliability, modern rolling stock and equipment at transhipment stations, ports and logistics centres are needed to ensure rapid operations. The future infrastructure charging system will support the use of rail and the main benefit will not be as revenue from rail charges itself, but as future investments in industry and infrastructure. Even if the project seems profitable only on the basis of the region, the additional opportunities are not only within the region itself. For example, China is actively seeking new opportunities for container transport to Europe. Cooperation in the region, association with Europe and economic profitability are, of course, just two main arguments. I also believe that the exaggerations that have sounded in the public and caused fear of cutting Estonia apart, possible genetic stunts and other such things will all receive an appropriate level of response. The Riigikogu has a very important role to play in dealing with this issue during the coming season, as soon we will send a transnational agreement to discuss this hall, which will establish the politically and legally as strong a foundation as possible for the future of Rail Baltic. Honourable Riigikogu! Speaking to you last year, the focus was on the security of Europe and the various related crises that had taken the dimension of the existential crisis in Europe. And not only in the key to the ongoing Russian aggression in Ukraine. The refugee crisis triggered by the conflict in Syria was taking epic proportions, and terrorist acts in Belgium and France eventually reached the Estonians very painfully. The unity and determination of the West proved to be key. In the migration crisis, we immediately realised that the security of European countries is very closely interwoven. All Member States are literally responsible for a high level of common border surveillance and therefore for each other's day-to-day security. The increased political attention and gear change in the migration crisis and the activities that pushed it from the same period last year have reduced the migration flows between Turkey and Greece by a total of 98% to date. The border is guarded on both sides of the border line and its effectiveness once again depends on the level of surveillance and the willingness to cooperate on both sides. Period 2015-2016 brought about groundbreaking changes. Cooperation and agreements with third countries, as well as a change of attitude within the European Union, will be particularly important in this context, enabling all policies and instruments to be adopted to address the migration crisis. This is a good example of what can be achieved in the short term by acting together and common foreign policy. Last week, the European Border and Coast Protection Agency started work on the border between Bulgaria and the border, helping to bring Europe's external borders under even better control. Although the Agency will start as a support structure for the resolution of the crisis, a comprehensive European Border and Coast Guard should not be excluded in the future. We can welcome the creation of the European Union border crossing information system requested by Estonia, which in turn has been complemented by the travel authorisation system to be introduced and the increased possibilities to influence migration from visa-free countries. In conclusion, I would like to thank the Estonian law enforcement authorities, who have contributed significantly to the joint operations of the European Union and have implemented the objectives of the migration plan smoothly. The result of our joint action could lead to the removal of controls throughout the Schengen internal borders. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! Regrettably, I cannot report that the Minsk II agreement has been complied with. No, it's not! Ukraine does not exercise control over its entire territory, just as the ceasefire is seemingly apparent. Russia will continue to wage war in Europe's eastern and southern neighbours and, to be honest, in part, in Europe itself, if we take all the means of warfare into account. Our eastern neighbor uses conventional and hybrid methods to advance, just as a hybrid car uses different fuels to move forward. Intervention with cyber tools in the presidential elections, funding of extremist parties in Europe, as well as their indoctrination in Crimea, undermining independent investigation of air accidents, propaganda, as well as spreading lies, all of this falls under the last description. It seems that the school bullying process has begun wherever possible. As a result, the situation has once again been described as a new Cold War, although Edward Lucas quite vividly described it in his book of the same name a few years ago. If the West is considered to be an existential threat by the Russian administration, then in fact, no one should be surprised that the objective is consecrating the means. What has changed, however, is the attitudes of Western public opinion. This is not only reflected in the assessment contained in the new global strategy of the European Union that 'Russia's activities in Ukraine and around the Black Sea in general have shook the foundations of the European security architecture'. The ongoing cynical conflict between Ukraine and Syria, as well as the recent investigation of the plane crash, Malaysia Airlines 17 and many more have increasingly opened their eyes and forced the Western public to look at what is happening much more closely and closely. The refugee crisis is a direct consequence of the conflict in Syria. The picture opening in Aleppo is just appalling. Therefore, we in the forthcoming Council must probably be somewhat less convinced that, in any case, we must continue to keep the line we have so far in the case of sanctions, to be united, to be determined and to approach issues with a long view. Honourable Riigikogu! Although the European Union is not a defence alliance, it has been an equal security project since it was created to ensure the well-being of its citizens. Estonia's current applications are well in line with recent developments in the field of defence. I say right away that I do not think the creation of a European army is on the table right now, and we should not waste time in the shadow boxing. I recall that NATO, too, does not have an army; it is the Member States. For the first time, starting a meaningful debate on European defence, formulating a task beyond our control, can actually achieve the opposite effect to what we want. At the same time, greater commitment to protection is no longer a taboo issue; it is one of those issues where more cooperation is clearly sought. Estonia should not be allergic to the development of the European defence issue, restricting itself to the opinion that it should not duplicate NATO. Indeed, we should not be spraying our efforts, but we should look at this as an opportunity, because it is possible to find places where the European Union can add value to what is already being done. Since more cooperation is needed in defence matters, there is no doubt one important consequence of Brexit. I recall, among other things, that three of the four NATO Framework States will soon not be members of the European Union. Hopeful developments in the reunification of the north and south of Cyprus will soon remove an important barrier to defence cooperation. As an example of terrorist acts in Paris, we know that the European Union solidarity clause offers additional opportunities. The management of the European Union's military and civilian operations could also be made more effective in order, inter alia, to remove the burden of external operations from NATO and allow it to focus even more on its core tasks. There are other areas where cooperation can be better, such as defence procurement, research and innovation research, as well as the availability of civil solutions in defence forces in the European Union, such as maritime surveillance, maritime rescue, satellite navigation, etc. The European Union's hybrid strategy must be implemented and, in our view, a broad-based cyber strategy could also be renewed, where the European Union also has a very important role to play. Good Riigikogu! This is an important, perhaps even critical, time for Europe, and the Estonian Presidency of the Council of the European Union will also be crucial. This means that, above all, we have the pressure of time to conclude negotiations and to conclude important political agreements. I believe that I paused enough curtain from the contents of the Estonian Presidency, because we are dealing with the economy, security and Brexit, as well as many of the other issues mentioned during the Estonian Presidency. The topics that are important to Estonia are well reflected in the work plans of the institutions, both in the Council's strategic plan and in the European Commission's work programme. Before the Riigikogu there are very important drafts for the development of Europe, such as the Paris climate agreement and the free trade agreement with Canada. However, the time has come to talk more detail about our priorities in front of the big hall, in the late spring of next year, when the Maltese Presidency has already come far enough. We are actually very well aware of most of the issues and drafts, which is why I hope that there will be meaningful discussions on the programme of the Presidency in the Committee on European Union Affairs and, of course, in all the committees in the field. Estonia will have one Presidency programme at a time, which reflects important issues for both the government and the parliament. The joint programme supports the achievement of the objectives and allows us to reach a consensus in order to give priority to our Presidency in the second half of the year. In cooperation with the Riigikogu, we hope to find a suitable working method in the near future also during our Presidency. On the basis of the recent report by the worthy international think tank 'Cohesion Monitor', we can safely claim that we have gone the longest route to European cooperation between 2007 and 2014 and are one of the most cooperative Member States following the founding members of Belgium and Luxembourg. The Presidency is certainly the most important management challenge for the Estonian opening sector so far. Its success depends mainly on its ability to enter into agreements and to move the joint matter forward. The European Union is like a coalition government with 28 members, which cannot be effectively managed by rape and fisting on the table. Patience, wisdom, diplomacy, presence and empathy are the qualities to which every minister, every public official, must strive to lead the European Union. And the fact that Estonia was ready to pick up the baton of the British Presidency is a very good example of cooperation and leadership. It is also accompanied by the ex-post recognition that we started preparing early enough. As a result, there was no cramp, the necessary drafts for the Presidency reached Parliament in good time and the actions were re-upgraded. I very much recognise the courage of the Riigikogu, because your burden has essentially doubled. I hope that this courage will continue in spite of the local elections next year, and the Presidency will be accompanied above all by domestic peace and consensus. A successful Presidency must be a common goal for all of us, because only together can Estonia be made bigger. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-18_U12	Thank you, Prime Minister. You also have a series of questions. Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-18_U13	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister, thank you for your presentation. We are not only dealing with countries of the same kind in the European Union's policy and, more generally, in foreign policy, as the United Kingdom was and will be after Brexit. Turkey certainly has a major role to play in resolving the migration crisis. The fact that the border has now been better and better depends very much on the will of the Turkish side. However, looking at the measures that have been taken in this country, there is no way of saying that they are compatible with the European value system. What is our strategy and what are the formats of cooperation that Estonia, for example, as the Presidency, offers in its relations with Turkey and perhaps with other important countries? What are the most important areas of cooperation in particular? Against this background, we can certainly also talk about visa liberalisation.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-18_U14	Thank you. Even now, a year before we become President-in-Office of the Council of the European Union or, to put it simply, the President-in-Office of the European Union, Estonia holds the Presidency of the Council of Europe. As the questioner is well aware, Estonia has made a serious effort in the Council of Europe to have very different visions on important issues such as the definition of terrorism, in the form of the Council of Europe, find such an independent arbitration seeking solutions. The solutions to these issues are certainly neither simple nor born overnight, but I am pleased to say that Estonian diplomats, as well as politicians, have already worked hard to achieve this process. But I fully agree that Turkey, which is neighbouring the European Union, as well as Lebanon, Jordan and, in fact, North Africa, are playing a very important role in resolving the migration crisis. As cooperation between Turkey and the European Union has managed to reduce the migratory pressure in the region by a total of 50 times, it is becoming even more topical to deal with North Africa. I am pleased to say that when I met yesterday with the European Union Commissioner for Migration, who was on a quick visit to Estonia, he spoke about how a partnership with several African countries was sought and, for example, about entering into readmission agreements. Here too, Estonia has a role to play, as Estonian Defence Forces, for example, are creating stability in a very anxious region of northern Mali. In fact, this will help to reduce the migratory pressure from that country and neighbouring countries towards Europe in a completely unequivocal way. So once again, a small country, but we're betting on a lot of fronts.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-18_U15	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-18_U16	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good Prime Minister! Is and with what emphasis is the Eastern Partnership programme being dealt with during the Presidency? Estonia has contributed to democratisation in Ukraine, Moldova and Georgia. On the European side, we see some lukewarmness and there are serious consequences. In the work of the OSCE Parliamentary Assembly, I see the Ukrainians as being helpless and powerless. I have just been watching the elections in Georgia, and there are also serious signs that this is going back to the period before the Rose Revolution. What is the agenda for the Presidency? What are our messages to Europe about the Eastern Partnership?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-18_U17	Thank you. There is no doubt that the Eastern Partnership is very important for Estonia. When I visited Sweden and Denmark recently, I also raised with my colleagues the issue of further support for the Eastern Partnership Centre, and we discussed ways to improve cooperation. We certainly have the wish to hold an Eastern Partnership summit during our Presidency. As of now, this summit will take place in Brussels, and there are a number of compelling reasons for this. We have a desire to make a number of summits during our Presidency. A regular summit between the European Union and Africa will take place, which will take place in the turn of the village and which will take place this time in Africa, but it will also be the time of the Estonian Presidency. We have the desire to continue discussions on the future of the European Union and also to organise them in the form of a summit. Why should this summit not take place then in Tallinn? We also plan to find time for the Eastern Partnership Summit in the calendar. In any case, the Eastern Partnership is crucial, as is the bilateral support for the Eastern Partnership target countries, of which you mentioned three, which is crucial for Estonia. Indeed, it can be said that Estonia has an exceptionally close relationship with Ukraine, Georgia and Moldova. I regularly communicate with my colleagues from these countries, and believe me, we are also doing a great deal of background work to ensure that these countries do well. Estonia has been one of the most vocal visa-free applicants for both Ukraine and Georgia. We have consistently said that once the conditions are met, no one must have any emotional failures or subjective obstacles, etc. Of course, the fate of these countries is important to us, and I think we have a lot of experience to share with them.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-18_U18	Jaak Madison, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-18_U19	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! At the beginning of your speech, you mentioned the moods and attitudes spreading in European countries, which you claim to be protectionism. Having also been in contact with colleagues from other Member States in the context of missions and other meetings, as well as with acquaintances, I have very often heard such a complaint or a statement of frustration that national moods or nationalism are rising in Europe. Do you think that's a problem? Should we pay attention to the fact that the national moods are really strengthening in Europe and that this is becoming a problem for the continued integration of the European Union or for the European project, or what do we call it?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-18_U20	Thank you. Patriotism in its own country can never be a problem. Nationalism, as such, is certainly not a negative phenomenon. What is negative, though, is the fact that under the nationalist sign such an ideology of self-closure and denial is sometimes driven. There is certainly enough patriotism in his own country for all Estonian people, but it should in no way rule out openness to the fact that apart from being an Estonian, we are also Europeans.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-18_U21	Kristjan Kõljalg, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-18_U22	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Prime Minister! You said in your speech that Estonia has excelled as an exemplary e-state in Europe and a leader in innovation. I also believe that it is actually in the interests of both the European Union and Estonia that we contribute to research and development and innovation and increasingly use modern services and products. But do you think we should also change Estonia's own regulations more quickly to implement innovation for growth in the economy and well-being of Estonia and the European Union as a whole? Do you think that the first self-driving cars could be in regular traffic on Estonian roads already during the Estonian Presidency?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-18_U23	Thank you. It is clear that self-driving cars require both regulation and, let's say, a practical test environment. I was driving a self-driving car for the first time two years ago, and on perfectly normal streets, it was when I visited Google's head office. It can be said that self - driving cars react very quickly when, for example, someone comes in front of the next row or when someone unexpectedly steps in front of the road. I would very much like Estonia to be among the first to introduce self-driving cars. If this were possible during the Estonian Presidency, it would be very good, but it seems to me that there may be obstacles here that we cannot yet foresee. But in any case, it is worth making an effort in this direction. Self-driving cars definitely have a future. I recently went to Sweden and Denmark with a large business delegation, and I had very pleasant meetings with top Swedish and Danish entrepreneurs. There were also a lot of people who spoke very interestingly about future trends. And we agreed that we should not be afraid that future development will also lead to the loss of some specific jobs, including perhaps driving positions, because they can be replaced by more exciting and more value-added jobs in the future. So you have to go along with progress in any case. I think that Estonia has every chance of being a speedboat here, not a tanker, which takes a very long time to change course.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-18_U24	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-18_U25	Thank you, manager. Prime Minister! My question is about solidarity. As we know, the debt burden of our country's central government is approximately EUR 1 billion, EUR 487 million, including the EFSF share of 467 million, or almost a third. Most of the EFSF debt relates to Greece. Just today, I read in the Estonian daily newspaper that only two of the 15 proposals have been implemented by Greece, and now we are considering how to grant further loans to Greece. I am asking directly and openly how far it will be from the time when Greek debts will be extinguished. When will our taxpayer start writing off Greece's debts?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-18_U26	Thank you. Estonia does not support writing down the main part of the loans or writing off loans, as you said. We support Greece's successful implementation of the necessary reforms, and many of them have succeeded. But, of course, we must be constructively critical and look at those places where reforms still need to be stepped up. However, the general rule is that cooperation between the European Commission, the European Central Bank and the IMF, i.e. the International Monetary Fund, will be closely monitored, line by line by line by which reforms have been implemented, and only when reforms have been implemented, will the next loan payment or the refinancing of previous loans be possible. In the case of the last Greek programme, it must be pointed out that, in addition to refinancing loans and loan payments, the privatisation programme and the mobilisation of investors' money in the Greek economy play a much greater role. I believe that this is fundamentally good for the Greek economy. But if it is a question of solidarity and whether Estonia should have given up European solidarity and support to each other years ago, I think it was your hidden question, then I will say no to that. I think that if, as a member of a responsible community, Estonia has helped those countries that are facing difficulties, in many ways because of their fiscal policies, to come out of this situation, it is not only a matter of solidarity, but it is practically beneficial for our economy as well. None of us would want permanent financial difficulties in some Member States of the European Union, as this would certainly have an impact on the standard of living of the people of Estonia as well.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-18_U27	Arno Bridge, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-18_U28	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Prime Minister! We know that there are serious differences among the countries of the European Union regarding the conclusion of a free trade agreement with America. Are there any such major differences regarding the free trade agreement that is being concluded with Canada? What is the position of the Estonian Government, has it already developed?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-18_U29	Thank you. The Estonian Government certainly has a positive view of free trade agreements in principle. We can learn from the history of both the world and Estonia that trade is a source of prosperity. It is quite clear that if there are only 1.3 million of us, we will not get much wealthier by trading between ourselves or selling things more expensive to our neighbor. It is therefore perfectly natural that a very large part of the Estonian economy is aimed at exports, the largest part of which can be said, even the lion's share is exports to the European Union. But for us, very important partners are also the United States, Canada, Japan, etc. So, in principle, free trade agreements are certainly positive because they contribute to trade between regions. Personally, I am convinced that the transatlantic European Union, on the one hand, and the economic space and potential of America and Canada, on the other, are indescribable in words. While there are already 500 million people in the European Union, which in the world is a very wealthy population, we can achieve something that we have never seen before by bringing together two almost as large spaces. And not only in trade, but also in the technological process. As far as the trade agreement with Canada is concerned, there are fewer differences. We also talked about this yesterday in the Committee on European Union Affairs that the Parliament of Wallonia, a part of Belgium, has made reservations. But is there any way that this is gonna be an obstacle? I really hope not. I see that most of the Member States of the European Union are of the opinion that we can go faster with Canada, and actually I very much hope that with the United States as well. There are very, very many examples of how Estonian entrepreneurs and Estonian consumers, both of them, would benefit if we had one economic space with the United States.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-18_U30	Monika Haukanõmm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-18_U31	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! I will continue with the previous issue of free trade agreements. In the past, negotiations and the conclusion of these agreements have been largely the responsibility of the European Commission. Now that the Member States have begun to raise their heads, the treaties have become'mixed agreements', which has led to a situation where 3.5 million people are in a state of impasse, as happened last Friday in the House of Vallones. At the same time, we are in the middle of a number of negotiations, for example with the US and Japan, which you have mentioned. How do you assess the situation? For what reasons have we come to a situation where opposition to free trade agreements has become more and more robust and relief?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-18_U32	Thank you. I don't think it's getting any stronger now. After all, protectionist moods, as well as anti-globalisation, have been true in the past decades. What is being pursued with this anti-globalisation and protectionistism, as I understand it, is that life can continue as it has been so far, including maintaining existing jobs and the way of life to date. Such an application may be humanely understandable, especially in those regions where they are very satisfied with their standard of living. Fear of competition, fear of development, and once again it can be said that the fear of change is humanly understandable. Our view is different in the sense that our last 25 years of history have been a major development. Of course, we are interested in ensuring that development continues, because we do not agree that the current standard of living in Estonia is sufficient. We want to be open to progress, and that is why our thinking is also very much focused on trade agreements, we see that they can create additional wealth. Both the historical background and the satisfaction of the countries with their present standard of living are probably one of the reasons why I can explain this situation. At the same time, I am very convinced that all the wealthier countries that want to maintain their lifestyles have a great deal to gain from trade agreements. I have met with the management of a German car industry, and, as you know, the German car industry is still very large corporations. I was told that in fact, in the very city where this corporation's head office is located, their brand cars would be cheaper if there were free trade with the United States, because a large part of this brand and of the German car industry are actually produced for the European market in the United States. There are dozens of such examples. I really hope that the trend is rather that free trade will be supported more. But it may also be a little bit of my wishful thinking, I admit it.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-18_U33	Marko Mihkelson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-18_U34	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good Prime Minister, thank you for your presentation. It would be a lot to ask, but I'm going to talk about one of the most timely issues. The day after tomorrow, you will consult with your colleagues on an issue that concerns a sufficiently existential threat to the European Union. As you yourself mentioned in your speech, Russia considers the European Union to be an existential challenge in terms of its value. I believe that, in the same way, Europe is looking at the aggressive policy of recent times. We here, as a neighbour of Russia, are following the increasing tensions in the relations between Western Russia and the understandable concern, and it would certainly be in our best interest to see how much desired constructiveness and dialogue between the European Union and Russia would actually take place. What would be your main message to your colleagues the day after tomorrow if you once again spoke about this? What would be the most important steps to bring about a real, substantive dialogue with Russia again?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-18_U35	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-18_U36	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good Prime Minister! Questions have been raised on the important issue of fast connections to Central Europe and Rail Baltic. My question comes in the context of the road. Via Baltica and the knowledge that EUR 4 million per kilometre is an investment that we need to build a road either in Iklan or a little closer to Pärnu, to the cross of Valga-Uulu road, is a question of its own. My question is whether, in the future, you will see an opportunity, for example, to find additional money in Europe within the framework of the TNT network for the construction of this road, or whether it is a matter for the Estonian state to the end.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-18_U37	Thank you. Indeed, we are planning to discuss Russia's issues in the format of dinner on Thursday, and according to the current plan, the Prime Minister of Estonia will make one of the introductory speeches there. I have also been specifically given an area on which I am focusing. But if I try to answer your question as precisely as possible, the easiest way to restore constructive dialogue would, of course, be if Russia were to speak once again in the context of wishful thinking, perhaps even a little naively, to withdraw from Ukraine, to give up being an aggressor. In fact, Syria is also increasingly on radar than a place of conflict where Russia is creating more problems and not helping to solve them. The necessary precondition for us to restore normal, good neighbourly relations, which the European Union is interested in, including, of course, Estonia, is that Russia rethinks its attitude towards neighbouring countries, especially Ukraine, but also Georgia, for example. It would be very helpful.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-18_U38	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-18_U39	Good manager! Good Prime Minister! I don't want to ask you about self-driving cars. I want to ask you more about the land. The European Union's agricultural policy promises to pay up to 20 million transitional payments per year, but your government has avoided this, thereby reducing the competitiveness of farmers. I ask you whether you consider crisis support to be transitional support. If so, which prime ministers in the European Union still share such a view?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-18_U40	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! You spoke about Estonia's role in European foreign policy and it has been quite interesting to hear earlier that if you need to talk to the Prime Minister or President of any European country, the Prime Minister can take the phone out of his pocket and talk things out. There's a whole other side to it. The European Union has its own interests and hopes for Estonia. Since I am in contact with scientific structures, I know that Estonia's ability to enter into scientific contacts with the countries of the former Soviet Union, including Central Asia, is highly appreciated. In June, we heard that perhaps the embassy in Kazakhstan, the only thing left in that area, would be closed. It was said that the government would grant an extension of six months, but it wasn't quite clear. There is a doubt that Estonia likes to travel on these roads, to travel where there are very many passengers, and we will also be driving there. But where no one drives and can't drive, doesn't speak the language, doesn't know the customs, doesn't know the ways where we can't talk, we don't want to go well. What about the Kazakh embassy?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-18_U41	Thank you. It is quite admirable how you come from the European Union's policy to Kazakhstan. But I understand that the world is big and wide and everything needs to be dealt with. In fact, the Kazakh embassy and the network of embassies at all must be guided by the priorities of Estonia to which we contribute the most in both economic and scientific cooperation. And it depends very much on the assessments of entrepreneurs, scientists and cultural figures and many others. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs does not make these decisions in any way in isolation; it certainly depends very much on which countries and how much potential we have. As far as foreign trade is concerned, we must recognise that in the 12 years that Estonia has had an embassy in Kazakhstan, this has not brought such a very strong, measurable benefit. This is a debate place, and I think that this debate must be held in the Committee on Foreign Affairs and also in other committees of the Riigikogu, whether we should hold embassies in as many places as possible where we hope to have potential, or whether we have reason to focus even more on those markets where we are already strong, such as Sweden. When we are talking about foreign trade, I do not know whether the members of the Riigikogu know that 18.8% of Estonian exports are going to Sweden and there is certainly much more potential. Or, for example, that 25% of all foreign investments that have come to Estonia come from Sweden. Or that we must also contribute to those countries where our potential is very high, such as Denmark. As a society and as a market, Denmark is quite similar to Sweden, but Estonia's trade with Denmark is six times smaller than trade with Sweden. So we'll see potential there. There are few simple solutions here. In all regions of the world, we cannot establish a network of our embassies, and a completely open debate must be held that if we reduce embassies in one place, what more will we get for it elsewhere? And then you have to watch the apples do what's smart. There must be some flexibility in the embassy network. There must also be areas where we know that Estonia must always be there, proper conditions, a dignified embassy building, etc. That is why the government has now also made it a priority to invest in Estonia's presence in the so-called physical sense. The embassy in Moscow alone means an investment of over 20 million euros, but I believe it is very necessary that Estonian diplomats can work there under good conditions. We are also planning to invest in the Estonian Embassy in Washington. It will also be an exceptionally expensive project because, as you know, this area is surrounded by roads and there is little room for construction. It's all about finding money. Once again, for all embassies, consideration should be given to the extent to which the effect is relative to the cost. You just have to be very open for debate here.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-18_U42	Thank you, President-in-Office. Prime Minister! You talked about the end of trade and painted a pretty ugly picture of what it would bring to the richer and poorer countries. To tell you the truth, I was very impressed. I really do not know any country that would like to end trade. Not even North Korea wants that. I do not know of any political party, at least more or less normal, who would like to end trade. I do not know any such countries of the European Union, not even England that has left, nor the other countries that have closed or wish to close their borders to mass immigration. In what context and why are you even saying that?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-18_U43	Thank you for this very good question. I certainly did not want to paint the black script, but I referred to a very well-known study carried out by the British economic magazine The Economist, which I strongly recommend to read. There was described why protectionism was wrong. The article was entitled 'Why They Are Wrong' and, if I remember correctly, it was on the cover of a specific Economist number. That must have been the first number this month. It reflected a study carried out in 40 countries, which considered how many people would be poorer if there were no trade effect. It was just scientific research and quite representative. The reason I gave this example was that the poorest would lose many times more than the richest people if there were no trade. This study broke myths for at least a lot of people. And if this study is to be extended, just as there is a great deal to be lost if there is no trade, it is logical that there is a great deal to be won if there is much more trade. If the European Union is on one side with its 500 million people, plus on the other side of the Atlantic a market of about the same size, let us think about how much synergies can be found together. Based on this academic study, but also on common sense, peasantry and historical experience in Estonia, we can say that free trade is definitely in Estonia's interest and Estonia too has a lot to gain from when there is more free trade in the world, including between us and the United States of America and us and Canada.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-18_U44	Oudekki Loone, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-18_U45	Thank you. Mr. Prime Minister! You have stressed the importance of free trade here. Welcome to the world! In terms of customs, trade between the US and Europe is already free enough; there is no need to break through an open door. However, in the Transatlantic Free Trade Agreement currently under discussion within the TTIP, there is a principle that international corporations, such as the automotive industry, may challenge national legislation, such as the minimum wage, in international tribunals. These tribunals are not accountable to the electorate; they do not have to care about the well-being of the citizens of Estonia or of Europe as a whole, as the national courts would certainly do. In this connection, I wonder why Estonia has decided, under your leadership, to support such an agreement that threatens our sovereignty. Perhaps there is hope that these tribunals and such international arbitration will be removed from this agreement.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-18_U46	Thank you. There is no need to fear that the international tribunal will now come and attack the Estonian minimum wage. The free trade agreement also does not threaten Estonia's sovereignty to any extent. I remember very well how your party partner was 20 years ago or a little less my economic lecturer. I graduated foreign trade from the University of Tartu. At the time, all the active politicians as an economic lecturer made this talk that under no circumstances should Estonia lose between the countries of Estonia and those of the European Union. At that time, we probably were not yet members of the European Union. Thank God we had different faculty! For example, the current professor and academician Urmas Varblane, who was then an associate professor, also gave an alternative picture to young students. If we look back at Estonia's history, it is very difficult to imagine how Estonia would be able to be as successful as it would be between us and other Europe. So in any case, all protectionism does is restrict development. We do not need this developmental limiter. As for that, there is no need to welcome me to the world. I arrived in the world as early as 26 September 1979, more or less at the same time as you and yourself. Once again, from my experience, I can say that there are indeed, and indeed there are, goods in which customs exist between Europe and the United States. It's the same example of a car with about 10% inches. So a number of German brand cars produced in the United States are also on the Estonian market because there is a duty, ten percent more expensive than any transport and other costs. Secondly, the free trade agreement is not just a matter of customs. The free trade agreement also means removing other obstacles and harmonising rules. Once again, I can see that there is a great deal to be won by achieving synergies between Europe and America. This is something that not only according to the Economist survey, but also according to logic and economic theory in general, is useful for the incomes of Estonian people.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-18_U47	Igor Gräzin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-18_U48	Good Prime Minister! Relationships with Great Britain are special. The British are our military allies, our fellow fighters, the intellectual example of the Soviet era, when we recall Georg Meri, Enn Soosaart, etc. Ultimately, Britain is our very good and special friend. Relations with Great Britain will be a completely separate block in the future, and in this separate block, Estonia, I emphasise, has specially close and very special interests with Great Britain. Here's the question: how are these relationships going to develop? Who, in the government and Parliament, will deal separately with the issues of Britain, bearing in mind the legal uniqueness, which you have also pointed out. Great Britain shall not become an EEC member. So we have a problem with a member of the European Union not, our great friend is. Who's gonna do it?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-18_U49	Thank you. As for the four-line section of the road to Pärnu or Iklan, I will say that it will certainly be four-line, and the sooner, the better. There are several reasons for this: faster connections, much safer roads, etc. In the same way, I am convinced that four lines should be the standard for connecting with other major cities. This is a subject that we have discussed quite thoroughly with the Minister for Economic Affairs and Infrastructure, Kristen Michal, and I think we could have such ambition. In addition to the euro funds already provided for in the road plan, we will probably no longer be able to obtain any additional funds. But I think we can build our own way into four lines. Just as the government found an opportunity to invest in the section of Kose-Mäo on the Tartu highway. After all, the thing that was under discussion for a long time, for a few decades, it was discussed whether to do it or what to do. We found a way. And I hope that in the coming weeks, or at least in the coming months, we will be able to discuss a broader plan. Our ambition in road construction could be to ensure that we are much better connected in terms of roads, both within Europe and within the country.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-18_U50	Thank you, Prime Minister. No more questions for you. I would like the Chair of the Committee on European Union Affairs, Kalle Palling, to give a presentation.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-18_U51	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Prime Minister! Good guests! Ladies and gentlemen, It is a great honour to speak to you here today on behalf of the Riigikogu on behalf of the European Union Affairs Committee, and to do so at the moment when we are separated from the historic Estonia's first Presidency of the European Union by only 256 days. Whoever doesn't remember the past lives without a future. It was fortunate that, after World War II, at the end of the darkest era in the history of one of our continents, there were also statesmen in Europe whose vision extended beyond tomorrow and the next elections. It was their vision and their hard work that laid the foundation for the European Union, without which Europe today is extremely difficult, if not impossible to imagine. Speaking before the Bundestag in 1954, the then German Chancellor Konrad Adenauer said: 'Europe's unity was originally a dream of only a few, but it became the hope of many, and today it is a necessity for all of us. ' Now, 62 years later, by saying his words before the Estonian Parliament, their message and weight are still important. However, we are now finding ourselves in a situation where more and more political forces across Europe are seeking cheap popularity with slogans that claim that the idea of the European Union has exceeded its 'Best Before' deadline. Unfortunately, their vision of tomorrow and the next election, the next Twitter tweet, does not go much further. Estonia's interests were, is and will remain a strong, united and cooperative Europe. It has been said that the European Union is like an Estonian life insurance policy. After a dozen years of membership, that's still the case. The European Union is our guarantee of economic and social security. We should not forget for a moment that a small country like Estonia would have the most to lose from the possible failure of the European Union project. Good Riigikogu! The task of the European Union Affairs Commission is to keep a hand in important developments that affect the performance of the Community and thus Estonia. The Year of the European Union Affairs Commission has been a working year. I would like to thank the Members of the Commission here for their commitment. Thank you. In the last 12 months, we have organised several public hearings, thoughts mornings and meetings with experts and diplomats. The thematic cycle has been extremely broad, ranging from the migration crisis to the collaborative economy. Of course, we have also followed developments in the United Kingdom very closely. The last departure from the European Union means for us that Estonia loses one of its closest allies within the Community, with whom we have taken one step on several issues. Why the United Kingdom is leaving the European Union is a question that, despite the result of the referendum, the British are still looking for an answer. In our committee's discussions, the sense that Brexit did not appear empty has shone. Political responsibility is therefore essential, and making Brussels a scapegoat for internal policy reasons is not a sustainable policy. After Brexit, the European Union will no longer be the same. We must stand up for our positions to be heard more strongly on matters that are important to Estonia and where until now the United Kingdom has often taken on the role of spokesperson. Estonia has the competence and capacity to do so, which is already demonstrated by our readiness to start the Estonian Presidency six months earlier than planned. Paraphrasing Jakob Hurta: 'If Estonians do not grow up in the European Union, we must grow up with our ideas. " Why could Estonia not, in many respects, be a good example for other, often larger, Member States? I am thinking of upholding principles such as responsibility, adherence to agreed rules and the implementation of decisions. Raising Europe's competitive edge through greater digitisation and cutting red tape is an area where we can bring real added value to Europe. Good Europeans! Recently, the prestigious publication The Economist, led by Estonian and German digital Commissioners Andrus Ansip and Günther Oettinger, identified the initiative of the European Digital Market as the strategy with the greatest economic impact in the European Union. For Estonia, its core is the principle of the free movement of data, which must become the fifth freedom of the European Union. This is the future where there are no restrictions in e-commerce and e-services against the logic of the single market. Technological progress can never be too rapid, but countries can be slow to adopt them. Keeping pace with change is largely the key to our competitiveness. Therefore, if, thanks to technological solutions, we are able to provide our children with better education or, through e-health, to save lives and the valuable time of doctors, we should also be able to do so. In June of this year, the European Commission came up with a European agenda for the collaborative economy. Four months before that, the Riigikogu had initiated a draft as the first swallow to regulate driving distribution based on digital platforms. The latter is the first step in developing a comprehensive solution. A few days ago in Brussels, when we met Jyrki Katainen, Vice-President of the European Commission, we found that Estonia is a pioneer in this area in Europe. At the same time, there is also a need to focus on the potential risks of digitisation. It should be taken into account that future labour market needs are constantly changing. We need flexible employment opportunities and the wealth of skills and knowledge that young people in the 21st century will bring to the labour market will be as diverse as possible and allow for rapid adaptation. Why should Estonia not be the lighthouse of the digital single market and the sharing economy in the above mentioned issues? President Toomas Hendrik Ilves has said: 'I can already see Estonia pulling and pushing its example and work from the rest of Europe into the 21st century so that our common Europe can compete in a rapidly changing world. ' Happy Members of the Riigikogu! The European Union is committed to abolishing the internal energy islands. Estonia is also working for this. This week, the financing decision for the Balticconnector gas pipeline between Estonia and Finland will be signed in Brussels. The criticism that came into play when it was launched has not justified itself. It is a vital connection between the Baltic States and the Nordic countries, and it is a good example that Estonia not only takes action but also does it. Looking ahead, the most important objective of the coming years will be the desynchronousisation of our electricity system from the Russian system. Unfortunately, life has shown that Russia is not a partner we can trust. We must therefore take advantage of the opportunities to reduce Estonia's dependence on Russia. All the more so since relations between the European Union and Russia are still at a low level. Russia's activities, both in Ukraine and increasingly in Syria, have not created opportunities to improve the situation, on the contrary. It is important that the abolition of sanctions already imposed on Russia is not decided solely on the basis of guts or coffee grounds. This should still be in line with the real situation and the conditions imposed by the sanctions. As the economic impact of the latter is particularly significant in the long term, Europe needs strategic patience on this issue. Sanctions are not about the private interest of Estonia or Eastern Europe, but about the lavages of the European Union's credibility of principle. In order to prevent our neighbourhood from exporting instability to Europe, we must import stability there. How do you do that? The Eastern Partnership countries must continue to take the view that the conditions are to be fulfilled and that promises are to be kept. For years, Georgia has been working towards visa liberalisation for its citizens with the European Union. All the conditions for this have been met and it must be implemented. The Association Agreement between the European Union and Ukraine, approved by the Council of the European Union, ratified by the Parliament of the 27 countries of the European Union and the European Parliament, must be fully implemented as soon as possible. There will be presidential elections in Moldova where, after a 16-year break, the people will be able to directly elect the President. We expect Moldova to continue in a pro-European direction. However, thinking about the southern dimension, we find ourselves in a situation where the European Union has been trying to change its neighbourhood for years, but instead it is our neighbourhood that is changing us. Both Brexi and the ensuing debates on the future of Europe underline that citizens expect us to have control over the situation. Consequently, the European Commission is in the process of launching a foreign investment plan for Africa and the neighbourhood, which would also prevent many economic migrants from moving to Europe at risk through economic recovery. It would also be a step towards addressing the root causes of migration in addition to crisis measures. However, it is important to distinguish between economic migrants and people fleeing war zones, because helping them is still a moral duty of the European Union and here the contribution of each Member State is important. What is positive is that the European Commission has taken this issue very seriously on its desk. Criticism at migration initiatives is welcome, but it should be constructive and include concrete proposals for effective solutions. Of course, closing borders or leaving people drowning is not among the latter. I want to hope that Estonia will be a responsible partner in the event of a migration crisis and that there will be no irreversible damage to the reputation of national scores. So far, refugees who have come to Estonia have also stayed here. So we have done well and have made commitments that we can meet. As a result of the migration crisis, we have strengthened border cooperation in Europe. Weeks ago, the European Union's Border and Coast Guard Agency started its work. The survival of Schengen is crucial for the future of the European Union. Good friends! The issue of enhancing the internal and external security of the European Union has become more acute than ever before. This is also reflected in our Commission's end-of-year plans. We intend to organise a public hearing on the plans for enhanced European defence cooperation. Certainly, Estonia should not support the construction of replicable defence structures, but while closer defence cooperation between the Union can create added value, we should not exclude this. Certainly we will not lose focus on economic security. Europe's competitiveness depends to a large extent on good trade relations with North America and Asian partners. The negotiations on a free trade agreement between the European Union and Canada have come to an end. It is in Estonia's interest that the agreement be signed at the European Union-Canada Summit next week. We hope that the concerns of the individual Member States, or rather one Member State, which has not yet given the green light, will be overcome. Negotiations on a free trade agreement between the European Union and the United States of America have now been ongoing for three years. In September, Cecilia Malmström, European Commissioner for Trade, also addressed the issue in Estonia at the invitation of the European Union Affairs Committee. At the meeting, we found that when explaining the need for transatlantic trade cooperation to citizens, politicians still have serious work to do. This is important, however, because the agreement depends no more or less on whether or not the 21st-century trade rules are written by the European Union and the US into chaos or by other major economic powers in the world. Let us not forget that history has shown that self-locking and protectionism have not brought Europe greater security or economic prosperity. On the contrary. Let us not repeat these mistakes, let us learn from them. Let us focus on solutions that will not only help us today and tomorrow, but also in the long term. Ladies and gentlemen, Paraphrasing President John Kennedy: 'Let us not always ask what the European Union can do for Estonia, but also what Estonia can do for the European Union. " Next year, Estonia will already bear the responsibility of the Presidency. This is a great opportunity for us. However, the Presidency is not just up to the government. Estonia has one Presidency and the government and parliament should complement and support each other's work here. The Riigikogu has seven parliamentary-level conferences and meetings during the Presidency. We will certainly focus on Estonia's strengths, such as connections, the free movement of data, as well as the sharing economy, among other things. In the Riigikogu, the Presidency means in particular additional responsibilities for the Committee on Finance, Economics, Foreign Affairs, Defence and European Union Affairs and the heads of these committees. The task of politicians is to ensure the success of the parliamentary dimension, which requires the mobilisation of the official body, the substantive preparation of meetings and their leadership. In the second half of next year, the local government council elections will also take place. Communicating with voters in the context of these elections is now an opportunity to reach a lot more Estonian people to explain why the European Union is necessary for us and what the real benefits of Estonia's European cooperation are. Let us take advantage of this opportunity. Cooperation between the Government and Parliament on European Union matters has been based on the principle of mutual respect and openness. At the moment, we in the Commission feel that the government's attention has turned to preparations for the Presidency, and that is the way it should be. Dear listeners! It is important to refer to and highlight problems. It is even more important to seek and find solutions to these problems. However, the most important thing remains that these same solutions are actually implemented. I dare say that we still have quite a lot of good ideas, ideas and solutions in Europe. However, their value will devalue if we fail to implement the agreed promises. If much is being done, but little is being done, it is precisely this dangerous tendency that disappoints citizens and alienates the European Union. Finally, I would like to refute one of the widely used myths. The crises do not show that the European Union has become unnecessary or unnecessary. On the contrary. It is these very crisis situations that have shown how much we need the European Union. Paraphrasing Voltaire: 'If the European Union did not exist, it should be invented. ' The European Union is the most unique platform for transnational cooperation to help us find and implement solutions to common challenges in Europe. It is shortsighted to feed the illusion that alone is better. The European Union is more important to us than ever before. It is in all our interests that this Union remains strong, united and cooperative. Estonia has a contribution to make here. We all have a contribution to make in this Chamber. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-18_U52	Thank you. By definition, it's different things. However, we decided, both from the previous 2015 budget and from the 2016 budget, to pay support in the name of crisis support and not in the name of transitional support. There was a very simple reason. Transitional support, the so-called top-up, has rather narrow rules on how this money can be used. In previous years, it was not possible or possible to use transitional support for pig farming, for example, in the following year. And we know that in fact, it was the pig farming that needed help because the plague struck in. So for that, we had to allocate crisis aid. The transitional payment can be used in the dairy sector. Next year, the maximum amount of milk aid is EUR 9.2 million, half of which, i.e. EUR 4.6 million, we will also have budgeted, plus EUR 3 million at the end of this year. So, if you take into account the amount to be allocated at the end of this year, which in essence will help next year, we will support milking at almost the maximum rate. But, of course, if the Riigikogu finds possibilities for paying additional grants in the budget, then it is up to you to decide that you have the adoption of the budget. Yeah, actually, the top-up could be worth nearly 21 million already. The remaining amount between this 9.2 million and about 21 million is mainly for cereals and other crops, for which there is currently no crisis in Estonia. That is why we have taken the view that we are using taxpayers' money as targeted as possible, as efficiently as possible, and that we are exclusively channelling all crisis aid or top-up into sectors where it is difficult, i.e. pig farming and dairying.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-18_U53	Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-18_U54	Thank you. First of all, good Igor, I'm going to sign all those sentences where you used the word'special'. Britain has indeed been particularly important for Estonia for a long time, long before Estonia became a Member State of the European Union. The design of future relations is taking place, I dare say, probably in all, or at least in almost all, councils, led by the Council. In the Council, we have a responsibility to lay down the general principles on which these future relations can be built, and I will certainly represent Estonia there in the best possible way, as I can. I am also absolutely certain that when specific areas of cooperation are discussed, be it cooperation in the field of security, agricultural cooperation or scientific cooperation, to which Krista Aru referred earlier, this issue will arise in each of the specific sectoral councils. As far as the design of legal relations is concerned, I believe that I am not very wrong, however, we are in the initial phase of this process, in that sense, final assessments are an asset to give, if I suggest that the main role will be there for the European Commission. But I think we will find a way for Estonia to make a fair contribution to this, so that this relationship is the best possible in legal terms.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-18_U55	Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-18_U56	Honourable President! Honorable Prime Minister! Today's feed has brought a message from Germany where the chairman of the Bundestag Foreign Committee says that the German Government should stop the Nord Stream 2 gas pipeline project. Russia's recent behaviour in Syria and Ukraine has, in general, made the attitude of Western countries more critical of Russia. Do you think this criticality will be passed on to the gas pipeline project? Do you have any information from Germany about recent times?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-18_U57	Thank you. Let's just say that Estonia has never been too naive on this issue. We have seen that Nord Stream 2 is more political than an economic project. This project would certainly increase the dependence of some EU countries, especially Western European countries, on gas from one specific source. Well, once again, the very basic economic logic says that only one supplier is never good, because that's what makes it addictive. At the same time, if we see that this is such an important source or product, which is very difficult to replace in some places, this dependence becomes even greater and more problematic. A legal analysis by the European Commission is currently underway as to whether Nord Stream 2 is at all in line with European Union rules, precisely because it does not actually reduce dependence but increases it. And if there are two tubes that both start and end in more or less the same place, then it doesn't offer any credible alternative. Have the views of the countries changed? Yeah, I think so. I think there is less of this very blue-eyed assumption that it is only an economic project. More has been introduced to examples where energy has been used as a weapon in the sense of politically influencing the behaviour of a country, which in any case is deplorable, by means of energy disruption or other such means. In the short term, we will see what positions come from the countries around the Baltic Sea on this issue. Certainly, much depends also on the European Commission and its legal assessment of this project. The starting point for Estonia is that the Commission's policy, according to which the European Union should be covered by the so-called interconnectors, is very correct. This week, as I said, the Balticconnector will be officially launched. We are ourselves building a connection with Finland, Lithuania is building a connection with Poland, etc. So, ultimately, there will also be a network in our region where LNG terminals can be in different countries and gas can flow in these pipes in the direction where consumption is currently taking place and come from where there is currently a more favourable price. So, yes, I also learned from this news that such a message has come from the German Bundestag Committee on Foreign Affairs. Whether this automatically means the official position of the whole of Germany is, in my opinion, a little early to say.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-18_U58	Thomas Stone Mountain, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-18_U59	Thank you, Mr President. Very honourable Prime Minister! Thank you very much for a meaningful and constructive presentation. My special thanks go to Rail Baltic! I am not ashamed to admit that, in the context of the European Union, Estonia is actually a periphery in terms of accessibility. Now, indeed, we have a historic opportunity to improve connections with the European Union qualitatively. Therefore, I find it very incomprehensible once again that the people of one group are opposed to this project, which is both strategically, politically and economically crucial for Estonia, and not only Estonia, but just as much for Lithuania and Latvia, but perhaps even more for Finland, not to mention the European Union. In this key, it is incomprehensible that there is a group of people who think that I will not use the word 'Tartu', which is more than 100 kilometres longer, to make this project more environmentally friendly or economically more advantageous. There's a lie on the other end, just as if it could be used somewhere else.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-18_U60	Good colleague, please ask a question!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-18_U61	Mr Henrik Hololei, Director-General of the European Commission's Directorate-General for Transport, said that 'use it or lose it'. So if we don't use that money out there, we're gonna lose the money. Since there is no time for this, thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-18_U62	Thank you for this positive programme. I fully agree that this is an historic opportunity for Estonia. It would be more difficult to build this railway from own resources alone. It would be even more difficult if each country were only to manage its own money, to achieve that path from Tallinn to Warsaw and then to move forward. This is very difficult to achieve. It is an absolute prerequisite for the European Union to give its support. You had a very good point that the European Union would not give money from the same pot or from the same source for anything completely different, including national associations. That has to be taken into account. For the European Union, it is precisely a project to unite countries. We also need to invest in national infrastructure, including to improve the quality of the connection between Tallinn, Tartu and Valga, but to do so we need to invest our resources. These connections are not alternatives to Rail Baltic. I am also a little surprised by the fact that Rail Baltic should somehow divide Estonian society. Today we still have railways and roads and, in my understanding, they still connect Estonia's different regions to each other, not the other way around. It is also very right that this is a strategic link, both in terms of trade and in terms of passengers. Perhaps the number of passengers travelling by train to Berlin is less, but Tallinn was better than Tallinn, but also in Kaunas, this distance is certainly very attractive when travelling by train. If we consider that this train will stop at Tallinn Airport and drive Pärnu for an hour, then the Pärnu connection to the whole world will still improve very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-18_U63	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Prime Minister! I have some specific questions about the anti-Russia rhetoric that you use all the time. Are you aware that President Petro Poroshenko of Ukraine is a large company in Russia? He has a huge industry in Lipetski and is currently developing two more sites, building new factories. Do you know that there is a visa-free regime between Russia and Ukraine? How do you appreciate that 3 million Ukrainians work in Russia every year and get paid there? Are you aware that the OSCE made a presentation stating that there are no Russian troops in Eastern Ukraine? And since there is still time, I also ask in relation to Georgia: do you remember that, at the end of 2008, Nicolas Sarkozy, the then President of France, who was at the head of the international commission, carried out an investigation and announced that Russia was not an aggressor in Georgia? Just the details.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-18_U64	Thank you. Well, once again, the time has come for the Centre Party to have a debate about whether Crimea was released or conquered. I am saving all our time, we understand that there is a certain value conflict in this matter. I remain very critical in this regard, finding that the Russian leadership has acted as an aggressor in its neighbouring countries, and not just in neighbouring countries. And this is a policy that I have criticised so far and which I intend to criticise in the future. Just as all my other colleagues in the European Union criticise it. As regards references to some specific Russian companies or, more generally, to Russian life, when we are critical of the aggressor's mentality of the Russian political leadership, it does not mean that we should automatically view all Russian companies, the Russian people and even less Russian culture, for example, with prejudice or criticism. Estonian entrepreneurs also have companies in Russia. This does not make them all co-responsible, for example, in the case of the Ukrainian aggression. I don't fully understand the parallel you've given me. As regards Georgia, including Northern Ossetia and Abkhazia, which continue to be the territory of Georgia, even though these areas are occupied, they are, by law, part of the territory of Georgia, Eastern Ukraine and Crimea, Russia has clearly acted as an aggressor. My colleagues in the European Union also agree with me on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-18_U65	Raivo Põldaru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-18_U66	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Prime Minister! From your reply to Mr Gräzin's question a little while ago, I understood that we have a direct communication with the United Kingdom, as it does not seem, that communication goes through the European Commission, where you defend our thoughts and ideas. The question, however, is: why could we not also conclude our border agreement with Russia through the European Commission? The European Union might also be interested to have a slightly larger territory than it could be now, and perhaps our interests would be better protected.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-18_U67	Thank you. I spoke in the context of the departure talks between the United Kingdom and the European Union about the Council of the European Union, where ministers are represented, and the European Commission playing a key role here because the departure talks cannot take place separately from each Member State. The European Union represents us all together, and as the Presidency of the European Union, we represent the whole of the European Union. But as far as the border agreement is concerned, it seems to me that here we still have to work things out bilaterally somehow. After all, we have said that we do not have a thing behind us, we have done our first reading in Parliament. We'll see how these processes start moving in the State Duma after the elections. We are prepared to act in parallel with them.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-18_U68	Dmitri Dmitriev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-18_U69	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Prime Minister! When it comes to the implementation of the European Union's policy, I was just looking at the news from the European Parliament. The Budget Committee has expressed strong support for the agricultural sector and has included EUR 600 million in the draft budget in order to cushion the situation in the dairy sector as a result of sanctions against the Russian Federation. Can you answer in general terms whether the Government of the Republic of Estonia has planned special or additional measures in order to support milking in its agricultural sector?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-18_U70	Thank you. First of all, a little bit of clarification. The milk of Estonia and other Member States of the European Union cannot move towards Russia, not because we have imposed sanctions against the Russian Federation, but because the Russian Federation has imposed its own sanctions against the countries of the European Union. It's stuck behind them, they don't want to buy our milk. That's one. Secondly, with regard to the news about crisis aid, of course this is good news for Estonian agriculture too, and such news has come repeatedly over the last few years. The Estonian Minister for Rural Affairs and the Ministry of Rural Affairs, together with their Latvian and Lithuanian colleagues, have worked hard to achieve this, whose situation is similar to ours. But the situation is not just like them, it is like this throughout Europe. Even New Zealand, which is a very large dairy producer country, is in a similarly difficult situation. This is why, of course, I am delighted when further crisis aid comes from Europe, just as last year and this year, Estonian farmers have also received emergency crisis aid directly from Europe. The government has stepped up its efforts to put the country's taxpayer's money on it. But if you ask what is next year's crisis aid for the Estonian dairy sector, the budget currently includes 4.6 million euros of top-up directly related to dairying. If I remember correctly, I think it was Peeter Ernits' question, which I said more about.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-18_U71	Andres Metsoja, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-18_U72	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-18_U73	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister, thank you for your presentation. It would really be a lot to ask, but I am asking for a specific matter relating to structural resources and money. We all know that Britain was a very generous and large contributor to Europe's single currency and various programmes. Is it now, and how seriously, that the potential reduction in structural resources has been reviewed? I know that the budgets for research and innovation programmes have already been cut and are probably being cut again. How serious is this subject now on the table and where have we come from? What's to come?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-18_U74	Thank you. We are still at this stage where we only found out at the beginning of October what the British Prime Minister's 'view' of what Brexit is going to look like or when it starts. I believe that, in the case of the Structural Funds, we must, above all, talk about how to strike a balance between them in the next period without Britain's revenue and also its cost side. It is true that Britain has been an important contributor. But what concerns me specifically about R &amp; D is more about how cooperation with research and development institutions in Great Britain will continue. We know that Britain is an absolute peak in this area, as in many other areas. The interest of our R &amp; D institutions and researchers is certainly that contacts with Great Britain will continue in the future. This is one subject that needs to be addressed. However, when it comes specifically to the costs and benefits of the Structural Funds, I believe that this is particularly the case for the next period, i.e. 2021+. The preparations for this period are very likely to begin already during the Estonian Presidency.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-18_U75	Arthur Talvik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-18_U76	Thank you, manager. Good Prime Minister, thank you for your presentation. My question concerns the Presidency. If we are now looking at the Presidency of the Council of Europe, then the Presidency of the European Council will also be harassed by the same problem that they want to deal with everything, but in the end they will not deal with anything, i.e. the indiscretion or oversaturation of plans. But I am dealing with digital problems, because the digital issue is probably one of the subjects of the Presidency. In the digital world, perhaps the biggest concern is the lack of legislation. Does the Presidency also intend to address the issues of copyright and, therefore, the so-called open data?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-18_U77	Thank you. In digital legislation, the Commission has very ambitious plans under the leadership of our own countryman. You can certainly send you a comprehensive overview of which legislation and at what point it is planned to give or adopt. All these issues, which are important in the digital field, can, of course, also be dealt with during the Estonian Presidency. But I will come back to the first part of this question and to a certain criticism. Firstly, the Presidency of the Council of Europe and the Presidency of the Council of the European Union are, of course, things of very large scale. In the case of the Presidency of the European Union, we are contributing essentially half a year to the working time of a thousand people, and to a very large extent we are really running Europe. And to do that, you can't take the à la carte menu and say that we're only dealing with things that interest us. Our experience in the European Union in this 12.5 years, which we have been a member of, has shown that we must have a cardinality to deal with all issues. Interestingly, I have noticed that if Estonia is interested in topics with which we do not have direct contact, but what is important to our friends and partners, it will also help to increase their interest in such issues, which in turn are important to us again. So when we lead the European Union, we must inevitably be able to address all areas properly, which of course does not mean that we cannot formulate our clear priorities. As I said, we can simply, out of courtesy to the current and next President-in-Office of the Riigikogu, address them in the large hall next spring, so as not to anticipate events.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-18_U78	Aadu Black, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-18_U79	Thank you very much. It was said that in countries where there is an earthquake risk and a risk for houses, the principles of architecture and design have been tightened up and houses remain standing. By drawing parallels here, however, the European Union has already learned to strengthen this architecture and design, but it is clear that there is still room for improvement here. When you live your daily life, you cannot and do not have to think about such things, for example, an entrepreneur, a schoolteacher or a pensioner. It is important that those responsible do their job with their hearts and feel the concerns of people on these issues. Stability and peace around us are normal expectations for which no effort is excessive. And another little mark. If you want to get to know more about the European Union's policy plans and objectives, this information is perfectly provided online on the website of both the Government and the Riigikogu. It's just time to read everything. I, in any case, thank the rapporteurs today and all the speakers. Such a concentrated overview of the European Union's policies, even once a year, through parliamentary hearings, is still very important for all Members of Parliament, and I am sure that the public too. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-18_U80	There are certainly areas where we have gone further, and there are those where we still have to take lessons and where more effort is needed. But I wouldn't mention a single area here. Estonia is certainly among those Member States which, when they joined the European Union, took the principle that agreements are to be implemented and we will implement these things that we have agreed jointly in the European Union. And I think it's been noticed.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-18_U81	During the negotiations, the vigilante never knows how much momentum he can get, which is why it's extra time. There are no further requests to speak. That's what I got. On behalf of the Group of the Pro Patria and Res Publica Alliance, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-18_U82	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good Prime Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union, I want to thank the Prime Minister for a very meaningful presentation. I would also like to thank the Chair of the Committee on European Union Affairs for taking a look at the issues that are now topical, but what is really happening, as our previous speeches show, over and over again has been topical not only in the last year, but in recent years. We need to emphasise one of the perhaps most important things and, in the time I have been given, I would focus on one of the most important keywords in my opinion. Life's crazy, but what the hell. The world won't collapse and we'll live on. It's a free translation of a very famous song by Bob Dylan, the new Nobel Prize winner. I think Dylan, of course, did not think about Europe when writing his lyrics, but rather about Acapulco and what was happening there. But what you can deny there is quite a reflection of all the concerns and criticisms that have been said in this Chamber before. If you listen to the views of some opposition party, you don't even dare go out this door. It seems as if the European Union is about to collapse and everything that has been done so far has been done very wrong. In fact, when we look at what is affecting the European Union now, it really is not just internal concerns that exist in individual European Union Member States, nor is it what has happened since the British referendum. Europe, our development is affected by very large, very fundamental changes in the world order as a whole. All the crises or crises that the European Union and Estonia, as a border country of the European Union, have encountered in one way or another as a border country of the free world, affect us in the same way. These are the challenges from the East or the South, which, even looking at us in the long term, are ambushing and testing us, or the internal perceptions of whether the European Union is a project or not. Today, the word 'project' has been repeated all the time. In my opinion, the European Union is not a project; the European Union is fate. We have all learned history, some more, others less, but when we think of it, the dream of a united Europe is hundreds of years old. The first was this need for a united Europe, the need to save the Christian world, perhaps after Constantinople's fall in 1453. This idea has been multiplied through time. However, they have been writers, such as Victor Hugo in the 19th century, or an earlier colleague of the British Prime Minister Winston Churchill in 1946, in his famous Zurich speech, where he spoke about the United States of Europe and its need to keep Europe together to protect Europe from the dangers that then ambushed Europe after the great war. But I believe that, in fact, Britain today, among both the Tories and all the others, who are debating what will come from a country after leaving the European Union, there is, however, a strong belief that, in this great world, there is a much better argument for the great challenges of China, the United States, extreme Islamic radicalism and Russia's aggressiveness, the European Union and European countries as a united force than any individual, alone, even Britain, despite their famous and rich history. I'm asking for three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-18_U83	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-18_U84	For this reason, the idea of the importance of a united Europe for Estonia has repeatedly and repeatedly run through all of our speeches is not a word at all. Estonia knows very well about its history, what will happen if we remain alone if our thoughts, ideas and values are not supported by a more united and vigorous action by allies and partners. As the Prime Minister pointed out in his speech, over the years Estonia has really done everything in order to be more integrated, and not just because we are somehow at the forefront, but because we sense that this is important to us. Being a member of the euro area as a driver of many drivers in the European Union, including, of course, digital economy, data exchange or data exchange, is extremely important; they are interesting and forward-looking ideas. At the same time, it is important that, when we talk about such big ideas and the importance of a united Europe, we need to understand how our citizens understand what a European identity is, what a European value area is. To understand, too, that in fact it is not simply given, it is not self-evident. Therefore, the policies that we defend, whether during the Presidency of the European Union or in the interests of Estonia, must always be linked to the interests of our own citizens, their support for what we are doing in this Parliament or in the government. And that is why the choices are made, from integration into any further institutional developments in Europe to real projects, not to the European Union project, but to real projects such as Balticconnector and Rail Baltic. As important as Rail Baltic is a better air connection for Estonia with the most important centres in Europe and in the rest of the world, it is not surprisingly said in this Chamber today during the debate to be more competitive. Finally. From this remote control, we were threatened with a federal Europe and how our interests are affected somehow. The European Union will not become a federal state, at least not soon. This is why it is particularly important for Estonia to emphasise precisely those agreements that have been concluded so far, which very well define the interaction of nation states within the European Union. The European Union was, is and will be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-18_U85	Sven Mikser on behalf of the Social Democratic Party Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-18_U86	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm sorry to use up to eight more minutes of your precious time! As a Member of Parliament, no one knows when the inspiration will visit him. When Bob Dylan was mentioned by the previous speaker, I remembered Bob Dylan's rich work in this series of songs that says that the times they are a-changin'. I think Bob Dylan had in mind not such a surprised one-time observation that, oh, the time that's been standing still all along, he's gone off at the same time, but this was a more general kind of observation. So times change, times move, the world changes all the time. Therefore, when it seems to very many of us, as one of the previous speakers said, that the migration crisis, for example, is the most existential crisis in history, I think that such an opinion strongly underestimates history, its length, its depth and its breadth. Similarly, those who say that the day after Brexit's referendum, the world is no longer what it was yesterday, on the one hand, right, that is true. But even if something so dramatic may not be included in newspaper headlines someday, the world today is not what it was yesterday, nor tomorrow is what it is today. When we talk about the European Union, painting the European Union's current situation in such dark or dramatic colours will certainly have some effect on those people who may be watching the world and the world's transformation without any particular deepening into what is beneath and behind these processes. Of course, there have never been easy times before the European Union. The European Union was brought to life when the world was going through very difficult times. Through all the decades of this very long existence, the European Union has moved from the crisis to the crisis in search of solutions for all of them, and so, of course, the European Union is still functioning today. Therefore, when Jakob Hurta and Voltaire were paraphrasing Jakob Hurta and Voltaire, the rapporteur for the Committee on European Union Affairs, I would like not to paraphras but to quote Karlsson from the roof and say, 'Peace, peace only! ' We can manage this with the European Union and the European Union can manage its existence, even after Brexit. Indeed, it is somewhat debatable, and it will probably remain debatable forever whether the British made their rather dramatic decision to leave the European Union because they were disappointed in the mechanisms of action of the institutions of the European Union, or whether the vote was based on some kind of assessment of the functioning of their own national institutions and the way their government has interacted with their own people. There may still be an argument about this, but it is certainly safe to say that the Brexit vote talks at least as much about Britain as it talks about Europe. Britain's relationship with the European Union has been exceptionally unique since its accession in the difficult 1970s, on the one hand because of their imperialist past and, on the other, because of their insular position. In view of all this, the British Prime Minister would not have had to play the Russian roulette with this question if he actually believed, deep down, that being the best for them in the European Union. Now that this has happened, it certainly does not mean an end to Britain or, of course, not to the European Union. Great Britain will continue to play an important role in both the European economy and security. The European Union, too, will not collapse after the British leave. Of course, we too must be active here and talk, on the one hand, through the position of a Member of the European Union, using its Presidency role already in the near future, and, on the other hand, from the position of a country that is interested in a very close relationship between Britain and continental Europe for security reasons and other reasons.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-18_U87	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-18_U88	Good manager! Good waitress! The summary of Estonian European Union policy is available on 70 pages. It's like the whole front line. Which part of this policy has developed the weakest? There's a lot to ask. For example, 45% of the European Union's habitats are inadequately protected in Estonia, or we take taxation, etc. Which part of Estonia's European Union policy is currently the weakest developed?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-18_U89	According to the theory of rational expectations, people and institutions make many decisions based on previous situations and experiences and the emotions associated with them. Because of a long period of stability and peace in Europe and, of course, in the European Union, a few years ago, there were such moods that, despite the financial crisis, life is slowly getting better. Recent times, as has been repeatedly said here today, have forced these concepts to be radically reviewed and to find new solutions. Although it is not always easy, as have the representatives of Estonia, who participate in the political processes of the European Union every day, they have had to experience practically. As the previous rapporteurs pointed out, crises affecting security and internal security have led Member States to realise that, at a somewhat different pace, everything is related to everything and that it is responsible for each other's daily security. I quote from the Prime Minister's speech here that cooperation and agreements with third countries are particularly important in this context, and a change of attitude within the European Union which allows the introduction of all policies and instruments to address the migration crisis. It is particularly worth repeating one imaginary assessment of the European Union's global strategy, which says that Russia's activities in Ukraine and, more broadly, around the Black Sea have shook the foundations of the European security architecture. In lands where there is an earthquake threat and a risk to houses and people, the principles of architecture and design have been substantially changed and houses remain standing. Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. What do I do, go away or can I ask you for two more minutes?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-18_U90	Please, two more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-18_U91	Thank you, President of the sitting. Mr President, thank you for your meaningful report. You mentioned there were 256 days left until the beginning of the Presidency. As Chairman of the Committee on European Union Affairs, you certainly have a very important role to play in organising this Presidency on the side of Parliament. How do you feel about where we are today? What do you think the role of the Committee on European Union Affairs, as well as the committees that you mentioned, could be in order to carry out our Presidency well in cooperation with the government?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-18_U92	Thank you. I'm not sure I mentioned the project so many times in my speech, as you are trying to attribute the word to me. But why should it stop? In fact, this is the best model of cooperation so far, where 28 Member States, soon 27 Member States, based on common values, common interests, make their people's living environment, the economic environment and the whole surrounding environment more secure, secure security. I think it is very clear and there have also been plenty of arguments in this Chamber today as to why there is currently no better alternative to cooperation. Being alone is certainly not an alternative.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-18_U93	Please, an extra minute!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-18_U94	Questions for the waitress. Yoko Alender, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-18_U95	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Good waitress! Thank you for your meaningful presentation. You talked a lot about keeping up with the changes and new technological solutions. The Member States of the European Union, individually and together in the form of the Paris climate agreement, are fighting against carisation both in terms of pollution and the lack of movement of people. As an architect, do you see, for example, in the case of the draft collaborative economy and by legitimising self-driving cars, in addition to being a guide, the possibility of improving the living environment of an Estonian person and improving well-being?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-18_U96	Thank you, good questioner! I'm sure these things are connected. So far, in the European Union, we have been working to reduce harmful substances from cars, mainly CO2, but we have not talked about how to reduce cars on the streets. Certainly self-driving cars, giving preference to ownership and more use of public transport are measures that actually help to improve our living environment. That is what we have been talking about here when discussing our respective issues, and this has also been mentioned in the European Commission communication, published on 2 June this year, that it is the collaborative economy that is likely to have the greatest positive environmental impact and, of course, the economic impact. If we look at the way, for example, in energy, the shift to cleaner energy production has made people's electricity bills bigger, then in the transport sector, it will generate greater savings and families will actually be able to tighten their transport budgets.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-18_U97	Thomas Stone Mountain, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-18_U98	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, This time there's gonna be a question. It is worth quoting, in fact, the sentence of your presentation that technological progress can never be too rapid, only countries can be slow to introduce new solutions. That's a great idea! However, when I recently read Äripäev, where there was a small overview of trade deals in different European countries, it was extremely surprising to me that in a very large number of countries there was essentially a negative view of this. Surprisingly because it is beneficial to the consumer, it is beneficial in terms of the environment and traffic management. It seems that business interests, the business interests of the old economy, often dominate new, modern e-solutions, including the collaborative economy. How do you think this paradigm could be changed? Is this a problem for the older Member States of the European Union alone, and could Estonia be a pioneer and an example here?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-18_U99	Estonia can certainly be an example. I think that we have been in many areas. It was not even my idea to refer to the sharing economy as much as the launch of the digital single market and the real introduction of e-solutions in the countries. When I have attended various parliamentary meetings in other Member States or have attended conferences, they have been told how much technology would actually help to improve people's daily lives. At the same time, states, rulers and politicians always find countless arguments as to why we should not adopt these solutions and why we should not go along with regulation, because this or the other sector could get hurt. I will use this good old example that if we had tried to protect payphones and telecom companies while Estonian young boys started working up a company like Skype, we would probably never have seen Skype's success. If we had still prescribed that there must be a Skype pay phone on the corner of every store. Mostly, I still point out that our health care will become much more effective, we would actually be able to save lives better if e-health solutions were introduced in other countries. Our education system would become more effective, and I think this list can continue for a long time. Your second reference was to someone's interests somewhere. I think it can also be extended to combat these very free trade agreements. People are often being intimidated, I don't know, by the loss of jobs and by the loss of all the comforts we've had so far. But when we look at how free trade has affected those countries where it works, people's lives have always actually improved there. As the Prime Minister pointed out, research confirms this. So we are always careful when someone wants to come somewhere to protect consumers, usually because of this is still protecting our own business interests.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-18_U100	Jaak Madison, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-18_U101	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Good waitress! I'd go to a more philosophical question. We have repeatedly heard discussions about the fact that the European project must not be interrupted, that the European project is essential. The European project is our future and the main insurance policy, as you yourself mentioned in your speech. Maybe you can explain it. As we know, the project is a process that must end with some result. What exactly is this project? How long is this project supposed to be? How should this project end, what are the positive results and possible negative outcomes of this project? As a statesman, you will certainly be able to look at the decades-long period, 2030 or 2050, for generations to come. What exactly is the European project by your definition?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-18_U102	First of all, I would like to mention again that Estonia has only one Presidency, including a parliamentary dimension, during which the government and Parliament will certainly cooperate well. The Board of the Riigikogu has entrusted us, i.e. the European Union Affairs Committee, with the task of drawing up, together with the sectoral committees, a list of priorities that are intended to be dealt with. We have done so and have reached the end result, which we will probably present in less than an hour on the Riigikogu's board. The Riigikogu Committee on European Union Affairs, the Committee on Foreign Affairs, the Committee on National Defence, the Committee on Monetary Affairs and the Committee on Economic Affairs must each be responsible for the event in their field, the international conference. In my opinion, there can be no other solution than that the Committee on European Union Affairs and the Board of the Riigikogu coordinate everything between the following sectoral committees. But that's something we can discuss in the board.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-18_U103	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-18_U104	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Ladies and gentlemen, My question is inspired by your response to Mr Madison. Do we need to understand that, for example, Norway and Switzerland, and now also Great Britain, which has decided to withdraw from the European Union, are countries that are alone and therefore in this 'pairy status'? Does that have to be understood?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-18_U105	Marko Mihkelson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-18_U106	No, you don't. If you had listened carefully, I said that it would certainly not be better on your own. The cooperation between the 27 countries in common matters is certainly more successful than any special partnership between one or more countries and the European Union. We have had enough talk about Britain here today. They themselves have made their choice, first in view of the outcome of the referendum. Citizens want to leave the European Union. Although a large part of Brexit's architects publicly admitted on the day following the referendum that they lied to their people, that's why. Let this be a lesson to others. In his recent speech, the British Prime Minister said that no light Brexit will come but 'hard Brexit'. In this sense, there is not much understanding here. They themselves have decided that their partnership will be considerably more complicated than that of Switzerland and also Norway than much more complicated, but much less than what they had before they belonged to the Union. Well, now they're still part of the European Union.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-18_U107	Thank you, Mr Palling, President of the European Union Affairs Committee. The members of the Riigikogu have no further questions. Honourable Riigikogu! Before we start negotiations, we need to make procedural decisions. The President has received three proposals for extending working time, but there are differences in how long we could extend working time. The Riigikogu Committee on Culture proposes to extend the working time of the sitting until the agenda is exhausted, but no longer than 14 o'clock. The Social Democratic Party Group requests that the working time of the Riigikogu session be extended until the agenda is exhausted, but no longer than 14 o'clock. The Committee on European Union Affairs proposes to extend the session of the Riigikogu until the agenda is exhausted, if necessary, but not beyond 13.30. The way I see it, if we extend it to 14:00, the wish to extend it to 13.30 will be met. So I shall first put to the vote the proposal to extend the working time of today's sitting until the agenda is exhausted, but no longer than 14 p.m. If it is not supported, I shall put the following motion to the vote. Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on the proposal of the Committee on Culture and the Social Democratic Party Group to extend the working time of the sitting until the agenda is exhausted, but no longer than 14 o'clock. Please take a stand and vote. There are 39 members of the Riigikogu in favour of the proposal, 12 against, one abstention. Working hours have been extended until the agenda is exhausted, but no longer than 14 p.m. Let's start the negotiations. On behalf of the Group of the Andrei Novikov Centre Party, please! Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-18_U108	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, Europe in general is now best characterised by the word 'crisis'. With similar words, I actually started the debate on European Union policy last year. This year's speech could be complemented here by the words of the European Commission President Jean-Claude Juncker's annual speech this year that the European Union is in an existential crisis. In the summer of 2015, when we saw the euro crisis, i.e. the possible separation or bankruptcy of Greece, which was able to find relief with additional financial allocations, the IMF is now going through the European capitals with a request to write part of Greece's debt into the chimneys, because the temporary doping is beginning to exhaust itself. Thus, the former government slogans that placing money in Greece is a good investment, not a non-refundable gift, probably no longer sound credible in the discussions between the members of the government. We have been told about the objective of reducing Greece's debt burden to 120% of GDP by 2020. Unfortunately, the statistics do not give us much assurance that this is possible. According to Eurostat, Greece's debt-to-GDP ratio has been 175-180% in recent years. Time ticks mercilessly, but there are no solutions. If last year was to speculate on the possibility of Britain leaving, then now it has become a reality. What to do in this situation is not true for the British, nor for the European Union. In economic terms, much depends on the path that Britain will take in further relations with the European Union. Will they remain in the common market of the European Union, enter into a free trade agreement, or will customs tariffs have to be taken into account when dealing with Britain in the future? Once sacred and inviolable sovereign debt restrictions, or Maastricht criteria, are now really only on paper. The volume of money printing in recent years has clearly exceeded the limits of normality. The economies of many Member States stand up because of extremely low or sometimes negative interest rates, which, on the one hand, allows endless emissions, but whose effects are also being exhausted. Lately fashion has its own economy boosted by bonds. At the same time, the Estonian Government is unable to propose any reasonable way to use this opportunity and will therefore continue to support foreign economies. Another example of a European policy that has not ended beyond the empty hours of the Member States and the Commission is the Transatlantic Trade and Investment Partnership (TTIP). The European Union and the United States are the largest trading partners in the world. Nevertheless, the European Union and the US have not fully realised the opportunities for their economic cooperation. Negotiations on the free trade agreement between the European Union and the US started already on 8 July 2013, but were preceded by a long-term period of preparation. The future fate of the agreement is currently unknown in Brussels, not in the United States. The issue of refugees is also undoubtedly a crisis that has become worse over the year. Europe is acting in a two-faced way here, on the one hand, with the message 'Welcome to Europe! 'and, on the other hand, setting guard limits and trying to buy other countries so they don't let refugees come here for God's sake. The European Union's Treaty of Turkey has become a model for this kind of deal, with dictators of the terms of the agreement no longer in Europe. Now Estonia. The state budget for 2017 will soon be discussed with a negative sign. If we subtract things financed by the European Union from this, the minus sign will simply become a long continuous line. I will give you an example of investments in roads. In this regard, of course, we need Europe, because our government simply cannot manage on its own. In a situation where annual increases in excise duty have become a new normality, the country's contribution to roads is not growing, as the revenue from excise duties on fuel and the financing of roads are decoupled. At the same time, yesterday was the last moment to prepare for the time when Estonia would have to cope without the help of the European Union. The sanctions in the agricultural sector and the overall overproduction in Europe are systematically killing our agriculture and rural areas in general. According to the Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council, Estonia, together with other new Member States, can provide additional support to its farmers from the state budget until 2020. This compensates farmers in the new Member States for the lower level of direct payments to the European Union compared to producers in the old Member States. This year, it was possible to support Estonian farmers from the state budget for almost 21.5 million euros, which the government, unfortunately, did not consider important, unlike our neighbouring countries. Estonia last paid transitional support in 2013. Why must our farmers compete in unequal conditions? If the government is unable to provide transitional support to our farmers, then the level of direct payments must be harmonised. What the differences between the old and the new Member States will be in the next budget period is an important issue for Estonia, and this is where the government has to say its word. The decisions made several years ago and the failure to comply with the rules of the European Union have led us to Estonian Air and a lot of money. Let us just think that the wrong decision at the time cost the Estonian taxpayer as much as the decision to make 1% of the social tax rate. The European Commission has now discovered new misdemeanours, this time in EAS tourism grants. Ladies and gentlemen, Being part of the European Union has undoubtedly brought Estonia a great deal of benefits, while we are increasingly dependent on decisions made elsewhere than in Estonia or when making such decisions, it must be taken into account that our partners are already expecting solidarity from us. It is, on the one hand, making the Strategic Union increasingly and more dependent on tactical choices and, on the other hand, leading to drowning in a variety of fragmented strategies, where it is difficult to orient even those who write them. The Presidency of the European Union will soon come to Estonia. It seems that Estonia's greatest goal in this regard is to try to maintain an association that is so different. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-18_U109	Monika Haukanõmm on behalf of the Free Party Group, please! Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-18_U110	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! Prime Minister! We live in a world of turbulence where today is no longer like yesterday or tomorrow. The current migration and confidence crisis is the greatest of the survival issues that the European Union has seen in its history. But will we learn from it? I'll start with Brexit. In Bratislava, 27 heads of state met for the first time without the United Kingdom to discuss how to proceed after the British referendum and the entry into force of Brexit. British Prime Minister May said in September: 'Brexit means Brexit without any possibility of staying in the European Union. ' It was a clear message to the European Union in general and to its country. Today's knowledge is that the British are choosing the hardest way to leave the European Union. So there is no longer hope that the desire to keep the United Kingdom as close to the European Union as possible to Estonia. Yes, Estonia is losing one of its strong partners, but we have other allies, depending on the subject. The good reputation and credibility of the European Union and the euro can only be maintained by strong economic policies. While support for the euro has increased considerably compared to five years ago, it is precisely the crises of recent years, i.e. the financial and refugee crisis, but also Brexit that have made the European Union look worse. The European Union has not been able to respond quickly and adequately to the criticism, and that is what needs to be changed. After Brexit, it has often been asked whether a major project called the European Union is falling apart and whether the United Kingdom has infected other Member States. The answer is no. One withdrawal is not the end of the European Union, but shows that membership of the European Union is up to the Member State itself. Yes, it is a wake-up call, because despite its imperfections, the European Union is essential for us. It is the best instrument to meet the challenge we face and to ensure peace and democracy, particularly from a security point of view. It should not be forgotten that the European Union has been created after World War II, however, as a peace project to push forward the desire to end the massacre and destruction and to ensure lasting peace through economic and political integration. That's the way it has to be. Brexit is also a warning to all of us, what or what will happen if only party politics are dealt with, not to stand up for cooperation and common interests. We know what Brexit's internal political context has to do with the existential contradictions in British society and relations between political parties. I do not want to interfere with the sovereignty of another country or their issues, but this is a concern. Will European politicians, including us, be able to act as statesmen and learn from what has happened in order to make choices that are in the interests of our children? Our Presidency falls to the time when the British are being negotiated, but, fortunately, they are not led by Estonia, but by the European Commission. The digital agenda is very good and characteristic of Estonia, but in the current situation, we need to focus more on European political culture and democratic governance. One of the reasons why many European Union citizens are disappointed is that they do not understand how the Union works, how its decisions are democratically legitimised and who controls decision-makers within the bureaucratic European Commission. After all, they manage tens of millions of euros and have extensive executive power. We must talk during the Presidency about the fact that a directly elected European Union Parliament must have more right to control the Commission. More needs to be done with national parliaments so that the European Union's strategic decisions are truly acceptable to them. Compliance with agreements must be valued. Irregularities in monetary union rules and conduct that interpret other agreements differently cannot be part of European political culture. It would be better to agree less, but the agreement must be kept. President Juncker of the European Commission has said in his speech 'About the state of affairs in the country' that we need to get to work. In the Estonian literary classic Oskar Luts 'Spring', however, it is said that if you can't do all your homework at once, then do the half, but do it well. The same is true for the European Union. Existing regulations need to be reduced and new ones should be created focusing only on areas where the European Union can bring added value. Do the work that has been agreed and significantly reduce policy issues that must remain an internal policy matter for the Member State. The European Union must become a more democratic Union because it is a union of democratic states. The refugee crisis and Turkey. The refugee crisis is probably one of the biggest and most existential crises in history, which is severely testing cooperation and unity. Refugee flows have decreased as a result of an agreement between the European Union and Turkey. But this pact stands on very shaky legs. We are undoubtedly faced with the choice of whether to give in to Turkey's demands and to introduce a visa waiver, even if not all the requirements are met, or to risk it. But there is no compromise here. The European Union must stick to its principles and the rules that apply to one must also apply to the other. If the rules, the rules, as a discount, it's a discount for everyone. In fact, we will probably not see Turkey as part of Europe's cultural and value area in the near future. In short, Russia and Syria. There is no doubt that Ukrainian sanctions against Russia must remain. The Minsk agreements do not have to. Russia's actions towards Syria are becoming increasingly brutal. On this issue, silent exclamations from some capital cities of the European Union have been completely encountered that Russia's sanctions can be reduced or even removed. This would mean demonstrating Europe's political inadequacy in the current situation. Consideration must be given to whether Russia's military action in Syria should not result in new sanctions. The European Union has largely taken over Estonia's views and approach towards Russia. This means that the European Union is pursuing Estonia's policy, and it follows that it is finally beginning to understand the dangers and realities. Taking together the issue of European crises, it has to be said that this is no longer a question of whether Europe is more or less Europe, but rather of a better Europe. Agreements must be maintained, common interests must be protected, national sovereignty must be respected and unity must be maintained in the security issue. Our history, geographical location and interests say that a functioning European Union is a guarantee of our freedom, development and security, but at the same time we must act in a balanced way, with Estonia's interests in mind and not abandoning our rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-18_U111	Jaak Madison on behalf of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia Group, please! Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-18_U112	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! Good Prime Minister! In the early 90s, if Estonia was to integrate into Europe, join NATO and the European Union and be an equal partner at an international table, what is our vision now, in 2016? Where do we want to move and what do we want to achieve as a country and a nation? Do we really understand the meaning of the European project, which is spoken of endlessly and without breaks? What's the project like? What does continuous integration in the framework of the European project mean? Answering these questions may be awkward and even reluctant for many advocates of the abstract European project, but we must do so. Estonia joined the European Union in 2004, having obtained the mandate of the people in a referendum in 2003. The people took part in the referendum with the knowledge that we are joining an alliance of nation states, where independence is maintained, but there is successful economic cooperation and the free movement of people. Our neighbours joined such expectations and hopes, and I dare say that almost all Europeans in their own country. Today, Europe under the Treaty of Lisbon is no longer exactly what we joined in 2004. Most areas of life are governed by laws coming from the European Union. For ordinary citizens, changes may remain unnoticed, but most clearly this is reflected in a migration crisis that has not been resolved. Moreover, the solutions imposed by the European Commission most directly violate the sovereign decision-making power of the countries. The Estonian Government has stressed that we are willing to help each other voluntarily in a crisis situation. The reality is somewhat different. If 55% of the countries vote alike in the Council of Ministers, then it will automatically be mandatory for the remaining 45% of the countries. That is why countries such as Poland, Hungary, Slovakia and the Czech Republic have referred to the European Court of Justice. These countries are concerned about their sovereignty. Concern for its sovereignty prompted the British people to vote in favour of withdrawal from the European Union on 23 June. 17 million people stood up against excessive federalisation. Hence the conclusion: if certain interest groups continue to follow the same line, for example, on the basis of the amendment to the Dublin regulation, which seeks to create a permanenced system for the distribution of migrants, Eurorealist moods will grow further. Kalle Palling, Chairman of the Committee on European Union Affairs, said in his speech: 'It was in Estonia's interests, is and will remain a strong, united and cooperative Europe. It has been said that the European Union is like an Estonian life insurance policy. 'Mr. Palling is right. It is in Estonia's interests and will always be a strong and united Europe. But let it be said that Europe does not equal the European Union. Great Britain will always remain in Europe, even when it has left the European Union. Switzerland is the heart of Europe in its history, culture and economy. The biggest mistake we can make is to paint an end-of-the-world scenario when the essence of the European Union changes. Europe has been and always will be before that. Europe is changing, and it is possible that, together with it, the European Union will change dramatically. We need to take into account the different scenarios of the future and there are two: either a continuing and deepening abstract European project with an e-federal federalisation or a return to our original objective, the single economic union. In the first case, we see a continuing increase in dissatisfaction and possible political instability in many countries, bringing new Brexites. It also requires new referendums because the current mandate, also in Estonia, is crossing its borders. In fact, the mandate was exceeded as early as 2012, when the Supreme Court mentioned in its judgment the possible extension of the powers of the people as a result of Estonia's accession to the European Stability Mechanism. In the second case, the first prerequisite is the decentralisation of the European Union. I consider this unlikely because bureaucracy has a bad habit of growing. Based on my good ties with the British Conservatives, I can argue that the British should have an alternative plan for the European Union, with a major objective of deep economic cooperation, which respects the sovereignty of every European country, over a number of years. We members of the Riigikogu must also always remember the purpose of our work, which is the result of the Constitution: ensuring the preservation of the Estonian nation, language and culture throughout the ages. This is our foundation. If previous speakers have repeatedly loved to paraphrase someone, I quote President Lennart Meri in 1988: 'Estonia is not small. Estonia is not big or small, it is right for us and we do not have any better. ' The federalising European Union is the greatest threat to our national statehood and the best insurance policy is close relations, particularly with our southern and northern neighbours, as well as with Britain. Thank you. The power to work for everyone in the name of constitutional goals!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-18_U113	On behalf of the Group of the Urve Tiidus Reform Party, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-18_U114	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Prime Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, I'm talking about a few simple things. The Prime Minister's overview of the Government of the Republic's activities in the implementation of European Union policy reminded us once again of how much the European Union's policy area really is. In order to be fully informed, the Member must deal with this issue with great care every day. This advantage is, of course, the members of the Committee on European Union Affairs. Since 2004, when Estonia became a Member State of the European Union, the volume of information in the European Union has increased several times. However, the competence and capacity of Estonian people, industry officials and politicians to participate and influence these processes in the formulation and implementation of European Union policies has also increased. As stated on the website of Estonia's European Union policy and its objectives, Estonia will be able to influence the development of the European Union effectively when we have very clear and specific positions on which we can also find support from other Member States. As we have heard from previous reports, we have already learned to stand up for our interests and to talk them out of the way to our partners. To be honest, the old European politicians have also trained us in every way. We have also come to know Europe better than ever before. Within this period, when we have been in the European Union, the European Union has naturally changed, which is a completely objective fact, and Estonia itself has changed in the European Union, which is also, unfortunately, an objective process. Do you remember the stories you used to tell about the banana curve in Brussels? Right now, we look back at them with almost the same surreal mucus as the British Monty Python's men are talking about their difficult childhood, living in a gift box in the middle of the highway. Speaking without a joke, it was the British decision to leave the European Union that gave Estonia the opportunity to manage the political processes of the European Union more proactively than usual on a number of issues in the second half of next year. Yes, it will entail costs, but it will also be the first such extensive opportunity to host Member States in its own country and perhaps to explain to others why this culture of standing on the ground with two legs has grown on our people. However, talking about Estonia and the issues that are important to us here on the domestic vessel with the representatives of the Member States is simply very necessary. As the Chairman of the Committee on European Union Affairs said earlier, the term of the Presidency of the Council of the European Union coincides with the period of election of local government councils. It is quite certain that the electoral campaign will not be over or around the European Union's issues, as it will continue to affect people's lives also through the activities of local authorities, whether it is an ongoing opportunity to receive external support. Couple of sums here. For example, the European Union and other external grants will be worth €961 million in next year's state budget, with €81 million planned for national co-investment. However, 60% of these external support amounts to euro money and 30% to agriculture and fisheries funds. A simple calculation says that each budget euro for external grants receives an additional EUR 11 from outside. In terms of accuracy, I say that not all this money goes to local governments, of course, but every investment has an impact on local life somewhere. Opportunities for mobilising EU funding for investments include, for example, the establishment of childcare centres next year from the European Social Fund, the construction of first-level health centres financed by structural support, the development of care infrastructure, etc. This, too, is part of the European Union's policy. There is no place in Estonia where there are no signs outside that say that the taxpayer of the European Union has participated in the construction of this object. From time to time, it is good to remember how these investments have improved the environment and quality of life. Returning to the Presidency, the organisers must certainly find ways to involve local government people in the Presidency-related activities as much as the event formats allow. If possible, one more minute, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-18_U115	Does the waitress want more time?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-18_U116	It could be said that this was a self - fulfilling prophecy. Of course, even when we decided to join the European Union, the European Union was not just an economic project for us. Of course, I do not want to underestimate in any way the importance of the European single market for Estonia or the positive impact of the movement without borders, both services, goods and people's borders on Estonia's development, but the European Union was certainly also a project of self-being for us. The European Union has never threatened or threatened Estonia's independence in any of its aspects. Although the European Union and Estonia's membership of this Union have strengthened, strengthened and will do so, I dare say for sure, in the future and in the future. Europe, of course, is not just a technical or administrative arrangement, and that, I think, we must remember to a great extent, even if we have the role of President-in-Office, which is, to a very large extent, such a role as an arbiter and the chair of the meeting. The European Union is, next to it, fate, as Marko said before me, but certainly an idea. Just as very many American thinkers are concerned about the impact that the next presidential elections will have on the American economy or on American foreign policy, as well as on the American idea, we in our own minds must think about how we will live on not only the European Union's 'contract base' or regulations, but how the idea that became the basis of the European Union will continue to live. It is actually based on the need to integrate markets and to ensure that people have the opportunity to engage in self-development and the development of their economies, but it also perpetuates and consolidates this value area, which is what this Europe is for us. I believe that Estonia will have a good day in Europe. The European Union is coping with these difficulties, as with previous crises and difficulties. However, I am absolutely sure that, even without the major one-off shocks, the European Union will no longer be what it is now in ten years' time. Then he's changed beyond recognition. In his day, Chaucer 'Canterbury Stories' started with the lines 'Wan that April with his shows soote. The droghte of Marche hat perced to the root'. If, at that time, there was no constitution written in Britain, known as the Constitution, that would have been written in Britain, that would have commanded the protection of English, I believe that if this command had been fulfilled even in the best way, today's English speakers would still not understand these lines without translation. So, of course, we have to consider changing the world. But in defending values, we certainly do not have to try to freeze or cut into stone the world we live in today. Tomorrow it will inevitably be different. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-18_U117	There are no more requests for speech, so I will close this item on the agenda. Thank you, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-18_U118	Yeah, I'd love to use a few more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-18_U119	At first I didn't realize it was a prophecy or a request for extra time. Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-18_U120	The next item is the first reading of the draft law 295 on the amendment of the university law initiated by the Government of the Republic and the related amendment of other laws. The initiator's waitress is Maris Lauri, Minister of Education and Science. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-18_U121	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! The draft law amending the University Act and related amendments to other laws amends the provisions on funding for higher education studies from the state budget. I stress the word 'learning' because this draft does not concern the financing of science. The amendment will enhance the stability of funding for educational institutions and facilitate the conclusion and reporting of contracts with universities. The same funding basis shall be laid down for funding both universities governed by public law and universities of applied sciences managed by the Ministry of Education. The problem with the current system is the lack of stable basic funding and the lack of attention to quality indicators. Higher education funding is mainly based on volume-based indicators. Thus, according to the law in force, universities receive 70-75% of resources on the basis of quantitative indicators, such as the number of students, the number of foreign students, the number of foreign lecturers, the number of graduates, etc. 25 to 30% of the funds will be allocated to financing activities that support important public education, such as the support of libraries and the fulfilment of obligations under the law of the University of Tartu and Tallinn University of Technology, including national professorships. Such a system does not ensure sufficient financial stability, especially in smaller higher education institutions, nor does it motivate a focus on quality. As a result of these legislative changes, the funding of higher education institutions is divided into operating grants and ad hoc grants. The main part of the public funding of higher education institutions will be operating grants. In addition to the operating grant, it is possible to provide targeted support, such as for libraries, doctoral studies and nurses' studies, in order for higher education institutions to achieve specific objectives. It is also possible to allocate ad hoc support to private schools. However, the main part of the funding goes to operating grants, 80% of which is the basic funding, which is divided between educational institutions according to the volume of funding for the previous three years. This will ensure greater stability of funding than in the past and will also take into account the historically well-established teaching capacity of higher education institutions. If the volumes of study are to change significantly, this can be taken into account in shaping the proportions of basic funding in the future, according to the wording of the law. Up to 20% of the performance finance component shall be allocated to schools on the basis of the achievement of performance indicators and the implementation of an administrative agreement with the State. The Performance Finance component will support the achievement of the objectives set out in the financing reform, i.e. efficiency growth and quality orientation, including funding on the basis of both quantitatively measurable and qualitatively assessed results. The performance indicators are based on the strategic objectives set out in the Lifelong Learning Strategy for higher education, the most important being reducing the number of school drop-outs, ensuring the proportion of people with tertiary education and the internationalisation of higher education. According to the draft, performance funding will take into account quality of learning, such as indicators of international mobility (how many students from abroad and how many students go abroad for a short period of time), indicators of development of key areas of study for the state, learning performance, including indicators of learning efficiency and private money involved in educational activities, and support for the development of society, including indicators of the employment and further learning of graduates. However, it also takes into account the achievement of what was agreed in the management contracts. The performance indicators are specified by the Government of the Republic's regulation, as specific metrics may need to be specified over time and cannot be specified in detail in the law. The legislative changes will lead to simplifications in the procedures for concluding contracts with universities and reduce the reporting burden. The three-year administrative agreement with universities will continue to require the approval of the Government of the Republic, but the one-year financing agreement with universities will be signed by the Minister. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-18_U122	Questions for the Minister. Priit Onion, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-18_U123	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Minister, thank you very much. Estonian universities are considered to be among the most independent universities. We are often not satisfied that universities do not teach the specialties that society needs most. Employers' wishes and perceptions are different from those of universities. You also mentioned ad hoc grants in your introductory and introductory speeches. How many and how are they used now? Is it possible, for the benefit of the so-called society, for the Ministry to obtain through an order, that the university teaches those specialties that are currently funded through, for example, targeted grants?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-18_U124	Thank you for your question. In principle, the State can have its objectives in mind when allocating ad hoc grants, but this can also be done by means of administrative contracts, i.e. new financing, also through the requirement to execute administrative contracts. If we were to move things into the framework of the new system for the current funding scheme, for example, the result of doctoral studies would become targeted support. This shows that we really want to focus on the increase in the number of doctors. It is also important that there are enough nurses in the health care system, although this is mostly the case for applied higher education institutions. It is also important to finance part of teacher training and to support libraries in their activities. But here it is possible to determine the destinations that can change in a given space of time. There is certainly also a question of administrative agreements, where, depending on the institution of higher education, targets can be set, which should be achieved in terms of learning trends and quality indicators. As we know, there is a great interest in increasing the study of natural sciences so that more learners are in engineering and information technology, but we can also look at other areas as well as the role of national professionals. They will actually remain in administrative contracts, and this will also enable the State to influence what is being done.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-18_U125	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-18_U126	Good manager! Good minister! The ministry would like, and you would probably want, the most objective performance indicators possible to measure the situation. But you also said that some performance indicators have different effects for different universities. What are these objective performance indicators and what are those whose effects are confusing?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-18_U127	If we focus only on volume figures, or absolute numbers, for example, that there is a need to receive so many students, then it can very easily be that a lot of students will be accepted, but will not pay attention to whether or not they will stop and if they stop, whether or not they will find an application. For example, when using an indicator that compares how many graduates reach the labour market or continue to study at the next level of study, instead of the number of graduates or students accepted, we encourage universities to ensure that the quality of their studies is so good that for example, graduates from a bachelor's degree can reach a master's degree and go from a master's degree to a doctoral degree. Then we will also encourage you to make sure that the quality of your studies is good enough for you to find a job. Yes, unfortunately, at the moment, it is very difficult to ensure that you are sure that you have completed a suitable field of work. We know that from time to time graduates can start studying or working in an area that is very far from the specialty they have acquired. There is no one good and concise indicator, but we must not forget that there are overlaps between many disciplines in today's world, which makes it extremely difficult to draw the line. I would also like to emphasise that a person who has received higher education in particular has acquired the ability to think and evaluate. There may be very unexpected places where one or the other knowledge can be applied in the future. I don't know, but maybe a mathematician can be very useful in philology. We can't rule that out. So if a mathematician goes on to study philology or works at a language institute, then in itself this is not a bad indicator, it can be a very positive indicator. The fact that he works is definitely a positive indicator.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-18_U128	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-18_U129	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Minister! In the introductory part, you stressed that the draft deal primarily with learning activities, the allocation of allocations for this purpose and the changes made there. However, there is a sentence in the explanatory memorandum that in the future the management contract may also provide support for R &amp; D. Here's my question. Is there a third type of support coming for R &amp; D alongside personal research support and institutional research support?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-18_U130	Thank you! The restructuring of research funding is currently underway. Things have not yet been closed, but it is a desire to start financing both studies and science with a slightly more similar scheme so that there is basic funding, performance finance and targeted funding. What exactly are they going to be called, I do not dare to say at the moment, but this similarity is justified, even if it is because, in fact, we have a lion's share of science out of college.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-18_U131	Laine Randjärv, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-18_U132	Good manager! Dear Minister, In the Committee on Culture, we had a very lively and meaningful debate on this subject, and there were many questions. My question goes on a little bit with Krista Aru's question, she's actually going into the same subject. Universities don't get without science and science doesn't get without teaching, that's obvious. Does this draft increase the flexibility and autonomy of higher education institutions in addition to funding, so that this part of the basic funding, which is 80%, can be distributed more flexibly, if necessary, so that science can complement teaching and vice versa, within and beyond one higher education institution if necessary?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-18_U133	Thank you for your question. The main objective of the creation of the basic funding is to ensure that the resources allocated to teaching do not fluctuate very strongly over the years, which may happen, for example, because more pupils come to school in one year and less in the second year. God knows why. We are doing this to ensure that the situation is more stable, allowing higher education institutions to better plan their activities, including undoubtedly better planning of research. Ensuring certainty is certainly an important aspect in the planning of all activities.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-18_U134	Priit Onion, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-18_U135	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. My question comes from the answer you gave to Peter Ernitsa. This concerned the criterion for performance contracts. You mentioned that it may not be reasonable to consider the number of students, which I absolutely agree with. But such things do not in themselves require changes in laws, for these criteria are not written into law; they are still a result of a contract. The Ministry and universities agree on what to measure in the performance agreement.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-18_U136	Thank you for your question. At present, the indicators used as the basis for so-called funding are precisely fixed. The indicators to be used are precisely stated in the law. That is what makes it difficult to replace them when the goals change. In order to introduce flexibility, the principle is further described in the law, but specific indicators are set out in the Government of the Republic Regulation, which is easier to modify and adjust on the basis of the data available when targets change.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-18_U137	Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-18_U138	Thank you. Madam Minister! Life shows how hard negotiations are going on in the medical field. If we legitimise the conclusion of administrative contracts with this draft, then we are risking that in the field of education, we say, the same processes that are currently taking place in medicine. Aren't you afraid of that? After all, administrative contracts cover quite a number of points relating to the financing of universities.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-18_U139	Thank you! In fact, there will be no change in the conclusion of administrative contracts, they will still be concluded and they will be concluded at the level of the Government of the Republic. Just operating agreements in the future will not move through the government, but 'one-year contracts' under management contracts will be made at the level of the Ministry of Education. There is no point in bringing it back to government level for the second time.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-18_U140	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-18_U141	Good manager! Madam Secretary! It's great that they've started to clean up the university scenery. But explain why two higher education institutions, the National Defence Academy and the Defence Forces, have remained like a separate island. Why are they not included in a single picture? Estonia is small. The fact that they're under different ministries shouldn't limit it.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-18_U142	Thank you for your question. I have to admit, I can't answer your question right now because I'm not exactly familiar with it. I may be wrong to answer, explaining why these two higher education institutions are not under the Ministry of Education. In order to be precise, I will ensure that the answer comes to you in writing. Is that okay with you?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-18_U143	Thank you, Minister of Education and Science Maris Lauri! The rapporteur for the Committee on Culture is Mr Aadu Must, Vice-Chairman of the Commission. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-18_U144	Ladies and gentlemen, On Thursday 13 October, the Committee on Culture discussed the same draft at its regular session, which was presented by Mr Maris Lauri, Minister of Education and Science, Deputy Chancellor of the Ministry Indrek Reimand, and by Kaur Kittus, lawyer of the Legal Department. I am not going to rephrase the part that the Minister has already presented, and I will try to convey, as broadly as possible, what was then discussed in the Commission and where problems were seen, what questions were raised and what answers were received. First of all, the discussion was broad, as the Commission has been in contact with the same subject in previous years. The funding of higher education schools is one of the most debated issues, there are many problems and over time there have also been many criticisms. The discussion went at times to discuss higher education policy throughout Estonia. Obviously, it did not do any harm because we received good answers and indeed it also marked how this specific law should go forward to harmonise the different aspects of science and higher education. The central problem here, too, came out of the questions which required a new law, it was that, if so far, the law has quite clear proportions in place, which, and to what extent, must be taken into account in the funding scheme, how much basic funding is needed and how much performance finance is required. There's been a debate about this for years. Especially fierce people have sometimes said that there is a need to increase the proportion of performance finance, and when we see that something changes, new priorities and new leading centres are emerging, then the money must be divided by the result. Others have found that there must be more stability. If you add a figurative comparison, you might say that we know where we're coming from and where we're going, but it's not clear whether we're going from Tartu to Tallinn in a strictly predetermined way, like a railway train, so we can't turn anywhere, or even take a taxi, and if there seems to be something profitable, then we'll go away between the Puka-Purtse-Purman circle. As a result of the great work, we believe that this draft has reached a relatively reasonable compromise that we need to drive like a trolleybus, so that the target is clear, some dynamics can also be made, but continuity does not go away. A good number of issues were specifically a proportionate part of one funding, namely targeted financing. The Commission again came to the unanimous conclusion, in my opinion, that taking into account this part of the targeted funding would ensure possible dynamics. There is not too much rigidity, but there is also no way that every year we decide in a completely new way. The stability needed to finance higher education is guaranteed by this draft. Can all the problems be solved? Oh, no, certainly not, because this is a very complex area. Does it get better and more reasonable? It was the opinion of the Members of the Commission that it would get very much better, it would go in a normal direction. It was a very long debate, but this time it was not so that there would have been an opposition on one side and on the other side of the coalition or on one side one idea and on the other side, but there was a constructive debate. It also marked what needs to be done in the future, and it was decided to support this draft unanimously. In consensus, the draft was found worthy of support. The Commission also made a consensual proposal to close the first reading and set a deadline of 10 days (as well as a consensual decision) for the submission of proposals for amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-18_U145	Questions for the Commission rapporteur. Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-18_U146	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Commission waitress, Listening to what was said here today about this bill, I have a question. As we know, Estonian higher education institutions are still hard competitors. Knowing how many new students are growing on top, I would like to know whether this particular draft will increase or alleviate competition. How does this affect the process?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-18_U147	If I were to try to answer as accurately as possible, I'd say he's normalizing. It was explained to us pretty well. However, there were also a number of acute questions. Until some professionals tell them to give them more specialists, because they are under-prepared. The word 'welder' went through, but it wasn't just about welders. In any case, it is constantly said to produce more specialists in this or another specialty. In the meantime, it was already prepared that a university agreed to do so, that we would finance it, etc. Very sympathetic was Indrek Reimand's explanation that, in some cases, it has appeared that the number of students in one field or another is not due to whether society needs these specialists or not, but, at times, economic leaders have found that it is not easy to find people for poorly paid specialties and then they ask that expensive universities train professionals in poorly paid specialties. So we were really given a complex explanation, not only of one influence and its outcome, but of the fact that society is a systemic mechanism and must take into account various factors and take them into account in contracts.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-18_U148	Thank you, Aadu Black! I'm opening negotiations, no calls. The Commission's proposal is to conclude the first reading. I will set the deadline for the submission of the 295 amendments at 5.15 p.m. on 1 November.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-18_U149	The first reading of the draft law amending the Electricity Market Act, the Law of Property Act and the Construction Code initiated by members of the Riigikogu, Mikhail Stalnukhin, Andres Metsoja, Andres Ammas, Kristjan Kõljala, Henn Põljaasa and Tanel Talve will now begin. Initiator waitress Andres Metsoja, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-18_U150	President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, Good initiators of the bill! Many Americans were quoted in today's first item, the European Union's policy debate. When we started with Bob Dylan, maybe it's appropriate to continue with Steven Paul Jobs' statement, which I think fits quite well with the subject of the broadband network. He says older people ask what it is, but the boy asks what he can do with it. That is precisely the case, that there are quite a number of other debates in society, which it is, this broadband network. It is not very easy to break up because the subject is very technical and requires a wealth of knowledge. But what can it do? Now that is an issue that society should open up even more. Indeed, the broadband network is no longer needed to read the Estonian Express online or to watch the transmission of the Riigikogu sitting. This network has a vision for the future and for large volumes of data, and it creates a great deal of new opportunities for providing services. That is why I do not entirely agree with the statement of the Minister for Economic Affairs and Infrastructure that the future is not at the end of the cable, but that it is possible to quickly and very quickly manage the internet via air. These are two different worlds that are certainly in place and play their part for the citizen. But the draft law amending Bill No 270, the Electricity Market Act, the Law of Property Act and the Construction Code, is a very good draft. It has been initiated by six members of the Special Committee on State Budget Control of the Riigikogu. This was preceded by a rather long discussion, both in this hall and in several offices, with specialists and members of the Riigikogu and representatives of the Ministry. The aim of the draft is to unambiguously improve the availability of broadband services by reducing the cost of broadband deployment. This should be achieved as the European Commission has thought in order to cross-use physical infrastructure. The study company Analysys Mason Group has said that it is estimated that the costs of network deployment can be reduced by up to 80%. There has been talk of making it five times cheaper in the middle. That is why we have initiated a draft with which we want to amend three laws. Firstly, we are talking about electricity market law. We want to cross-use physical infrastructure. In the draft, we have focused, above all, on electricity masts, but the transposition of the European Union directive will certainly also open up infrastructure for cross-use on a wider scale. In the future, we can talk about pipelines that are installed in the ground, because technology allows these cables to be delivered without excavating the ground. We certainly want the infrastructure belonging to the distribution system to be able to be used on the basis of real costs, i.e. there would be no additional charge. I'm asking for more time!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-18_U151	You don't need extra time, you have 20 minutes. It's just that the bell was beeping at the wrong time. Someone pressed the wrong button.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-18_U152	Thanks for the explanation. We are talking about real costs that must be agreed between the parties. Those wishing to use electricity towers shall agree on the terms and conditions and the actual costs shall be paid. Secondly, we are talking about the law of property law and, above all, about the fact that line buildings have an agreed tolerance obligation. Existing masts remain mainly in scattered areas, so I have understood, still in the future, because there is no plan to install land cable for all electricity networks. It would be possible to provide for sub-use in this same corridor. This means that the owner is not specifically mentioned in the land register. This reduces bureaucracy and does not restrict the rights of the owner, because the installation of a communication cable does not affect the scope of this corridor, whether there is one electric cable or whether there is another cable in the same tower. The owner does not incur this extra cost, but rather gives him the opportunity to get a modern connection to the border of his property. Here we have discovered a small bottleneck. Obviously, in the course of the procedure, together with the Ministry of Justice, we need to look at whether this proposal covers only those technical networks based on the servitude, or whether we want to include the "old" parts of infrastructure covered by the legal obligation to tolerate. Thirdly, it is a question of amending the construction code. The owner of the physical infrastructure will start to issue technical and installation conditions and the amendment of the construction code will allow for a simplified procedure in the future. This change will cut red tape and speed up the process. I very much hope that the procedure for this draft will receive a positive response in this Chamber. We have addressed this issue in a number of development plans. The Prime Minister said today that one important element of European policy is how to develop an e-state and build fast connections. This draft is, in my opinion, a step in the very right direction, in the European direction, because all the less old European countries have adopted the cable network and have not doubted its necessity. As our first step, too, we see that we need to put the law in order so that this process can be made cheaper. Perhaps then the market will also be opened from a different perspective and it is possible that there will be more and more people who want to join this network. We need to scare away the fears that have remained that if the main network passes a hundred metres away from the house, the connection fee may be equal to the price of this dwelling in the rural area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-18_U153	Questions for the initiator of the draft. Arthur Talvik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-18_U154	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good waitress, great plan! I thank you for the initiative your group has taken! I hope it will be of great use. But when the EstWin project was made, weren't such cheap solutions at all? How did this situation go so far that a group of members of the Riigikogu had to make a bill? Wasn't it even planned at first? The second part of the question is this: can an electric cable and a light cable technically be side by side or are there any restrictions on it?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-18_U155	Thank you. In society, it seems to me, there are two schools. One is the belief in an airborne radio link or mobile solution, and the other is still a cable believer. When the construction of the core network, or EstWin project, was started, it was really thought about what solutions it would make sense to use in Estonia so that people could use the fast and ultra-fast internet. I believe it was the right move in its own time. We can now criticise that mobile masts are wired and that is the goal, but it has given us a new opportunity, which we are all actively using. Now the question is whether this should be the end point or the intermediate stage. I think it is rather an intermediate phase from which we need to move forward. There have been major clashes of interest here, to the point that large companies are trying to explain, as if it were a very good solution. On the other hand, I also understand that, in terms of commercial logic and current legislation, and by devising it, we come to the point that the company is still in the market in order to make a profit for its owners. If it can be seen that it is currently possible to move the market without replacing copper cable networks for certain reasons, it is not done or very slowly, then why should a new distribution network be built at all if customers are actually in place on the market. This is such a broader philosophical and economic issue, and probably also the whole issue of legal provisions. As far as the installation of an electric and communication cable in one room is concerned, I have understood that there is no problem, because many electric cables already have a light cable inside them. Even inside the cable it is possible to build it all in such a way that different functions are fulfilled. It doesn't sound like it couldn't be done for technical reasons.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-18_U156	Priit Onion, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-18_U157	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Dear waitress, Perhaps you could explain what needs to be done after the legislative changes and how much will it cost taxpayers or consumers? How exactly is this thing supposed to be?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-18_U158	Thank you. Different people have speculated on different amounts and these amounts have increased enormously. One way or another, they want to show you that this is an impossible mission we're about to complete. On the other hand, I am pleased that local activities have started in Pärnumaa and also in the municipality of Anija. In Suure-Jaani rural municipality Viljandi County, this network has also been built up to residential buildings. This shows once again that this can be done. But as far as the future is concerned and the clear understanding of what it costs, I can say that it cost Gotland 1600 euros per house to connect to all households. True, they agreed that all dwellings should be wired, because they regard it as a fundamental right, it is as normal there as the fact that electricity, water and sewerage are in the house. It just has to be there. Now it really is a question of how to get to it. Are we at one point in a situation where, for example, we agree in Pärnu County that all households have a one-off connection fee in order to ensure that different parties are involved in financing? Municipalities have shown willingness to contribute money, and I understand that the state also has the readiness to contribute. I believe that the service provider also has an interest in making an investment in order to maintain its customers and provide a better service. This must undoubtedly be seen in synergy. As an example of Pärnumaa, the cost per household is quite the same. But once again, we need to face the truth and understand that in a densely populated area, the provision of this service is often cheaper. If we want to solve the problem, we need to look at the whole and also integrate scattered regions into this network immediately. We need to think about what kind of Estonia we want to see: is it where the network of light cables will belong to one and the other, or is it the municipal company that owns the network, which is used by a very large number of service providers? These are questions that need to be clarified. I think a bottom-up initiative is essential here to move forward.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-18_U159	Kristjan Kõljalg, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-18_U160	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. A good waitress and a good bill-maker! I will go a little further on the basis of one of the previous questions on the EstWin issue. In fact, the objective of the EstWin project is to establish a basic network that would reach 98% of Estonian households, businesses and institutions. One and a half kilometers is the distance it has to reach. With regard to this draft, we are talking about facilitating the construction of an access network, i.e. it would be possible to use these solutions, which would be considerably more advantageous than the construction of an underground cable. Am I getting this right?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-18_U161	Yeah, of course. The idea of this draft, which we have come up with and discussed together, still concerns the distribution network, how to bring this connection to households. True, here you can look at the state budget for next year and look at those interested who are building the same basic network. This job's on right now. Should the Ministerial Regulation also lay down any conditions for the establishment of local access networks already in the context of the establishment of this basic network? It's a discussion place. That is certainly not what we will decide in this Chamber today; it must be done with a separate norm. But it'll probably open up another chance.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-18_U162	Erki Savisaar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-18_U163	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, Estonia, too, has a fundamental right to have an optical internet in every household, because 'Estonia's Information Society Development Plan 2020' is written that it must exist in all households. In the meantime, there has been the impression that this bill will somehow generate some costs and that someone will have to pay a great deal now. In fact, the purpose of the bill is something entirely different. There are currently cosmic offers for the supply of one household's optical internet; the consumer needs to pay €20,000 to €30,000. The purpose of the draft is to make this amount smaller so that the maximum would perhaps be, for example, EUR 1600, for that amount to be joined. Can you explain that for the financials?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-18_U164	Thank you. You did it very well yourself. I don't have anything to add. I'm sure you can continue this reasoning in this chair. Why did we start dealing with this through the Commission? Because the National Audit Office came up with an audit and asked very clearly whether this is all or whether the state still has solutions to move forward. We waited. Several discussions took place on the future perspective of how the problem of the last mile could still be solved. Each plan takes time and, during its completion, it also grows old. We have come from the good idea that where you see the error, come and help. The Chancellor of Justice has said that if there is no intention of drafting a draft in the Ministry, then, members of the Riigikogu, be good and come out yourself with a legislative initiative. That's what we've done. How this should affect costs or revenues is difficult to say, but I have been told several times in the context of the same distribution network that, if there is an electric tower and a communication cable is added to it, it is an additional burden for the owner of this infrastructure. If the owner of this company happens to be a state, then I would like to ask for dividend income, which is natural. I have not received a very substantial justification as to how the installation of this additional cable in one of the corridors will generate new costs for the country or the company or the owner if, at the moment, the consumer pays these costs via network charges, in other words, they will.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-18_U165	Arthur Talvik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-18_U166	Good Chairman! Good waitress! I'm gonna come to this base network for a minute, without which there's no point in doing this law. The broadband network consultation revealed that there is no very clear plan for the basic network either. The plan's on the move. Is there a basic network plan for today, and how far away are these jobs? Are there works on schedule and when should Estonia be covered in this network?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-18_U167	Thank you. The plan to build the base grid has been constantly improved. It has been said that these linear objects, i.e. where to put the cable down in practice, have been looked at with the municipalities and the rural elders so that it would benefit the most. As far as I know, Saaremaa and Pärnumaa are planning such activities in 2017 as well as in other counties. Some of the activities are already underway, the core network will be even better. There is definitely a neighborhood in South Estonia where you are very initiativeable. For example, the Võru governor has been lucky for it. If you take the basic broadband network map, you'll see that there's a pretty dense network, much denser than in other counties. It is the case that it often depends on the players and the regional initiative. But there's no way we can ignore that, once again, we get to the radio link or the properties of the air-borne Internet, that if, after all, the trees go to the site in spring and the internet disappears, that's the problem. All the more so is the problem in South Estonia, where the dome landscape is. The cable is inevitable, and it still needs to be put down.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-18_U168	Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-18_U169	Honorable Chairman! Respectable waitress! I am deeply sad that the municipalities of Lihula and Hanila in the south of the West must inevitably move under Pärnu. The newspaper West Life is just as sad, but I'm proud of the newspaper's editorial that they took heart to praise Pärnumaa as a leading and startling county in comparison with Läänemaa, for the very project you have referred to today a few times, carried out by Pärnumaa with South West, in order that the Internet really gets to home. During the remaining few minutes, would you like to summarise this plan once more, because it deserves to be introduced across Estonia and followed up?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-18_U170	Thank you. I'd be happy to do that. I guess every story, event and activity has a history. I must say immediately that it has been so in Pärnumaa that, under the leadership of the Centre for Enterprise and Development of Pärnumaa, the same network was built together under the Village Road project and the Centre for Enterprise and Development of Pärnumaa was the owner of this network. But then the equipment was really put in masts and, if necessary, additional masts were erected on the territory of the local government in order to create radio links. At one point, the state intervened through the State Information System Authority and new solutions came to the market. One such magic word at the time was WiMAX. For example, a company called Norby came to our area, invested and promised a much better connection. It certainly took a step forward. Then came the situation where Pärnumaa Enterprise and Development Centre disposed of this network for the benefit of the private market, because there were plenty of providers on the private market, operators. Now we have returned to a situation where history is repeated and the pendulum moves from one side to another: under the leadership of the Enterprise and Development Centre of Pärnumaa, the County Government and the Association of Pärnumaa Municipalities, we have returned to the local initiative with this cable theme. Indeed, this digiTee project has outputs. Point 1 is that it is necessary to understand clearly the need and cost, to provide consumers with information on opportunities, to make the perspective in time and to set out a plan for concrete actions.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-18_U171	Honourable Riigikogu, as there is so little time left, it makes sense to continue with questions and answers tomorrow. Director's break 1 minute and 2 seconds. The sitting is adjourned. Closure of the sitting at 1.59 p.m.
