ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-23_U1	Honourable Riigikogu! Honourable ministers! We remember with silence those people who died yesterday in an attack on the free people's world in Brussels. [[The silence of grief.]] Thank you! Question Time. Incoming check, please! There are 52 members of the Riigikogu in the Chamber, no 49. Margus Tsahkna, Minister of Social Protection and Minister of Justice, Urmas Kruuse, Minister of Rural Affairs and Urmas Reinsalu, Minister of Justice, are taking part in the Question Hour today. There were nine requests for questions yesterday, so I will give each of them one additional question.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-23_U2	The first question is for Margus Tsahkna in the duties of Prime Minister and is presented by Andres Herkel. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-23_U3	Honourable Chairman! Honourable Minister for Prime Ministership. This appointment of a Member of the Court of Auditors is now a very sad thing. The last time I asked the Prime Minister about this was on 27 January. It's been eight weeks, and a lot of water has flowed into the sea. At the time, his answer was that we'll wait a little longer, we'll find this candidate. All the deadlines are long gone. My question to you, as Chairman of the IRL, is who is the new candidate for this post at the IRL?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-23_U4	Good questioner! This is not the most important problem facing the Estonian state, but indeed, the Estonian government has not yet submitted its candidate. But there is a candidate in itself. The Minister of Finance has nominated a member of the Court of Auditors as Juhan Parts, who would be a competent person in this capacity. This has also been confirmed by the National Audit Office in its opinion and has been confirmed by other people with competence in this field. It is also true that the Estonian Government has not been able to make a consensual decision. Rather, it is a question for the Prime Minister of how we will proceed on this issue, because there are no better candidates. The Minister of Finance has confirmed that his candidate is still Juhan Parts. But nothing's broken right now. Estonia is not the only country that has not submitted its candidate. Other countries that have not yet submitted a candidate for this post are Lithuania and Hungary. Last week, on 15 March, the European Parliament's budget control committee held a hearing with candidates from different countries. Candidates from six countries were heard, three of whom were positively assessed and three were negatively assessed. This means that if the Council of the European Union takes into account this assessment, which it does not have to do according to law, then three countries will also have to look for new candidates. In this sense, Estonia's interests are represented in the Court of Auditors, so that Kersti Kaljulaid, who is currently a member of the Court of Auditors, will continue his work until the government reaches a decision.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-23_U5	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-23_U6	Thank you, Chairman. However, this is a question for you as Minister for Prime Minister's role. I understand this situation in a way that there are some other countries that have failed to carry out the task, but it is a very bad consolation. Perhaps we are finally in a situation where there is a candidate, but he will not be appointed and no new candidate will be appointed. How long can this situation last? Compared to the last time this question was up here in Question Time, what has taken place in the government on this matter in two months? What compromises have been sought? What has been the debate?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-23_U7	I must say that the process of appointing an Estonian representative of the European Court of Auditors has unfortunately become a political process. It is not a political post, it is an independent institution where politics are not pursued. Recently, no special developments have taken place in the process of appointing an Estonian candidate. I don't have a problem supporting Juhan Parts' candidacy. Rather, these questions must be put to those who have a problem. I still think Juhan Parts is a competent candidate, he can do this job. I hope that this political foundation will eventually fall away and a decision will be reached.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-23_U8	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-23_U9	Thank you, good Chairman. Good acting Prime Minister! We've heard the phrases that we wait until the right moment, we'll think about it. Do you have a plan of action in the government and what is the last deadline for a candidate to be proposed? I fully agree that this candidate must not be linked to any particular subject that is being tried here, and I have noticed that you have certain movements. You might want to shed some light on that. The supposed name that's been going through these past few days has made the atmosphere in the corridors quite nervous. I would like to know a concrete action plan on when the government comes to a decision, as well as what possible alternatives are.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-23_U10	I cannot comment on what is happening in the corridors of the Riigikogu, but I say that for my sake, Juhan Parts could be nominated as a member of the European Court of Auditors tomorrow at the meeting of the Government of the Republic. But we have a coalition government, and the Prime Minister has taken the view that consensus must be sought. That's the Prime Minister's right. The Act of the Government of the Republic provides for the possibility of voting for decisions, but it is the decision of the Prime Minister how to solve the problem if no consensus is found. I myself hope that a consensus will be found and a decision will be reached. As regards the fact that Estonia has not nominated a new member of the Court of Auditors, that is all right, because Kersti Kaljulaid, who is currently a member of the Court of Auditors, will continue until the government reaches a decision. So the work in the Court of Auditors is done and nothing is broken in that sense. I hope that the government will be able to resolve this in the near future.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-23_U11	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-23_U12	The next question is from Siret Eagle to Minister for Rural Affairs Urmas Kruus. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-23_U13	Thank you. Good waitress, Mr. Minister for Rural Affairs! Ida-Viru County is experiencing difficult times, due in particular to economic difficulties in the oil shale sector. In order to resolve the situation, the Government of the Republic decided to grant tax incentives to this sector in order to save these producers. In the same agriculture, the crisis has been much longer than in the oil shale sector. When will the government meet farmers and propose tax incentives so that they do not have to close their doors, survive the crisis, and thousands of people in the country will not be working?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-23_U14	Honourable questioner! If we are talking about agriculture, there have been more than EUR 20 million in additional measures for this sector over the last year. As far as the context of Ida-Viru County is concerned, I am sure that the honourable ambassador understands that the question is in the oil shale sector, which is obviously local. Agricultural production takes place in Estonia throughout the territory of the country. In this situation, of course, we have not discussed any further tax incentives within the agricultural sector. However, it should be noted that there is also a fuel-related incentive for the agricultural sector.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-23_U15	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-23_U16	Thank you, manager. Minister, thank you very much. The main tasks of the government are to ensure competitiveness for any sector. We know that an Estonian farmer is not competitive, even compared to farmers in neighbouring countries. We do not have to make additional concessions for this sector, but we need to use the opportunities allowed to support our farmers in a way that I mean transitional support, or top-up, which I believe is about 100 million less, because the government does not plan to give it in the coming years. But, as we know, the European Commission has promised farmers additional payments because there is a major crisis in the agricultural sector across Europe. Has the Government of the Republic discussed this? After discussing what approach has been reached, how can we support our farmers?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-23_U17	Honourable questioner! The Ministry of Rural Affairs and the Minister for Rural Affairs have submitted additional budget requests to the Minister of Finance for the budget negotiations of the Government of the Republic, including "transitional support." Secondly, it should be noted that when we are talking about Ida-Virumaa, it has to be said that there has been a strong increase in average income in the agricultural sector. Things are not comparable to what currently exists in the oil shale industry. Thirdly, to my own surprise, at the last Council meeting, I learned that the market situation is such that only ten countries have been able to pay out the extraordinary support that the European Union has granted. Estonia has done this, and we have also paid the state's support. So the Estonian Government and the Ministry of Rural Affairs will do their utmost to ensure that possible subsidies reach the farmer as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-23_U18	Siret Eagle, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-23_U19	Thank you, good Chairman of the Riigikogu! Minister for Rural Affairs! I come back to Mr Tarmo Tamme's question. The European Commission announced a package of measures to alleviate the difficult situation of farmers weeks ago, which provides for an additional possibility of granting State aid. Have you considered this? Does the Estonian State provide additional support to the farmer in the context of this aid?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-23_U20	Honourable questioner! The Estonian Ministry of Rural Affairs has also been one of the authors of this proposal to the European Commission, which has now been presented as a single package. The proposals were made by all Member States and summarised by the European Commission. However, it is a bit confusing now that one or another measure is being implemented. If these times should become clear and it is certain that such opportunities will be provided, then the Ministry of Rural Affairs will certainly make proposals on this in the budget negotiations. But first we have to wait for implementation times and implementation certainty, then we can make our decisions officially.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-23_U21	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-23_U22	Next is the question by Martin Helme, Minister of Justice Urmas Reinsalu. Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-23_U23	Thank you, Mr. Speaker. Minister, thank you very much. Last week we had a question in Question Time for Prime Minister Rõivas regarding beatings and stabbings in Estonia, i.e. serious crimes against individuals in public spaces. On the weekend, a fatal stabbing incident was added in Paide. In Tartu people are beaten in broad daylight, a few months ago a person was beaten to death. I asked the Prime Minister last week what the plan was for the government to reduce such incidents and restore a sense of security in public space. I didn't get an answer, but it's very specific about your area, too. I ask again what the government's plan is to control serious crimes against individuals in public space.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-23_U24	The government has a clear plan. When you look at the serious crimes against individuals that, by their brutality, have caused a lively debate in Estonian society, they have one common feature. This is because suspects in these matters are repeat criminals, so-called hardened criminals. And that is the fact that it is possible to conclude from the point of view that repeated crime is the most dangerous in terms of the brutality of crimes against individuals and the greatest threat to public security. The Ministry of Justice is planning to develop a plan to strengthen the control of repeat criminals. We foresee that the post-release behavioural control must apply to most repeat criminals. We also foresee that if one of the so-called third-country nationals has raised his hand against the lives or property or health of our people, they must be subjected more forcefully to expulsion and, in the most extreme cases, when it is a serial rapist, a terrorist, a serial killer, Estonia's penal law must also provide for the possibility of detention in the future. There is no such regulation at present. So we have a plan of how to contain repeat criminals more vigorously, and step by step we are going to realise it.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-23_U25	Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-23_U26	Thank you. In view of these serious crimes, there is a tendency for the public to feel that the police are dealing with everything in Estonia, other than criminals and crime, in relation to the debate on the raising of fines. As you yourself pointed out, these public-known cases have been the case of people who have shown themselves to be ex post, that their parole officers have repeatedly demanded that they be sent back to prison because they have violated the terms of their parole. How has this been taken into account in the plans that are being developed? We know that these criminals form a small society, and we basically know that the only solution is to isolate them. When do we get to the fact that the sentences are longer and these people are kept longer in prison?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-23_U27	This is not a small part of the criminals who are serving a custodial sentence. To a large extent, the rate of relapse of people in prison is close to 70%. Either they're in prison for several times or they're unfortunately likely to end up there again. Without changing the law, it's up to me to give instructions to the parole officer. I have given instructions, which include, for example, the fact that when a probation worker drives a car drunk, carers must unconditionally request the court to send that person to prison. What are the courts doing? The courts shall also be independent in the application of probation. The Ministry will certainly also analyse whether a clear profile of repeat criminals can restrict early release. However, the problem is that only 31% of the 2000 release persons in Estonia are subject to some kind of post-release control. In my opinion, this is not a reasonable order of magnitude. These proportions must change, and that is where we are working. As far as fines are concerned, I think they are unreasonable in the case of certain misdemeanours and do not correspond to the sense of justice of society. The average fine for the theft of less than EUR 200 last year was EUR 67. I do not agree with the logic that stealing must be affordable for every person in a profit and loss account.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-23_U28	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-23_U29	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. Of course, security involves much more than punishing hardened criminals. We know that in Estonia there are gangs with such scattered bottoms in almost all municipalities. In small places, people know very well who these hooligans are, who break bus pavilions, smash bottles and windows, mock and rail people, etc. At the same time, everyone knows that they are still operating there with impunity because the police are no longer on the ground. For example, if there are two police patrols all over Jõgeva County, the police often lack the purely physical capacity to react quickly to the phone calls of local residents. Does the government have such a prophylactic plan to control such gangs and minimise human disturbance?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-23_U30	The Director General of the Police and Border Guard Board has expressed his willingness to increase the number of patrols. In light of the public's assessment of the current sense of security, it is certainly reasonable to consider it. Clearly, it is not honest people who need to be afraid, but criminals who need to be afraid. Violators have to be afraid. That's what the police are supposed to do when they're working to ensure public order. If there are gangs that provoke and intimidate members of the community by their hooliganic behaviour, then it is the primary duty of the police to establish themselves and enforce the law in order to ensure public security. People need to feel safer. The law gives the police all the tools necessary and the general logic must be that the police are present where the sense of security is fragile and the community perceives more danger. I'm calling on local people to inform the police, inform them. It is clear that arrogant behaviour must not be a culture to be tolerated in any way in the public space of Estonia. That's the way it has to be.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-23_U31	I will conclude on this issue. Honourable members of the Riigikogu, we will try to ask our question within one minute.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-23_U32	The next question is from Jüri Adams, Minister for Social Protection Margus Tsahkna, in the role of Prime Minister. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-23_U33	Mr. Acting Prime Minister! On 1 September, one amendment to the Criminal Procedure Act will enter into force, which was adopted at the end of the previous term of office of the Riigikogu. A small justice scandal is emerging in this context. In fact, the Ministry of Justice forgot to make preparations for the implementation of this law, which is why the budget for this year did not have the necessary amount of money. We need to hire people, find money. And right now, senior justice officers are considering delaying the entry into force of the law. It's probably inevitable. What is the government's position on this issue?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-23_U34	Good questioner! The Minister of Justice is sitting next to me, but we've been consulting. Firstly, indeed, the so-called 'fundamental rights package', as it is called, will enter into force on 1 September this year. And the money needed for this year is in the budget. It is EUR 400000 and it is recorded in the state budget. But the truth is that no budget has been agreed for the next few years. The budget negotiations are only just starting, the Ministry of Justice has submitted an additional request. When we talk about amounts, additional staff would need a little more than EUR 800000 per year and would have an additional EUR 130000 to develop IT solutions. So we are actually talking about the need for almost a million euros. If this extra money is not found, the criminal proceedings will slow down and there will be real consequences. The Minister of Justice has certainly focused on this matter. And now there are different options: whether the government finds the money or whether we need to analyse whether it is even possible to actually implement this legislative amendment.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-23_U35	George Adams, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-23_U36	Thank you for this clear answer. Last time I asked the Minister of Justice for this, he had nothing so specific to answer. It was nice to hear that right now. But can we also conclude that these additional judges and other staff, who should be on the payroll to implement this legislative amendment, will be in office from 1 September?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-23_U37	When we talk about the need for additional staff, the analysis shows that there is a need for 21 more people, five of whom would be experts, four prosecutors and four judges, together with the Advocates General and the Secretaries. Such a need exists according to the analysis. There is also a review of criminal proceedings which aims to assess the use of the criminal justice resource as a whole and how this resource can be used more effectively, i.e. how everything can be organised to ensure that people's fundamental rights are guaranteed and, on the other hand, that the procedure is effective and up-to-date, so that there can also be real results. Whether we need extra staff from September 1st, I can't tell you that right now. But yes, this year's budget has the necessary EUR 400000. But indeed, for the years to come, the annual need is almost EUR 1 million, and that is already the question of the budget negotiations whether the government will find this money or whether it will create problems.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-23_U38	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-23_U39	Thank you, good Chairman. Good acting Prime Minister! I'm very glad you're sitting next to the Minister of Justice right now. After all, all these decisions must actually be made before Midsummer Day, so that there is a certainty as to whether this money will be available from 2017 and whether it needs to be cancelled or not. In this sense, I am certainly looking forward to confirmation that these decisions have been adopted in this Chamber by 16 June at the latest. That review won't last long. Do you now also perceive in the government that, as regards the acts of violence referred to in the previous question, the overburdening of security authorities due to the lack of financial resources is screaming and becoming more and more screaming? We also raised the issue of dealing with cases of economic crime. Are you still in the government coming to the conclusion that power structures and courts need additional funding?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-23_U40	Good questioner! As far as this particular issue is concerned, during the debate on the country's budgetary strategy, which has now been launched at the level of the Minister of Finance and will reach the government in April, this issue must be clarified. We are still not talking about funding the Ministry of Justice's budget for a year, but we are talking about that when this law comes into force, its implementation must be guaranteed in the basic budget. This is the place of negotiations, and by June it will certainly be clear what decision the government will take. It is also true that, if we look at the economic forecasts and the additional requests made by the various ministries to the Ministry of Finance regarding the budget, the negotiations on the country's budgetary strategy will be very tense this time. There are certainly more needs to be met than we have in the budget. But it is also true that, as the Minister of Justice confirmed in reply to the previous question, the fight against crime, and not only against 'human' crime, but also against economic crime and corruption, is one of the clear priorities of the government. I also recall the circumstances in which this so-called 'fundamental rights package' emerged in the previous Riigikogu. The Centre Party presented a package of relevant legislative amendments called the Berlusconi Act, and in this Chamber there were very heated debates about this. It was argued that the adoption of these proposals would result in a much more difficult investigation of large-scale corruption crimes. So if we look at this fundamental rights package, the guarantee of fundamental human rights on the other hand will make criminal proceedings slower and more difficult. In order not to undermine the fight against criminal offences, we must find additional resources or postpone the entry into force of this law.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-23_U41	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-23_U42	The next question is from Raivo Põldaru to Minister for Rural Affairs Urmas Kruus. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-23_U43	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Minister, thank you very much. In the government's action programme, we read that a bio-economy strategy to increase the welfare of Estonian people should have been completed in January 2016. What about developing it? How far has it come?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-23_U44	Honourable questioner! As Minister for Rural Affairs, I can assure you that this spring I intend to move this document to the Government Office in the intention of developing it and I hope to receive the support of other ministers from it. I consider it extremely important to draw up this strategy because it concerns people's incomes. On the other hand, I also consider it extremely important that certain natural resources are treated on the ground, trying to add more value to everything in this value chain here in Estonia, increasing the well-being of the Estonian population.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-23_U45	Raivo Põldaru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-23_U46	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Minister, thank you very much. I mean, it's pretty early. I realized there was something out there by January, but all you have to do is work out. The question is this: are you not alone in this event? In fact, it should be a document involving almost every department once it's finished. Are there any working groups or how this is done?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-23_U47	Thank you, honourable Member of the Riigikogu. This task for the Minister for Rural Affairs stems from two important documents. One of them is the State Budget Act, adopted on 19 February 2014, which is consistent with the development of this document, and the other is the Programme of Action of the Government of the Republic 2015 to 2019. I am certainly of the same opinion that the development of this document, but more importantly, substantive action on the basis of this document can be effective and successful if it takes place across ministries. We want to take the initiative, convince and prove that this is possible. I recently visited Finland and met a good colleague there, and now I am even more convinced that cross-ministerial cooperation is possible. But it must be a joint decision of the government, which will be made on the basis of the instructions given by one ministry or another.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-23_U48	Rein Ratas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-23_U49	Thanks! Honourable Minister of Rural Affairs! It is a pleasure to hear that you have undertaken this very serious draft for strategic development and that you want to do so by carefully considering it all. It's very necessary. Please tell me, do you intend to include representatives of Riigikogu committees, such as the Committee on the Environment, the Committee on Rural Affairs, the Committee on Economic Affairs, perhaps a few more, in the process of drawing up a bio-economy strategy? I've been talking.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-23_U50	Thank you, Reverend Asker! In order to prepare and implement an effective document, a very large contribution from the various parties is definitely needed. It would be quite unthinkable if the honourable committees could not participate in the development of this important strategic document. The exact form it will take will be clear when the government has taken the decision and given the opportunity to move forward with the process.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-23_U51	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-23_U52	Next, Külliki Kübarsepp asks the Minister of Justice, Urmas Reinsalu. Here you go!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-23_U53	Thank you, good Chairman. Good minister! The question concerns the amendment of the Penal Code, i.e. a draft increase in the unit of fines. It was a strange thing that the Commission was discussing this subject, but for some reason the Tartu County Court, the Chancellor of Justice and the State Prosecutor were silent that the planned changes were not legally justified. One concern is that our country will not be able to deal with the collection of fines and, rather, will finally be selected from the arrest. Thus, the financial penalties do not have the expected effect. Secondly, people's incomes are still not so balanced that such a double increase in the fine unit rate would affect everyone. Why has the issue of 2002 been kept quiet, has not been dealt with, but now has come up with quite a proposal for changes?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-23_U54	Thank you. The truth is that fines in society are designed to sanction acts that must be avoided. Fines are not designed to ensure that sanctioned acts are available to all, both poorer people and wealthier people. That is not the purpose of the fines, I shall be clear. The whole purpose of criminal law, including in the area of misdemeanour law, is to act in an abiding manner. It is right, as you have pointed out, that the fine rates in nominal terms have remained the same over the last 15 years, but, fortunately, the overall level of income has not remained the same. Society has become more prosperous and inflation has taken place in sanctioning misdemeanours. For example, in Finland, the new government adopted a decision that was rigid in law policy: from autumn last year, the Finnish government raised the fine rates twice. After the analysis it was found to be limited, there is a plan to increase this year's rates by a further 50% compared to the situation prior to double the increase. Our position is that the effects of financial penalties have disappeared in a very large number of cases. As I pointed out earlier, theft of a low-value item: if a EUR 120 thing is stolen, the average penalty is EUR 67, as I read in the papers. I think there's something wrong here. So I have to say that the increase in the fine rates makes sense. It is true that exceptions must also be provided for. This concerns minors, for example, in order to ensure...
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-23_U55	Thank you, Minister. There'll be more questions. Time's up.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-23_U56	It's such an important subject, I'm sorry!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-23_U57	Well, the Hatter.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-23_U58	Thank you, Chairman. Minister, the subject is really important. But why has it been quiet since 2002 and the subject has not been dealt with at all? I mean, every now and then, I still have to check things out. Such a long break is irresponsible. What's your action plan now? Should the withdrawal of bill 146 have been on the agenda today means that you will take it back as a government because you can't change it in substance anymore, or are you just stalling it in time? How are you going to proceed with Bill 146 now?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-23_U59	First of all, I would like to say that the rise in the minimum daily rate for crimes, essentially tripled, was carried out on 1 January 2015 without any major controversy. In the case of crimes, we also assume in society that committing crimes does not have to be affordable for everyone, so-called accessible. A social debate has developed on the subject of wrongdoing, and I can only regret the fact that, for this 15 year, practically almost one generation, the scissors have grown so big that I believe that this change must be done so that we can achieve legal stability and penalties for a longer period of time. It is regrettable that this has not been done before. Now, what's the next step? The Ministry of Justice has carried out an in-depth analysis of the impact of this draft, and I know that the chair of the Committee on Legal Affairs is planning to discuss it in committee next Monday. The employees of the Ministry of Justice will be happy to provide additional information and, if necessary, to prepare further analyses. As of today, I have not received any objective, evidence-based signals from public controversy that the proposed law is by its very nature obscurant.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-23_U60	George Adams, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-23_U61	Mr. Minister! I'm gonna start by getting a surprise. When I used to learn foreign words as a high school boy, the word "sanctioned" was contrary to what you just used. It is interesting to know what linguistic development has been. But my question is that both you and the previous Minister of Justice have been thinking in this Chamber that the amount of financial penalties must be individualised depending on the economic opportunities of the people. I understand, and I assume, at least, that you will also understand that this means delaying the final imposition of a sentence over several years when the amount of the fine is contested, for example, in three levels of court. So how does it go: speed wears off, but justice grows?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-23_U62	The results of the initial analysis have been presented by the Ministry in the explanatory memorandum to this draft which is currently under discussion. This also applies to the imposition of income-based fines for non-sanctioned activities when using your linguistic knowledge. Now, the fact is that we know that this would make the handling of misdemeanour difficult and also inflexible in logistical terms. But on the basis of the logic of today's fine units, as a paradox, fines are the hardest hit on the middle-income and low-income people, as we have shown in the analysis. In order to reform the system, all specific fines should be reviewed individually. We have agreed that we will carry out further analysis of this. However, the general course should be such that we should critically review the catalogue of misdemeanours and be ready in the future to delete certain acts that should not be recorded in the criminal record and in which the financial impact would be expressed precisely in a fine or in some other way in order for the person to refrain from doing so in the future. Furthermore, the procedure for misdemeanours should be as simple as possible, as flexible as possible, not vice versa, complex and inflexible. That is why we have not made any proposals in today's draft to this end, and we do not want to make the system inflexible and, for example, to create a situation where, years later, people are forced to identify their incomes that have ever been earned.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-23_U63	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-23_U64	Now the question of Jaak Madison is the Prime Minister's role as Minister of Social Protection, Margus Tsahkna.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-23_U65	Good minister! The issue, of course, relates to yesterday's events and tragic attacks in Brussels. I have two brief questions. Did yesterday's events, terrorist attacks on innocent people come as a surprise to you and the entire Estonian government, and if they were a surprise, why? Have any conclusions been drawn from the attacks on Paris and other terrorist acts in Europe? The second question is that the Ministry of the Interior immediately increased preparedness and forces to respond to threats at the airport, the Old Port, the Baltic Station and the bus station. Clearly, this is a long-term problem and a long-term strategy for Islamic terrorists. How long will this heightened preparedness remain in these most visited places and how long will it be ready to respond to the dangers?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-23_U66	Good questioner! Europe is at war. I also said that after the Paris terrorist attacks. This war is a different war than we're used to imagining. This is a terrorist war. What does the word 'terror' mean? That's Latin for fear, physical violence, horror. The terrorist mission is to paralyze society, to sow fear, and we must not go along with it. The terrorist attacks in Europe were known to occur. That's what we've been talking about. What happened in Paris indicated that ISIS, or Daesh, is an active terrorism against Europe. But where exactly and what is going on, if it had been known, would certainly have been interfered. In this sense, every act of terrorism will surely come as a surprise. What I want to say to the people of Estonia is that we do not need to be afraid. We don't have to be scared. It doesn't help us any further. The Estonian state has taken measures to protect us, and I say that the people of Estonia are protected, as far as terrorism can be protected at all. Indeed, Estonia has not raised the level of the terrorist threat, according to our information, there is no specific act or action that threatens us. At the same time, as preventive measures, we have increased our capacity at Tallinn Airport, Old Harbour and other transport hubs, where more people are moving. We have this ability and, if necessary, we can keep it longer, but everything depends on what future events will be. In summary, however, I would like to reiterate that we have not raised the level of the prevailing terrorist threat, the Estonian people are protected, the state is able to protect us all.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-23_U67	Jaak Madison, the question to be specified.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-23_U68	Thank you. Good minister! Certainly the people of Brussels and Paris were also confident in their security services and were not afraid, but they were inevitably disappointed and costed the bodies. As far as definitions are concerned, of course we are at war with terrorism. Why don't you explain who represents the terrorist party we're at war with in Europe? And when we talk about terms, unfortunately, most people, and I believe that, including most members of the government, certain terms are not precisely defined. Yesterday your party companion, a member of the Tallinn City Council, called me an idiot in social media. Obviously, he doesn't know where the word comes from. It comes from Greek, and in ancient times it meant nothing more than what he thought. So it is imperative that we educate ourselves on the meaning of terms, including the meaning of terrorism, to know exactly what this means and who the terrorists are. But please assess that in today's Eesti Päevaleht, the President described extreme political forces that are gaining popularity in Europe as a greater threat than the refugee crisis, or the massive invasion of migrants into Europe. Why don't you assess that statement?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-23_U69	Thank you, good question! I don't know how to comment on this idiot issue, discuss it with each other, and educate yourself about concepts. But as far as this particular war story is concerned, on 3 December 2014, a coalition of 60 countries against ISIS was formed. The same terrorist organisation has assumed responsibility for a specific terrorist attack, and that is the conflict that really is. And Estonia and Europe are not alone in this fight, it is a global problem. It is a terrorist organisation spreading its ideology, and the war is against it. I'm sure it'll require more attention, it'll require more preparedness. If we look at what happened in Brussels, the threat was assessed as high. The police were chasing specific terrorists, and some of them were caught. But we can't always be 100 percent sure that everything, the whole network, has been picked up. It is suspected that it was a new network formed, so it is not a single group. And it must be pointed out that it is not right to link the war on terror and the flow of refugees. If we look at the cases that have taken place, there have also been people who have been in Syria fighting in the ISIS ranks, who are in charge of the ideology of this specific terrorist organisation and who have returned to Europe. It is a conscious action, they are not war refugees, but people who spread their ideology and terror.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-23_U70	Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-23_U71	Thank you. Yes, our party has received a lot of criticism here that we are chasing political capital. I say that, in my opinion, in the case of the victims of both Paris and Brussels, all the people who have closed their eyes are complicit. In my opinion, you are going along with this now when you say that immigration, terrorism and Islam are not connected. In my opinion, it is obvious that if we come across the sea in a year between 1.2 and 1.3 million people, whose background we absolutely do not control, and if the ISIS has declared that it has planted thousands of its people there, then immigration is directly linked to terrorism. But I want to clarify the question that if we're at war, who or what. Because terrorism is a tactic, terrorism is not a matter of itself. Whose or what are we fighting, what is this ideology? But what is more important: what is the response? If we announce that we will not give up openness, if we say that we will not stop accepting immigrants, then what is the answer?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-23_U72	Good questioner! What you are doing now is taking advantage of this issue. Terrorism has been a long time ago and, unfortunately, it will be in the future. You compare it with the refugee crisis that concerns Europe, but these are different issues. Of course, they can be arbitrarily linked. I would like to say that if there were no refugee crisis in Europe, there would probably not be your party either. That's what brings you bread on the table. On the contrary, I have said it, and I have also acted with the party, to ensure that we do not close our eyes but take measures to alleviate the refugee crisis with confidence and fear. This same Riigikogu last week passed the law on granting international protection to an alien, which included specific amendments made by the IRL. The aim is for us to have a specific procedure to check the background of the people we accept as refugees in Estonia to whom we grant international protection. We need to know who they are, what their background is, whether they are a threat to our society, whether they are able to integrate, whether they are able to accept the rules and norms of our society. Estonia has acted very confidently in this area, our immigration policy has been conservative, we keep up with the times. For this, thank you very much to the Riigikogu, which has adopted the necessary legislative amendments. We do the same at the level of the government. We are one of the few countries in Europe who have considered the reception scheme in detail, our experts are going to be present and people are really interviewing. We don't trust random files and other data, we're checking everything out ourselves. So the people of Estonia now have no reason to fear refugees or terrorists.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-23_U73	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-23_U74	The next question is from Artur Talvik to Minister for Rural Affairs Urmas Kruus. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-23_U75	Thank you, Chairman! Good minister! On 3 March 2016, the Supreme Court published a court order which decided to dismiss the appeal of the Ministry of Rural Affairs. As a result of this judgment, the Tallinn Administrative Court must essentially assess the legality of decree No 127 issued by the Minister of Agriculture on 30 September 2014, which decided not to return to the heirs of Helgi Margale and Jaan Tõnisson the land occupied by AS Tartu Agro until today. Has the Ministry already begun discussing the legality of this same decree? What is your position on this verdict?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-23_U76	Honourable questioner! The Supreme Court has not made a decision, the order resolves procedural questions in courts, in this case whether the case should be further dealt with in court. We currently have no reason to believe that the requirements have been breached, and it can now be said that according to the instructions received, the court will not assess the legality of the retention of agricultural land occupied by Tartu Agro since 1999.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-23_U77	Arthur Talvik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-23_U78	Good minister! AS Tartu Agro saga is very long. It lasts from 1999 and concerns both the return of the land and the fact that Tartu Agro has been given land lease prices below market price. As a minister, are you prepared to put an end to the conditions of such unequal competition and also to solve this very long strawberry?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-23_U79	Good questioner! The minister certainly does not intend to assume the role of court. If there are any disputes, we expect it and hope that the court will make its fair decision if it proves necessary. Secondly, I cannot accept the notion that the public limited liability company has been able to use the asset at a lower price than the market price, because the terms of this asset contract relate not only to the price of the rent but also to certain obligations. The rent price alone does not reflect the liabilities of this company. But I am convinced that the courts are the institutions in which such matters are settled, and if, for one reason or another, the court comes to some decision which is to be passed on to the ministry or the opposite party, it will be fulfilled.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-23_U80	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-23_U81	Thank you, Chairman. Good minister! Indeed, the saga lasts from 1999 and one nuance about why it began to deal with a little over 3,000 hectares was that it was initially thought that the country university would use these lands in its studies. This whole issue has been on the agenda in the ministry at various ministerial times. This very long saga has also been dealt with by Chancellor Ants Noot, who is now about to resign. Is the reason for Ants Nooda's departure precisely from the saga of Tartu Agro? He has, of course, shown some resentment in this regard. And when will the government approve Illar Lemetti as the new chancellor?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-23_U82	Thank you, Reverend Asker! Surely your expectations of the Honorable Chancellor are unreasonably high. Decisions have been made on this matter according to the best knowledge and collegially, not according to the individual's discretion. The other thing is that I personally had an agreement with the chancellor that if he had to face any challenge outside the ministry's administration, the Minister wouldn't be holding it back. This moment has now arrived. But I'm sure the honorable chancellor will comment on his future challenges. The confirmation of Illar Lemetti's Chancellor should take place at the government meeting tomorrow.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-23_U83	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-23_U84	Arno Bridge, a brief question, please, and the Minister for Rural Affairs can answer briefly. Please, Arno Bridge!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-23_U85	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Minister, thank you very much. The people of the Centre Party have already asked about this issue, but I will ask again last week about the European Union's recommendation to grant temporary State aid to farmers. This recommendation has been made to all countries and has been taken into account by all farmers. I have a brief question: does the Ministry of Agriculture intend to go to the government with this desire and, if so, with what proposals exactly and how much is it expected to pay?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-23_U86	Honourable questioner! As I said in the previous reply, when we find out what real opportunities European countries have to implement one or another measure, the Minister for Rural Affairs can also propose that additional support be paid to the government. When we are talking about State aid, it is still completely unclear under what conditions this support could be implemented at all. I mean that the European Commission does not simply treat it as a single shipment of money, but rather as a very precisely targeted competition must not be distorted. So if it is clear that this aid can be implemented and what the conditions are, then the Minister for Rural Affairs can also make possible proposals.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-23_U87	Question time's over. Thank you to the ministers.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-23_U88	Honourable Riigikogu! Let's start the Wednesday hearing. Transfer of pre-claims and enquiries. First Thomas Vitsu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-23_U89	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, I have an inquiry to report to Minister Marko Pomerants of the Environment. This concerns the land reform, namely the part of the land reform relating to the privatisation of land on the basis of plan and map material. This is a rather large part of this work, and the entire 99542 cadastral unit has been so privatized. The Maareform is coming to an end, but the cadastral units formed on the basis of plan and map material are still being measured. Together with 14 members of the Central Party Group, I will ask how the interests of the country will be protected during this process. If there's some kind of dispute between the landowner and the state, how's that gonna happen?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-23_U90	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-23_U91	Mr. President! Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the members of the Conservative People's Party Group, we are presenting a question to Prime Minister Taavi Rõivas about the assistance of my countrymen returning from abroad. This morning we had a meeting with demographer Allan Puur in the group, and according to him too, some 100,000 people have left Estonia and they are working either in a neighbouring country or even further away. This process has been going on for years and a number of people have also been returning. It is also known that many wish to return to Estonia. However, many have problems in this regard, as ties to home have been broken, there is no real estate, there is no job, and it is difficult to deal with all these things from a distance. In this regard, we have four relevant questions for the Prime Minister, pursuant to § 139 of the Riigikogu Law on Home and Rules of Procedure, which I am now handing over. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-23_U92	Anneli Ott, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-23_U93	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I will report an inquiry to Minister for Social Protection Margus Tsahkna. An inquiry shall relate to paternity leave. Since 2013, paternity leave was restored in Estonia and can be applied for ten working days after the birth of the child. It can be applied for by fathers who work under an employment contract. At the same time, the current law excludes self-employed persons who have also paid taxes and could have been treated in the same way. We have offices in the country that can only be held as self-employed persons, such as notaries and bailiffs. The current law does not allow self-employed people to take paternity leave, and in this connection we have the following questions. What is the reason why only fathers who work under an employment contract can take paternity leave? Do you think it's fair that a self-employed person can't take paternity leave? And thirdly, notaries and bailiffs are obliged to register as self-employed, but they are unable to get paternity leave because of this form of business. How do you comment on this situation? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-23_U94	I have adopted three enquiries and will be sent to the addressee as soon as they comply with the Home and Working Procedures Act. Incoming check, please! 81 members of the Riigikogu will be present at the plenary session, 20 missing.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-23_U95	Honourable Riigikogu! Our hearing yesterday ended when we discussed bill 160. This is the draft law amending the Riigikogu Election Act and other laws and we examined the amendments. Amendment 2 was put to the vote and the Centre Party took a break before voting. This break is over now. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on Amendment 2, tabled by the Group of the Estonian Centre Party, which has been disregarded by the commission. Please take a stand and vote. There are 29 members of the Riigikogu in favour of Amendment 2, 49 against and 3 abstentions. The amendment was not supported. Amendment 3 has been tabled by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and has, of course, been taken into account. Amendment 4 has been rejected by the Centre Party Group. Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-23_U96	Thank you. I would like to ask you to vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-23_U97	Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on Amendment 4, tabled by the Group of the Estonian Centre Party, which the Commission has disregarded. Please take a stand and vote. There are 29 members of the Riigikogu in favour of the fourth amendment, 46 against and 5 abstentions. The amendment was not supported. Amendment 5 has been tabled by the Central Party Group; the Commission has disregarded this. Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-23_U98	I ask for the fifth amendment to be voted on.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-23_U99	I shall put to the vote Amendment 5 tabled by the Central Party Group, which has been rejected by the Steering Committee. Please take a stand and vote. There are 25 members of the Riigikogu in favour of the fifth amendment, 51 against and 2 abstentions. The amendment was not supported. The sixth amendment is from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, the seventh amendment is from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, the eighth amendment is from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, the ninth amendment is from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. The 10th amendment is tabled by the Centre Party Group; the Commission has disregarded it. Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-23_U100	I would like to ask for the tenth amendment to be voted on.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-23_U101	I shall put to the vote Amendment 10 tabled by the Central Party Group, which has been rejected by the Steering Committee. Please take a stand and vote. There are 30 members of the Riigikogu in favour of the tenth amendment, 46 against and 3 abstentions. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 11 has been tabled by the Centre Party Group; the Commission has disregarded this. Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-23_U102	I would like to ask you to vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-23_U103	Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on Amendment 11, which is tabled by the Central Party Group and which has not been taken into account by the Commission. Please take a stand and vote. There are 27 members of the Riigikogu in favour of the proposal, 45 against and 5 abstentions. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 12 is from the Centre Party Group; the Commission has disregarded this. Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-23_U104	I would like to ask you to vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-23_U105	I shall put to the vote Amendment 12 tabled by the Centre Party Group, which has not been taken into account by the Commission. Please take a stand and vote. 27 members of the Riigikogu were in favour of the amendment, 45 against and 6 abstentions. The amendment was not supported. Amendment 13 is from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, amendment 14 is from the Group of the Centre Party and has been disregarded. Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-23_U106	I would like to ask you to vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-23_U107	I shall put to the vote Amendment 14 tabled by the Centre Party Group. The Commission has not taken this into account. Please take a stand and vote. There are 28 members of the Riigikogu in favour of Amendment 14, 45 against and 3 abstentions. The amendment was not supported. Amendment 15 has been tabled by the Centre Party Group; the Commission has not taken this into account. Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-23_U108	I would like to ask for this 15th amendment to be voted on.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-23_U109	Please! I shall put to the vote Amendment 15 tabled by the Centre Party Group, which has been rejected by the Commission. Please take a stand and vote. There are 28 members of the Riigikogu in favour of the proposal, 46 against and 2 abstentions. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 16 is tabled by the Centre Party Group; the Commission has disregarded this. Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-23_U110	I would like to ask you to vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-23_U111	Please! I shall put to the vote Amendment 16, tabled by the Central Party Group, which has been disregarded by the Commission. Please take a stand and vote. There are 28 members of the Riigikogu in favour of Amendment 16, against 46, with 2 abstentions. The amendment was not supported. Amendment 17 is from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. The 18th amendment has been tabled by the Free Party Group, the Commission has disregarded it and, according to § 106 (2) of the Home and Rules of Procedure Act, it is not to be voted on in plenary. Amendment 19 tabled by the Conservative People's Party Group has been disregarded and will not be voted on either. Amendment 20, tabled by the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia, has been rejected by the Steering Committee. Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-23_U112	Thank you. We would like to vote on this proposal.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-23_U113	Please! I shall put to the vote Amendment 20 tabled by the Conservative People's Party Group, which has not been taken into account by the Steering Committee. Please take a stand and vote. There are 28 members of the Riigikogu in favour of Amendment 20, 47 against and 3 abstentions. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 21 has been tabled by the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia and has not been taken into account by the Steering Committee. Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-23_U114	Thank you! We would also like to vote on this.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-23_U115	I shall put to the vote Amendment 21 tabled by the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia, which has not been taken into account by the commission. Please take a stand and vote. There are 25 members of the Riigikogu in favour of the proposal, 51 against, no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. The 22nd amendment has been tabled by the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia, which has not been taken into account and is not to be voted in plenary. Amendment 23, tabled by the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia, the Commission has disregarded. Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-23_U116	Thank you. We want to vote on this.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-23_U117	I shall put to the vote Amendment 23 tabled by the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia, which has not been taken into account by the Commission. Please take a stand and vote. There are 31 members of the Riigikogu in favour of the proposal, 47 against, no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 24, tabled by the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia, has been rejected by the Steering Committee. Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-23_U118	Our group would like to vote on this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-23_U119	I shall put to the vote Amendment 24, tabled by the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia, which has not been taken into account by the commission. Please take a stand and vote. There are 26 members of the Riigikogu in favour of the amendment, 47 against, 4 abstentions. The amendment was not supported. Amendment 25, tabled by the Group of the Estonian Centre Party, has been rejected by the commission. Mailis Reps, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-23_U120	Thank you, Mr President. I ask for the 25th amendment to be voted on.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-23_U121	I shall put to the vote Amendment 25 tabled by the Group of the Estonian Central Party, which has been rejected by the commission. Please take a stand and vote. There are 26 members of the Riigikogu in favour of the proposal, 46 against and 5 abstentions. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 26, tabled by the Estonian Centre Party Group, has been rejected by the commission. Mailis Reps, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-23_U122	Thank you. I am also asking for this amendment to be voted on.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-23_U123	I shall put to the vote Amendment 26 tabled by the Group of the Estonian Centre Party, which has been rejected by the commission. Please take a stand and vote. There are 26 members of the Riigikogu in favour of the proposal, against 53. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 27, tabled by the Group of the Estonian Centre Party, the commission has failed. Mailis Reps, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-23_U124	I would also like to ask for the vote on Amendment 27.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-23_U125	I therefore put to the vote Amendment 27 tabled by the Central Party Group, which has been rejected by the Steering Committee. Please take a stand and vote. There are 30 members of the Riigikogu in favour of the amendment, 46 against and 3 abstentions. The proposal was not supported. The 28th amendment has been tabled by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. Amendment 29 has been tabled by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. Amendment 30 has been tabled by the Central Party Group; this has not been taken into account by the commission. Please, Mailis Reps!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-23_U126	Thank you, Mr President. I ask for this amendment to be voted on.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-23_U127	I shall put to the vote Amendment 30, tabled by the Group of the Estonian Centre Party, which has not been taken into account by the commission. Please take a stand and vote. There are 29 members of the Riigikogu in favour of Amendment 30, against 49, with 3 abstentions. The amendment was not supported. Amendment 31 has been tabled by the Group of the Estonian Centre Party; the commission has ignored it. Mailis Reps, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-23_U128	I ask for the vote on Amendment 31.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-23_U129	I shall put to the vote the 31st amendment tabled by the Central Party Group, which has been rejected by the Steering Committee. Please take a stand and vote. 28 votes to 48, with 4 abstentions. Couldn't find any support. Amendment 32, tabled by the Group of the Centre Party, has not been taken into account. Mailis Reps, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-23_U130	I ask for the vote on Amendment 32.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-23_U131	I shall put to the vote Amendment 32, tabled by the Centre Party Group and not included in the committee. Please take a stand and vote. by 29, against 47, with 3 abstentions. Couldn't find any support. Amendment 33, tabled by the Centre Party Group, the lead committee has been disregarded. Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-23_U132	Thank you. I ask for an amendment to be voted on.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-23_U133	Please, Valeri Korb! I shall put to the vote Amendment 33, tabled by the Centre Party Group, not included in the committee. Please take a stand and vote. by 30 votes to 48, with 4 abstentions. Couldn't find any support. Amendment 34, tabled by the Centre Party Group, not taken into account in the Steering Committee. Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-23_U134	Thank you. I would like to ask for the vote on Amendment 34.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-23_U135	Please! I shall put to the vote Amendment 34, tabled by the Central Party Group, which has not been taken into account by the Steering Committee. Please take a stand and vote. by 24, against 47, with 7 abstentions. Couldn't find any support. Amendment 35, tabled by the Centre Party Group, has not been taken into account. Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-23_U136	I would like to ask for the vote on Amendment 35.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-23_U137	I shall put to the vote Amendment 35, tabled by the Centre Party Group, not taken into account in the Steering Committee. Please take a stand and vote. by 27 votes to 48, with 6 abstentions. Couldn't find any support. Amendment 36, tabled by the Estonian Centre Party Group, the commission has failed. Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-23_U138	Thank you. I would like to ask for the vote on Amendment 36.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-23_U139	I shall put to the vote Amendment 36, tabled by the Centre Party Group, the Commission has not taken into account. Please take a stand and vote. In favour of 26, against 52, no abstentions. Couldn't find any support. 37th amendment, tabled by the Centre Party Group and disregarded. Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-23_U140	I would like to ask for the vote on Amendment 37.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-23_U141	I shall put to the vote Amendment 37, tabled by the Centre Party Group, without taking into account. Please take a stand and vote. For 32, against 45, with one abstention. Couldn't find any support. Amendment 38, tabled by the Centre Party Group, has not been taken into account. Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-23_U142	I would like to ask for a vote on Amendment 38.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-23_U143	I shall put to the vote Amendment 38, tabled by the Centre Party Group. The Commission's decision is to disregard it. Please take a stand and vote. 30 in favour, 46 against, no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 39 is from the Centre Party Group; the Commission has not taken this into account. Mailis Reps, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-23_U144	Thank you. I ask for a vote on Amendment 39!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-23_U145	I shall put to the vote Amendment 39, which is tabled by the Centre Party Group and which has not been taken into account by the Commission. Please take a stand and vote. by 29, against 46, with 3 abstentions. Couldn't find any support. The 40th amendment has been tabled by the Central Party Group, which has not been taken into account. Please, Mailis Reps!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-23_U146	Thank you. Please vote on Amendment 40.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-23_U147	I shall put to the vote Amendment 40, tabled by the Centre Party Group and not included in the committee. Please take a stand and vote. By 30, against 46, with two abstentions. Couldn't find any support. I shall put the vote to the vote.... [[In the Laughing Hall.]] Amendment 41, tabled by the Centre Party Group and the Steering Committee, has been disregarded. Mailis Reps, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-23_U148	Thank you. I ask for a vote on Amendment 41!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-23_U149	Now I am voting on Amendment 41 tabled by the Central Party Group, which has not been taken into account by the Steering Committee. Please take a stand and vote. by 28, against 47, with 3 abstentions. Couldn't find any support. You see, turning a person into a machine doesn't go easy. Amendment 42, tabled by the Group of the Centre Party, the lead committee has been disregarded. Mailis Reps, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-23_U150	Thank you, Mr President. I also ask that Amendment 42 be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-23_U151	I shall put to the vote Amendment 42, tabled by the Central Party Group, which has been rejected by the Steering Committee. Please take a stand and vote. by 27 votes to 48, with 3 abstentions. Couldn't find any support. Amendment 43, tabled by the Centre Party Group, has been rejected by the commission. Mailis Reps, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-23_U152	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. I also ask for the 43rd amendment to be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-23_U153	I shall put to the vote Amendment 43, tabled by the Central Party Group, which has been rejected by the Steering Committee. Please take a stand and vote. 28 votes to 48, with 3 abstentions. Couldn't find any support. Amendment 44, tabled by the Centre Party Group, has not been taken into account by the commission. Mailis Reps, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-23_U154	I would also like to ask for the 44th, very good amendment to be voted on.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-23_U155	I shall put to the vote Amendment 44, tabled by the Central Party Group, which has not been taken into account by the Steering Committee. Please take a stand and vote. By 28, against 46, with 2 abstentions. Couldn't find any support. Amendment 45, tabled by the Centre Party Group, has not been taken into account by the commission. Mailis Reps, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-23_U156	Thank you, Mr President. Amendment 45 is a particularly good amendment on its four pages. I ask you to vote on this.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-23_U157	I shall put to the vote Amendment 45 tabled by the Central Party Group, which has not been taken into account by the Steering Committee. Please take a stand and vote. by 29, against 48, with 2 abstentions. Couldn't find any support. Amendment 46, tabled by the Centre Party Group, the lead committee has been disregarded. Mailis Reps, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-23_U158	I also ask for a vote on the 46th proposal!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-23_U159	I shall put to the vote Amendment 46 tabled by the Group of the Estonian Centre Party, which has been rejected by the commission. Please take a stand and vote. 28 votes to 48, with 2 abstentions. Couldn't find any support. Amendment 47, tabled by the Centre Party Group, has been rejected by the commission. Mailis Reps, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-23_U160	Thank you, Mr President. I would also like to ask for a vote on Amendment 47.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-23_U161	I shall put to the vote Amendment 47 tabled by the Group of the Estonian Central Party. The Governing Commission has disregarded this. Please take a stand and vote. In favour of 26, 51 votes against, no abstentions. The amendment was not supported. Amendment 48, tabled by the Centre Party Group, has been rejected by the Commission. Please, Mailis Reps!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-23_U162	I would also like to ask for a vote on Amendment 48.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-23_U163	I shall put to the vote the 48th amendment tabled by the Central Party Group, which has been rejected by the Steering Committee. Please take a stand and vote. by 28, against 47, with 3 abstentions. Couldn't find any support. Amendment 49 has been tabled by the Central Party Group, which has been rejected by the Steering Committee. Please, Mailis Reps!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-23_U164	I would also like to vote on Amendment 49.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-23_U165	I shall put to the vote Amendment 49, tabled by the Centre Party Group, the Commission has disregarded. Please take a stand and vote. by 26 votes to 47, with 5 abstentions. Couldn't find any support. Amendment 50, tabled by the Centre Party Group, has been rejected by the Commission. Mailis Reps, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-23_U166	Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu! I also ask for the 50th amendment to be voted on.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-23_U167	Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on Amendment 50 tabled by the Group of the Estonian Central Party and rejected by the Commission. Please take a stand and vote. by 26 votes to 45, with 4 abstentions. Couldn't find any support. Amendment 51, tabled by the Centre Party Group, has not been taken into account by the Commission. Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-23_U168	I would like to ask for the vote on Amendment 51.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-23_U169	I shall put to the vote Amendment 51, tabled by the Centre Party Group, the Commission has not taken into account. Please take a stand and vote. 26 in favour, 47 against, 4 abstentions. Couldn't find any support. Amendment 52, tabled by the Centre Party Group, rejected by the Steering Committee. Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-23_U170	I would like to ask for the vote on Amendment 52.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-23_U171	I shall put to the vote Amendment 52, tabled by the Centre Party Group, the Commission has failed. Please take a stand and vote. 25 in favour, 48 against, 4 abstentions. Couldn't find any support. Amendment 53, tabled by the Centre Party Group, has not been taken into account by the Commission. Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-23_U172	I would like to ask for a vote on Amendment 53.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-23_U173	I shall put to the vote Amendment 53, tabled by the Central Party Group, which has not been taken into account by the Steering Committee. Please take a stand and vote. by 27 votes to 48, with 3 abstentions. Couldn't find any support. Amendment 54, tabled by the Centre Party Group, has been rejected by the commission. Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-23_U174	I would like to ask for the vote on Amendment 54.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-23_U175	I shall put to the vote Amendment 54 tabled by the Central Party Group, which has been rejected by the Steering Committee. Please take a stand and vote. 28 votes to 48, with 3 abstentions. Couldn't find any support. Amendment 55, tabled by the Centre Party Group, the lead committee has been disregarded. Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-23_U176	I would like to ask for the vote on Amendment 55.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-23_U177	I shall put to the vote Amendment 55, tabled by the Centre Party Group, the lead committee has failed. Please take a stand and vote. In favour of 24, 54 votes against, no abstentions. Couldn't find any support. Amendment 56, tabled by the Centre Party Group, the lead committee has been disregarded. Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-23_U178	I would like to ask for the last vote on Amendment 56.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-23_U179	I am voting on Amendment 56, tabled by the Central Party Group, which has not been taken into account by the Steering Committee. Please take a stand and vote. by 27 votes to 49, with 3 abstentions. The proposal was not supported. The table of amendments has been revised. Thank you for the hard-working mood in this House. The Commission's proposal is to conclude the second reading of the draft. The Group of the Estonian Centre Party has proposed to interrupt the second reading of the draft 160; we also need to vote on this proposal. Honourable Riigikogu, I will put to the vote the proposal of the Estonian Centre Party Group to interrupt the second reading of 160. Please take a stand and vote. For 33, against 49, no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. The second reading of bill 160 is over.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-23_U180	Our next item is the first reading of the draft Act 181 amending the Act on the Status of a Member of the Riigikogu and the Law on the Organisation of Local Government, initiated by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. Andre Sepp, member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, is the rapporteur who initiated the draft act. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-23_U181	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, In front of you...
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-23_U182	Wait a minute, Andre! Thank you, colleagues. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-23_U183	You have before you the text of the first reading of Bill 181. The draft was initiated by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs on 8 February. It has also been dealt with at two meetings of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, last Tuesday 15 March, when Ebe Sarapuu, Adviser to the Public Law Service of the Ministry of Justice, Olari Koppel, Director of the Chancellery of the Chancellor of Justice, and Priit Vinkel, Head of the Elections Department of the Chancellery of the Riigikogu took part in the discussion. Let us briefly state the purpose of this law, its impact and also the amendments proposed in the draft. The purpose of the draft is to remove the restrictions on members of the Riigikogu not to participate in the work of municipal and city councils. They are once again to be given the opportunity to participate in organising the life of the local government unit in their place of residence. The regulation relates in particular to the principle of autonomy of local government under § 154 (1) of the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia, the principle of separation of powers and balance of powers laid down in § 4 and the principle of incompatibility of agencies contained in § 63. According to the Constitution, the foundation of local government is the idea of a community whose task is to solve community problems and organise community life in the local interest. As an effect of the Act, the Commission has highlighted the fact that when the draft Act enters into force, members of the Riigikogu may also belong to the council of the local government unit and participate in the work of the council. The restrictions must not discourage individuals from local representative bodies who have a real support society. The members of the Riigikogu can have a real support group in the community, and when the changes enter into force, the municipal and city councils will become sufficiently representative. According to the draft Act amending the Act on the status of a member of the Riigikogu and the Act on the organisation of local government, the Act on the status of a member of the Riigikogu is amended so that § 24 is repealed. According to § 2 of the Bill, the Local Government Organisation Act is also amended and the following changes are made. The new wording of paragraph 17 (3) would read as follows: 'The Council has the right to pay its members a fee for taking part in the work of the Council and to pay compensation for the expenses incurred in the performance of its duties at the rate and in accordance with the procedures established by the Council. If a member of the council is a member of the Riigikogu during his term of office, he shall not be paid a fee for taking part in the work of the council. ' Paragraph 4 of the same section is also amended, which states: 'The position of Chairman of the Council or Vice-Chairman of a Council may be paid by decision of the Council, unless the Chairman or Vice-Chairman of the Council is a member of the Riigikogu during his term of office. The President-in-Office of the Council or the Deputy Chairman-in-Office of the Council shall not be entitled to any additional allowance, allowance or allowance or benefits which the Council has not decided upon. ' The last sentence is still in the current law. Paragraph 19 (2) is also amended, which reads as follows: 'For the duration of the term of office of a member of the Government of the Republic until the expiry of the term of office of a member of the Government of the Republic'. The Act is scheduled to enter into force on 16 October 2017. The Commission also heard a representative of the Government in the context of the initiation of this draft. The representative of the Ministry of Justice presented the positions of the Government of the Republic. He explained that the government decided to support the draft. The proposed amendment is also in line with the programme of action of the government association, which states in point 4.31, that the restriction that a member of the Riigikogu is not entitled to participate in the work of the local government at the same time as a member of the council is removed and that the double fee is excluded from the positions. A representative of the Ministry of Justice also noted that the Ministry of Finance has pointed out that the Committee on Constitutional Affairs could consider whether to impose a restriction that a member of the Riigikogu may not be Chairman of a local government council. The reason for this is the fact that according to § 42 of the Local Government Organisation Act, the Chairman of the Local Government Council has a lot of tasks that take time to carry out, and his work may therefore not be suitable for the duties of a member of the Riigikogu in time. We also heard the Chancellor of Justice's opinion. The Director of the Chancellery of the Chancellor of Justice explained that the draft regulates a matter on which earlier Chancellors of Justice have also expressed their views. Their opinions on this matter have been divided. Chancellor of Justice Allar Jõks considered that if a member of the Riigikogu is a member of a local government council, this goes against the restriction that says that a member of the Riigikogu must not be in any other state office at the same time. Chancellor of Justice Indrek Teder considered that being a member of a local government council cannot be considered a state office. The current Chancellor of Justice is of the opinion that if a member of the Riigikogu is allowed to be a member of the local government at the same time, this is not contrary to the Constitution. The Head of the Elections Department of the Chancellery of the Riigikogu noted that it is technically feasible to attend both the Riigikogu and the local government council. In essence, it is a removal of one of the seals. The members of the committee expressed their opinion that, as several Riigikogu configurations have discussed the subject, the explanatory memorandum should also include a detailed description of the current law and the state of play, as well as the assessments that have been made to it. And in order for this review to be comprehensive, there is a comprehensive explanatory memorandum attached to Bill 181. The Commission decided to propose that the draft be placed on the agenda of the plenary session on 22 March (which came into force today), that the first reading be closed (consensus), that the amendments be set at 10 working days, i.e. 7 April 2016 at 5.15 p.m. (consensus) and that Mr Sepp (also by consensus) be appointed rapporteur. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-23_U184	Questions for the initiator of the draft. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-23_U185	Good manager! Good waitress! We have enough work here in the Riigikogu. Tell me, why is it time to start sending members of the Riigikogu to local councils? Should we take more control there, or what is the reason that we should also start working there and deprive local people of the opportunity to participate? Please explain in rural language!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-23_U186	Thank you for your question. The reason is very clear. As I said, there is a need to increase representativeness by allowing different groups to exercise their rights. The regulation that members of the Riigikogu may have participated in the work of local governments worked until 2005. And as I pointed out above, it has been referred to as a kind of restraining order. Why is this the time now? This was also provided for in the Commission's Rules of Procedure. That is how we decided, and this is also supported by the coalition agreement of the Government Union.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-23_U187	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-23_U188	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! This dispute has been very lengthy and the principle of incompatibility of mandates has been in force for well over ten years. Now you are trying to prove in your draft explanatory memorandum that what you are offering is correct and theoretically justified. But how much did you take into account the practice of European countries and also the theoretical literature published in Estonian in this area? For example, Tiina Runthal has reached the opposite view in her published articles and other works, as well as Chancellor Jõks. This explanatory statement is thorough, but why is it one-sided?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-23_U189	Thank you. I do not agree that it is one-sided. The explanatory memorandum has described both aspects and the views of the various parties. There is a record of events and the different opinions of the Chancellors of Justice you have mentioned have also been highlighted. And the explanatory memorandum also introduces practice in other countries. I'll bring it out here. From the countries of the European Union, the mandate of a member of the local government council and a member of the national parliament is allowed to combine Austria, Belgium, Spain, the Netherlands, Croatia (with the exception of the mayor and deputy mayors of the capital), Italy, Greece, where the mayors are also excluded, Luxembourg, Malta, France, at one level municipal councils in Sweden, Germany, Slovakia, Slovenia, Finland, Great Britain, Denmark and the Czech Republic. The second part of the question was whether the opinions of all parties had been thoroughly analysed. It is now a first reading, and as a representative of the Commission, I call on everyone to be a debate on the subject. The draft can still be analysed before the law enters into force.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-23_U190	Meelis Mälberg, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-23_U191	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! I am sure that all members of the Riigikogu care about their municipality of residence, the life of their hometown, and if this opportunity now arises, probably a large part of us will also apply. Quite likely, quite a few will be elected. How can we ensure that everyone who turns out to be elected can actually participate in the work of the local government council? I am thinking of rural municipalities and towns farther away from Tallinn. How can we ensure that this work is done on the ground and that the Riigikogu is also able to work?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-23_U192	Thank you. Good question and certainly understandable. The Charter of Local Government provides that the employer must allow work in the local government. You asked how to reconcile this with the obligations arising from the Riigikogu's Home and Working Procedures Act. At this point in time, I can only say that this is a matter of local self-government autonomy and should be resolved in the legislation of local governments. But the members of the council must actually be able to participate in the work of the council. Of course, I cannot fail to mention the legal possibility of choosing between one job and another: to use the possibility of suspending the mandate or abandoning one mandate in favour of another. At the same time, I agree that the problem is, also for us, the most question to be asked to the Members of the Commission is how this is possible. When we process the bill, can we find a way to regulate it in a way that does not interfere with the autonomy of the local government in any way? At the moment, however, it is a question of the autonomy of the local government as to how it regulates working time. But yes, it's a frequently asked question.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-23_U193	Thank you, dear waitress. There are more questions for you. Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-23_U194	Thank you, Mr. Vice Speaker. Ladies and gentlemen, You mentioned earlier that this change is necessary to increase representativeness and to have different interest groups represented in local councils. I understand that these interest groups are parties of the Riigikogu. Ten years ago, or more than ten years ago, it was changed because there were specific problems that followed this arrangement. Now they want to restore this troubled situation. What are the current problems that will be addressed by this amendment? What are these real, real, practical, political problems? Let us put aside the fact that, as I understand it, the bench of the Reform Party is so short that it is necessary to send members of the Riigikogu to the local councils to set things right.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-23_U195	Thank you. I would like to remind you that this is an agreed engagement under the Coalition Agreement. So the questioner should blame only one party. Considering that there are nearly 2,500 Commissioners in local governments, 101 members in the Riigikogu, this cannot in any way affect local governments and local government councils cannot have a strong influence on the members of the Riigikogu. The representativeness you have mentioned is that a member of the Riigikogu should have the right to be elected to the local council and to exercise this mandate. Members of the Riigikogu as a social group are not meant here. I would like to add here to all of us a certain theme of the decoy ducks, which will be discussed on the Riigikogu agenda as the next item. The voters are to a certain extent required and do not know how to make their choice. If it is clear that members of the Riigikogu can participate in local work, this will make the matter clearer for the voters.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-23_U196	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-23_U197	Thank you, manager. Good waitress! Your answer to my colleague's question made me a little misunderstanding. As you said, local councils must change their regulations in the future so that members of the Riigikogu can start attending the council. I think it is rather the opposite principle. Is the Committee on Constitutional Affairs prepared to come up with a proposal to make the work of the Riigikogu part-time voluntary or part-time? It was proposed by the Cooperation Council that, since we no longer need to work through so many draft laws, maybe once a week we could go together and get the job done. Are you coming up with a similar proposal so that members of the Riigikogu can work at local level with full seriousness and 100% understanding?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-23_U198	Thank you. This question was not raised in the Commission, and the initiators of such a proposal did not. But I repeat the notion of local self-government autonomy, so that it is clearly understood: only the local government can decide on local regulations and one of them is the working time of the local government council. This draft does not propose operating procedures. I admit that we can come back to it before the next readings and discuss whether it is even possible to regulate it from this side. As a waitress, I think the local government can count on it, but it doesn't have to take that into account right now. But if the council wants the change we are proposing in the interests of the citizens, it is likely that this nuance will be taken into account.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-23_U199	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-23_U200	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! In the Commission, you have noted that the Commission has looked closely at the quite different positions of the Chancellors of Justice. But how much were the various academic approaches studied? Academic approaches specifically highlight the principle of separation of powers. If you combine the positions of a member of the Riigikogu with that of a member of the local council, how do you feel that the principle of separation of powers is guaranteed on a personal level?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-23_U201	Thank you. The analyses or views of academics were not directly discussed in the Commission. The Commission heard the current Chancellor of Justice, who considered that the reconciliation of the two posts was possible and in accordance with the national constitution. The principle of separation of powers is not in jeopardy, even in vertical terms.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-23_U202	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-23_U203	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, According to the Constitution, the local authority is autonomous. There is no need to be a Chancellor of Justice to understand that the participation of members of the Riigikogu in the work of local government is blurry, if not to say that it is clearly detrimental to the autonomy of local governments. Your reference to having more than 200 local governments and only 101 members in the Riigikogu is, of course, demagogy. Because we actually have a maximum of ten municipalities that are of interest from the point of view of central power, and the participation of members of the Riigikogu in the work of these councils may affect decisions in such a way that they are based not on local interests but on the interests of the government. I am not asking you a question right now; I wanted to raise clear objections to your views.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-23_U204	Thank you. I say to these objections that I myself have been exercising executive power in the local government for over ten years and have been on the council for four years. I dare say for sure that the local government is dealing with local life issues, these are schools, kindergartens, snow cleaning. These are very clearly local government issues that are discussed at councils in an attempt to find solutions. I dare say that I do not understand the desire to say that politics is now coming to the local government. Its purpose is not clear to me, and I dare argue against it. It's all too overdramatized. Rather, we look the other way: how people elected to the Riigikogu can enrich choices in solving local life issues.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-23_U205	Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-23_U206	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Respectable waitress! The explanatory memorandum to this bill is really voluminous and thorough, but it seems to me that this explanatory memorandum does not make much sense to the voter. I have a request that, if possible, you also tell your voters in Raasik or Aruküla or wherever this law will improve Estonia's life. In what respects are local councils more successful, efficient, effective after the adoption of this law?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-23_U207	Thank you for your question. Rather, the aim is to signal that excessive barriers and restrictions could be reduced in our society. This bill gives the local governments a clear signal before the local elections that voters can vote by a citizen who is currently a member of the Riigikogu, as well as by a representative of an electoral union or party who is not a member of the Riigikogu. It's a welcome nuance. The second is that, even when I was a member of two formations in this hall, I have seen it, and I have seen it, there are quite a number of questions relating to local government issues and requiring knowledge of the nature of local government. The tasks to be dealt with by the municipalities are also under consideration in this Chamber. You mentioned Raasik municipality, where I live, yes, my children go to school and kindergarten there, and I have also been elected to the local government council. I wouldn't think it's right if I didn't have to take part in organizing the life of my neighborhood, but I should read about it in the press because I'm still doing the job here. Those are two things that get better. Perhaps this gave an answer to how this law contributes to the strengthening of local democracy and also to the better organisation of local life.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-23_U208	Siim Kisler, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-23_U209	Thank you. Good waitress! The initiator of the draft act has stated that if a member of the Riigikogu takes up work at a local council, he may not be paid for this work. Is that not contrary to the autonomy of the local government? Isn't that up to them? You have explained in the explanatory memorandum that the members of the Riigikogu are sufficiently protected and do not suffer any loss of earnings from participating in the work of the council, so there is no need to pay a fee for participating in the work of the council. At the same time, we know that a member of the Riigikogu who participates in the work of this council as a member of the supervisory board of a state-owned company will receive this remuneration. Isn't this different treatment? The same reasoning could be applied in the case of participation in the work of a state-owned company: there is adequate social protection so that it could, like, work free of charge.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-23_U210	Thank you, that's a good question. The Commission also had a debate on this. For example, a comparison: you sit at the council with a rector of a university of higher education or with another representative of the state administration, he receives a fee and if you are a member of the Riigikogu, you will not receive a fee. That is the way the coalition agreement has been agreed. As the members of the Riigikogu receive a fee for resolving the issues facing the everyday state, it is not considered important that they also have the possibility to earn a fee in the local government. There has also been a public debate about the fees you pay on the boards of public undertakings, as to whether they should or should not be. Personally, I share the view that there should not be, and there is certainly a move towards it. I repeat, the bill states that there will be no remuneration for taking part in the council's work. There are also many council members in this Chamber, and this is the reward for the state's work. The remuneration paid on the spot, either on an hourly basis or in the form of monthly remuneration, shall not be paid. However, the draft does not deal with those compensations which are intended to compensate for the costs which may arise in connection with the work of the Council, that is the cost of transport or something else. In any event, these costs shall be reimbursed.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-23_U211	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-23_U212	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! In addition to narrowing the scope of democracy, I believe that the application of members of the Riigikogu will lead to unequal competition. Legal experts and political scientists have also pointed this out, pointing out that the participation of county elders, ministers and members of the Riigikogu in local elections has made the use of public funds rather a rule in the election campaign. Do you agree with me that we, members of the Riigikogu, also considering the relatively uncontrolled use of expense benefits, have a competitive advantage compared to other candidates?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-23_U213	Thank you for your question. This should be more reconfigured during other readings. At this point, it is a question of interpretation. If we approach personal interpretation from a point of view, it's like it's a competitive advantage. But it shouldn't be. Other laws, such as the Anti-Corruption Act, also deal with the possibility of such a competitive advantage. It is possible for a person to reduce himself to resolve certain issues in order to avoid these dangers. In an evolving democracy, it is certainly very justified to move in that direction so that such situations do not arise. I am also of the opinion that not all possible questions can be settled by law, and so much is actually hoped for the right behaviour of people themselves.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-23_U214	Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-23_U215	Thank you, Mr. Vice Speaker. Good waitress! Of course, I want to apologize first. I do not think cynical political calculations are specific to the Reform Party alone. I'm sure they're common to other parties. But now the question. Your objection to my previous question concerned the fact that we have many municipalities and that they mainly deal with schools, roads and kindergartens. If the municipality reform or administrative reform is completed, we will have about 70 municipalities left, i.e. each member of the parliament will find at least one municipality in which to apply. The problem, however, is concentrated in a few large cities, in my opinion. And the problem is that Toompea parties control public resources over schools, roads, kindergartens are getting bigger. My question is, do you not see the problem that for the next local elections, this current bill is preparing a plan to strengthen the control of the political parties of the Riigikogu over the activities of local governments and the use of money?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-23_U216	No, I don't see it. You claimed that as if every member of the Riigikogu would soon find a place in the local government council, but this still requires election to the council. Should this regulation lead to policy at local government level? I do not agree that this could encourage this. On the contrary, I believe that there is an increased possibility that every member of the Riigikogu, being elected in his own constituency, will bring on-site information about the process of processing the legislation of the Riigikogu in the country. I consider it of greater value that local governments and councils are directly more familiar with the topics than a member of the Riigikogu has been elected from the same region. This may not be the case, but it may be that this will improve the local government's way of life with better information. As for your claim that politicians are interfering in the lives of local governments, it is up to the local authorities to decide. It is still possible to form electoral alliances, to be part of the electoral alliance and to be represented through it. I myself have been nominated for election union five times and received a mandate from there. Yes, you can really assume all of this, but I hope there is no basis for this assumption.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-23_U217	Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-23_U218	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I mean, it is very nice that members of the Riigikogu can also work on local councils, but it is not right to pay them a fee for taking part in this work. Purely speaking, the Chairman of the Riigikogu and his esteemed deputies may be the presidents of the local municipality or city council. It seems strange to me, of course, but the law allows this combination. Was it discussed in the Commission that perhaps there were some limitations in these paragraphs so that such combinations would not occur?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-23_U219	Thank you. I do not currently have a clear picture of how it was regulated until 2005 and whether such cases were real. I would remind you, though, that the chairmen have not combined their profession in this way. But when we talk about the leadership of the council, the chairman of the municipal or city council, the Minister of Finance also gave his opinion. He saw a possible conflict precisely from the point of view of the workload, whether it is right to allow the chairman of the municipal or city council to work in the Riigikogu. Before the first reading of the draft, the Commission did not see the possibility of this conflict, and it was also based on the autonomy of the local government: however, the local government council elects the chairman of the council and cannot be restricted. This is not how Bill 181 envisages it.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-23_U220	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-23_U221	Good manager! Good waitress! You are emphasising local self-government autonomy here, but if Mr Mälberg has to work at Räpina's council or someone else in Misso or I in Haaslava, then the local government council has to start setting up its work according to our schedule and this is interference with local self-government autonomy. Is it not really meant for Räpina or Misso or Haaslava or some other remote area, but is meant for Tallinn, because it is still coming to this council? Is the real reason why it was written into the coalition agreement so that you can get your paw in the Tallinn Council?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-23_U222	Thank you, my good colleague from the Riigikogu and the Commission. The Commission did not raise this issue and the Commission decided by consensus to submit a draft to the Chamber. I do not agree with your argument about getting your paw in, it is still an opportunity to reconcile the work of a member of the Riigikogu with that of a member of the local council. If this proves personally impossible, it is possible to waive one or the other mandate. Let us repeat this reconciliation of working time once again. We should be thinking here, during the reading of the draft, whether it can be regulated in such a way that this autonomy is not curtailed. So far, the Commission has not dealt with this, and it is now up to the local authority alone. And once again, for the third time, it is possible that the council will consider that its member can participate in the work of the Riigikogu. It should also be possible in Räpina and Haslava.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-23_U223	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-23_U224	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! The administrative reform is likely to reduce the number of councils, so the number of council members will also decrease. Do you not see the danger that the growth of our democracy will be further narrowed? If all members of the Riigikogu are now going to stand as candidates in local elections, then there will be even less room for those new tryouts who could come into politics through local councils?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-23_U225	The issue of administrative reform is currently on the table, and if you look at the state of today and our small municipalities, you also know that so far it has been possible to enter the council with ten or even fewer votes. So would this law really reduce democracy in this sense? I would like to give an example that if a member of the Riigikogu who is standing in the region were to stand aside 30 or 40 times the number of votes received, but a dozen people who have received a vote would be able to get to the council, would it promote democracy or vice versa? The reform will certainly result in a decrease in the number of municipalities, but it is not correlated with the decrease in the number of council members. As is well known, the Local Government Organisation Act also provides for the number of council members to correspond to the number of inhabitants. So there's no direct correlation. However, it is difficult to predict how many council members will remain after the reform. But once again, 101 people don't have to be on councils. Members of the Riigikogu have the opportunity to apply for the election of the local government council, not the obligation. If it is found that the work in the Riigikogu is primary and there is not enough time or resources to contribute to the local government level, then you may not apply at all. But if you run, the mandate can be suspended. I do not see that this is in any way a threat to democracy.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-23_U226	Monika Haukanõmm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-23_U227	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, We have mainly discussed here that the members of the Riigikogu, or even the members of the government, go to the local council and that they want to do so. There is another possibility that they will run and receive a very large vote and will be elected, but at some point they will decide that they will nevertheless withdraw their mandate and not go to the council. Do you not think that such a situation could lead to people being disappointed in politics or alienated? It's like the vote of these voters is disappearing. How many before the 2002 amendment were there cases where, for example, a Member did not go to work on the council? Have you discussed this?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-23_U228	Thank you. This analysis has not been discussed and it was not discussed in the Commission how much was actually abandoned. But let's be realistic, we do our job every day, which is politics, we stand as candidates for elections to the Euro Parliament, the local elections to the Riigikogu. We will also answer the voters' question of what you will do if you are elected to the Riigikogu. Are you leaving the council? Or what do you do if you turn out to be elected to the council, will you waive the mandate of the Riigikogu? I myself have been running for both elections, and this response has to be made clear. Of course, it cannot be said with certainty that if the plan presented at the election meeting materialises, there will be no other plan. It's a free choice of man according to the constitution. However, it is important that the electorate is informed. It is exactly the same now: if this bill becomes a law, it will be easier for the candidate to say whether he or she will remain in both, if he or she turns out to be elected, or whether he or she will choose one collection.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-23_U229	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-23_U230	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, I want to make a memorable clarification. When you say that the participation of members of the Riigikogu in local governments brings local people closer to what is happening in the Riigikogu, I would remind you that we have cost benefits and are used to communicate with voters in our constituency. So this argument is weak, to put it mildly. But as for the fact that the municipalities are different, I will continue to some extent where I finished the first question, it still makes me really think that political parties are essentially sent to local governments, which are of interest. Nobody's interested in Martna or Lasva Parish, let's be honest. But generally, get information about procurements, detailed plans, building permits, privatisations, it can be very corrupt. Don't you see the danger here?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-23_U231	Thank you. In order to rule out this, the Riigikogu has adopted various laws. We have, for example, an anti-corruption law, as I have already said. But it's not a matter of personal interpretation, it's possible to reduce yourself if a person thinks these jobs might conflict. It's possible to reduce yourself. As regards the sending of politicians to local governments, as you said, the use of such a line of reasoning is, to put it mildly, inferior to the use of local governments. It is a question of local self-government autonomy, how they organise the work of their council and how many members they have in the council. Election to the Council is possible for everyone from the age of 16. I cannot agree with you on this threat of corruption. Is it as if we should consider ourselves a corrupt country and try to use repressive barriers so that no one goes anywhere because it could create danger? Estonia is a democratic state and it is possible to regulate people's behaviour and behaviour democratically. So the clear answer to you is, I don't see any danger.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-23_U232	Aadu Black, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-23_U233	Thank you. I personally have the experience that two times have had to make a difficult choice and eventually leave the Riigikogu after the local council elections. When the local people have chosen me, how I say, oh, I'm just kidding. Purely technically, if you look at it from an individual perspective, there would be no major problems. I have noticed that much of the cities still have the exact same schedule of sittings on local councils as a member of the Riigikogu could still be a member of the council. For example, the sitting in Tartu is Thursday afternoon and we finally have a whole Friday day. But this is not a question of the fate of one person or another or of a third person. The Commission has not carried out a pocket analysis for itself of how much of the current composition of the Riigikogu has two mandates? And maybe you know how it could split up in a party?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-23_U234	Thank you for a good question. So far, the Commission has not carried out this analysis. I will certainly raise this issue as a representative of the Commission, and this review could certainly be in the interest of statistics, even at the moment at which the situation might develop. That is, of course, theoretically, because every person is free in his or her decision, and everything depends on what he or she prefers. Its statistics will certainly be available for the next reading.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-23_U235	Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-23_U236	Thank you, Honourable Chairman. Respectable waitress! How great do you consider it that disputes on an ideological level are transferred from the Riigikogu to local councils? After looking aside at the activities of the Tallinn City Council at the beginning of this century, I can say that these disputes also spread very quickly and very forcefully into the discussions of the Tallinn City Council.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-23_U237	Thank you. I did not understand the question as to whether it was bad or good that the debates were being transferred from one organ to another. We have political parties together to debate with you here too, and the Free Party is also involved in debates. But in Harjumaa, for example, I dare say, I have not been able to directly observe such broadcast debates in councils. At the same time, I do not see anything criminally bad or degrading to society if the debates we hold here, for example, over the Private School Act or the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act or the Pre-Study Children's Institution Act, in a word, about the laws governing the management of the life of local governments, would also go to local councils and really to the entities implementing their decisions. Here, too, in the Chamber of the Riigikogu, we are debating positions on various issues and it would be good if the views on which to debate were more. Perhaps it is evil to see political pressure in it, but at the same time it must be acknowledged that the way of life is governed by politics.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-23_U238	Raivo Põldaru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-23_U239	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, On a number of questions concerning the analysis, you replied that no analysis had been carried out. My question is what you analysed in the proceedings on this bill. And did you include the councils, we have several such alliances? Who was involved in this endeavor?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-23_U240	The Commission initiated the draft law and prepared an explanatory memorandum listing what could be amended by the law. In doing so, the Adviser to the Ministry of Justice and the Director of the Chancellery of the Chancellor of Justice were also present. I am sure and I dare to promise you that if the draft procedure continues in the Riigikogu, the various parties will, of course, be involved and their official positions asked for. And let it be made clear that the Association of Estonian Rural Governments and the Association of Estonian Cities will be the partner here, and I will also take along from this hall a proposal to examine the opinions of academics so that they too are involved in the proceedings.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-23_U241	Raivo Põldaru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-23_U242	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Honourable performer! So the ideas of the local governments are still coming to light. Couldn't they have been involved in the preparation of the draft before, and examined whether such a legislative amendment was even necessary? At the moment, only the government's position is that it needs to be.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-23_U243	This is the point of the coalition agreement, so it is not the idea that has emerged in the minds of the Members of the Commission, which has been written somewhere behind closed doors. This, by the way, was the subject of a debate exactly a year ago and cannot be said to have been left out of direct involvement. However, as I promised in reply to the previous question, the Commission will certainly involve them in the discussion of the Appendix.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-23_U244	Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-23_U245	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, Once there were many more contacts between people in this hall and much more ideas could be realised, especially those related to the life of the local government. Do you agree that the reason was that it was easier for people who knew exactly what was happening in municipal councils and even in cities and municipalities to find a common language, and that many problems were solved without political unrest? Can this law have a positive effect?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-23_U246	Yeah, I think so, yeah. The more and possibly, the more concentrated we can face these issues, the more real the opportunity to find solutions and to implement them more immediately, faster and optimally. It shouldn't be that somewhere upstairs Toompea has an opinion, downtown has an opinion. Yes, we are based on the principle of separation of powers and the autonomy of the local government, but the people of Estonia live in Estonian cities, Estonian municipalities and villages. Solving issues at both national and local level should be effective and optimal, so that the best possible solutions are applied. So I share your point of view.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-23_U247	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-23_U248	Thank you, manager. Dear waitress, I'm trying to understand coalition politics, but it's getting harder and harder. First of all, you gave 16-year-olds the right to vote in order to expand the circle of those who participate in the elections, participate in democracy and decide on matters. In the next step, you want to reset it all. Which line are you running? You take any opportunity and interest in speaking with the locals by this law, because the fathers who come from the Riigikogu know better and decide better. Why did you even give 16-year-olds the right to vote when now you're zeroing it all out?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-23_U249	I don't know, I don't know any fathers in the Riigikogu, but if a colleague thinks he is, let him. But both of these legislative changes, both giving young people the right to vote from the age of 16 and the same change concerning members of the Riigikogu actually reduce the criteria required for making a clear contribution to local government issues. It is quite hypothetical to draw the parallel in your question. If someone wants to think so, of course he may think so, but the real desire is that all citizens living in Estonia have the greatest possible opportunity to apply in the local government, be elected and organise local life.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-23_U250	Thank you, dear waitress. No further questions for you. I'm opening negotiations. Artur Talvik on behalf of the Estonian Free Party Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-23_U251	Good President! Ladies and gentlemen, When Indrek Tarand first applied for europarlamento, it was a great honour to make him a promotional multifilm with a message from 'Choose person, but not a duck! '. Perhaps this message was clear for one reason that Indrek Tarand received so many votes in the elections at the time. People, voters want to see less decoy ducks. They don't want to see a lot of them going off during the election, they don't want them shooting pictures and blurring the election. Today's explanations of Andre Sepa or the reasons why this amendment was needed were not very convincing. And rather because of the questions or arguments that came out of the hall, I would say that the weight of the matter was very clearly tending to the point that there is certainly no need for this legislative amendment right now. But we need to finish the whole decoy duck thing. In this sense, I would advise you to be in favour of the 177 bill initiated by the Free Party, which we will next have to deal with. In the previous local elections, I now say this figure, 93 members of the Riigikogu. They became elected 60, and only one person accepted the council's mandate, or went on to do the work. This is a good colleague of Aadu Black. Such statistics are a very good example of our decoy party. I myself have now experienced how the Riigikogu has taken more time than it took for my previous jobs. I am also a member of one of the parish committees, and I have to admit that I will be there every third or fourth time in committee meetings. It's not because of indifference, it's just because there's no time to go there. Then why are we doing this trick or cheating? The second argument against the bill is that it is impossible to get involved. You may even make it to the hearing, but you don't really get into local problems. In order to bring the message of the topics to be discussed in the Riigikogu on the ground, we have a 'free week' in which we must meet the voters. In short, this draft law does not convince the Free Party and I am honoured to hand over the proposal of the Group of the Estonian Free Party to reject bill 181 at first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-23_U252	Mart Helme as representative of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-23_U253	Mr. President! Ladies and gentlemen, I must share Artur Talvik's view that the views expressed during the presentation of the draft and later during the debate were not convincing. Personally, I was not convinced by the reasons why members of the Riigikogu could participate in the work of local governments. The autonomy of local governments is something that the participation of members of the Riigikogu clearly blurs in their work. I see here perhaps paranoidly, and you may not agree with me to build a very clear vertical power. This vertical of power extends from Stenbock house and Stenbock house to party offices, where information is collected about what is useful to these municipalities, which is crucial in Estonia's life, and whether we can use this information both in the interests of the party and in the interests of the supporters of the party. Of course, everyone claims that this is not the case. In fact, it is, because a person is just as big a pig as they let him be. And if he can use anything for his own good, he can use it. There's no doubt there's an ulterior motive. Secondly, I'm not a very tough chess player, but I've been chessing so much that I can predict and think about a few moves. I see a very clear link here with administrative reform. In the course of the administrative reform, the number of municipalities should decrease if I am not deceived by memory to 62. This means that if local governments can also be manned by members of the Riigikogu, the manipulation of local governments will, not during the upcoming presidential elections, become such that, if the President cannot be elected in the Riigikogu, the electoral team will be much easier to achieve the desired result, because the representatives who influence the events and decisions will be held by the emissaries, the politicians, if you want to, will be there. Again, if you want, call it paranoia, but politics is largely a paranoia. So we see the corrupt elements of this bill. We see here elements of a violation of the autonomy of local authorities, which is contrary to the Constitution. We see political technological elements here. And we cannot support such a thing. We will definitely join the Free Party's proposal to interrupt the reading of the draft. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-23_U254	Thank you. Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-23_U255	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, I have twice made a statement in this Chamber that I am leaving the Riigikogu for the council in the autumn of 2005 and in the spring of 2007, and because of this experience I am currently unable to make any categorical assessments. In 2004, when the break-up between the local government council and the Riigikogu was discussed, I quite frankly supported it. The main argument was that the whole bench should stand up, everyone who sits there in reserve, let a new generation come, let new players come. There was no other argument back there. Nevertheless, we supported it, and I personally supported it. After I began to see what I was talking about here when I asked my question: for example, in the IX Riigikogu, so that you would know, out of 101 members of the Riigikogu 98 were members of some council. There were also quite a few council presidents. All I remember right now is Andres Taimla, who I worked with quite a bit on the billing process, but there were others. Then we understood each other very well, because if there's a problem, everyone has it. I'm telling you, then people were thinking a little bit more about local life, no, 'little' is a bad word, much more about local life. And then I realized what we had actually done. How easy they took money from people like coffins, didn't they? There was nothing to talk about, a small amount, but the poor person still supported at a difficult time. If the same number, 98 members of the local government, had been in this Chamber at the time this decision was taken, then such an impertinent decision would never have been taken. Everyone would have taken into account that in a few days' time it would be necessary to go to the council, and there they would have the same mysterious aunt Maali, who could, in worse cases, be punched in the face. Yes, working schedules have been quite difficult to set in time. But we have a sitting-free week, so do the councils meet on Thursdays-Friday, which will save us. And actually, the other wave, the back-up party, didn't come up. When a talented young person appears, he goes instantly into great politics. You can see it in this hall. Few people stay in the local council. So it is the situation that no one takes this council seriously. If there are eight members on the council whose total number of votes is equal to my number of votes, although I didn't work for it and told everyone that I wouldn't stay at the council, I'm going to the Riigikogu, it seems kind of sad. So the Centre Party Group is looking forward to this debate. We will monitor which developments will take place. We can't talk about our decision at first, there hasn't been a serious debate. Let's see how the break proposal is voted on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-23_U256	Thank you. Kalle Laane on behalf of the Reform Party Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-23_U257	Good manager! A good colleague, Artur Talvik, said there should be less decoy ducks. I think this bill should reduce the number of decoy ducks. In my opinion, for people who want to participate in the life of their community and in the local government council, this bill gives the opportunity, not the obligation, to do so. In my opinion, a very good example is the colleague of our previous composition, those who were in the previous and previous compositions, who knew this: Jaanus Tamkivi, who was nominated for the previous elections in the council. Yes, he continued here in the Riigikogu, but when he left the Riigikogu, he took up the duties of a member of the Kuressaare City Council. His visit to Kuressaare City Council has certainly given much more attention to the discussions that take place there. It's only been positive. In my opinion, we should not be afraid to work for the people who live in our region. But whoever's afraid to do this is not obliged to run for office. Don't run! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-23_U258	Thank you. Tarmo Tamm, do you have a procedural question? No, it's not. Only the representatives of the political groups will get the floor at first reading. There's no more calls. The commission has proposed to conclude the first reading of the draft 181, while the Group of the Estonian Free Party has proposed to reject the draft 181 at first reading. We are going to vote on this. Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-23_U259	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. On behalf of the Reform Party Group, I would like to ask for four minutes of intermission before the vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-23_U260	Break four minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-23_U261	Ladies and gentlemen, the break requested by the Reform Party Group has ended. I shall put to the vote the proposal of the Estonian Free Party Group to reject the draft 181 at first reading. Please take a stand and vote. 16 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the proposal, 46 against and 1 abstention. The proposal was not supported. First reading of Bill 181 is complete. I will set the deadline for submitting the draft amendments, including 7 April at 5.15 p.m. Ladies and gentlemen, the second item is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-23_U262	We will move on to the third item on the agenda: First reading of Bill 177 of the Law on the Election of the Local Government Council and the Law on the Amendment of Other Acts, which prohibits decoy ducks. The rapporteur is Andres Herkel, member of the Riigikogu. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-23_U263	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Riigikogu! This draft is, as the number suggests, submitted to the procedure of the Riigikogu just before the draft, and it offers a different way of resolving the current situation since 2005, where, on the one hand, the principle of incompatibility of mandates applies, but the members and ministers of the Riigikogu are free to come out as fraud candidates in local elections, without actually going to accept this mandate. I refer to the scale of this problem, particularly in the larger municipalities. In 2009, according to Mihkel Solvak, 21.5% of the votes cast in Tartu and 32.4% of the votes cast in Tallinn. The consequence is that the Tallinn Council in particular consists of alternate members with a weak mandate. In principle, it is possible that a member of the Riigikogu is campaigning for a candidate for local government who is out on the street with him and goes from door to door and asks him to vote for a certain candidate. But we've evolved differently. Namely, a member of the Riigikogu or a minister collects these votes himself, but another person goes to the council to carry out the mandate. There is no doubt that this will affect, among other things, the authority of the councils - the votes of the councils - have been gathered by someone else who has given up their mandate. As a rule, the situation is getting worse during the functioning of the Council. In Tallinn, it has been that the majority of the 20 candidates who received the highest number of votes will immediately give up their mandate. At the end of the previous composition of the Tallinn Council, there were as many as 53 of the 79 members, who were alternate members. Today I asked for information about the current Tallinn Council to be taken out. Since these exchanges are extremely frequent, these data may swim a little bit, but we got together about the same ratio: 50 or a little more, 52 plus or minus one or two, there may be members who have been replaced since the last elections. It is quite obvious that this situation must be brought to an end. I have also said that this situation must in any case be brought to an end, either way, is likely to be better than the current situation. But above all, the question is why our draft is better than the so-called two-chair bill presented earlier. Both Allar Jõks and many others have referred to the following principles and interpreted them quite the contrary to the previous rapporteur's previous draft. The principle of autonomy of local government, the principle of separation of powers and conflict of interest are keywords which must be borne in mind. I stress the autonomy of the local government because the decisions made by the government coalition on Toompea, for example, can easily conflict with the interests of the local government. Indeed, in view of the principle of separation of powers, much has been said about what this other state office is and whether it could be a local council. Probably with a broader interpretation. And finally, a conflict of interest. Indeed, there have been examples where changes in the balance of power or the composition of the power coalition of the local government council tend to arise in the shift of the Toompea coalition or in the emergence of some interests and are not, as a general rule, good examples. So these principles, which are also referred to in the explanatory memorandum to the draft discussed above, can be interpreted differently and have been interpreted differently. The truth is, however, that there are very different practices in European countries. There are countries where the principle of incompatibility of mandates is respected and there are countries where mandates are combined. There are so- and different solutions. Here, however, it may be appropriate to point out that there is probably a great deal of tradition to bear in mind. Among other countries are those with multiple chambers, and then this incompatibility has been applied to the members of one of Parliament's chambers, not to the members of both chambers. In Estonia, we are now at a crossroads where we have to decide which way to go. In 18 countries of the European Union, the alignment of mandates is permitted, and the eighth is prohibited. Apart from the legal arguments, which have obviously been used both and different, I attach great importance to the political arguments which speak in favour of the solution proposed in our draft. The first of these is that democracy extends as the councils and the Riigikogu have different people. Among other things, it must also be taken into account that if the administrative reform is carried out, the total number of members of the councils in Estonia will decrease, and if you go this way to allow the members of the Riigikogu to be re-elected on local councils, this will only increase the concentration of power at one point and, in the opinion of the initiators of this draft, it is not good. Nor is it a minor argument that I put the question to Andre Sepa when dealing with the pre-draft. I'm thinking of using an administrative resource. This is about members of the Riigikogu, it is about ministers, it is probably also about rural elders, for whom we are honest, the opportunities to make a campaign to elect a local government are much wider than other candidates. And this could lead to an unequal competitive situation. We are free to make use of these much-spoken cost benefits, and the other candidates do not have such opportunities. So the use of administrative resources is certainly not limited to controversial advertising in Tallinn, which has been paid for the city's money. This may be reflected in the competitive advantage that the members of the Riigikogu have in choosing a local government council. In addition, as I pointed out above, the influence of the Toompea Coalition on local governments is playing its role. There may easily be a conflict of interest here and, in principle, there is not too much influence probably good. Ultimately, I think that political parties should also leave room for electoral alliances in local governments. In particular, the political parties of the Riigikogu will certainly narrow down these opportunities if they put out all their politicians in local elections. At this point, I will conclude, but I would like to remind you of one more problem that has arisen in dealing with the previous draft. I think that quite precise information about how the Riigikogu acted in previous local elections is in the explanatory memorandum to the draft we have submitted. In fact, a total of 93 members of the Riigikogu were nominated for local elections in 2013, 60 of them were elected. As of the beginning of the following year, one of Aadu Must Tartu's councils had accepted the council's mandate. Kajar Lember had also started working in Tartu as a deputy mayor of the municipality. 58 members of the Riigikogu and 11 ministers did not work in councils or local governments, although they were elected. Once again: this situation must definitely be brought to an end and it is right to end on the basis of the simple principle that we have proposed: the mandate of a member of the Riigikogu will end when elected to the local government council and vice versa. A member of the Riigikogu who has been elected to the local government council loses the mandate of the Riigikogu and a member of the local government council elected to the Riigikogu also loses its mandate. An analogous draft was also discussed in the previous Riigikogu, although in a slightly different and more complex form. And if you ask where this practice is directly implemented, I say that it is almost as such used in the Republic of Latvia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-23_U264	Thank you. You have questions too. Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-23_U265	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Honourable waitress! I understand that you have dealt well with this issue and you have a comprehensive overview of the practice in other countries. You said a couple of numbers, in several countries, that there is a lack of compatibility of mandates and that many of them do not apply, and you also mentioned Latvia. Europe is the cultural area to which we belong. Would you say how many countries there are in Europe where the new acquired mandate cancels the previous mandate? Is there another country in Europe besides Latvia, or is Latvia the only one?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-23_U266	In fact, I am not familiar with the background of the countries in this table. At hand, I have the data that in 18 countries the reconciliation of mandates is permitted and the eighth is not allowed. In the case of Latvia, yes, it is permissible to apply, but reconciliation is prohibited. We have had these disputes leading to the recognition that the constitutional right to stand as a candidate cannot be restricted. How is it in other countries? For example, reconciliation is also prohibited in the Republic of Lithuania, and my comment is also in the table that the ban will apply as from 2003 on the basis of a decision of the Constitutional Court. I don't quite know what the content of this judgment is. In Hungary, the law prohibits the reconciliation of mandates from the 2014 local elections. I have heard that Georgia, which is not a member of the European Union, has similar arrangements to those of Latvia, but is a Member State of the Council of Europe. But in Latvia, it has worked quite well once.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-23_U267	Eiki Nestor, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-23_U268	Honourable waitress! I'm worried about the professionalism of politicians. There are not too many people who would like to engage in politics. And to be elected somewhere, you have to apply. If you look at this composition of the Riigikogu here, maybe 10% of us could be sure that we will be elected in 2019. But I believe that the majority, if not elected, would like and be able to participate at local level. How could they do that if they didn't apply to the local council?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-23_U269	Thank you for your question. I think they could do this by running for office as soon as possible in municipal elections after 2019. I understand that the question is that if a member of the Riigikogu loses the mandate of the Riigikogu, it is as if he can restore the mandate of his local government council, which is indeed possible. Before I pointed out that more than 50 of the 79 members of the Tallinn Council are currently alternate, but there would probably be more if some people outside the Riigikogu had not gone to the council in the last elections. I guess it's kind of a place to weigh. It seems to me, however, that this time of deception will be long enough for a person to run for office in the Riigikogu and then wait for him to be elected and, if not, as a consolation prize, he will accept the mandate of the local government council. He still turns out to be a decoy duck even if he doesn't go to the council immediately during that time. Yes, we have made the temporary withdrawal system of the council's mandate very flexible, but it is still a deliberate fraud. Most members of the Riigikogu also run for office in Riigikogu elections and hopes to be re-elected. The question of the level of policy is perhaps a little more serious now, but I do not believe in any way that a government as large as Tallinn is not able to select professional council members than to exclude members of the Riigikogu. The problem of the lack of competent politicians is rather in small municipalities, which are likely to become larger as a result of administrative-territorial reform. And the professionalism issues of the Tallinn Council are, in my opinion, related to something else. These are related to the fact that there has been a situation of exercising power in Tallinn, where there has been no dependence on the administrative councils of the city districts for a long time and, in fact, the Tallinn Council is less and less dependent on it. It also comes from the fact that the council has members who have not received personal votes and are there by the grace of someone else's votes.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-23_U270	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! As an expert in political ornithology, tell me why the use of ducks in countries like us in Eastern Europe has spread in politics and who was the person in Estonia who opened the door to politics for the ducks!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-23_U271	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-23_U272	Thank you. I will start from the other end of the question, which contained a more substantive question. I don't think it was done consciously. It was done in good faith that if we declare that the reconciliation of mandates must be stopped, the parties will act accordingly. But the political parties soon found it practical to put candidates with a higher social profile as the first figures in the elections and to cast their swindling voices without hesitation. Some parties have done so in such a way that they have placed well-known candidates in a more modest position on the electoral list. I have read the verbatim reports of the Riigikogu more than ten years ago and I have identified a couple of perceptive members of the Riigikogu who pointed out in their questions and speeches that if you retain the right to stand as a candidate and then have to choose whether or not to accept the mandate in cold peace, this could be a bad situation. But it was probably not widely recognised. It was probably hoped for a better political culture than we have actually had in more than ten years. As far as other countries in Eastern Europe or any other country are concerned and as to whether such a form of "goats" is in use, I cannot give any example. I cannot rely on any research, but I do have the impression that, on a scale similar to that in Estonia, there is hardly such a crooked system anywhere else.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-23_U273	Kalev Eagle, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-23_U274	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Honourable waitress! I'm gonna go ahead and pick on the title of the bill. I remember the cases where the title has been tried to plant political populism, but this kind of decoy duck-type folk slang I do not remember from the past, and I am very surprised that a very experienced member of your group and an esteemed colleague, Jüri Adams, has let this sort of thing pass. Point 4 of the explanatory memorandum to the draft law states that the draft does not contain any unknown terms. Can you say the legal definition of a decoy duck?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-23_U275	Well, we were discussing how to title this bill, and I guess he's just a little prank. But once again, let's put things in proportion. If the prominent representatives of political parties in the Riigikogu have been given such a free opportunity to appear as a decoy duck and they do so, then we also take the liberty of naming this bill in this form. In this way, we will at least achieve that the nature of the problem is clearly visible to voters.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-23_U276	Andre Sepp, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-23_U277	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good speaker! Both the debate on the previous draft law and the current debate actually focus on one of the key issues that I would like to put to you as well. Do you think that a local government can be regarded as part of an executive state power? And if so, how can we act in accordance with the Constitution? But if you can't, can you see a contradiction?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-23_U278	You know, I don't have a very clear personal position here. I'd leave it to the lawyers to argue, but I can supply you with a lot of material to read the opposite results. On one of my issues, I also referred to the study of Tiina Runthal, as well as to Allar Jõks. There is a school that also deals with membership of the municipal council as an incompatible state office. But there is a school of different opinion. We, above all, realise our political will here, and we believe that it is for the reasons that are currently conducive to giving a competitive advantage to the large parties and members of the Riigikogu and to narrowing the foundations of democracy that we have proposed is a better solution. Above all, this incompatibility has been in place for more than ten years, and it is simply not practical to reopen the constitutional dispute as to whether or not the reconciliation of mandates is acceptable and which is another state office and which is not.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-23_U279	Kalev Eagle, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-23_U280	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Austet waitress! The idea arises that maybe you wanted to achieve, by naming your draft, that the draft would be dealt with, for example, by the Committee on Rural Affairs. But what I want to ask you is, have you thought about how the title of your bill would sound translated into another language?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-23_U281	Thank you. We haven't thought about it. But in Estonia, all the reasonable laws adopted are translated into other languages. In Russian and English, this law would certainly need to be made available. We will probably be able to translate it if you support this bill.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-23_U282	Sven Mikser, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-23_U283	Thank you. By pushing from the title I also note that in the title you declare the wish to fight the decoy party, that the circle of people known fortunately is not limited to the members of the Riigikogu alone. It is quite conceivable that voters' voices are also caught by using the names of cultural figures and other people in public life. They, too, may opt out of this once they have obtained their mandate. How do you intend to fight this phenomenon? Or if you are not going to fight it, why restrict only one group of potential decoy ducks?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-23_U284	I can't imagine that a person known in the field of culture or in some other sphere of public life could lose professionalism in the current profession after obtaining a mandate in the council or also in the Riigikogu. These things cannot be dealt with in the key to reconciling or incompetence, as we are trying here to deal with membership of councils and the Riigikogu. There are certainly those people who are able to cope as politicians, as well as those who are disappointed and leaving. That immediately after being elected journalists, actors or singers tend to give up their mandate, I honestly have not noticed lately. This has certainly not been the case in the mass manner that the members of the Riigikogu did after the 2013 local elections. So in this sense, the weight of these problems is not comparable.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-23_U285	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-23_U286	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! The Free Party proposed to reject the previous draft and support this draft ban on decoy ducks. Have you thought, perhaps it would be possible to connect these two animals in any way, or would it not work out?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-23_U287	It is possible to make such changes to the draft act that they can, in principle, be technically merged. But it cannot be said that they have much in common in such a mental angle, apart from, of course, that the present very bad situation should be brought to an end. The solutions are very different, and that is why I consider it technically possible to combine them within the Commission, but in essence not very justified.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-23_U288	Thank you, dear waitress. No further questions for you. Let's open the negotiations. Andres Ammas on behalf of the Estonian Free Party Group, please! I'm sorry! I very much apologise to Mr Anvelt, who wants to tell us what happened in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-23_U289	Thank you, Mr President, for receiving the floor. I report to you, ladies and gentlemen, the content of the sitting of the Constitutional Committee of the Riigikogu on 14 March. On that day, a draft was then discussed, entitled 'The Law on the Election of Local Government Council and the Amendment of Other Laws, which prohibits decoy ducks'. The bill is number 177 and it was a first-reading debate. In addition to the members of the committee, Ebe Sarapuu, Adviser to the Public Law Service of the Ministry of Justice, and Arne Koitmäe, Adviser to the Elections Department of the Chancellery of the Riigikogu took part in the meeting. The representative of the initiator of the bill explained first of all that the term 'decoup ducks' used in the bill refers to the members of the Government of the Republic and the Riigikogu who stand as candidates for local government elections and collect votes, knowing in advance that they would not be employed at the local government council. Right now, the law forbids it. The political idea of the draft is that if a person is elected as a member of a local government council, his mandate automatically ends as a member of the Riigikogu or as a member of the Government of the Republic. A representative of the Ministry of Justice noted that the position of the Government of the Republic is not to support the draft, as the draft is not in line with what was stated in the programme of action of the Government of the Republic. The Constitutional Committee has initiated a draft law amending the Act on the status of a member of the Riigikogu and the Law on the organisation of local government. The debate has just ended today, which aims to abolish the restriction that a member of the Riigikogu is not entitled to participate in the work of the local government at the same time as a member of the council. This draft is in line with the government's programme of action and better in line with the principle of passive electoral rights. The members of the Commission asked additional questions to the representative of the initiators. One member of the committee noted that, as far as he knows, the Free Party has at some point supported the view that the restriction, which prohibits being a member of the local government council and the Riigikogu at the same time, should be abolished. He wanted to know whether this was the general position of the Free Party or whether there were different opinions on this matter. The representative of the initiator of the draft act replied that there has certainly not been a single position in the Free Party on this issue, and the members of the Free Party Group also have different opinions. There are those whose experience has shown that at a time when members of the Riigikogu were allowed to work on the council, the work of individual councils was better. However, there are those who say otherwise that the work of the council went to high quality, just when members of the Riigikogu were no longer allowed to belong to local government councils. The representative of the initiator of the draft act stated that if a legislative amendment allowing members of the Riigikogu to be a member of the local government council at the same time is adopted, this will still not solve the political problem of being a decoy duck. This amendment does not prohibit the practice that a member of the Riigikogu or the Government of the Republic will stand for local government council elections and be elected, but then decides that he will still not go to the council. In the opinion of the initiators, a political agreement should be concluded to minimise the practice of being a decoy duck. Instead of current practice, those who participate in the elections as decoys could make propaganda for their replacements in the elections. Following the debate, the Commission adopted several procedural decisions. First, by consensus, a decision was taken to put the draft on the plenary agenda by 22 March (which was transferred to today's agenda from yesterday), to propose the completion of the first reading (by 5 votes to 5 with no abstentions) and to set a deadline of 10 working days for amendments, i.e. 6 April 2016 at 5.15 p.m. It should now shift one day forward. Mr Andres Anvelt, member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, was appointed rapporteur. It was also a consensual decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-23_U290	Thank you. You have questions too. Sven Mikser, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-23_U291	Thank you. The initiators of the draft certainly explained in the details what would happen if a member of the Riigikogu did not turn out to be elected to the council, but would be able to get there as an alternate some time later. For example, I run for office, I don't turn out to be elected, but a year later, a council member whose alternate I am will decide to suspend his mandate for three months. Will my mandate as a member of the Riigikogu be lost, and will it, after three months, if this Commissioner decides to return to the council, recover or not? This allows councils and Commissioners to take quite interesting games with the mandates of a member of the Riigikogu. How do the initiators of the draft plan to solve such a problem? Does this bill also regulate the mandate of a member of the Riigikogu related to the replacements of the council?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-23_U292	First of all, I must say that the Committee on Constitutional Affairs was not so detailed about the subject of decoy ducks in autopsies. So specific possible moments of play, such as the exchange of main and alternate seats after the elections, were not discussed. It is also impossible to read these solutions from the draft text.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-23_U293	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-23_U294	Thank you, good chairman of the meeting. Good waitress! I have concerns that if you did not go into the Commission so thoroughly, you may not have made it possible to draw parallels with the situation where a member of the Riigikogu has several obligations because he is a member of the company council. Isn't it their job to get involved? For example, what happened in the Port of Tallinn has not been the most ethical and proper. How can this draft be assessed in the light that the MP, regardless of whether he is a member of the council, government or Riigikogu, should be motivated to do substantive work? Should a person not make a decision about himself to do the work that he is truly motivated to do? I really do not see how a member of the Riigikogu can do a substantial job on the council level. The representatives of the opposition and the coalition may differ in this respect.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-23_U295	Thank you. I think that from the point of view of doing my job, there is no difference in the burden of whether it is an opposition or a coalition ambassador. All in all, I think every person has their motivation. If someone thinks they can work in two places where there is no direct conflict of interest, why not? It is also up to the individual to decide on the conflict of interest. However, if someone violates the law, the decision is already in the hands of the investigative authorities. If a person is unable to reconcile these two mandates, this concerns the previous item on the agenda, he or she does not need to apply for two seats. But with prohibitions and orders, I think it's even less possible to raise people's motivation. As far as national companies are concerned, I agree with you on this issue. In the case of this practice, that a member of the Riigikogu is a member of a council appointed by a minister in a state enterprise, I see a problem of separation of powers as he appoints the highest representative of the executive power, or minister, to this place. But this is already the subject of other discussions.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-23_U296	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-23_U297	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! I must first admit that I did not attend this committee meeting and, frankly, I have not read the position of the Government of the Republic either. But the position expressed in the previous composition on an analogous draft was horrifying. Did I understand correctly that the main postulate of the negative opinion was that the draft was not in line with the programme of action of the Government of the Republic? Were there any legal arguments against this? In 2014 it was argued that such a solution was not compatible with the Constitution. Has this statement now been buried and the Ministry of Justice's analytical capacity improved by this?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-23_U298	So that we don't have two ways of understanding, I'm going to read it to you, and there's only a few lines of argument between the Government of the Republic. The Government of the Republic discussed this draft at its meeting on 25 February. Point 4.31 of the agreement between the Estonian Reform Party, the Social Democratic Party and the Pro Patria and Res Publica Association of the Party on the fundamentals of the formation of government and the action programme of the government states: 'We remove the restriction that a member of the Riigikogu is not entitled to participate in the work of the local government at the same time as a member of the council (extinguishing double remuneration in positions).' Consequently, the Government proposes not to support the draft 177, as the problem referred to in the draft will disappear in itself after the restriction has been lifted. The solution agreed by the government is also better in line with the principle of passive electoral rights. This position is essentially the same as I said in my report.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-23_U299	Thank you, dear waitress. No further questions for you. Now we really are going to the negotiations. Andres Ammas on behalf of the Estonian Free Party Group, please! Five plus three minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-23_U300	Honourable President! Respectable members of the Riigikogu! I am following the good practice introduced by my colleague, Jüri Adams, and first of all I thank my group for trusting me to give a speech. At the same time, I know that quite everything I say may not be acceptable to all of my peers. I will also say immediately that I will also look back at what has been discussed on the previous item, because I believe that the two items on the agenda are very direct in relation to the substance. For starters, the most important thing. In my opinion, the use of decoy ducks is a public fraud and the damage that this fraud has caused and is causing to society is a very large one could say, enormously. There has been talk here today about various rights. But there is certainly no right in the Estonian Constitution to deceive voters. I will repeat a little bit of myself here when I say what I said on 14 March in the debate following the transfer of the draft administrative reform. Let us trust good and wise people in local governments! The idea of local elections is to choose local decision-makers. For years, I have been amazed by a phenomenon that I first perceived as a member of the Supreme Council here in Toompea in 1990 to 1992. True, it was less felt then. I felt it more keenly in 1999-2002 when I watched the activities of members of the Riigikogu and ministers side by side, but still close as the party's secretary-general and adviser to the head of government. For the third time, I sense it now, as a member of the Riigikogu. This is some sort of special government and infallibility syndrome that comes with being in the Riigikogu. Perhaps some colleagues have developed it for some genetic reason, but I think it will mostly develop here on Toompea as a result of a high throne. And it also develops in itself for very nice and storytelling and honest people. This syndrome is expressed in the opinion that the state body is competent everywhere and to teach and advise everyone about its own wisdom and that the participation of the state body in the local government gives this council immense authority. I don't think it's important to be so self-centered. That is what I say proactively to myself and all my colleagues. I draw on the experience of 20 years in the Haapsalu City Council, which managed nicely with the members of the Riigikogu, but also very well without the members of the Riigikogu. In my opinion, the election of members of the Riigikogu and ministers in local elections means in a sense that there is no trust in their fellow minds on the ground. In fact, there are enough capable people on the local electoral alliances as well as on the local lists of political parties. The Chairman of the Riigikogu has just expressed doubts as to whether the political interest in applying at all is sufficient in local governments. I would say that the reputation of politics and policy making is largely based on the participation and involvement of all of us here. Lawyers will probably be able to defend both sides equally successfully on this issue, as has already been demonstrated by Chancellors of Justice' statements. However, it seems to me that if the same person belongs to both the Riigikogu and the local council, a certain conflict of interest, at least theoretically, is possible. A member of the Riigikogu is elected in a particular constituency, but as soon as he becomes a member of the Riigikogu, he is a representative of the entire nation. As a member of the Council, however, he must always stand up for the interests of the local government. This debate provides examples from different countries, such as Finland and Latvia. I think that overall the political culture of the Nordic countries could, in many ways, serve as an example for us, but we are still very, very far away from this in reality. By pointing out that a Member of Parliament may also be a member of a local council in Finland, we should also assess this practice in the context of the Finnish Constitution and the entire political culture of Finland. Political culture can be shaped not only by laws but also by various self-regulations. On this issue, too, it would probably have been a long time ago that it would have been possible to make some kind of honorable agreements, to establish some kind of fair game rules, that the public funds, expenses, officials, cars, which had already been mentioned, were not all used in the local election campaign. But you all know very well that we are light years away from this type of agreement and, under the leadership of the current coalition, we are only moving away from any consensus policy. I also want to use this bleach today to remind you of a phenomenon called the People's Assembly. Let us remember, for a moment, the basic points of democracy that have been formulated at the time. Firstly, the electoral system; secondly, the organisation of political parties, including the internal democracy of political parties; thirdly, money moving in political parties and more broadly; fourthly, the opportunity for citizens to participate in policy-making and fifthly, the involvement of public sector positions with political parties. How far have we got with them today? Nowhere, really. Some cosmetic improvements have been made, but generally there has been a festive stall march. With the draft on the previous item, we are only moving away from the ideas of the people's assembly. It is also thought that this man from the Riigikogu could be of some kind 'virtual' benefit to the local government, either by obtaining roofing money or by some other means. During the Soviet period it was the hard director or the hard chairman who traded the fund and the limit out of Tallinn or even Moscow. This thinking is embarrassing and could be lost in the trash bin of history. Finally, however, I draw attention to a purely practical question. It is not so easy to reconcile the working schedule of a member of the Riigikogu with the working schedule of a local council, and this inevitably leads to absences, which are also a kind of defrauding of voters and in no way conducive to commitment to work. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-23_U301	Thank you. Urve Tiidus of the Reform Party Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-23_U302	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! We are in the process of draft 177, which has a very clear and imaginary title, 'No Beast Ducks'. Before this draft we completed the first reading of Bill 181. This is intended to provide for the right of a member of the Riigikogu to be a Member at the same time as a member of the local government council and to perform the duties of a member of the council. There have been very reasonable counter- and pro-arguments in this hall. I may be most convinced by some knowledge of Finnish politics. It is common practice in Finland that a member of Eduskunta can also stand as a candidate in local elections and be a member of the local administration body at the same time and participate in local affairs. Of course, Finland is fortunate to have a longer history of a democratic state and also a well-established political culture, but it is not our worst. In this context, the Reform Party proposes to reject draft 177 at first reading of the Law on the Election of the Local Government Council and other laws prohibiting decoy ducks. Thank you for listening.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-23_U303	I am also asking for this proposal in writing. Mark Soosaar from the Social Democratic Party Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-23_U304	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, As a person of culture and language, I like to see legal language enriched, and in addition to decoy ducks, we could have a term like scary eagles. It was in the X Riigikogu when we visited France with a delegation from the Riigikogu and met members of the National Assembly there. There I heard for the first time that in the Republic of several hundred years there is a good tradition that the National Assembly will be reached through a four-layer, or four-tier, government. And in France, as we know, there is the same procedure as in Finland, which Urve Tiidus spoke of. It is very important to have a say in local matters, to have a sense of local life and, at the same time, to bring local problems to the national level. I've been a member of the Pärnu Council since 2005, so it's been almost 20 years. I have also worked there on committees and, unfortunately, I have to admit that since 2005, when this ban was imposed, the local government's communication with the country has become quite relaxed. It would be a good thing if this ponding process didn't come to an end. We have discussed this matter a lot with the Social Democrats, and I am convinced that who arrives, who can and who has the will to contribute could still be both a member of the council and a member of the Riigikogu. The smaller the municipality, the easier it will be to set up its own rules of procedure so that a member of the Riigikogu can also participate in the meetings. I guess the people in the next election will decide whether or not this scary eagle or decoy duck will be re-elected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-23_U305	Thank you. There is no further wish for negotiations. The negotiations are over. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of the draft 177, but the Reform Party Group has proposed to reject the draft 177 at first reading, and we will go to the vote on this proposal. (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am voting to reject the draft proposal of the Reform Party Group 177 at first reading. Please take a stand and vote. 43 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, 17 against, with 0 abstentions. The proposal was supported. The draft has been rejected at first reading.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-23_U306	We will proceed to today's fourth item on the agenda: First reading of the Bill 173 on Amending the State Budget Act, initiated by the Group of the Estonian Free Party. The rapporteur is Andres Ammas, member of the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-23_U307	Honourable President! Respectable members of the Riigikogu! The draft initiated by the Free Party Group is this time, I would say, a little...
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-23_U308	Colleagues, may I have your attention, please? [[The manager's ringing the bell.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-23_U309	... of a philosophical nature. The content of this draft is the proposal to include a new point 7 in § 71 (2) of the State Budget Act, which would oblige the stabilisation reserve to direct all sums received by the State during the financial year from persons who have been fined or penalised by a financial penalty. Financial penalties and financial penalties will generate a rather large amount for each financial year. In the state budget last year, about 13 million euros of fines and other property penalties were planned to be received, and nearly 16 million euros were received. In this year's budget, too, the collection is planned at about the same rate. However, the actual receipts will, of course, be significantly higher if the Government intends to increase the fine unit rate twice under Bill 146, from the current EUR 4 to EUR 8. Such a situation, where one of the areas of penal policy is partly subject to the logic of the budget, has existed in Estonia for a long time, but this connection came out particularly acutely in the spring of last year, when the government considered the budget strategy in negotiations as part of a package of sources of cover for the rise in the level of fines. Remembering that time, extra money was desperately sought to meet the grand pre-election promises of the government departments. In addition to tax increases, an increase in the level of fines was also discussed. It was covered by the media. I recall that, in the course of the budget negotiations, the government even reached a consensus to raise the fine unit rate to EUR 10, but it was reduced to EUR 8 due to public pressure. Of course, it was said then, and the government is also saying that fines are being raised to improve compliance, but the real desire to receive more money in the state budget was, at the time, unambiguously clear. The increase in the fine unit rate was combined with a higher taxation of harmful consumption in the form of increased excise duties, but in our opinion, fines are not the same as excise duties on alcohol or tobacco. In our view, it is wrong to subject penal policy to the state's financial needs. Punishment policy must be based solely on the interests of the safety of society and the protection of people's lives, health, property and well-being. It is not right to assume that fines are some kind of natural state income to patch up budget holes. If the fine-payers know that the amount of fines they have paid will cover somebody's political promises, then the belief in the legitimacy and fairness of the state's activities may be damaged, and the authority of law enforcement authorities may be weakened. In our opinion, this is a question of trust between the citizen and the state. That trust must be maintained at all costs. From this draft, a certain conceptual bridge will also lead to 146 on the increase in fines. In the view of the Government, the level of fines must be set at the same level as the cost of living, so that their impact does not diminish over time, so it is only natural that they should be corrected. Interestingly, ten years did not change the penalty unit rate, but suddenly it was decided to react forcefully with one blow. We don't think that makes any sense. It also seems irresponsible for those policemen who, when new fines are imposed, can feel people's resentment and resentment, perhaps also bitterness and resentment even against the state. In response to us, the Government of the Republic has stated that, in the interests of transparency of public finances, all public revenue and expenditure must be included in the state budget, it is not appropriate to exclude one type of revenue from running costs. At the same time, in its commentary on the draft, the government states that the channelling of fine income either to the state budget or to the stability reserve is a matter of managing the state's cash flows and does not affect the state's budgetary position. In addition, the government has written to comment on our draft that it sees no reason why, for example, the costs of detention are covered by the state budget, but the fine imposed for misconduct is not included in the state budget. However, according to the initiators of the draft act, the State's costs for security are one of the obligations imposed by the Constitution and must be financed regardless of the way in which the fines are collected. For one thing, however, I would also like to congratulate the government. The government's assessment of the draft contains an interesting and necessary idea for us. Indeed, the draft does not reflect the amendments to the Code of Enforcement Procedure and the draft explanatory memorandum does not currently provide an explanation of what should be amended and how should the Code of Enforcement Procedure be amended. As initiators, we are pleased that the government has also analysed the need to amend other legislation. This certainly needs to be done, and any processing of this draft law can be supplemented and the amendments formulated. So, in conclusion, in order to rule out the possible desire of the executive to collect as many fines as possible, we believe that an effective solution is to make all such receipts compulsory for the State's stabilisation reserve. The use of this reserve is known to be quite precisely regulated, mostly possible only in the event of major socio-economic shocks. Fines are not the right way to implement the state budget, this is, in our view, the only right view of the rule of law and free society. We don't want to become a penal state. If we direct the money from fines to the stabilisation reserve, we'll lock it up in one way or another. We make it serve the stability of the country, not the short-term political objectives of one government or another. I would like to finish by introducing a piece of journalistic material, because interestingly, the writer Mart Kivastik reached the same topic in Postimees on Saturday. For those who may not have read, I quote Mart Kivastik. 'When the Estonian state was created, it seemed that the police would change and switch by the state to the side of the people, which would be natural, but no. The police are raising money for the state. It's perfectly understandable that the police have no interest in dealing with real criminals who don't pay fines anyway. On the contrary, they're creating a minus for the country, they need a free cell and a chitchat. So the police are still facing the people with their faces, or decent people, and we're gonna be comfortable getting tickets from them. Fines have become a separate type of tax. The state has taken this into account in the budget,' writes Mart Kivastik. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-23_U310	Thank you, good waitress. You have questions too. Eiki Nestor, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-23_U311	Good waitress! I'm glad you started your presentation with the word 'philosophy'. I have more or less the same question. After all, there are other questions about the ethics of the use of state revenues, such as the financing of culture. But let's just put this behind us right now. In the case of this bill, I have a question. In fact, both current revenue and reserves can be used for the running costs of the state. What's the point? If you give you ten euros, do you care if you put it in your left or right jacket pocket?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-23_U312	The point is that the stabilisation reserve is very difficult to use. You can't just use it like that. That's what our idea is. Dear questioner, you're shaking your head, but please look at the state budget law. That's right.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-23_U313	Ivar Padar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-23_U314	Hello, dear colleague. [[In the Laughing Hall.]] That's the question. In your previous speech, you spoke about your experience both in the previous Supreme Council and in 1999-2002 with the government. I have a question about the emphasis on whether penal policy can be a source of state revenue. Do the initiators believe that this is some kind of current government whim that fines are part of the revenue from the state budget? Has it been any different in previous times, which you also remember, so that penal policy does not mean state revenues?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-23_U315	In principle, since the restoration of the Estonian state's independence, the revenue has probably been transferred to the state budget. But since they are taken into account as separate electoral promises, it was, in the opinion of the initiators of the draft, that this spring was the very spring. Its intention, let's face it, was revealed by the government coalition itself, who may now regret it a little. But such a good idea that this money could be directed to the stabilisation reserve, probably no one has ever come before.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-23_U316	Mark Soosaar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-23_U317	Dear colleague Andres Ammas! That's a beautiful idea! Because any fine is extremely unpleasant for the finer and can cause stress. But if the policeman tells the finer that your money will go to the stabilisation reserve, I'm afraid his stress will get even deeper. This is something even more vague than the state budget, a completely black box. Have you not thought about directing the fine money, for example, to improving roads? The policeman passes a ticket and says that thanks to your fine, everyone will be able to drive on a better road in the future. Or is this money used to cover school meals or some unique apparatus that can give birth especially comfortably, with a smile on your face? Maybe it'll work a lot better.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-23_U318	This is an intellectually very interesting idea and a very beautiful idea, but, to my knowledge, our current state budget law does not allow such a link between the proceeds of fines and the specific type of spending.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-23_U319	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! As I am a Commission rapporteur for this draft, I say that there was a question within the Commission that you did not refer to at the moment. The question was what is the practice of other countries. Maybe you've had time to look into it. It's good if you answer it because I don't have that knowledge.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-23_U320	Priit Onion, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-23_U321	I have to admit, sadly, I don't have that knowledge yet either. The promise and the practice of other countries could not be fulfilled. I'm sorry, I'm sorry!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-23_U322	Good waitress, thank you! No further questions. I now ask Priit Sibula, Member of the Finance Committee of the Riigikogu Chair!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-23_U323	Happy Members of the Riigikogu! This draft was discussed by the Committee on Monetary Affairs of the Riigikogu at its meeting on 8 March, where, just as we were introduced in this large hall, the draft was presented by Andres Ammas, a member of the Free Party Group and the Finance Committee. I am not going to specify the purpose of this draft, and Andres has already talked about it thoroughly enough. And indeed, the position of the Government of the Republic was also ours, which was introduced to us by the Fiscal Policy Department Analyst of the Ministry of Finance, Margus Star. In part, the author of the draft has already mentioned this here, but I repeat that the government has emphasised, in explaining its position, that the purpose of the penal policy is certainly not to implement the state budget. The sentence expresses the condemnation by the State of acts declared unlawful by the legislature which are condemned. The implementation of the state's penal policy is financed directly from the state budget and it is therefore understandable that the fines imposed as a penalty will also be passed on to the state budget. The government does not consider it justified why, for example, the costs of detention should be covered by the state budget, but the fine imposed for misconduct would not be included in the state budget. Nor does it share the view that the imposition of fines in the state budget weakens the authority of law enforcement bodies and undermines confidence in the state as it is not a revenue that is used for specific purposes. Andres Ammas has already indicated that the Government's position has been communicated to the Commission and is based on these understandings. A little more on the issues raised in the Commission. We were talking about transparency of public and public finances. It was stated that it would be reasonable for all revenue and expenditure to be reflected in the state budget. This is the case both on the basis of the Constitution and on the basis of § 6 of the State Budget Act. The implementation of the state's penal policy is financed directly from the state budget and therefore the fines imposed as a penalty should also be paid to the state budget. The same type of debate as in the government was held in the Commission. The Commission found that this draft does not propose funds to cover running costs. A question was also asked, as I asked Mr Andres, about the practice in other countries and the impact on the state budget. Andres Ammas also said here that in 2015 EUR 16 million was paid into the budget and the budget for this year is scheduled to receive the same amount of fine money. There was still a question in terms of the balance of the state budget, but in terms of balance, there is no difference as to whether the amounts are received in the state budget or in the stabilisation reserve. The Commission has decided to deal with the draft in this large Chamber today and proposes to reject the draft at first reading. There were four votes in favour, two against, no abstentions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-23_U324	Thank you, good waitress. You have questions. Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-23_U325	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! I must admit that this position of the Government of the Republic and of the Coalition will remain ambivalent to me. Perhaps you will clearly specify whether the fine is a separate type of tax and a means of implementing the state budget.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-23_U326	Fines are received by the state budget and are therefore part of the state budget.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-23_U327	Good waitress, thank you. No further questions. I open negotiations and ask Jüri Adams, representative of the Estonian Free Party Group, to the Riigikogu's speech chair!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-23_U328	The question now is where the amounts of money resulting from various financial penalties go and how they are used. Well, they've been used in many different ways in history. Basically, this money has been used throughout time and, I think, everywhere to support the judicial system and the systems serving the courts. Historically, they have in some ways been designed to support themselves. Whether this is the case in Estonia today is difficult to say. Probably not. Some attempts have been made, for example, to provide funds for civil justice to the parties to the dispute. The second question is how fines have been used. During our restored independence, there has been at least one period in which the collection of the fine had other objectives or objectives, not just ensuring compliance with the law. It was the 1990s. I don't know exactly what time to say, but it was restored at the beginning of independence, when the police financed themselves to a certain extent. Then Estonia developed such situations that traffic was checked in different counties and traffic penalties were imposed with varying intensity, depending on whether the police in this county needed extra funds for some kind of repair or not. This eventually led to a scandal and it was decided that it should be stopped, no matter how stimulating it might otherwise have. I had the opportunity to participate in the preparation of the current Penal Code in the IX Riigikogu. It also introduced the current system of financial penalties. At the time, the government ministers assured us that one of the objectives of the transition to the new system was that the Republic of Estonia would never again have a situation so that any authority, such as the police or any other authority, nature conservation or other supervisory authority, could have a personal interest in obtaining the greatest possible fines. One specific promise that was made to us was that such receipts would not be part of the revenue of the state budget for the current year in the future. This is not the case, for example, that the police are given the task of having little revenue received in the state budget and now, boys, we need more of this and so many hundreds of thousands. We need to get our shit together! In the meantime, many things have changed, Estonia has joined the European Union, we have a new methodology for drawing up the budget and so on. When I had the opportunity to come back to the Riigikogu a year ago, I asked several ministers how this is, where these fines will still come from. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-23_U329	Yes, please, three minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-23_U330	I asked the Prime Minister and two other ministers and each said differently. The Prime Minister felt the same way, the Minister of Finance thought differently, the Minister of Justice had some sort of third position. This led to the conclusion that they did not really know how things were. Consequently, this has not been a topical issue in the meantime. I think it makes sense to come back to this at this point. Whether this must necessarily be the very good solution that this bill proposes, I cannot appreciate. I am not a member of the Committee on Monetary Affairs. I guess that's one of the best possible solutions. But there must be some solution so that we will never put pressure on the plan in our professional work by the imposition of fines and the control officers in various fields. I very much hope that a sensible solution will be found to how things can be organised in this way. This is not rocket science, as they say today. There must be some way of ensuring that all the legitimate objectives of imposing fines, collecting them and using the sums collected are reasonably met and that there is no interference with each other in the pursuit of those objectives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-23_U331	Thank you very much. There's no more calls. I'm closing the negotiations. The Steering Committee has proposed to reject the draft 173 at first reading. Let us begin with the preparation of the vote on this proposal. I shall put to the vote the draft proposal by the commission of reference to reject it at first reading. Please take a stand and vote. With the result of 39 members of the Riigikogu, 18 against, no abstentions found the proposal supported. Draft 173 has been rejected at first reading and falls out of the procedure. The fourth item is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-23_U332	Let's move on to agenda number five. The third reading of Bill 163 of Amendment to the Copyright Act initiated by the Government of the Republic begins. Do the representatives of the political groups wish to open negotiations? There's no call. We are going to prepare the final vote. I will put draft 163 to the final vote. Please take a stand and vote. As a result of 55 members of the Riigikogu, against 0 and one abstention, the draft law amending the Copyright Act initiated by the Government of the Republic has been adopted as 163 laws. The fifth item is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-23_U333	Let us move on to item 6: Second reading of the draft law amending the Law on Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances and their Precursors, initiated by the Government of the Republic. I ask Vilja Toomas, member of the Social Affairs Committee, to be the rapporteur for the Riigikogu's speech chair!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-23_U334	Mr. Vice President! Ladies and gentlemen, The Committee on Social Affairs discussed the preparation for the second reading of the draft Act amending the Law on Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances and their Precursors at its meeting on Tuesday 15 March. Anna-Liisa Pääsukene, adviser to the Public Health Department of the Ministry of Social Affairs, also attended. No proposals were submitted by the deadline of 3 March. The language editor made one linguistic correction by replacing one 'and' with 'and'. It's underlined to you, you can control and watch. In all of this, there was not much debate in the Commission on this draft. The main question that the members of the Commission raised was whether the regulation, which should go together with this law, would be ready in time. The officials of the Ministry of Social Affairs confirmed that the regulation would be completed by the time the draft was adopted at third reading. The Commission took procedural decisions: to put the draft on the agenda of the plenary session by 23 March and to propose that the second reading be closed. The second reading text and the explanatory memorandum were also approved. All these decisions were taken by consensus. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-23_U335	Good waitress, there's at least one question for you. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-23_U336	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! As I understand it, this is a perfect bill, where there were no corrections, but one 'and' was replaced by 'and'. My question is this: will this law, which is now being passed, be amended until the end of its composition, or will it be so perfect that it will last for a long time?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-23_U337	Thank you, good questioner! I can't predict what life will bring. If life forces this bill to be changed in the next three years, we will certainly do so.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-23_U338	Good waitress, thank you! No further questions. Dear colleagues, would you like to open negotiations? There's no call. We will not examine the amendments to the draft 170, because they have not been tabled. The commission has been confident in its view that the second reading of draft 170 must be completed. The second reading is closed and the sixth item is also closed. Good fellows, today's session is closed. I thank you and wish you the strength of our work! Closure of the sitting at 5.37 p.m.
