ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-20_U1	Good fellows, honourable Riigikogu, good morning! We will start the 5th working week Thursday session of the 4th plenary session of the Riigikogu. First of all, I would like to ask those of the Riigikogu who wish to hand over drafts or enquiries! There's no call. We're gonna do a presence check. 52 members of the Riigikogu registered as present, there is no 48, but this number changes quite quickly.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-20_U2	Let's move on to today's agenda. Our first item on the agenda is the first reading of the draft Act 284 on the ratification of the Treaty on the Participation of the Republic of Croatia in the European Economic Area. I ask the Minister of Foreign Affairs Jürgen Ligi to present the speech chair of the Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-20_U3	Honourable Riigikogu! This Act ratifies the Treaty on the participation of the Republic of Croatia in the European Economic Area. The Agreement establishes the conditions of accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Economic Area. The need to conclude an Enlargement Agreement stems from the Treaty of Accession of Croatia to the European Union, signed on 9 December 2012, and from Article 128 of the Agreement on the European Economic Area, according to which any European country which becomes a member of the European Union must apply to become a Contracting Party. Under the Agreement on the European Economic Area, the countries of the European Free Trade Area, Norway, Iceland, Liechtenstein, Switzerland, are able to participate in the internal market of the European Union, while maintaining their independence from the common agricultural and fisheries policy of the European Union. Under the Agreement on the European Economic Area, Iceland, Liechtenstein and Norway apply the entire acquis of the European Union in the areas covered by the Agreement. The European Union, the 27 Member States and Norway, Iceland and Liechtenstein are currently parties to the Agreement on the European Economic Area. In Estonia, the European Economic Area Enlargement Agreement has to be ratified, as it amends the Agreement, which was also ratified by the Riigikogu, together with the Enlargement Agreement on Estonia's accession. The EEA Enlargement Agreement consists of seven articles and two annexes. At the same time as this Enlargement Agreement, the Final Act was signed, accompanied by the Joint Declarations and Statements of the existing Contracting Parties and Croatia. Declarations and declarations made at the time of signature of the Agreement must also be formally confirmed at the time of ratification. The Contracting Parties have also agreed with the Final Act that they will take into account the Protocols annexed to the EEA Enlargement Agreement relating to agreements concluded between the European Union and certain EFTA States. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-20_U4	Minister, thank you. You have questions too. Viktor Vassilyev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-20_U5	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Minister! If we do not now go very far into history, even in the Austrian-Hungarian times, Croatia was formed when Yugoslavia fell. There are a number of countries that have very complicated relations with each other. Some are like friends and other enemies. Does this step, Croatia's accession to the European Economic Area, in any way also change the way Croatia's immediate neighbours get along?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-20_U6	Thank you. I find it very difficult to predict whether it will have a major impact, but hopefully it will improve relations. The Croatian Foreign Minister has just said at the Foreign Ministers meeting that Croatia is not a Balkan country. This probably meant that they would no longer have problems like those of the countries to the south.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-20_U7	Mark Soosaar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-20_U8	Minister, thank you very much. A brief question: how many places do Croatia have in its economic relations with Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-20_U9	Thank you. Not very high up. But I don't have the exact information to take right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-20_U10	Aadu Black, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-20_U11	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. I have the same curiosity about the same area as Viktor Vassilyev, but a slightly simpler question. Are there any other countries in the Balkans that are looking forward to accession to an analogous agreement, or is this process already completed there?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-20_U12	Thank you. In the Balkans, there are, in itself, applicant countries that wish to join the European Union, but accession to the economic area follows accession to the European Union. So as long as the enlargement of the European Union has not taken place, we cannot talk about joining the economic area either. It can, in fact, but I don't know that anyone would have tried to belong to it like EFTA.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-20_U13	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-20_U14	Thank you, manager. Dear Minister of Foreign Affairs, How many countries have ratified this treaty before Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-20_U15	Thank you! I don't know that exactly. But there are no political tensions here either, that maybe others will not ratify or the like. All countries have accepted Croatia's membership of the European Union, there is no doubt. For those who have not yet arrived, there are simply procedural stretches. I don't consider the exact number to be important.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-20_U16	March Sults, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-20_U17	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good minister! The question is simple: why does Croatia not define itself as a Balkan country if it is a Balkan country?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-20_U18	Okay, so I opened the box. The Balkan country is perhaps not an exact word. Interestingly, the word 'balcanisation' in Europe is considered almost politically correct. I just remembered that story. The Croatian minister said that do not use that word; we do not belong to it; we are not involved in balcanisation. In fact, they meant fragmentation, so the word "balcanize" was removed from our document. That's very reasonable. But it is in the case of a country which, geographically speaking, certainly belongs to it, but historically, balcanisation is not accepted as a quality mark.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-20_U19	Peep Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-20_U20	Thank you, Minister. Can you conclude from your previous talk and answers that, in general, this is simply a formality for us?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-20_U21	Thank you. It really is a formality, but a very important formality.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-20_U22	Minister, thank you. No further questions. I now ask for the speech chair of the Riigikogu to be presented by Deniss Borodichi, member of the Economic Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-20_U23	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Colleagues! Good Minister of Foreign Affairs! The Committee on Economic Affairs discussed the draft at its meeting on 10 October. We also had a very interesting and exciting debate. First of all, the members of the Economic Commission were interested in the fact that, as one of the objectives of the agreement is to strengthen and promote economic and trade relations, how anything would improve from the point of view of Estonia and whether trade flows between Estonia and Croatia could increase. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs was represented by Deputy Chancellor Väino Reinart, who spoke at length about the European Union's treaties governing economic relations between Estonia and Croatia. This agreement extends Croatia's rights and obligations to four fundamental freedoms with members of the European Economic Area who are not members of the European Union. As you all know, these countries are Liechtenstein, Norway and Iceland. And just one comment: the agreement does not deal with the common fisheries and agricultural policy. The second question that interested the Members of the Commission was whether Brexit could be affected by this agreement. It has been speculated that the United Kingdom wants to remain a member of this Treaty after its withdrawal from the European Union. But this would mean that Britain would retain the principle of free movement of labour, because the Treaty also regulates four fundamental freedoms, which are also between the countries of the European Union. It must also contribute, albeit to a lesser extent, to the single budget of the European Union, but without a say. Therefore, this option was not considered possible. That concludes our debate in the Commission, and we took some procedural decisions. Firstly, we decided to put the draft on the plenary agenda. Secondly, we proposed that the first reading be closed and that the deadline for amendments be set at 10 working days, i.e. 3 November. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-20_U24	Thank you, good waitress. You also have questions. Mark Soosaar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-20_U25	Dear waitress, Did the Commission also mention that there is more to the main trade flows than tourists?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-20_U26	As I mentioned in the first point, the question arose as to whether and how anything would change for Estonia by ratifying this Treaty. It does not change, so we do not need to talk about either tourist flows or other flows.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-20_U27	Thomas Vitsu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-20_U28	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good waitress! Has Croatia already ratified this agreement?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-20_U29	I'm telling you the truth, I can't tell you. But I assume he's done it. A country which accedes to the Treaty must, in any case, ratify it.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-20_U30	Good waitress, thank you! No further questions. Is there a desire to negotiate? No, I don't. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 284. I will set the deadline for the submission of the 284 amendments, including 3 November at 5 p.m. The first reading is closed and the first item is also closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-20_U31	Let us move on to the second item on the agenda. First reading of the draft law amending the Basic School and Upper Secondary Schools Act, initiated by the Estonian Centre Party Group. I ask for a presentation of the speech chair of the Riigikogu, Member of the Riigikogu Mailis Repsi!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-20_U32	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the Riigikogu! Estonia has joined all the most important international human rights instruments, including the widest right to education. According to the UN Universal Declaration of Human Rights alone, education must be geared towards the full development of personality. The starting point for Estonian education policy is the beautiful goal that has developed a few years ago: inclusive education. On the basis of this principle, each student has the right to be educated according to his/her abilities and needs. Every school child has the right to receive the necessary support quickly and with a very good specialist. In Estonia, there are over 23,000 children with special educational needs and they account for nearly 17% of the total number of pupils in general education schools. A few years ago, it was decided to divide children with special needs into HEV1 and HEV2. There is, however, a much more fundamental change behind the definition. HEV1 children are generally pupils of municipal schools close to home, who rely, where necessary, on the support specialists in the school, while HEV2 children also receive support from public schools if they so wish. According to the concept of organisation of education for students with special educational needs developed by the Ministry of Education and Research, by 2020, all HEV1 students, including children currently studying under a simplified curriculum, should study in our regular schools. However, the content of such a fundamental change has not been discussed in society. Is the mainstream school environment safe for these children and young people and is sufficient support provided for children with special needs? Teachers and school leaders lack specific skills to deal with more difficult special educational needs. In addition, schools often face a shortage of both financial and human resources, which means that there is not enough resources to form special classes. Logopeds, specialized teachers, psychologists and social pedagogues, however, are essential for teaching children with special educational needs, both at lower and higher special needs. The difference is that, in the event of early intervention, a child will be able to cope well in a normal and quite large class after a certain number of years. However, in the case of another child, one education for one may be the only option throughout his or her school course. The Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act, adopted in 2010, stipulated that the student should at least be provided with special education, psychologist and social pedagogy services. In doing so, the government decree promised that the educational provision granted by the state to local authorities could be used to reward the work of support specialists. To put it simply, after the salaries for teachers and school leaders had been paid, the education allowance also provided salaries for special education teachers, logos, etc. Unfortunately, for political reasons, it began to be said that support specialists are not teachers and that paying them wages is an unintended use of money. Sadly, however, this whole dispute changed the attitude towards support systems. While up until now the support specialists were just teachers, suddenly they became outsiders in the teachers' room. Training support professionals, further training and their vital role in our school system After all, we realise that if by 2020 all current HEV1 children really had to study in mainstream school, simply by saying that let the local government and the school guarantee services, it is not enough. That is why the Centre Party Group has initiated the draft, with which we want to recall that here we need urgent solutions, we need an educational consensus on how to move forward. For the last three years, however, the funding of support specialists has been a major source of contention, and the regime of funding for support specialists has also changed with the change of ministers. If last year the work of the school support specialists was to be financed from the investment component allocated to the municipalities, this option also disappeared from the beginning of this year. It is now only possible to raise the salaries of support specialists if there is something left over from the salary fund of directors and teachers or from the money for textbooks and workbooks. At present, the state provides support services to schools through county counselling centres and, if necessary, may invite them to school. The basic school and upper secondary school law also states that the school can order support from the counselling centre. We don't mind setting up any centers. Unfortunately, at the beginning, the information clearly wrong was given precisely as if they were replacing the support specialists at school. In practice, however, it is only a secondary service and rather a county specialist must advise school specialists in some very specific cases. The purchase of primary support services from centres far away from students is neither feasible nor feasible in practice in the day-to-day activities. Our students, however, who need early notice and, later on, sufficient support to feel well and secure at school are behind the whole discussion. It is also important to have specialist specialists for teachers who themselves are subject to multiple burdens in the absence of support services. Especially when a student with special needs may become dangerous for himself and/or his or her fellow students. Inclusive education is beautiful, but in countries that set an example for us, many students often have help teachers alongside the teacher. Local authorities have very different economic capacities and their revenue base is often in a position where additional costs for support specialists are simply not feasible due to previous budget cuts. Moreover, understanding of the need for support services is sometimes confusing in society. However, there is a common understanding that education is the responsibility of the state, while the heat and light of school buildings is the responsibility of local governments. The labour costs of support specialists have been covered over the years in a wide range of ways and components. We believe that the funding of support specialists must be guaranteed by a dedicated budget allocation. This shortcoming in the implementation of the concept of inclusive education was also referred to by the OECD study on educational resources published in spring. It is certainly possible to have a different understanding: funding for all education, including logos, special pedagogues, psychologists and social pedagogues will be fully reviewed from the point of view of the local government's income base and tax distribution. The task of the Riigikogu is to ensure that, with our decisions, we provide all students with an education that supports their development and develops their abilities. Without support services, this is not conceivable. Each student's development is the wealth of our small country. Thank you so much for your thought.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-20_U33	Thank you. Good waitress, you have at least two questions. Please, Jaanus Karilaid!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-20_U34	Thank you to the manager. Good waitress! Has the Ministry of Education made an audit showing how many support specialists are missing? How much money would it take to solve the issue of pay and also the lack of jobs?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-20_U35	Thank you. First of all, as far as the financial resources are concerned, there have been various opinions during the debate. In the beginning, local authorities spoke of a minimum of EUR 3.6 million. Later, people wondered how much support services would actually be needed, and then they talked about 10 million already. At the same time, specialists in the Ministry of Education appreciate that, if, for example, every HEV student can order a specialist school through the county centre, whether free of charge or for a very small fee, it is often the problem that even if someone can be found with whom a very good cooperation is possible, the service would be very expensive if more resources could be allocated, then perhaps the service would be better taken from it, but the amount could be more than EUR 20 million. These are, of course, approximate amounts; I cannot refer to any specific statistics. This is an estimate. And the estimate is because there is often a situation where the local government says that if it had a resource, it would take so much more services. They now have one logo beet, for example, but it is actually believed that there could be three or even four logo beets in a large school. How many support specialists are missing? We have also been talking about this in the Committee on Culture, not only during the debate on this draft, but we have dealt with it several times before. I don't dare tell you any accounts, because we don't have a direct account. It must be said that we are quite concerned about a situation where, for example, there are one or two graduates in the field of logopaedia. However, if we open even the back page of the Teacher's page, there are very, very many ads to search for special pedagogues. The solution, as we ourselves have discussed in the Committee on Culture, and what the specialists in the ministry have said, could be further training. We have teachers, especially experienced parents, who have not received purely specialist training in their education, but who have been exposed to quite a lot of special needs in their work and have completed further training, which is currently offered mainly at the University of Tartu and partly also in Tallinn. However, they are also able to deal with children with special needs. The autist support system, which was very well thought out during the previous euro-financing period, also showed that the support person often does not need long-term training, but experience, as well as the support of very good specialists. All in all, it can be said that we also reached the issue of human resources, but above all, the problem of lack of money. If the local government has money, then those pedagogues who would like to complete the special education course and do so and are then able to deal with children with special needs, in fact there are schools. And I'm interested. This bill does not directly concern kindergartens, because here we are talking about the school system. But it hurts just as much in kindergartens. You could say it hurts even more. Children with special needs are also increasingly coming to kindergartens. Parents have become very aware of the fact that they bring their children to kindergarten and do not leave them at home. But recent ugly scandals suggest that teachers have no experience of dealing with one or the other more difficult special needs, how to approach such a child individually and what certain special needs mean at all. There we have a very, very large deficit.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-20_U36	A grain of Thomas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-20_U37	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! The subject we are discussing today is undoubtedly very important and serious. My recent meetings with school families and directors also revealed that in fact this is even more important than the number of percent of teachers' pay to rise next year. But I don't want to talk about it right now. Instead, I ask whether you have looked at this bill during the drafting process and examined why the number of children with special needs has grown and is growing more and more recently. So did school teachers. Let's not talk about real autists, but we'll take Asperger's syndrome and weaker forms and hyperactive children. Have any studies been carried out as to why this figure continues to grow?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-20_U38	Thank you, very good question! I don't dare say I'm familiar with all the scientific analyses, but I think I've met about 20. There have also been very good international conferences in Estonia, where various specialists have talked about their experience. As they have said, they are trying to analyze, for example, the same Asperger syndrome, which began to be appreciated in America only a little over ten years ago. So this is a very fresh issue for us and for the world at all. For example, ATHs, ADHDs, and attention disorders are not a real behavioral or anxiety disorder, nor is it hyperactivity, as ATH can also be a child with a hyper-loi or calm condition, but was properly diagnosed another five years ago only when the child was hyperactive. It is as if the child is watching with his eyes in an hour, but in the end, it turns out that he has not registered anything, so it is only now that he has begun to notice in Estonia. There are two things. One thing is that more children with such problems have come. The second, which all scientists emphasise, is that we simply notice more children. When we first put out a poor grade and found that the child was not bothering to do homework, it is now understood that just some of the children need so much more support. Some make ten or a hundred times more effort to keep pace with others. If we look back at our previous education period, for example, studying under a simplified curriculum, and boys were put into special school much more often, because that was the custom. That's how the system was when the boy couldn't make it in third grade, then they put him in special school, and in seventh grade there was the next limit. A considerable number of students went to a simplified curriculum or special school. Now we do not act like this because we monitor more and notice that behavioral problems have quite different causes. If you ask what it comes from, it's assumed that it could be contamination, it could be food, but it could also be from the general pace of life. Some American scientists believe that this is linked to the development of the electronic world, as well as to smart devices and the fact that children are simply less communicating. Logopedias claim that a number of special needs develop from the fact that the generation of grandparents no longer deals with peace with children as before. There are a lot of theories, but one analysis of what exactly these brain disorders come from doesn't really exist. I just recently read a study that said that a person knows at most 12% of his own brain, i.e. we just don't know how to judge all the deviations and differences. After all, pedagogy already says that you can no longer say what a deviation is because there is no such unified, central system. The point is, since all children are so different, you can no longer say what is this mean of 5 or the mean of 2. That is also something that we must consider. But in Asperger's case, the best theoretical basis is that we can now analyze, evaluate and diagnose it. They just didn't do it before.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-20_U39	Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-20_U40	Honourable President! Honourable waitress, thank you for raising the matter. Sincere respect. Do you have any data at your disposal or any analysis of how the Pathfinder centers have gone in the first few years? I mean analysis, both in statistical terms and hopefully in substantive terms. Are the specialists there rather overloaded or underburdened? What problems are addressed to them? How many schools and schools do they turn to? Perhaps it is too early to decide this, but perhaps it can still be assessed how this undertaking has succeeded.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-20_U41	Thank you for a very good question. I have to say that the head of the Pathfinder Centres at the Ministry of Education is personally to me, and I believe that the Committee on Culture has proposed even more than twenty times to come and give the Committee on Culture and, if there is a wider interest, to other members of the Riigikogu a thorough overview of the matter. We have come here from representatives of the different counties' Pathfinder centers, who have given very positive examples. At the same time, we can say that the feedback from parents and schools has sometimes been quite critical. I also know of a case in Harjumaa, where the Special Pedagog of the Pathfinder did not give very competent advice, which gave a rather controversial impression. In short, I say no, I do not have any statistics. There are positive examples and negative examples of counties. However, since the director of the Pathfinder centers has offered several times that he would be ready to introduce us to the general analysis, we will definitely get to know it. I can say, in a way, I'm glad that we've allowed some more breathing space to develop. In fact, as I referred to in my introductory speech, the beginning was wrong. The track forwarder was never meant to be quick and especially early to be noticed on the primary level. Unfortunately, at the moment when political financial decisions were made, a false signal was issued. There was this, let's say, a slightly contradictory attitude, if not to say, a negative attitude towards the Pathfinder. The support service providers at school felt somehow neglected. So the beginning wasn't very promising. Now it is clearly called second level aid, and I believe that it is fair. Attitude is also much, much better. If I know I'm looking for help if I have a case that I can't handle on my own or for which I need advice, then the attitude is different. So I'm going to go to the Pathfinder Centre on a different basis, and so it's much better to work together. Trackers have also started to specialize in autism, somewhere in Asperger's syndrome, somewhere they know what to do when there is a very serious case of epilepsy. When experiences are exchanged, they try to provide help according to their best knowledge, the Pathfinder is very good as such. But as a regional support centre from which to get a logo beet service, it doesn't work. We understand that this may work in some individual medical cases, but it is not enough as a logo beet service. I don't think I'm gonna throw out a good idea with bath water, but there's no way it's gonna replace a service in school or kindergarten.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-20_U42	Andre Sepp, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-20_U43	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! Each school's task is to prepare a person for life. Communication with the parent, early notice, and cooperation with the parent will certainly be involved. In my opinion, the key issue is that we obviously have doubts not about the need for a support service, but about the scope of the support service, about directing it, about a more thorough job in preparing the child's life. However, the problem here is that the salary of a support specialist is low. As I understand it, this bill supports the provision of adequate tools, including literature, for example. I couldn't agree more. However, there is also the allowance for staff costs of directors and lecturers for the free use of educational resources. Can you describe why it's even been brought in here?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-20_U44	Thank you. They were actually introduced with the previous state budget only because there was no political consensus on the issue of education support for local authorities, whether local authorities should be allowed to decide more themselves. The Ministry of Education and Research disagreed with this. It was said that the only cost line you could use if the money was left over is the salary of directors and lecturers and the money for textbooks and workbooks. There was no other major educational policy decision back there. It all started with the wish to review the overall funding in the field of education and also the local government's income base. However, since there was no consensus, a slightly vague compromise was made which, as we all understand, does not actually resolve the situation. As I said before, we see two solutions. Firstly, a dedicated allocation, the amount of which we have been discussing for almost six years now. Local authorities highlight this problem every year. The second option is to review and circle the entire revenue base, as allowed under the administrative reform. So either one, both of them would be solutions. The worst thing would be to forget about it at all.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-20_U45	Monika Haukanõmm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-20_U46	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, my sincere thanks for raising this issue. The fact that we have put support specialists somewhere third, fourth or fifth is totally unacceptable. In this way, we will not be able to bring the principle of inclusive education from paper to action in any way. Let me get this straight. The draft you proposed is mostly about HEV1 children. If we look at the HEV2 group, then there are also very different schoolkeepers. While these schools are predominantly state-owned, there are also private providers and in some cases they are owned by the local government. How has the problem of support specialists been solved in schools that teach HEV2 children that are not state-owned? The situation is said to be better than in the ordinary school of local government, but not good enough.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-20_U47	Thank you. As regards the children of HEV1 and HEV2, apart from the decision on education policy, I apologise, but I boldly say that there is no other basis for the distribution of financial savings to HEV. This was also highlighted in the meeting of the Committee on Culture by the Specialists of the Chamber of People with Disabilities. They said that HEV1 and HEV2 are well-intentioned distributions, because in reality HEV1 involves students with very difficult special needs. At the same time, HEV2 will also be placed in the group, such as partially sighted and hearing impaired people, who can do very well in mainstream school. In some cases, children with severe physical disabilities can also do very well at school. Even children with composite disabilities are in regular schools if there is an adapted environment. At the same time, there may be the final end of the simplified curriculum, let's say, a child very different from a normal school child, for whom the environment is not safe. So the professionals' proposal was also such that the distribution should be much softer. On the basis of the current breakdown, saying that one child goes to mainstream school or the other no longer needs a major specialist is not correct. As far as HEV2 students are concerned, if we take medium and heavier disability, then there are already deep-disabled children, so I apologise for using such old-fashioned diagnosis in general public schools. However, it has to be said that there are more and more municipal schools, because there is still no agreement that schools in large cities should be transferred to the state budget, although this was the case at the beginning. The negotiations are still underway. The question is that in Tartu and Tallinn, as well as in South Estonia, municipal schools are quite large, there are many children with special needs and obviously this is a very expensive matter. What about support services? As you yourself, a good questioner, very well know, the real situation is that so far the necessary teaching materials are made purely by experience, even by sticking and cutting. The teaching materials are still, say, very varied. Resources are often scarce. As far as further therapy is concerned, there are a lot of issues. I think I'll save the Riigikogu all the details. However, I would like to mention that we have not completely solved where the border runs, for example, in the case of composite trees, especially in the case of more severe disabilities, and who should finance what. The Ministry of Education finances education, but it has not been decided where the social package should come from. Education money should not be used to buy diapers, for example, but in certain cases social aid packages are inevitable for children with special needs because they go to school 17. to 1 year of age. In any case, there are very many unresolved problems: transport issues, the social side, medicines, medical supervision. When it comes to a very difficult case, children are occasionally taken to a doctor because there is no doctor at school. There are, however, many nuances that have not actually been thought out.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-20_U48	Peep Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-20_U49	Thank you. Dear waitress, Tallinn and Tartu, for example, were brought here, where the municipal has a heavy burden on teaching children with special needs, but one could say that Viljandi has a similar burden. But my question is this: if this bill were to become a law, could the burden on the state and local authorities in financing special schools and classes be reduced? Could there be a partial source of cover?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-20_U50	If the draft we are proposing is to become a law now, there are two more readings ahead of us, then we should certainly, together with the Ministry of Education and Research and the Ministry of Finance, carry out a very thorough analysis of HEV2. As the good questioners have noticed, we are talking about support services at school. The idea is that an agreement could at least partly be reached, which has not been reached so far by the local authorities, although it has already gone to court. It has been estimated that in 2010 local authorities were given additional tasks which were not fully funded. So there's a lot of questions. One way is for the state to take over this same Viljandi school, for example. In the case of Viljandi, this is a little easier because the state has acknowledged that it is interested in it and will do so step by step. It is also agreed with certain private schools, as you have with Jaak School, that the state has a clear interest in financing 100% of children with special needs. At the same time, local authorities have been told that certain services, such as the logo beet service, must be available at every school and that the local government must find its own money. At the moment, it has been a place of negotiation with the country. I believe that the best solution would, however, be to review the entire funding of the local government if we agreed that, for example, basic education will remain at the local government level in its entirety, but upper secondary school education will be at the national level. The issue of the provision of support services must also be decided. In any case, this issue must certainly be discussed in greater depth, because it would provide more resources for both local authorities and the state and would be a good solution for both.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-20_U51	Toomas Jürgenstein, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-20_U52	Good President! Good Mailis! I agree well with the fact that today's school simply does not work without a support specialist. School changes, and when we look at inclusive education, e-learning, open space learning, schooling is no longer what I was studying at school in the past. But still, this difference between a teacher and a support specialist is like two different things. Could it be that in the future we also treat support specialists as teachers?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-20_U53	Thank you for a very, very good question. To me, they're all teachers. I just like that educators are everything, support professionals and others. I made some brief and perhaps a little quick examples here. If we look at this inclusive education, which is a good example for us, it is true that in some cases there may be a very large classroom and one teacher who can do very well, but there are three teachers in the secondary classroom, because there is, for example, one lesson for one, the other one for four or seven. Everything can be quite different in recess. So this kind of redistribution, class redeployment and adaptation are definitely things where we still have a lot to learn. We'll get there, we'll see positive examples. But we have not yet touched on the subject of house resources. We like to talk about how we have a lot of room. If we look at what's going on all over Estonia, that's mostly the case. But at the same time, it tends to be that there is a lack of space where children converge. In this regard, no city or place, not even Harjumaa, dares to give a good example. If you have, let's say, four one-to-one lessons, then a very big nut is to find four separate rooms, which would still be as close as possible to the child's class, so that he can be closely connected to his class, but go from time to time to learn one to one. It's a problem with a lot of schools. Even if you have a teacher with special needs, there is also support and will, room planning is still a problem. In fact, there are a lot of issues that we cannot solve here. But understanding and giving down resources so that the school can solve them is certainly crucial. To the question of whether a teacher and a support specialist should be separated, I will answer you that certainly not. I also mentioned, for example, that there is no need for a special needs pedagogue, because a teacher with a very well-trained and experienced experience might even solve the situation better. Such a teacher has experienced all sorts of things anyway, because of his interest he has completed further training and can become a much better partner for a child than he who has studied for seven years and then came to school for the first time. The cases are very different. Finns, for example, use a lot of speech teachers in everyday schooling, but they have logos for purely medical reasons, for diagnosis. This could be one solution in Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-20_U54	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-20_U55	Good manager! Good waitress! Twenty-four thousand children with special needs and 3.3 million of them, that's 130 euros for the child. Is it to put out a fire or preventative work?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-20_U56	When we talk about this money, we're basically talking about erasing the fire. This 3.3 million, agreed by the local authorities by the end of 2010 by law, was intended to add a social pedagogue to the existing logo beet, special pedagogue and school psychologist. It was an addition to one service and an estimated agreement at the time. If we are talking about the whole package and the early detection of special needs, the amount will actually be more than once.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-20_U57	Good waitress, thank you! No further questions. I now ask for a presentation of the Chair of the Riigikogu, Chairman of the Cultural Commission Laine Randjärve!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-20_U58	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The rapporteur-general has already made a very thorough report, so I am not going to go over the content of the draft which was discussed, but to talk about the procedural box. This draft No 245 has been dealt with three times in the Committee on Culture for the preparation of the first reading: on 30 May, a representative of the Commission, who you are currently seeing here, on 27 September, and on 10 October, at the request of the initiator of the draft, the plenary session was removed from the agenda and it was decided to return to the first reading by today, 20 October. The guest was a ministerial representative of the Commission, Irene Käosaar, who presented the decision of the Government of the Republic on 16 June 2016 not to support the draft wishing to amend the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act in order to increase the state's obligations to cover the labour costs of support specialists. According to a representative of the Ministry, it is the responsibility of the schoolkeeper to cover the labour costs of support specialists. He explained that in recent years the state has undertaken commitments from local authorities, with changes in legislation in the field of education, and this has also helped to reduce their costs. It was also mentioned that the state, with the help of the Foundation Innove, offers the possibility of ordering the service of a support specialist in each county from 1 September 2014 for primary schools and upper secondary schools. However, the Ministry's representative acknowledged that the lack of support services is large, especially the lack of specialists and experts. At the moment, however, the priority of the Government of the Republic is teachers' pay and training of teachers through structural funds, including how to deal with pupils with special needs. There was a joint agreement that teacher training was important because he had to be the first to notice and cope with all kinds of situations in the classroom. But the waitress told me all about it. However, during the debate, the members of the Commission expressed the opinion that financial support from support specialists was very important beyond the training of a class teacher. Reference was also made to the subject-matter during the previous session, when funding for education was an important national issue under discussion in the Chamber. It must be said that there was a strong consensus among all the parties on this issue in the Committee on Culture. The representative of the Ministry, who initially represented the official position of the Government of the Republic, also had to agree with many of the arguments raised during the debate. The general attitude was that, although it is not now possible to turn this draft into a law because of a lack of state budget resources, no one really wants to take this issue off the table. Good examples were provided of decisions taken by local governments to allocate funds from the municipal budget to support specialists in order to make the service work. Very much was said about the functioning of the Pathfinder centers. Initially, there were higher expectations and hopes for the establishment of the Pathfinder centers, at least for the Ministry. However, the experience of these years has revealed, as has the representatives of the Pathfinder Centres in the Committee on Culture, that expectations at that time have not been realised in the way they wanted to be compared to the current situation. Firstly, there is no resource to go to all schools if necessary. Secondly, rapid response is quite complicated. Rather, we need to plan a long time to go to the center like a doctor. Training must also be organised in an extra way. A track forwarder cannot help a class teacher directly, nor can he help a school in individual cases. A study on the concept of pupils with special educational needs launched by the Ministry of Education and Research is also underway, which also includes issues concerning the topic of funding and the Rajaidja centres. Following the results of the study, there is a plan to come up with proposals on how this concept could be changed as a whole. During the debate, it became clear in the committee that the first reading of the draft had to be completed. At its meeting on 27 September, it was decided to put the draft on the plenary agenda by 11 October (consensually), to propose that the first reading be closed (as well as consensually) and to set the deadline for amendments to be set at 25 October (consensually again). However, as the first reading of the draft law was removed from the agenda of the plenary session on 11 October, on the basis of the decisions of the sitting held on 10 October, the dates changed as follows: send the draft 245 to the first reading by 20 October and set the deadline for the amendments at 10 working days, so we estimate the deadline is 3 November. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-20_U59	Good waitress, thank you! You have questions too. Monika Haukanõmm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-20_U60	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, When you presented the position of the Ministry, you said that according to a representative of the Ministry, certain costs have been taken away from local governments and should therefore be able to cover the costs of support specialists. My question comes from that statement. What costs has the state taken away from local authorities in providing education services? I just want to know where we are.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-20_U61	To be honest, it is very difficult to answer that question. Good attention control! As we in the Commission focused more on the needs of a wider recovery of support specialists and support services, we did not go into what you were asking about at the moment. You could really ask the ministry for that to be more specific. The cost of the ministry is certainly one of the costs of training money paid out of the euro when I am now starting to fantasize or think about what costs have increased considerably, and certainly also the costs of teaching resources, which have been added to the digital era. I'm sure there are articles like that. Perhaps school meals can also be placed under it, as the state has come to the aid of some upper secondary schools, vocational education and so on. Can't say there's no financial support at all. It is simply a question of how much and whether it is equivalent to what would be necessary to pay the salaries of the people providing support services to professionals. Probably not.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-20_U62	Andre Sepp, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-20_U63	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! Are local governments now aware of the position of changing this law, in so far as it is known in advance that it is local authorities that may not want too differentiated ad hoc subsidies?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-20_U64	Thank you. In fact, both the Cities Association and the Association of Rural Municipalities also want support in accounting for support specialists. On the other hand, they have the autonomy and the desire to use their budget resources as necessary, because indeed, they exist in different municipalities and cities with different volumes. I am aware that the Cities Union and the Association of Municipalities are of the opinion that support services could be supported, but this should not be so targeted. Perhaps, as Mailis Reps described here, that this line could be considered as freely as possible, if one or the other line has educational costs, then the local government can use it according to its needs. I have such information that the city of Tartu, for example, was one of the pioneers in setting up support services in the early 2000s and initially contributed own resources to the decision-making of the local government itself, not with the support of the state, has not reduced the amount of money. Tartu still considers the service so important that, regardless of the state's attitudes or cash flows, it has been funded. Although I always wish my wages were higher. I agree that, at the moment, support professionals, if they are anywhere at all, have a significantly lower salary than teachers for full load. I do not think this is justified because it is the work of people with special training. I don't want to tell you if it's more intense than a teacher's job or not. I myself am a teacher, and I find that all the work of a teacher, whether in a large class or in a small class, is certainly tense when working with young people. But the provision of support services may be, as we have read and know from cases, even extreme in some cases, so it should be paid at least equal to the pedagogue.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-20_U65	Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-20_U66	Honourable President! Respectable waitress! I am warmly pleased that the members of the Committee on Culture have the alertness and sensitivity to perceive the importance of this issue and that you have reached such a consensus. But I have a problem too. I have experienced that if representatives of different political groups find consensus in the Chamber of the Riigikogu, but the government or a particular ministry is of a different opinion, it may be that a good and valuable draft will remain in the Commission's drawer for a long time, even for years. This isn't how this bill goes, and we're going to deal with it at a reasonable pace, are we?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-20_U67	Thank you for your question. We still have to sense reality. I think that, for the time being, the consensus that already exists in the Committee on Culture is crucial, and this is the first extraordinarily strong step that we are not voting it down here. It's gonna take time, less or more, but one day it's gonna work anyway.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-20_U68	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-20_U69	Good manager! Good waitress! Yeah, well, one day it'll work out anyway, I agree. But right now, we're rolling this subject and we're not even gonna find 3.3 million. Has the Committee on Culture discussed the extent to which economic damage occurs when these students reach the labour market once and their quality of work is therefore worse?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-20_U70	A very specific question. This was not really discussed in the Committee on Culture. However, since I do not want to confine myself to a formal answer, I say that perhaps I should call on someone who can assess the economic damage that will occur in years' time. I think that first of all, we should bear in mind today, not what economic damage will be in many years' time, but what emotional damage is already in families and also in the daily lives of teachers who have to cope with difficult situations in large or small classes. I wouldn't be stuck in that amount, 3.3 million. I think we should start by agreeing on attitude, attitude. We should all understand that the support service is important, it is no luxury. It should be something that is common in our schools if we want to achieve that all HEV1 children must be able to study in a regular school according to their address or their region of residence. However, if we want to stick to this principle, we must take into account that 24 children are not able to do quality work with everyone, a normal class teacher alone. It must divide itself between teaching the subject and considering behavioural or other special needs in order to cope with all students in the same collective. Let's face it, that's right.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-20_U71	Good waitress, thank you! No further questions. Do the representatives of the political groups wish to negotiate? They do. I'm opening negotiations. Please, Krista Aru, representative of the Estonian Free Party Group!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-20_U72	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good people's representatives! The Group of the Estonian Free Party supports the draft submitted with all its heart and heart and says that it is a very good and correct draft. Why? Last night, in the late hours of the evening, the Minister of Finance proposed to look at all things in the big picture. That's why I'm starting with the big picture, answering the question 'Why? '. The prerequisite for the development of Estonian society is definitely a good, successful person. We don't want today's school to only provide knowledge. We want the school, in fact, the whole education system, to raise a person who has the attitudes of life and the right value system and who is able to cope successfully with life. This can be the greatest goal of our education and education system as a whole. We have gone on to the principle of inclusive education. In fact, inclusive education in the Estonian education system is nothing new. In 1906 Peter Põld began this first reflection and since then it has passed through our education system, indeed, in a slightly different form during the Soviet era. However, inclusive education in this context, that we need a person who can cope very well as an Estonian person in changing circumstances, requires that the role of teacher is not only to share knowledge. The teacher must rise to become a spiritual leader in the broadest and most diverse sense. At the same time, the children who are taught by the teacher and whose spiritual leader he must be have become more and more different. Some are very smart, but they're impatient, some are very naughty again. Some have various other features. The teacher's work in front of the class has become more complicated and difficult. We cannot expect the teacher, being the spiritual leader, to see all the differences. However, each child deserves to be noticed, dealt with, and considered about his or her abilities, needs, and skills. The teacher needs support specialists next to him. This is a requirement that is presented to us by this concept or by the principle that we are moving forward in our education system. The question therefore arises as to why support specialists should be financed by the state and why it is necessary to address this issue urgently. Because the existence of support specialists is no longer a speciality, but a part of the education system. It is a link that is valuable, necessary and important if we want to move forward in a big picture and if our society is willing and able to acknowledge that wisdom is superior to wealth. For this great goal, we cannot say in any way that a support specialist can only work through the Pathfinder. He must be at the school next to the teacher because so grows a teacher and so grows a child. Each child's special growth is the wealth of our society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-20_U73	Good waitress, thank you! No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. The lead committee has proposed to close the first reading of draft 245. I will set the deadline for the 245 amendments, including 3 November at 5.15 p.m. The first reading is closed and the second item is also closed. Good fellows, our hearing today is over. I thank you and wish you the strength of our work! Closure of the sitting at 11.10 a.m.
