ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-25_U1	Good morning, good fellows. Honourable Riigikogu! We will begin the 6th working week Tuesday session of the 4th plenary session of the Riigikogu. First of all, I would like to ask those members of the Riigikogu who wish to hand over drafts or inquiries! Please, Mikhail Korb!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-25_U2	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen,
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-25_U3	Good Chairman, you've been hailed.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-25_U4	And I welcome the vice-president! I would like to make an inquiry to Prime Minister Taavi Rõivas on behalf of the members of the Central Party Group. The subject of the inquiry is the privatisation of public undertakings. Speaking of facts, there are currently 33 companies in Estonia where the country has full or partial participation. Last year, these 33 companies had a turnover of EUR 1.5 billion and brought EUR 129 million to the Treasury. Recently, unfortunately, there has been a great deal of speculation on what companies and what form they plan to privatise. As we know, the Centre Party has always opposed the privatisation of state-owned enterprises. We continue to take the same view on this issue, but we would like to know concrete plans, to ask specific questions and to discuss what future public enterprises are facing and which of them the state is trying to get rid of. We are discussing an inquiry and we hope to hear substantive answers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-25_U5	Riigikogu speech chair Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-25_U6	Mr President! Honourable representatives of the people! I would like to draw your attention to the fact that yesterday, after the hearing was held and most of the coalition ambassadors left this room, there were 12 questions to answer. One of them was the administrative reform. The Prime Minister himself answered. It was in our interest to find out when these so-called draft content, which should, among other things, provide an answer to the question of how local governments are financed, how national and self-governing tasks are distinguished and how this conflict will be resolved, based on the decision of the Supreme Court already made in 2010. Among other things, the Prime Minister said one such sentence, which has not been ripped out of context at all, and it sounded like this: 'The role of the Constitution is to set the legal framework. In my opinion, it is not appropriate to use the Constitution as a pretext for slowing down development. ' That is, when legitimacy and constitutionality are being passed over for a bright future, it is more like a totalitarian past than the rule of law of today. As a result, seven members of the Free Party decided to ask the Minister for Justice for answers. And we focus not so much on the attempt initiated by 22 local government councils to declare the provisions of administrative reform incompatible with the Constitution, which the Supreme Court is currently dealing with, but on the enforcement of the earlier judgment of the Supreme Court and the necessary so-called prerequisites for content, which would ensure the distinction between municipal and state functions and the financing of state tasks. Unfortunately, we have not seen all of this, these deadlines have been postponed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-25_U7	Riigikogu speech chair Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-25_U8	Honorable President! Respectable members of the Riigikogu! The inquiry, which I will introduce to you, is born of life itself. We all know that the first dozens of refugees have arrived in Estonia by relocation. They are taught the Estonian language, and it amounts to 100 hours. If such Estonian language learning takes place at low intensity a few times a week, then the result is close to zero, the people who deal with refugees every day will confirm. In our neighbouring Finland, new immigrants are trained in Finnish, you are right to hear! Within 1,000 hours, and with this kind of learning, there is an obvious impact. The Finnish say that such an investment is worthwhile because later translation and other costs are much lower. Seven members of the Free Party Group have formulated a question as to why we have the volume of language learning chosen, where the graduates of such a course must reach, what conclusions can be drawn from existing language learning and whether there are factors preventing immigrants from teaching Estonian on a larger scale. Let us be honest, we have not been hit by an unexpected flow of immigrants, we can act with thought and understanding of the experience of other countries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-25_U9	Good fellows! On behalf of the Board of the Riigikogu, I have adopted three inquiries, and according to our Home and Rules of Procedure Act, the Management Board of the Riigikogu decides on their further processing. Now, let's go through the presence check. 81 members of the Riigikogu registered as present, 20 missing.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-25_U10	Let's start working on the items on today's agenda. The first item is the proposal by the Chancellor of Justice to bring Article 20 of the Nature Conservation Act into line with the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia. Allow me to briefly present the procedure before proceeding. This is due to the Articles of the Rules of Procedure and Homes Act of the Riigikogu. First of all, Chancellor of Justice Ülle Madise will report for up to 20 minutes. After that, the presentation by Kalle Muuli, member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, will be up to 20 minutes and then by Rainer Vakra, Chairman of the Committee on the Environment, will be up to 20 minutes. A member of the Riigikogu may ask an oral question to any rapporteur. After presentations and questions, negotiations will be opened where all members of the Riigikogu, including, of course, representatives of committees and political groups, may speak. After the negotiations have been concluded, the President shall put to the vote the question of who is in favour of the proposal of the Chancellor of Justice. A majority of votes in favour are required for the adoption of the proposal. I ask for the speech chair of the Riigikogu to be presented by Chancellor of Justice Ülle Madise!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-25_U11	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Riigikogu! Today, I will present to you one of the right old problems, i.e. the payment of compensation for private property loaded with nature conservation restrictions. Over the years, this has not been resolved and has caused quite a number of people to be frustrated and, in many cases, to suffer from the inaction of the state. It is clear that Estonia's wonderful nature deserves protection, and all these properties, parcels where there are valuable species that deserve protection, must be protected by choosing the appropriate protection regime. On the other hand, our constitution also protects private property. Yes, property obliges, but at the same time the Constitution clearly states that if a person's property is expropriated, fair compensation must be paid immediately, and if property is subject to extensive restrictions, these restrictions must be reimbursed within a reasonable period of time. Of course, there are also restrictions on property for which no compensation is paid and where the same property is obliged to do something, whether it be street cleaning or other such activity on its own land. Because the reasonable balance between the protection of Estonian nature and the protection of owner's rights has not been found, I have proposed to bring § 20 of the Nature Conservation Act into line with § 32 and § 14 of the Constitution, which state that no right must remain formal, but the laws must be set in such a way that the government actually complies with the objectives and norms of the law. That is not the case in this case. A thorough legal and factual analysis is set out in the proposal on your tables. I would also like to take this opportunity to thank the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and the Committee on the Environment for an extremely substantive debate. This time I would also like to thank the Minister for the Environment and environmental officials, who have already begun to think about how to alleviate people's problems. Some options were reached at Commission meetings. As always, I will not repeat what is stated in the proposal or what was said in the committees, as it is done by the rapporteurs on behalf of the committees. I assume that all those who have an interest in it have also read the proposals thoroughly. Of course, I am happy to answer the questions. Rather, I would like to highlight, in a simplified way, the problems that are currently unsolved. We have three groups of owners that are most burdened by conservation restrictions. Firstly, those whose forest land has a targeted zone and corresponding protection arrangements, for example, because a rare eagle has settled there. In that case, nothing can be built in this forest, much of the year must not be in this forest and, of course, cannot be cut down there. In essence, the owner retains only the shell of the property when said in the language of the lawyers. Its core is gone because a person has no more rights to its property than he would have in a state forest or in a neighbour's forest. When you can go into the woods at all, you can only pick mushrooms and berries or just look around, but not for a large part of the year. In such cases, the Constitution requires immediate and fair compensation for the restrictions. Then there is another group which is not subject to an expropriation of substance and must be reimbursed within a reasonable period of time. Restrictions are extensive, for example by excluding logging from a large part of the forest, but at the same time something is possible, such as grazing animals. In order to compensate within a reasonable period of time, it cannot be considered that, first, years are being prepared for the establishment of a nature reserve and then, for example, a person has to wait eight or ten years for the day when the state buys the property from him at a reasonable and fair price. And then there's the third group, the existence of which is actually particularly tragic, because this problem could have been solved a long time ago. This is well illustrated by the judgment of the Viru County Court of September. The main activity of the farmer is the grazing of sheep and the grazing of sports ponies. He has bought a forest with a post-paid payment in 1999, in 2007 there are restrictions. He has for some time been able to pay this deposit, even though he may not manage the forest as he had planned. Now he has not paid three times, he is in debt, and he is being forced to pay off his debt in court, yet he is in this situation due to unconstitutional restrictions. The attitude of some environmental officials, which came to me, I very much hope that this is an abusive story, was that what this EUR 1400 is, let it pay off, it's a small amount, and it'll never work out. There are many people in Estonia for whom EUR 1400 is not a small sum, and it is also a matter of principle. It is among the privatists of the land with a prepaid payment that there are a number of people whose problems have also reached the media and who have bought the land for themselves in order to cut up the felled forest and thus earn a pension supplement. In this case, it has been the case that restrictions have been imposed on these countries, people have bought land without restrictions, and now they have to pay a back payment from the pension, but they cannot earn the expected income from the forest. And it can happen that the forest is waiting for the final decision to be granted protection and, in the meantime, the damage will grow, and there will already be a case of compensation for damage. So this third group is kind of the most tragic fate. Today I can refer to the debate in the Committee on the Environment where, fortunately, environmental officials also understood this tragedy. Even if it concerns five farmers who have reached retirement age, it is something that the Estonian state must resolve and as soon as possible. In fact, it should have been done earlier. As usual, we have considered whether the problem presented before you is objectively solved or whether it is a matter of state life that does not actually have a solution to be used. This problem can be solved and not just with money. These figures, which we have, say that just over EUR 15 million would be needed to buy out all the countries whose restrictions are so extensive that the country has to buy them. It is clear that there is probably no such amount to be taken from the state budget. But there are other options. In the past, this solution was known as the land change. The Estonian state will certainly be much more mature and able to prevent corruption today and, where it has happened, to discover it, so that the schemes such as those used in the previous exchange of lands will now be avoided. Among other things, it is conceivable that the land that the State does not need, especially if it is located in so-called sweet places, will be sold by the State itself at auction and the funds it receives will compensate for the restrictions. Reparcelling is currently in use and, according to our data, it is not used very actively. It was also discussed in the committees that the state could encourage voluntary buying-out of protected areas. There is at least one example: NGO Kotkaklubi bought forest land in the framework of the LIFE project in 2004-2009, but there was so much bureaucratic trouble that it hardly encourages the NGO to raise money and buy land from landowners, for example, in order to protect the squirrels. There are basically other options that require some kind of change in budgetary logic. So this problem is not unsolvable. Honourable Riigikogu! I ask you to bring Article 20 of the Nature Conservation Act into line with the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-25_U12	Thank you, Chancellor of Justice. You have questions too. Cameron Maruse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-25_U13	Thank you! Your Honor, Chancellor! In your proposal, you describe in quite a comprehensive way the existing measures to compensate objects with restrictions in various ways. It's all right and necessary. But this proposal, which you are making, is, in my opinion, based on the belief that we are going to correct some section of the law and that things are about to move. Do you share the view that this is not so much a deficit in law as a failure to manage executive power? Because these measures have all existed on a broader scale, but for some reason they will not be implemented as they should.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-25_U14	Thank you very much. You are certainly right, and that is why this problem has been on the table of the Chancellors of Justice since 2005. It is expected that, for example, environmental officials will perhaps start communicating with rural governments, for example in the same post-payment or mortgage business. It didn't happen. And in such cases, on the basis of § 14 of the Constitution, there is probably one possibility of supplementing the law by, for example, a period during which restrictions on the land owner must certainly be compensated. In such a case, landowners will have the opportunity to appeal to the administrative court and to lodge an appeal against the obligation. As lawyers, we both know that the possibility of going to court to challenge certain restrictions and related obligations and restrictions exists, but it is all so complicated that it actually requires high-quality legal assistance. And as far as we are concerned, it is known that those people for whom this EUR 1400, for which some environmental officer throws, that ah, pay away, little money, are unlikely to have the strength or the money to use legal aid. In this sense, it seems to me that it is necessary to take a position, however, that § 20 of the Nature Conservation Act is contrary to § 32 (1) and (2) and § 14 of the Constitution. Looking also at legal practice, it is clear that the Nature Conservation Act actually leaves the right to compensation illusory when there is money, and with strength, but there has been no money for years.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-25_U15	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-25_U16	Thank you, good manager. Dear waitress, You say that eight or nine years of waiting time cannot be considered constitutional. But people are different. The average life expectancy for men is 71, for women 81 years. Time flows one faster, the other slower. When we look at the case law of the European Court of Human Rights, we see that in civil matters, up to two years are considered reasonable. Five years is too much in difficult things. My question is how long you think a constitutionally reasonable waiting period is. Define it, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-25_U17	Thank you very much. It was a discussion in the Committee on the Environment. I believe that the rapporteur will explain this on behalf of the Committee on the Environment. For example, there was talk of a three or four year term. During that period, it should be possible to obtain easily from the court a decision under which the State is obliged to pay compensation. Whether this is reasonable is likely to be demonstrated by case law, but also by the Office of the Chancellor of Justice will certainly analyse it and also take into account the case law of the European Court of Human Rights.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-25_U18	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-25_U19	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you, Chancellor, first of all, for bringing this matter before us. This is very important, we have also tried to raise it for our part, but really, for too long this problem has persisted. Now we are going to look for a solution so that, within a reasonable period of time, the owner can be compensated, but frankly, I do not believe in voluntary bribery and it is difficult to return to land change. You mentioned the deadline for supplementing the law. As far as I know, there are a few hundred properties waiting, and there is probably not that much in the state budget. How do you feel about this solution in order to limit the number of properties to be compensated, and new protected areas would not be made until those that are pending have been compensated? Because we can't see there's going to be a money ship that will solve all the problems.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-25_U20	Thank you very much. I am aware of the draft initiated by the Free Party Group, which is precisely what it is about. This would certainly enable the problem to be partly solved, but then there is the problem that, if there are really properties that should be protected under the Constitution, they will not be protected because the limit is full. The question is, indeed, whether the most sensible protection regime is always chosen and why it is so long to wait for a final decision to be granted protection, when restrictions are already in place, but the object of the list is not yet available. I'm sure there's a way around this. Without further analysis, I do not know whether the limit that you have proposed could result in a situation where the Constitution does not comply with the protection of nature. But there is certainly something to be done to make sure that those people who are now in arrears and those who have been waiting eight or ten years for compensation or for the land to be bought out can finally solve their problem.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-25_U21	George Adams, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-25_U22	Thank you, Mr President. Your Honor, Chancellor! When discussing this problem with people who are affected or whose neighbours it affects, I have the impression that in some parts of our administration, but probably also among politicians, the perception remains that Soviet time continues and private property, especially the private property of the land, has not been restored in Estonia in the meantime. My question is this: is it reasonable to go such a simple way in the case of a nature conservation restriction that it is practically leading to the end of property rights? After all, we also have apartment property, the owner of which cannot use his square meters, and eventually the house will be completely destroyed in some situation.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-25_U23	Such situations are all very tragic for people. However, this problem of apartment ownership is not directly related to this proposal. The theoretical line, of course, is connected and will be tempted to talk about these apartment buildings in Kohtla-Järve, for example. But you are absolutely right; it is the duty of the state to strike a better balance between ownership and public interests, as well as the interests of its neighbours.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-25_U24	Arthur Talvik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-25_U25	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good Chancellor of Justice! We were talking about time. You also said that it was a very long time for a decision to be taken to secure the land or property. Is it reasonable to limit this period of decision, the most vague period in which the owner does not understand whether there will be a protected area or no protected area?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-25_U26	Thank you very much, very good question. I believe that within the framework of parliamentary scrutiny, the Riigikogu has the right to set such deadlines for executive power. My personal preference has always been for things to be regulated in our country, if possible, by setting goals and principles. The principle could be that the aim set by Parliament must be achieved without delay, which may sometimes mean that today, in two hours' time, and in another case, for example, in a year's time. So in that sense, I generally have a little hesitation about deadlines. As we know, we once had such deadlines on a massive scale, and then it tended to lead to a very simple issue being dealt with when the last bell hit was about to come. But if it has not worked out for a long time, in some cases it is probably reasonable that the Riigikogu sets such deadlines, especially for final decisions, such as compensation decisions. And exceeding this deadline could be an obvious offence, there is not much to argue about. It would then be very easy to turn to the administrative court, not even legal aid, and the court would order the amount required.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-25_U27	Peep Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-25_U28	Thank you. Your Honor, Chancellor! Has anyone analysed the protection conditions imposed on the properties in question from the point of view of whether they are overrated or optimal? Maybe there's some sort of review and relaxation.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-25_U29	Thank you very much. It's a very logical approach again. This was the subject of the Committee on the Environment, and indeed, in some cases, for example, a protected eagle has not appeared on this land nor has it been hoped that it will appear, so it would be logical to put an end to the restrictions. This is what the Minister of the Environment and other environmental officials promised, as I understand it. But once again, if the Riigikogu is so kind, you might as well keep asking yourself how it is. In preparing our own proposal, we did not begin to analyse the justification of nature conservation restrictions and established regimes.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-25_U30	Mark Soosaar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-25_U31	Thank you, Mr President. Good Chancellor of Justice! I have noticed that there is quite a lot of saying in the crowd that worms, birds and animals are protected here, but no one protects man. In fact, there is a reason for this: our nature conservation and heritage conservation laws are perhaps the strongest in Europe. In their case, there is very little motivation why a person should want to live, preserve and use values in conservation or heritage conservation areas with dignity. Would it not be worth reviewing these laws properly from start to finish and thinking, perhaps some paradigms could be changed, so that these laws do not consist of restrictions, restrictions and prohibitions, but offer recommendations on what to do to ensure that our cultural and natural values are preserved?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-25_U32	Thank you very much. I totally share your thinking. In my opinion, the Constitution of Estonia leads to a reasonable balance between the interests of individual people, the interests of every person and the public interests, including those of environmental and heritage conservation, and the interests of preserving cultural values. Looking for this reasonable balance is the work of the Riigikogu and the work of each of us all the time, especially in the context of elections. I very much hope that we will be able to move towards a significantly better balance, and I believe that it would be absolutely necessary to undertake these laws as a whole and to think logically through.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-25_U33	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-25_U34	Thank you, manager. Your Honor, Chancellor! I think the Chancellor of Justice is right if he claims that this paragraph is contrary to the Constitution. But I'll ask you more. As we know, the country has no money for this. The Ministry of the Environment should have around EUR 50 million and have no capacity to bring this regulation into line with the Constitution, although we have to admit that it is indeed contrary to the Constitution. The amount of the compensation for the handling of facilities is also in conflict with the Constitution, but so far no one has begun to resolve it. What is the point of this if we acknowledge today that this paragraph is contrary to the Constitution, but the state still leaves it unsolved? It's like a matter of local government funding. You're gonna do your job, but it's gonna stand somewhere on the shelf. Where could there be a solution? There isn't really any money.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-25_U35	Thank you very much. For my term of office, I have set the objective that every problem can be resolved in a reasonable way and as soon as possible for people. Indeed, the Supreme Court's decision on the payment for the toleration of technical installations is a decision that is simply not enforced. And here, all we can do is ask you every time, and I thank you for this question, and I also take this opportunity to say that it is totally unacceptable in the rule of law that decisions of the Supreme Court are not enforced. In this particular case, we have also proposed other approaches, and if the Riigikogu decides, for example, to set a deadline for reimbursement, things will start to move. Because if the administrative court specifically calculates the amount, the State is obliged to pay it. If the Constitutional Review Court declares one norm invalid or unconstitutional, then sometimes active steps by the Riigikogu are needed. After all, we remember the famous ORAS § 71 and what eventually happened when the Riigikogu did not act during the prescribed period. Finally, a political decision was made by the court. So these are a little different cases. At the moment, I appreciate that, in cooperation with you, the chance for the Chancellor of Justice to finally resolve the problems is quite good. Once again: the only solution is not money; we need a set of reasonable restrictions and reasonable compensation measures.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-25_U36	Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-25_U37	Thank you. Your Honor, Chancellor! I understand that your proposal will receive support in the Riigikogu today, but I am interested in the question that it will take twice as much money each year to bring Article 20 of the Nature Conservation Act into line with the Constitution. Maybe in 2017, 2018 and 2019 this money isn't in the state budget, so what happens then?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-25_U38	Thank you very much. I think it is worth thinking, after all, of reparcelling, by analogy, an exchange of land that does not have to be done in such a way that more so-called administrative capacity, which has sometimes also led to prisons, businessmen buy from old people who themselves do not have the opportunity to change land, make profitable plots of land together and benefit from doing so. I think that this scheme can be avoided in two ways. Firstly, by replacing the protected land with the same forest land, for example, at the expense of the state forest, and secondly, if the state has surplus land in places where someone would like to develop something, whether it is a residential area or something that could generate revenue, it would be worth selling the land at auction and making up for the restrictions with the money they have received. It is absolutely clear that, in a situation where money is actually lacking in internal security, education, health care and many other areas, which you know well, hope that the amount used for compensation will be increased exponentially, obviously cannot, even though this money is needed. Rather, it would be worth emphasising other measures and the reasonableness of the restrictions.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-25_U39	Thank you, Chancellor of Justice. No further questions. I ask Kalle Muuli, Member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, to present the speech chair of the Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-25_U40	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Constitutional Commission discussed the Chancellor of Justice's proposal to bring § 20 of the Nature Conservation Act into line with the Constitution on the last Tuesday, 11 October. The Chancellor of Justice Ülle Madise was present with the adviser and communication manager and the Minister of the Environment Marko Pomerants with the relevant officials. At the meeting of the Commission he also gave explanations to the attorney Teet Kukk of the Public Property Department of the Ministry of Finance. The Chancellor of Justice explained to the Commission the content and motives of his proposal. In his opinion, the situation is extremely unfair. At the same time, he believes that the problem can be resolved in a reasonable way. All of this he has just talked about here for quite a long time and even more in depth than in the Commission, I am not going to repeat it. The Minister of the Environment presented to the Commission his proposals and the measures already planned and taken to address the problem. In the opinion of the Minister for the Environment, it is most effective if more money is simply allocated from the state budget to buy back or buy in these countries. That's what we're planning to do. For the next three years, EUR 3 million will be allocated annually instead of EUR 0.8 million. At the same time, the Minister for the Environment acknowledged that the real need is about EUR 5 million per year, then the order of land disposal would be relatively short. However, even at the current pace, i.e. using the money already planned, by 2017, all applications submitted before 2013 could be accepted. The second measure that the Ministry of the Environment talked about concerns the land loaded with a tax and a mortgage, which the Chancellor of Justice mentioned here too. However, these plots are relatively few, exactly seven, and their owners have a debt balance of around EUR 50000. The Minister of the Environment plans to supplement the Nature Conservation Act in such a way that as long as the acquisition of immovable property by the State is under way, the owner can apply for the suspension of the payment of the deferred payment. At that time, he doesn't have to pay off, and that would be a relief. Another relief was that the Minister for the Environment said that Natura payments would be paid, that the amount would be EUR 110 per hectare in the target protection zone and EUR 60 per hectare in the restricted zone. The Minister for the Environment plans to amend the rural development plan so that aid can also be paid to owners of parcels located in the target protection zone which are not directly located in the Natura area. The Minister of the Environment spoke of a number of other minor ways of resolving the problem or mitigating the situation. For example, the LIFE programme for the creation of protected areas in flying squirrel habitats allows the state to buy land under nature conservation. It also opens up some of the infamous land change that is now called modern reparation. When the chairman of the committee asked the Chancellor of Justice whether the measures listed by the Minister for the Environment were sufficient to solve the problem, the Chancellor of Justice replied that these measures would probably give hope to people whose rights had been violated. Perhaps the violation of these rights will end. The members of the Commission were also interested in which countries the Environmental Board monitors the conservation needs of nature, whether these areas are old or changed or increased, whether this work is carried out only on the basis of people's requests and only on the basis of those countries that are in the order of purchase. The Minister for the Environment explained that there is, in fact, a greater and more thorough revision of the rules on protected areas, and in this context it will be monitored whether the conservation needs are the same. Of course, the owner can also apply for an assessment of the need for nature conservation, but the Environmental Board is already doing so according to its plan. According to the Nature Conservation Act, the revision and amendment of the protection rules must have been made by 2023. To the direct question of when the Ministry would be able to solve the problem so that there would be no more queues, the Minister replied that it would be difficult for him to answer because the desire to sell and the need to buy the state could change depending on a number of factors. For example, if Natura payments are lost, people may want to sell more of their land and the queue may increase. So he couldn't predict the length of the queue, but he said he couldn't solve this problem in three years. The Members of the Commission found in a debate between themselves that the Chancellor of Justice's initiative was basically correct because there was a problem, but they also thought that setting a procedural deadline alone would not solve the problems. In fact, other measures are needed. Rather, the package of measures submitted by the Minister for the Environment will help to solve the problems. In the opinion of the members of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, the measures that should be taken to resolve the problem must be found appropriate and necessary by the Committee on the Environment. Among other things, the members of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs discussed the fact that, if a person's chances of using and obtaining income from his or her land have been obstructed for a long time, perhaps it would also be worth taking a remedy such as late payment, which would be used if he or she owed the State. It could also be implemented on the contrary. Finally, the Commission took two decisions: firstly, to support the Chancellor of Justice's proposal to take the necessary steps to ensure that landowners have the right to receive fair compensation for significant conservation restrictions within a reasonable period of time, and secondly, to appoint Kalle Muuli, member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs as rapporteur. Both decisions were unanimous. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-25_U41	Good waitress, thank you! There are no questions for you. I now ask for the speech chair of the Riigikogu to be presented by Rainer Vakra, Chairman of the Environment Committee!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-25_U42	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Chancellor of Justice's proposal to amend § 20 of the Nature Conservation Act and bring it into line with the Constitution was also discussed by the Environmental Committee of the Riigikogu at its meeting on Tuesday 11 October. Among those invited were Chancellor of Justice Ülle Madise, Counsellor of the Chancellor of Justice Evelin Lopman, Minister of the Environment Marko Pomerants, Counsellor of the Legal Department of the Ministry of the Environment Merike Laidvee and Head Specialist of the Department of Nature Conservation at the Ministry of the Environment Piret Palm. The Ministry of Finance was represented by Lawyer Teet Kukk of the State Property Department. All members of the Commission, with the exception of Mr Rein Ratas, took part in this meeting. This whole issue is not new for the Committee on the Environment; we have discussed it with the Minister for the Environment and the Ministry of the Environment before. The Committee on the Environment acknowledged the Chancellor of Justice that he referred to a legitimate subject and that § 20 of the Nature Conservation Act was brought back to this large hall discussion. In addition to what the Chancellor of Justice and my colleague Kalle Muuli said today about this panel, I would like to highlight the points that have received even greater attention in the Committee on the Environment. I'm not going to repeat what Ülle Madise said or what Marko Pomerants said, it's all sounded in the hall. However, one important point was raised during the debate on the proposal, which concerned mortgages. Marko Pomerants pointed out that the land covered by the mortgage was seven countries and that the residual value of these mortgages was EUR 50000. Marko Pomerants proposed in the Commission that § 20 (5) of the Nature Conservation Act be supplemented, the content of which could be: to suspend mortgage payments until the issue of purchasing these countries has been resolved. Later, we could make a settlement. Such a small but substantial change could be implemented quickly. Members of the Commission were interested in the situation in our neighbouring countries. Member of the Committee on the Environment Meelis Mälberg agreed with the Chancellor of Justice that compensation was basically necessary and asked how these problems had been resolved in neighbouring countries. Advisor to the Chancellor of Justice, Evelin Lopman replied that Finns are trying to create nature reserves on the state's land, and before imposing restrictions, land will be replanted or another procedure will be used to get the land from its owners. Marko Pomerants confirmed that 90% of nature reserves are planned for state land in Estonia. Valeri Korb, member of the Committee on the Environment, was interested that if there were more money, the queues would be shortened more quickly. This issue has been considered several times here today, but it is important to report what Minister Pomerants has said. He said that ideally the situation would be resolved in five years, and in this state they wouldn't be able to make it faster. Merike Laidvee, adviser to the Legal Department of the Ministry of the Environment, explained that according to the Land Administration, the 15 million needed to liquidate the current order could be paid within three years. The ministry's so-called productivity does not allow for faster than three years, it is necessary to negotiate, evaluate and complete the transactions. Of course, as previous rapporteurs pointed out, the Environment Committee repeatedly suggested the idea presented by Lawyer Teet Kukk of the Treasury Department of State Property, that it would be reasonable to use different methods, such as land buy-out, land change in the course of land management and the mitigation of restrictions in favour of landowners, to make effective use of the money. Minister for the Environment Marko Pomerants explained that the aim now is to involve landowners in the negotiations before the land is subject to conservation restrictions. The Committee on the Environment took two consensual decisions: it was decided to support and appoint as rapporteur, in principle, the Chancellor of Justice's proposal Rainer Vakra. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-25_U43	Thank you, Chairman of the Committee on the Environment. You have questions too. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-25_U44	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! Quite recently, we were discussing an extension of the deadline for amending the protection rules, and I remember that it turned out from the debate that this extension was actually taken out of the blue. It was just decided that we should set this new date because the summer deadline was approaching. As in the absence of any justification. I ask you what the Committee on the Environment thinks is a reasonable time.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-25_U45	Thank you. The Committee on the Environment naturally discussed this matter of deadline. We came to the conclusion that when we start this process of amending the Nature Conservation Act, we will also review the question of the deadline. So far, the Committee on the Environment has not taken a specific decision on this.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-25_U46	George Adams, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-25_U47	That's the question. If, now, not on the basis of a situation that has been going on for many years and which is probably mainly linked to the long-term governance of the Reform Party, I mean that there is time and more in these areas, but hypothetically assume that the committee of the Riigikogu and the Minister of Industry have the will to resolve the problems as soon as possible, do you have some sort of list of them, say, non-joking, not time-consuming steps that could be taken in this area in the next half year, for example, so that after that there will be no more problems?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-25_U48	Thank you. First of all, I am pleased to see that a great deal of work has already been done. If so far the amount for which it was possible to buy lands was 0.8 million, then next year it will be 3 million. Growth is therefore not 100%, but several hundred percent. This is a very important change and a long step towards resolving the problem. According to the current timetable, we can see that the target of 15 million will be paid to solve the problem within five years. Of course, here in the Riigikogu, we are all able to make changes to the budget, and this is certainly one of the topics on which the Committee on the Environment recommends that members of the Riigikogu pay attention. But I also believe that it is also important, in my opinion, what both the honourable Chancellor of Justice and my colleague Kalle Muuli concerned here, that the relevance of the nature conservation restrictions should be reviewed. Representatives of the Ministry of the Environment, including the Minister of the Environment in person, have often spoken about this in the Committee on the Environment. This is a new and important priority for the Ministry of the Environment. They really want to review whether the restrictions are reasonable and the protection regimes objectively determined. I think it's a reasonable way.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-25_U49	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-25_U50	Thank you, manager. Mr President of the Commission. It's obvious that there's no money and it's probably not coming. But why isn't the simplest option used? Suppose my property in one of the villages has some kind of conservation restriction. Why isn't this property replaced for a neighbouring block in the village, which is the same price and belongs to the state? It shouldn't be that I have a property somewhere and a change is decided in Tallinn. In the same region, in the same municipality, in the same village it should be arranged, and the matter would have been resolved. Why isn't it done?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-25_U51	Very logical question, thank you for that. I believe that if the land exchange restarts, this mechanism will definitely have to be reviewed. Why this is not happening now, we all know the answer. Ten years ago, some gentlemen ruined this mechanism so much that for years no one dared to use the word 'change of land', at least in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-25_U52	Cameron Maruse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-25_U53	Thank you! Mr. Vakra! The problem we are discussing here today and described by the Chancellor of Justice is largely a reflection of bureaucracy and administrative inefficiencies in the environmental field, starting with the Ministry and ending with environmental officials and local officials. Have you planned in your committee to hear the explanations of the people involved, which is why this system is so bureaucratic and with excessive restrictions? And why has the necessary resources not been requested to solve the problem?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-25_U54	Thank you. We have done so many times, and we will certainly do so in the future. I can once again congratulate the people in this area because there has been a change. If we look at history, the amount involved has been 0.8 million, the next year will be 3 million. The same can be said of possible land change: sleeves have been fermented and work is under way. But why everyone has been dragging on for so long, of course there is a reason to ask the former environmental ministers, our former colleagues. At the same time, rather than carefully looking back into history, it is more reasonable to take a look at the future. I believe that this issue will, in any case, be resolved in three to five years, whether we ultimately set a deadline in this Chamber or not. The problem will be resolved within five years at the latest.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-25_U55	Good waitress, thank you! No further questions. I'm opening negotiations. Artur Talvik, speech chair of the Riigikogu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-25_U56	Mr. President! Ladies and gentlemen, the good Chancellor of Justice! First of all, I would like to thank the Chancellor of Justice for opening the box, which has been closed for a long time, which has caused much confusion and discontent and, saddest, also a negative view of conservationists and nature conservation as such. I speak empirically because I am a resident of a nature reserve and own land in a zone of conservation restrictions. So the experience of living in a nature reserve is great. Our community negotiated very thoroughly with Lahemaa, or the Environmental Met, just when a new management plan was put in place, and precisely these restrictions. First of all, I very much support the idea of compensating and selling and speeding up this process, plus reparcelling, i.e. land change, as it used to be called. We made country change proposals to the Environmental Board at the time, but the Environmental Board just started to shake on that word, so it didn't work out. But why am I saying that nature conservation as such requires a paradigm shift? But because we are experiencing overregulation in this area. Let me give you an example. My neighbor wanted to start building a house not in a construction restricted zone, but in a Natura site. Lahemaa, which also protects the so-called heritage culture, or inhabitants of the region, began to obstruct this construction process with its limitations. Since I owned a seminatural grazing area there, I finally intervened in the process and asked for the so-called seminatural community to be removed from it. It took a long time. When I spoke to an environmental officer, he was quite right to say that things have gone wrong because new and new regulations are being presented without thinking things through. One official has so many layers at his disposal to impose restrictions on nature conservation areas that it depends much on his discretion to make a decision. And if, for some reason, he just doesn't like a person, he'll definitely find one layer that's not in dispute, and with that layer he'll block up further economic activity at a particular location. There was talk of a lack of administrative capacity for nature conservation institutions. In fact, we, as legislators, should also look in the mirror, because we have passed through this house and have not paid attention to it. Very often, we have also automatically and thoughtlessly transposed the restrictions from the Euro Directives, without bringing them into the local context. However, a paradigm shift could also be that instead of financial compensation, owners of the restricted countries could receive other preferences. We specifically proposed that people living in a restricted zone, or simply having land, should be given priority, I do not know, fishing permits or with less administrative burden, to build their own house or other such benefits. In any case, thank you to the Chancellor of Justice for being open to this matter! I hope that we will move on from here to the point where nature conservation, as such, will return to the maze of discretion and regulation, will be reduced. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-25_U57	Thank you. No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. Let's start preparing the vote. Dear colleagues, I shall put to the vote the question of who is in favour of the proposal of the Chancellor of Justice. Please take a stand and vote. With the result of 70 members of the Riigikogu, no respondents or abstentions, the Chancellor of Justice's proposal was not supported. As the Riigikogu decided to support the proposal of the Chancellor of Justice, on the basis of § 152 of the Law on the Rules of Procedure and the Rules of Procedure of the Riigikogu, I hereby instruct the Committee on the Environment to initiate a draft to bring § 20 of the Nature Conservation Act into line with the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia. We have finished processing the first item.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-25_U58	Let's move on to the second item: First reading of the Act amending the Social Welfare Act and the State Pension Insurance Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. I would like to ask the Minister of Social Protection Margus Tsahkna to present the speech chair of the Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-25_U59	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good Riigikogu! Before you is the text of the Act amending the Social Welfare Act and the State Pension Insurance Act 300 at first reading. It is a draft which provides for the grant of a pensioner living alone. The allowance is paid once to persons of old-age age living alone in a calendar year who have lived alone in the period from 1 April to 30 September and whose net pension during the same period has been less than 1.2 times the average pension published by Statistics Estonia in the second quarter. The purpose of the proposed support is to increase the income of pensioners living alone in order to increase their economic independence and reduce poverty. Compared to poverty indicators, the absolute poverty rate for older people, including old-age pensioners, is rather low, but their relative poverty rate is high. According to Statistics Estonia, 40.1% of old-age pensioners lived below the limit of relative poverty in 2014, but 73.8% of people aged 65 and over living alone lived in relative poverty. After all, it is well known that it is very difficult for pensioners living alone to cope economically. One point in the agreement of the government coalition is therefore precisely to help pensioners living alone a little. Another fundamental position is to give them much more attention. According to this draft, persons of old-age age living alone who, according to the population register, lived alone between 1 April and 30 September of the current calendar year are considered to be pensioners. An average pension of 1.2 times is defined on the basis of data from Statistics Estonia. The calculation shall be based on the data for the year preceding the financial year. In the second quarter of 2016, the average old-age pension was EUR 391.4 and its 1.2 times the whole number is rounded to 470 euros, i.e. in 2017, in the year of the entry into force of the Act, this allowance is granted to people whose net pension is below this rate, i.e. less than 470 euros. All persons who, according to the population register, have lived alone from at least 1 April to 30 September and who have a pension of less than 470 euros, receive a lump-sum pensioner allowance of 115 euros. According to the draft law, it will be paid out by October. The rate of pensioner allowance shall be established by the State budget. This is based on the data of the most recently published old-age pension at the time of drafting the State Budget Act, which also takes into account the last increase in pensions since 1 April. The payment of the allowance does not take into account whether the old-age person is working or not. No account shall be taken of other social benefits and income received by the pensioner. Working income is not taken into account in order to encourage older people to work, including through part-time work. Pensioner benefits are not taxed on income tax and the allowance paid is not included in income when calculating income support, so we actually only take into account the amount of the individual's pension. It must be less than 1.2 times the average old-age pension. Secondly, according to the population register, this person must live alone, i.e. he must be registered there alone for at least six months. A person who has been provided with care around the clock from at least 1 April to 30 September shall also be considered to be a resident pensioner. Such a person will pay in full or in part for the help he or she needs, i.e. outside help, guidance, supervision, medicine, clothing, accommodation. Such a person's need for help increases rather than decreases over the years. Because of the increased need for care and to maintain his daily livelihood, he often lives outside his home. As we know, pensions in nursing homes are not enough to cover costs, close relatives.. or, if there are no close ones, municipalities will cover the missing part. That is why we have also taken care of the needs of people living alone into the target group of the pensioner's allowance. Pensioners in need of care are not subject to population register data; they are treated as pensioners living alone within the meaning of the draft. If both spouses are present at a welfare institution, it does not matter whether they are in the same institution or in different institutions, they are both considered to be living alone pensioners because, as if they were living at home, they would not be able to share their expenses on housing and other matters. If, according to the population register, the couple live at the same address but one of them is in a nursing home, both are entitled to pensioner benefits. If, according to the population register, there are more people living on the same housing, a pensioner living in a nursing home is entitled to the pensioner's pension allowance. Others are not entitled to this allowance. Figuratively speaking, if one of the spouses or partners is in a nursing home, he or she qualifies as a living pensioner alone, but if a son or anyone else is in the dwelling together with the surviving spouse, he or she is not a living pensioner alone. He still has to check that according to the population register, one person, himself, has been registered in his dwelling. Based on data from the Social Insurance Institution and the Population Information System and taking into account forecasts, it can be assumed that the amendment proposed in the draft relates to some 85100 single-living old-age pensioners whose net pension is less than EUR 470 per month in 2017. It has been taken into account that a certain number of pensioners may change their residence data and subsequently be single-living pensioners according to the population register. We have taken into account the increase in the number of people, and we have assumed that people who, according to our data, currently meet these conditions may be added to about 5% of those who write out people who do not actually live there. In this way, they will receive support from a pensioner living alone. In order to qualify for the allowance, the pensioner does not have to submit an application; the Social Insurance Board processes everything automatically on the basis of the records. The exception is those receiving a pension from abroad and those living in nursing homes. They provide the Social Insurance Institution with information about a pension received abroad or with information about living in a nursing home on the basis of which the payment of the allowance is decided. The allowance is normally paid in October under the automatic procedure of the Social Insurance Board. One of the reasons for the payment in October is that the heating period will increase the costs of pensioners and that the benefit of a single-living pensioner will help to alleviate the situation somewhat. In order to cover the costs incurred by the entry into force of the Act, the state budget provides for EUR 10 million, and this is also the case for the following years, on the basis of the state budget strategy. We have been working on the whole system to ensure that it is as easy as possible to manage and as cheap as possible for taxpayers. However, what is particularly important is that the payment of the allowance must not undermine the dignity of pensioners living alone. These people do not have to go to the municipality or the Social Insurance Board with all kinds of papers to prove that they live alone, that their income is below the relevant limit. Everything is done automatically on the basis of criteria that can be identified electronically. The exceptions are enshrined in the law and concern in particular those who receive a pension from abroad. Above all, however, we are thinking of those in nursing homes. In their case, the guardian or welfare institution shall send the Social Insurance Board a statement stating that the individual is actually in a nursing home. If the Riigikogu agrees with this bill, the law should enter into force on 1 January 2017. That's all for my introduction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-25_U60	Dear Minister for Social Protection, thank you very much. You have questions too. Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-25_U61	Thank you, manager. Minister, thank you very much. I am very pleased that you have taken the draft repeatedly submitted by the Centre Party out of the drawer and have taken it seriously. There will certainly now be a big check-in and check-out, so we do not know how many of these beneficiaries will actually be. But it's not a problem, as long as people get more pensions. But what really bothers me is paying out in October. Are you preparing for a municipal election or something? Why don't you pay it in Christmas? It doesn't make any difference. Perhaps you should set such a moving date: before the elections to the Riigikogu, before the elections to the European Parliament or before the elections to local governments? Why don't you pay it in Christmas? That would be the best gift for pensioners.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-25_U62	Thank you. I'm not gonna have that kind of political debate here. The logic of why payments are made at the beginning of the autumn is linked to the fact that heating periods start in October and costs inevitably increase. But there is another purely practical argument, namely this six-month period. There must be some kind of reference period on the basis of which we can assess whether this person actually lives alone or not. And the third factor is that it is on 1 April that a new pension level, or indexed level, will apply, which we will also take into account when paying the allowance for a pensioner living alone. It is logical, therefore, that on 1 April, when the pension increase is usually planned for at least the following years, the period of six months begins when, according to the population register, the person really must have lived alone. After that, the money will be paid out. If the Riigikogu wishes to change this, the Riigikogu can do so, it is within your competence. But this period, which starts on April 1, couldn't be shorter.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-25_U63	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-25_U64	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you for this initiative. But the devil is often in the details and, in this case, these details are certainly linked to the registration of the place of residence. First of all, how reliable can the registration of a place of residence be considered at all? In Estonia, people sometimes have several residences and only one is registered. How many re-registrations do you have? Do you expect people to re-register to get that money? And do you consciously mean summer life for this period from April to October? In summer and winter, some people live in different places.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-25_U65	Thank you, good questioner! Indeed, during the development of this draft, a great deal was done by comparing data from the population register and real life. Both the register and the population trial census have found that not all Estonian residents have an actual residence equivalent to the registered residence. That's about 12% of people. This is a broader problem, which also concerns other issues from social services to municipal elections. The assumption is that you're enrolled in a place where you actually live, if that's not the case, you'll have questions. At the same time, it is known that municipalities are interested in having as many persons as possible who would receive income tax on their territory. This is particularly the case for the larger cities that are able to provide more services to the population. This often leads to a situation where, for example, the family lives somewhere near Tallinn in the municipality, but their grandmother or whoever lives in the city of Tallinn and they are all registered there. Now this family has to decide between themselves what the solution is. As I said in the introduction, we have taken into account that some people are beginning to change the data and to make themselves more suitable for these conditions. That's why we've foreseen that 5% growth buffer. What's going to be in real life, we'll see about that next year. In general, we assume that it is only because of this support that we are not going to reorganize our lives. Those people who are at this dignified age have certain principles and we expect the people of Estonia to be dignified and honest. At the same time, I also confirm here that we are certainly not going to send officials to the Social Insurance Board for raids on people's homes. They won't knock on doors and count clothes in people's lockers to determine who actually lives there. We rely on data in the population register and on data on the size of the individual's pension.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-25_U66	Viktor Vassilyev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-25_U67	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! This is a very good initiative. I wrote out a quote from your inflammatory speech, and it's like this: 'He still has to make sure that according to the population register, one person, himself, has been registered in his dwelling. ' Such a quote. That's a very clever idea! But those people who have survived revolutions, coups and wars here will come to that. I think there will be not 5% of these people, but much more. The question is how many pensioners receive under 1.2 times the average pension. How many are there in particular? What would be the worst thing if we could add 115 euros a year to all pensioners? In October of the coming year, most of them will lose it, and they will be mad at you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-25_U68	Thank you, good questioner! On the contrary, there are 95000 and a little more pensioners living alone, but those who meet the criteria that we have laid down in this bill are 85100. And we've taken into account the 5% increase when some people change their data. As regards who we have not included in this contingent, we have had a debate as to whether we must also take account of the special pensioners. For example, some former members of the Riigikogu receive a special pension for the first members of the Riigikogu, it is determined and the question arose whether they, if they live alone, should also receive a pensioner living alone or not. I don't think they should. They can handle their pension. A separate question is that the pensions of the repressed are also largely covered by this 1.2-fold average pension, but some do not. Some people have more years of repression. There will certainly be a debate in the Commission on whether to grant them an exception, because their pension may be higher than the average for this reason, not because they have worked in a special position for which they receive a special pension. They receive a higher pension because they were repressed. The Committee on Social Affairs could discuss this issue. We have not written this provision in the draft. But it wouldn't really cost a lot of extra money, there aren't many people. I hope that this debate will take place in the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-25_U69	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-25_U70	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! Excellent initiative, but there are a lot of questions. It has been said that there was no plan to develop, because it is urgent. But it was clear from the reports prepared by the European Union and our Ministry of Social Affairs 10 years ago that the problem of pensioners living in relative poverty and on their own is very acute. Why, now, ten years later, is an urgent bill coming up, trying to get a match for the individual female pensioners, like before the local elections next year? What's taking so long? You've been in power for a long time.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-25_U71	Thank you. I don't know how to comment on your line about female pensioners. We are talking about all people in Estonia, whether they are men or women. However, first of all, the coalition agreement was concluded after the previous elections and, very clearly, one objective was recorded as a specific date: the contribution of a single-living pensioner to a total amount of EUR 10 million will be established on 1 January 2017. In this sense, it is nothing unexpected. We have been working on the development and analysis of this system this year. As I said in my introductory speech, various options have been proposed, for example, for people to apply for it through local authorities, so that people's total incomes can be taken into account, etc. My decision as minister was finally that we put in place a system that does not offend the dignity of those people who, in general, are not going to receive very much support. They also don't have to shake hands and say thank you to anyone, just as you have to do in some municipalities when you get grants. They will be able to accept this support with dignity just before the heating season begins. Why hasn't it been done for ten or 20 years? I guess we've just gotten so far that we can also pay attention at national level to pensioners living alone. As the first person in the Riigikogu, you have an excellent opportunity to put the fact that you have supported this bill in your decision-making baggage.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-25_U72	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-25_U73	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, You said somehow that it was not only because of this support that your life would be reorganized. I also think that life will not be reorganized, but there will be some changes to who has registered in the population register. Someone gets kicked out, and somebody's going to be where no people have ever been before. You mentioned, in answer to the last question, the possibility that local authorities would administer the payment of this subsidy. Why did you give it up anyway? Then, according to my understanding, the paying agent would be closest to the recipient and the municipality would also know whether the person actually lives alone or not. Why such a centralization? The municipality could do that, couldn't it?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-25_U74	Thank you, good questioner! Municipalities have the right to pay all kinds of grants and some municipalities do so. Everything depends on the political decision and wallet of the municipality. For this support, we have EUR 10 million in money, which is a very large sum. But it has to be divided between the people who are now living alone, and there are about 100,000 of them. There is about 115 euros per year for each of them. If you divide it into 12 more months, it's a small amount. Obviously, the distribution of this money to so many, the assessment of everyone's situation and all this analysis would put a very heavy burden on the municipalities. It simply does not make sense in terms of public administration. Our analysis showed that, and I must admit, it was also my political decision, that we should rather take advantage of the information technology opportunities that the Estonian state currently has. We assume that our people, especially at this age, are decent people, they don't go into scams. And we're actually checking whether people live alone or not, judging by the data they provide. I think this is a very normal plan of action. Municipalities already have so many tasks. I will, for example, bring up a subject that this bill does not concern, and this is a need-based family allowance. In fact, it is currently only being used to the tune of EUR 4 million. The families affected by the shortage are passively seeking this because it has to be done at the same time as applying for income support in the municipality. In fact, there are many more families that need to have need-based family support, but people do not apply for it because it takes a lot of time, first because it takes a lot of time, second because it is too bureaucratic and, thirdly, it is a little bit at dignity. It may be a little embarrassing to go to the municipality to ask for such a relatively small amount of money. On this basis, my proposal, and the proposal of the Government of the Republic, is now to make a different system. I wouldn't call it centralized. Rather, the state has organised the matter in such a way that people's dignity is not violated and, at the same time, all those who meet these criteria, i.e. who live alone and receive a pension of less than 1.2 times the average pension, receive this allowance. I hope this will help in the autumn when you meet the heating season.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-25_U75	Laine Randjärv, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-25_U76	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! I have this question to broaden my horizons. If pensioners receive public income support, how will it be now? If this one-off allowance is added to their income per year, what will follow? Are any of you suddenly losing income support? Please just elaborate on this matter!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-25_U77	Thank you. This is a very relevant question, which I briefly explained in my introduction. We have based ourselves on the principle that we do not take into account the support of a single-living pensioner when we grant income support. Secondly, we do not take into account the other incomes of a person when paying the allowance for a single-living pensioner. For example, a person can work full-time or part-time. Let us be honest, the people we are talking about are roughly 70 to 75 years old, and if they can do something alongside their little pension, either knit socks or work somewhere in part, then it is our victory as a society that they are active. We should not be punished for this in any way. This one-time allowance, which is paid out in one month, does not count for income support. One month the person's income improves, but next month he or she should go back to applying for income support. So it doesn't make sense to take it into account when determining income support. We consider this to be a small amount of state aid to pensioners living alone who are going to meet a period of higher costs in the winter in October. It's been our idea. I'm taking this opportunity to tell you a story. This is the kind of black humour that applies to the Estonian state. A delegation from Germany came here a few years ago. They had come to explore what national measures Estonia was using to achieve such a high level of activity on the labour market for our pensioners. In well-being countries, it is a major problem that older people do not want to participate in active working life. There is a huge amount of money being spent to implement any measures in this regard. And then my answer was, just look at how big our pension is: if you would also pay your pensioners a monthly pension of EUR 390, for example, they would most likely be very active in the labour market. Indeed, Estonia is at the top of Europe precisely because of its active activity in the labour market of older people, not only because they are simply very energetic, but also because our social protection system is not nearly as generous as in any other country that has not suffered from the Soviet occupation. We should not in any way force people to pass through this system.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-25_U78	Viktor Vassilyev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-25_U79	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! You said something about retired people at work that if they can do anything with their pension, they're 70 years old. That, of course, was the way you pulled the hat on both US presidential candidates. But my question is how it fits in with your proposal to extend retirement to every 70 years. How do you think these people can work at 69, for example?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-25_U80	Thank you. With this bill, I am not proposing to raise the retirement age. However, I can say that, on Thursday, the entire pension system reform proposals will be renegotiated in the government office. What I see, rather, is that, in the form that we currently have the retirement age, it would disappear at all. It's like we've been decapitated that there's some age limit from which man is no longer able to work or can't work. A man should work as long as he wants and at all possible. And everyone should receive a pension according to how they decide to receive it. If he retires earlier, if he decides he wants to retire, then he should have the opportunity. His pension is just smaller. If he wants to work and collect more retirement money, he can stay home later. If he's healthy, he'll retire when he's 80. In the future, we will not see such a rigid retirement age limit, from which we must not continue to work, certainly in Estonian society. We have every active human being, no matter what age he is of great importance. If people are able to work at even part - time rates when they are older, it is excellent. But if they fail to do so, our social protection system must help them to cope with their dignity and they will manage. I don't agree with the assessment you gave me, good Viktor, that I feel bad about older people. On the contrary, I consider them to be very dignified. I have great respect for people who are active and manage, despite their high age, in their community, in the labour market or anywhere. These people are very, very important. But their main problem, which is sometimes mentioned in Tallinn Television in your excellent programmes, is in fact loneliness. The important thing is that if people were left alone for some reason, they wouldn't feel alone to have someone be with them.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-25_U81	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-25_U82	Thank you, good manager. Good minister! My question is why it is 115 euros. The programme was not known to be drawn up. Did this rate be set at EUR 10 million and distributed between 85100 pensioners living alone and received EUR 115? Or is it just taken out of the blue? Is there any justification that it is EUR 115, which is quite a large proportion of EUR 394 or the average pension?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-25_U83	Thank you. In fact, the analyses were carried out and the study was discussed. I don't know where you have this great belief in the plan of development and the love for it has come from. In the coalition negotiations, we were able to agree on an allocation of EUR 10 million, which is a very large amount of money. And this money is not a one-time thing, it's annual money. And secondly, this amount is calculated: if there are more of these people than we accounted for in the allocation of 10 million, then, after the adoption of the law, all those who meet the established criteria will still receive this support. Our analysis shows that we can handle 10 million. EUR 115 came from the fact that 10 million could be foreseen from the state budget and this target group is just as large. If more money is found for this in the future and the Riigikogu considers it possible to increase this support, it can do so. This is the competence of the Riigikogu. As I said in my introductory speech, every year this amount is confirmed by the state budget. This law has simply written down this ceiling.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-25_U84	Thank you very much, Minister for Social Protection. No further questions. Aivar Koka, Chairman of the Social Committee of the Speaking Chair of the Riigikogu, please now!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-25_U85	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, The Social Affairs Committee of the Riigikogu discussed this draft on 11 October. Ms Margus Tsahkna, Minister for Social Protection, Lidia Soontak, Head of the Social Security Department of the Ministry of Social Affairs and Hede Sinisaar, Head of the Analysis and Statistics Department of the same Ministry, were also invited to the meeting. The Minister presented to the Commission the draft Act amending the Social Welfare Act and the State Pension Insurance Act, which aims to establish the benefit of a pensioner living alone. Once a year, people who have reached retirement age and who have lived alone for at least six months before the grant is paid will receive the allowance. The amount of the grant is planned to be EUR 115 in 2017. Several members of the Commission asked different questions and received exhaustive answers. The Commission took four consensual decisions: to propose that the draft be put on the agenda for the plenary session by 25 October, to close the first reading and to set the deadline for the amendments at 5.15 p.m. on 3 November; it was decided to appoint a rapporteur. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-25_U86	Good waitress, thank you! There are no questions. I'm opening negotiations. I would like to ask for a chair of speech from Marika Tuus-Lauli, representative of the Estonian Centre Party Group.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-25_U87	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu and Honourable Minister, if you are still in the Chamber! It's not. The idea of paying support to a single-living pensioner is indeed very old and, in fact, the Centre Party originally issued it as a widow's pension. Siiri Oviir repeatedly spoke of this before the turn of the century. In recent years, our representative, Mikhail Stalnukhin, has come up with the draft widow's pension, even twice in the previous composition. But it is very good that next autumn we can talk about supporting a single pensioner. It's a good thing, but a lot of questions, as we've already learned. It is obvious that this EUR 115 per year is still a very small amount. A lot of people think it's so nice, so large a sum of six more, it really helps us. But it is not, it is a year after year, and a month will be less than 10 euros, or 9,6 euros. By comparison, the average retirement pension of EUR 391,4 currently costs almost EUR 70 for the purchase of basic foodstuffs alone. So it is clear that the poorest of us are pensioners living alone over 60 years of age. Alone pensioners live in relative poverty, as has already been mentioned, at 73.8%. At the same time, however, there are a very large number of the poor among pensioners who are not living alone. Of these, 40.1% live below the limit of relative poverty, and that is quite a lot. Even special pensioners appointed by the Minister from the first formations of the Riigikogu cannot increase this percentage in any way, so this was a beautiful demagogic example. I believe that these people too must not be forgotten, and certainly the Centre Party Group is proposing to grant support to all pensioners in order to amend the bill. In addition to the good news, the impression is that no matter how small the extra amount is, in the election year, something needs to be done to the pensioners and to come up with something for them. The first support will come, as we have heard, on 1 October. The election's two weeks later, October 15th. How much can we talk about supporting pensioners living alone? Reality arrives later. There is a proposal here, and this is the example of the city of Tallinn. The capital pays its pensioners an annual pension supplement of 76.70. Of course, there are also a number of benefits to ensure services, goods and medicine for pensioners to support their daily livelihood. The draft grant for a live-in pensioner is intended to pay money in October, while the city of Tallinn does so on the person's birthday month. Thus, the administrative burden in one month is not very high for all at the same time. Hence our proposal to amend the bill so that the support is paid out to people on their birthday month. It also leads to thinking that the beneficiary must live alone at least six months before the grant is paid out. However, there are many cases in which the grandson resides and is registered with his grandmother during his studies, or there is an unemployed son with his mother who is also supported by his mother for his small pension. These people will be deprived of this small pension supplement, this EUR 9 allowance. Seems unfair. But the draft has not yet become a law, and we can make our proposals, which the Central Party Group will certainly do. Nevertheless, this is a good initiative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-25_U88	Thank you very much. And now the speech of Andres Herkel, representative of the Estonian Free Party Group. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-25_U89	Mr President! I do not quite understand what the political idea of Minister Tsahkna is: either to cut pension costs by raising the retirement age or to increase them by adding a small amount of support. It's like I want to go in two directions at once, but I really can't. It's not a good situation. However, as regards the registration of residence or the registration according to the old-fashioned term, we are of the opinion that one day Estonia could also move in the direction that a person can register two residences. It's often the way people live. It's not like we're gonna get over this hypocrisy. But whether or not there is some kind of support being taken, it is probably not appropriate for us to introduce a system such as that in some Western European country where the police are going to and investigate whether a person actually lives in the place where he is registered. It doesn't make sense. I also think that the Free Party Group itself has to table amendments to this draft, which contains a positive initiative. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-25_U90	Thank you. I would now like to ask Mr Heljo Pikhof, representative of the Social Democratic Party, to the Riigikogu Chair.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-25_U91	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good fellows! A large part of the left-on old-age pensioners live in higher poverty and risk of poverty among other groups, and their share has grown most rapidly in recent years. In most cases, the monthly income of old-age pensioners ranges from EUR 320 to EUR 400. Living alone must be enough for both housing and essential goods, both for food and medicines, for everything else. And roll every penny between your fingers as carefully as you can, there's gonna be an unexpected problem that's gonna cost money to settle. But there's nowhere to take it. For many years, the Social Democrats have stood for the poverty reduction of children and families with children, and for greater well-being. As a result of the recent measures, their situation has improved somewhat, so that pensioners living alone go through them much more narrowly. The net income of families with children was, until recently, according to official data, more than 450 euros per household member per month, while the monthly net income of people aged 65 and over was less than 400 euros during the same period. Of course, it is statistics; examples of life itself can tell other things. But from the point of view of generalisations, Estonia has just received international recognition for improving the well-being of children and families. It was based on social performance indicators as well as other measures aimed at children and families. And social policy can also be shaped from the point of view of generalisations. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! It is high time to give, even with a fingertip, support to people who are approaching the other end of the life cycle. We have already agreed on this by forming a government union, which stands for our action programme on social protection. The support scheme to improve the livelihood of living pensioners was approved by the government last summer and it is now hoped that the necessary changes to the Social Welfare Act and to the Pension Insurance Act will soon be completed. The Social Democrats are pleased that in the end the draft of the Riigikogu's grand hall, which aims to grant EUR 115 per year from October 2017 onwards to those old-age pensioners living alone whose pension is less than EUR 470 from April to September of the current financial year. Recipients, as the Minister for Social Protection said, do not have to apply for a pensioner, which is determined by the Social Insurance Board. It is estimated that 86000 people are expected to receive pensioner benefits. If a pensioner is employed, his or her salary allowance is not taken into account, as are the other benefits he or she receives. The Social Democrats feel it is right that the state promotes employment, including part-time work in retirement. As time goes on, the fewer people in Estonia are employed and, of course, the income from work at retirement age is quite limited. In more than half of the cases, it is less than EUR 301 per month. This is somewhat influenced by the fact that, as age increases, the proportion of women in individual pensioners increases and that women of all ages earn less than men. Of course, once a year, the pensioner's allowance does not remove from the house, but the old people already knew that a better sparrow in the hand than a dove on the roof. I think it is very important not only to support old-age pensioners in Tallinn. We have old-age pensioners living all over Estonia, and all of them must be protected. Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-25_U92	Please, eight minutes in total!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-25_U93	At the same time, I would also like to say that it is certainly not the solution to raising the retirement age here. Rather, when we talk about pension reform, we need to think about how to make the retirement age flexible. A flexible retirement age allows a person to decide when he or she wants to retire when he or she reaches a certain age. In other words, the longer a person goes to work, the bigger his pension will be. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-25_U94	Thank you. I ask Jaak Madison, Member of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia, to the Riigikogu Chair!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-25_U95	Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, The Conservative People's Party undoubtedly supports this initiative. This is a very grateful course of action to improve the well-being of people belonging to the group of major risk factors in Estonia to some extent. When we talk about coping, especially for pensioners living alone and, in particular, for old people living outside of Tallinn, it must be acknowledged that this is unfortunately difficult. As regards the criticism of the previous speakers of this initiative, they are partly right. When the law enters into force and the first payments come in October 2017, it is very similar to the situation when the personal income tax was lowered by 1% three months before the Riigikogu elections. It was then promoted for three months as a very big victory for working people, although the median wage recipient earned about 3 euros more per month. In reality, it did not improve the livelihood of any person, but it cost the state EUR 75 million a year. Perhaps the same situation should be avoided in the run-up to next year's local elections, when there is a risk that some parties will go down the path of political populism and claim that we have helped a very large number of people out of the poverty group, that is purely our job, and now the local elections should take this into account. This commendable draft should therefore be adjusted after the first reading in order to rule out solutions that do not honour this good initiative. Similarly, the Minister for Social Protection needs to move forward with other reforms, as helping people in the poverty group cannot be a one-off payment of EUR 115 per year alone. We'll have to look beyond that. About a month ago, Margus Tsahkna came up with proposals to improve the current system. One aspect of which very little was said in the public domain, but this was done, was the calculation of pensionable age depending on the number of years worked, i.e. its decoupling from the amount of social tax. I think this is also a reform that the Ministry will definitely have to do soon. One topic is the so-called widow's pension, which other political parties have spoken about in addition to the Conservative People's Party. This, too, is a plan that must be implemented. The main position of the Conservative People's Party is that it is a very good initiative and that it must be supported. However, like other political parties, we are certainly going to make amendments so that the draft can be even better and that the risk of using it in the political struggle before the municipal elections disappears. We also stress that the Minister must move forward with other reforms in order to make it even more easier for people at the highest risk to cope. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-25_U96	Thank you. I now ask for the Speaking Chair of the Riigikogu, representative of the Group of the Isamaa and Res Publica Union, Aivar Koka!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-25_U97	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, I listened to the reports from the political groups. It started with who was the first to come up with such a good idea. I can't tell you who was first, but maybe it was like someone was already talking about it in the last century. I know that when Res Publica first came to the Riigikogu, they talked about it. But I also know for a fact that I talked about this in the previous local elections, and after that, the Centre Party came out with its draft here in the Riigikogu. I do not think that this should be declared a specific victory or initiative of anyone. It is important that we find a consensus in this Chamber and see that one group, or pensioners living alone, is currently in the most difficult situation. I believe that it is the task of the state to monitor where the shoe squeezes most and who needs to be supported most. As several previous speakers have said, it is for pensioners living alone that the relative poverty rate is the highest of 74%. That is why a draft law has been initiated to support them. They asked why it was only now presented. There's nothing to do. The coalition agreement was signed a year and a half ago, and fortunately the coalition partners agreed with our proposal to support individual pensioners. Is 115 euros enough? Absolutely not. However, account must also be taken of the impact this measure will have on the state budget. At the moment, we were in the power to negotiate EUR 10 million, and that is how this agreement came about. I hope that in the next month the Riigikogu will make this draft a law. Are there any things that could be better in the bill? I'm sure it is. Proposals from all members of the Riigikogu are welcome and are analysed by the Commission. Good proposals will certainly be included in the draft. It has also been said here that Tallinn pays subsidies to pensioners during their birthday month and why the state could not do so either. The difference is that Tallinn pays from the municipal budget and the capital initially had a plan to pay everyone at the same time when they came out with their pensioner's allowance. But the city's budget wouldn't have put up with it, and that's how the payments were distributed to 12 months. However, it is more convenient for the Social Insurance Institution to make a payment to everyone at once, so you do not have to deal with it every month. Whether the payment date is 1 September, 1 October or 1 November is not, in my opinion, very important. If this is a major problem for anyone, it can be discussed peacefully in the Commission. But the point is, before winter, the situation of pensioners is the most difficult, as the heating season begins. Whether we admit it or not, the heating costs hit our people's wallet the hardest. The draft therefore proposes to pay out this support in the autumn. And six months could be the period during which it would be monitored whether people really live alone. On 1 April, the average amount of old-age pension, multiplied by 1,2, shall be reported on the basis of annual statistics. Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-25_U98	Sure. Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-25_U99	If you count six months from April 1, that's how October 1st received the letter. I think the bill is good. When it comes to pensions in general, including widow's pensions, this is one of the hottest issues in the coming months and next year. We need to look at the situation where we are now at the level of the number of people working and the number of pensioners. There has already been a 70-year-old here, but I can comfort you that such an increase in retirement age will certainly not be tolerated by Estonian society in the same way, and it will not be necessary on the other hand. Even the most pessimistic projections suggest that the retirement age could have risen to 67 by 2050, not more. After 2026 it could rise by one month each year, then pensions would come out of our social tax freely and worries would not increase. As for the widow's pension, I'll give you an idea. Perhaps the simple solution would be that if my husband and I both earned a pension, when we retire, we add our pensions together and divide them into two, so we both get equal shares. Then there won't be a situation where no one is missing anything. Life has shown that men in general work constantly from morning to evening, while women play a role in raising children in the meantime. I think we should keep and appreciate our wives more. I wouldn't mind a part of my pension being transferred to a husband whose pension is calculated on the basis of his salary, which is now less than mine. Maybe that would be one solution. I would like to thank all those who are involved, and as chairman of the committee, I look forward to good proposals.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-25_U100	Thank you, representative of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union. No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. The commission has proposed that the first reading of the 300 draft be completed. I will set the deadline for submitting amendments, including 3 November at 5.15 p.m. The first reading is closed and the second item is also closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-25_U101	We move on to the third item, which is the first reading of draft 271 of the Riigikogu decision "Proposal for the Government of the Republic" submitted by the Group of the Estonian Free Party. Please present a speech chair to the member of the Riigikogu Artur Talvik!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-25_U102	Good President! Ladies and gentlemen, I will be here in front of you at a great moment when a prize is awarded to a farmer of the year in the conference hall of our house. It is our wish to award an award to an Estonian farmer, and this is the kind of prize that will help him come out of a pretty deep crisis. But before I go to the specific draft decision, I would like to point out that the Committee on Rural Affairs recently commissioned a study under the leadership of Ivari Padar, comparing the competitiveness of the Estonian dairy and pig sector with that of Latvian, Lithuanian and Polish farmers. It's a very interesting research. I like that it's done very honestly. It has not become a confirmation of the coalition's arguments or any other justification for the steps taken by the coalition in the field of agriculture. If you stick your nose in this research, you can draw a lot of conclusions about the welfare of agriculture. The comparative tables drawn up show the various risk factors that exist in agriculture in Estonia and the fact that our decisions have not been the most accurate ones. For example, Estonian farmers have made very strong investments, but compared to these three countries, our farmers suffer the greatest debt burden. Investments have been made at the cost of bank loans, which means that in the event of crises, the possibility of their collapse is greatest. This study also leads to the conclusion that, unlike these three countries, Estonia has decided to choose a very clear target for intensive farming, which is a risk factor. But there are other risk factors, up to security: for example, risks to the environment and threats to crises. Unfortunately, our agricultural businesses can no longer be called farms. They can close their doors very quickly. The research is trying to chew through the huge pile of subsidies that agriculture has. These grants are of a special nature. But what is particularly important: Estonia's own contribution to all kinds of grants is significantly smaller than that of neighbouring countries. If the whole of agriculture is living on the system of payments, and here I personally believe that this system of payments is not the most appropriate system, it has gone too far across Europe, then it is obvious that if Estonia pays less to farmers as its contribution than neighbouring countries, then our farmers will be in worse competitive conditions. The policy recommendations of this study are that Estonia should pay or even pay the transitional allowances for which we are entitled. Estonia has not exercised this right. On the positive side, it can be said that Estonia has probably traded more emergency aid from the European Union than any of the other countries mentioned above. At the same time, all these countries have made maximum use of the opportunity to support themselves in the case of crisis assistance. In the case of crisis aid, the state can contribute 50%, i.e. the same amount as the European Union has contributed. The Estonian dairy and pig sector has been in a very serious crisis for the last two years. The reasons are different. In milking, the quota system was abolished, effective Russian sanctions, i.e. the Russian market disappeared, and export refunds are no longer available. Due to these conditions of competition, overproduction of milk is high, and as Estonia used a lot of Russian markets in the past, our situation has become much worse. In pig farming, as we all know, the African swine fever is the main cause of the crisis, precisely because of this, pig farming is in a very difficult situation. In view of all this, the Free Party Group considers that Estonia should make maximum use of the opportunities to support its own, to keep its own competitive. At the same time, in our opinion, Estonia should ensure that we do not allow intensive farming to flourish and medium- and small-sized livestock farms to be eaten out of the market with our subsidies. This study, which I was talking about, shows that Latvia, Lithuania and Poland have such a political view that they must be supported, very rooted and sought at national level all kinds of opportunities for maximum support and for their farmers to compete in better conditions. The purpose of our draft decision is to propose to the Government of the Republic that emergency support be paid to the agricultural sectors in the crisis in 2016. The idea is to pay these grants from an additional budget. And how would we do that? In the dairy sector, according to the agricultural accounting database, or FADN, the milk produced in Estonia has been sold seven cents below the cost price for more than a year. It should be stated that as of today, this figure has changed slightly, minus maybe five cents below the cost price, because the buying-in price of milk has risen slightly. But there's no sign of a rapid rise in the sun. In order to save milk production, the European Union has provided for an exceptional possibility of paying up to EUR 15000 of exceptional State aid per undertaking. In order to do so, the state budget needs to provide for the necessary amount of money of €7.5 million. The calculation is based on the above mentioned analysis of the FADN and the limitation that the aid may not be granted for more than EUR 15000 per undertaking. The payment of the aid should be paid to milk producers in accordance with the quantity of milk produced by the producer during this year. The aid would be EUR 0,07 per litre but not more than EUR 15000 per producer. There are still some 1800 dairy farmers in the sector. The purpose of the payment is to maintain distributed milk production, i.e. to preserve as many milk producers as possible, who would in future constitute the milk production potential of Estonia and guarantee the food security of Estonia. This payment scheme would also be justified by the fact that the number of dairy herds has fallen, in particular as a result of the eradication of dairy herds up to 50 head. In 2005, we had up to 50 head dairy herds under performance control, i.e. dairy farms and small businesses in 1707. Now this number has fallen to 379, or the decrease is 4.5 times. There have been no significant changes in the number of herds in larger size groups. In the case of the aid scheme proposed, the first 30 cows in each dairy herd would be eligible for aid. As far as the pig sector is concerned, according to FADN, raising each pig to the producer resulted in a loss of EUR 65. The number of pig herds has also decreased. It is estimated that EUR 800000 would be needed from the state budget to pay State aid to the pig sector. In total, we are talking about EUR 8.3 million. In the meantime, the government has proposed that EUR 3 million could be paid to farmers, albeit from this year's budget, but that it would be paid out over a very long period. I guess it's not until next fall that farmers can get that money. Our aim is that even if a compromise solution is found to take this 3 million out of that 8.3 million, this 5.3 million could be the money that will be paid out as soon as possible, so that the competitive situation will improve a little bit, and we can do as much as possible to protect our farmers. At this point, I will conclude the presentation of this draft decision. I very much hope that this will also be understood by the side of the coalition, and I very much hope that our legislators will have no difference as to whether the coalition or the opposition will understand that it is the farmer that we must support. Examples of neighboring countries show that they are looking for all sorts of ways to help their farmers. It is necessary to support and to do so in such a way that they do not fall out of competition. Thank you for your attention and I very much hope that you will support this draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-25_U103	Honourable Riigikogu! One moment, Artur Talvik, the manager has not allowed you to leave. I would like to remind you that the Home and Rules of Procedure Act allows questions to be asked to the rapporteur. I also recall that since this is a draft decision containing a proposal for the Government of the Republic, members of the Riigikogu have the opportunity to ask each of the two rapporteurs a question. First of all, questions to the initiator of the draft. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-25_U104	Thank you. Good waitress, this 8.3 million crisis aid comes from your work up to EUR 15000 per company, I understand. We're talking about cattle keepers.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-25_U105	It's not like that. We would also pay more if we could, but there are European regulations. That's basically the maximum you can pay today and now. In short, there are very many grants, as the questioner himself knows. In the case of certain crisis aid, when money comes from Europe, the country can be placed on the other side, etc. But in this case, we were wondering what the best way to pay it would be. For example, the decision on transitional support should have been taken much earlier and should have been confirmed in the European Union. You can't do this in such a hurry. According to our data, that's the maximum we can pay right now. And here, too, there is a small risk that some companies have already taken advantage of their state aid. We have not received precise records of this from the Ministry.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-25_U106	Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-25_U107	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! I think it is necessary to clarify that the government is selling us the same amount here from last year. Actually, it hasn't been paid out so far. It's been in this year's budget, though, next year's budget. Is that 8.1 million, right?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-25_U108	Three.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-25_U109	Three, yes, sorry! Is the 8.3 million that is now going to be paid out the same amount that the government is selling to us for the third time, or is it an extra sum?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-25_U110	That is why I recommend that you read this study, that there is a very thorough explanation of the different support systems and also how much the state can pay for the various grants. For example, in the case of crisis aid, which came from the European Union, we paid some amount, which was not the maximum that could be paid. But that is a good question in the sense that when it comes to subsidies, we have to say very precisely what kind of support it is. We are proposing the kind of support that the country can pay now and quickly without using all kinds of eurobureaucratic tricks. Here's the difference. For example, when the Government of the Republic talks about crisis aid, this is the help that the European Commission gives to Estonia and to which Estonia puts its share. I would like to stress once again that so far the Estonian state has not allocated to farmers the maximum he should have added. When it comes to transitional support, we should have agreed this amount with the European Commission last year, it would have been in this year's budget and allocated according to the rules. So that's not the sum. What overlaps here is the proposal made by the government for this year's additional budget: they say that 3 million could be given to farmers. I have already said that this 3 million can be deducted from this 8.3 million, i.e. in our case it would be 5.3 million more.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-25_U111	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-25_U112	President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, The initiative that the Free Party has brought to this Chamber is commendable and undoubtedly very topical and appropriate to the economic situation. The position of our group is that this proposal must be supported. However, as my good colleague and colleague Jaak Madison stressed on the previous issue, the initiative to ease the lives of pensioners is a step in the right direction, but these steps must be continued. I would also like to stress in this proposal that this is a step in the right direction, but there should be more of it. We should shape all our agricultural and rural policies much more systematically. We should look at how we have the buying-in system, how we have the state's aid to find new markets, how we have relations between producers and processors, etc. The picture is actually panoramic and all these links are very strongly and often determinatively linked. So we will definitely support this step, but let's put it on the heart so that it doesn't remain the only and some separate step. It is clear to everyone that these subsidies will alleviate the situation, but they will not save Estonian agriculture from the crisis it has come to. We are currently allowing a little grace period, but in fact agriculture needs much more fundamental restructuring. Of course, the coalition says there's no money. The coalition will never have money to support opposition proposals. That's what we've seen here many times. But there's always money. I haven't run out of money, like my mom used to say when someone complained I didn't have any money for this thing. Money is always money: money is in the banks, money is in the budget, money is in the state government reserve fund. It is a question of priorities; it is a question of what we consider to be important. And if the reason for rejecting all the proposals is the lack of money, then we are there, that I suggest you all read the article by young diplomat Mikael Laidre on diplomacy. It analyses the essence of the European Union and says that the European Union has become a set of soulless homo economics that value all things only by financial standards. Our specific government here in Estonia is one of the most soulless homo economics I have ever seen. It is no wonder that all rejections are based solely on hand-breathing, but there is no money. If you don't have the money, you have to make the money. And making money, I can tell you on my life experience, is, frankly, a relatively simple thing to do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-25_U113	Thank you. There's no more calls. The Conservative People's Party Group and the Group of the Estonian Conservative People's Party used their right to speak in the negotiations. The proposal of the commission is to put the draft to a final vote on 271. No amendments were tabled. Let's go to the final vote. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the draft of the Riigikogu's decision to propose to the Government of the Republic presented by the Group of the Estonian Free Party 271. Please take a stand and vote. Ow, ow, ow! I shall cancel the vote. I'm sorry! Honourable Riigikogu, since the draft decision requires a majority of the Riigikogu's membership for adoption, please let us check the presence of the Riigikogu! 42 members of the Riigikogu are present at the plenary session. Honourable Riigikogu, I vote on the draft decision of the Riigikogu submitted by the Group of the Estonian Free Party "Proposal for the Government of the Republic" 271... I won't vote. Mikhail Stalnukhin, procedural question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-25_U114	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. I've been haunted by a question that has something to do with our rule. Indeed, there must be at least 51 people in the Chamber voting on certain drafts, and then there will be a check on the presence before the vote. We checked, there are currently 42 members of the Riigikogu in the hall. There should now be two options: whether there is no need to check the presence and vote on any number of members of the Riigikogu, or if the presence has been checked and it has become apparent that there are fewer than 51 delegates, then there will be no vote. Why vote when it is known in advance that this number of votes will not come together? What does that make sense?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-25_U115	Now I have this problem that, since Kalle Laanet is not in the Chamber, perhaps Jüri Adams, Vice-President of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, will answer me whether the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has decided to authorise Peeter Ernitsa to speak on behalf of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs during the debate on this item.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-25_U116	Logic is very simple, Honourable Mikhail Stalnukhin! 42 members of the Riigikogu may also be appointed to be present when 101 members of the Riigikogu sit in the hall. So the vote must be taken in any case. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the draft of the Riigikogu's decision to propose to the Government of the Republic presented by the Group of the Estonian Free Party 271. Please take a stand and vote. There were 32 members of the Riigikogu in favour of adopting the draft decision, no respondents or abstentions. The draft decision did not reach the necessary majority for adoption. The decision will not be taken.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-25_U117	Director's intermission three minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-25_U118	Something went wrong. I can't answer that. Perhaps Mr President will set a short break so that we can discuss it?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-25_U119	Honourable Riigikogu! Representatives of the political groups and committees shall have the right to speak during the discussion of this draft. Both leaders of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs assured me that the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has not given Peeter Ernits the task of speaking here. Mart Helme, please, on behalf of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia Group!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-25_U120	Thank you, manager. Dear waitress, We have been talking about fair competition here in the Riigikogu for years. We have stressed, among other things, how much support we have for our neighbours. Finally, we also received a study that confirms what we are saying. The consequences are sad. A total of 11,000 dairy cows have already left the herd, and the number of pigs killed we can't even tell you, there are tens of thousands, if not hundreds of thousands. You said you hoped the coalition would understand that. What is it about, Arthur, your optimism?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-25_U121	I want to highlight one thing that is very good. Reading this study shows how strong it is for Latvians, Lithuanians and Poles to protect their own, to stand up for their own, to fight for their own. We have this will, for some reason, between a coalition with a border divided between the opposition and the coalition, and that is very bad. That is why I hope in my idealism that one day it will be understood that the farmer is ours and we must stand up for him, to protect him together. There must be no coalition and opposition border; here there are just Estonian fields and animals.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-25_U122	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-25_U123	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable waitress! Is there a word to mark the situation in which other countries around them earmark domestic subsidies for certain sectors or protect them by other means, but we do not? This is not just about agriculture, it is also about maritime affairs and accommodation. Can the waitress say one word that stands for this situation, or should a new lyric be arranged? This is a permanent problem.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-25_U124	A good word is 'tölplus', for example. I don't know if it's okay, but you could call it stupid. And this situation just makes me sad. We may be looking for all kinds of words about it, but yes, there are examples of sectors being let go and they say that they should go their own way. The end result is that indeed, sailors have registered to work somewhere in Latvia, doctors have gone to Finland and cows, I don't know, sold to Poles. That's sad.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-25_U125	Siret Eagle, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-25_U126	Thank you, good Chairman of the Riigikogu! Dear Artur Talvik! I think any help for farmers is welcome. My question concerns the pigmeat sector. You have proposed that the first 260 animals in each flock should receive support. How do you define these 260 animals? Are they sows, or are they piglets, or how have you considered it?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-25_U127	I don't remember what the number of sows is. Can you tell? No, I can't. However, the principle is, in any case, that we also support a medium-sized herd with this support. However, I am now indebted to the answer as to whether we only counted the sows or the whole herd. But the principle that we have always emphasised, bearing in mind what is wrong with agriculture in Estonia, is that the purpose of paying all kinds of subsidies must be that the average shepherd in Estonia should not disappear, so that production does not concentrate in large herds. I have already mentioned that this would be, on the one hand, a high security risk and a risk in terms of diseases. That's the principle we're watching.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-25_U128	Thank you, Artur Talvik! As the chair of the sitting, I reminded the members of the Riigikogu that it was possible to ask a question to either of the rapporteurs, I believe that Peeter Ernits has already registered for the next round of questions. So the Commission's waitress, Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-25_U129	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, The Committee on Finance discussed the draft on 17 October. No amendments were received by the deadline of 4 July at 4 p.m. As a representative of the initiators, Artur Talvik, a member of the Estonian Free Party Group, introduced the draft, who just appeared before you. Mai Talvik, Head of the Agricultural Market Management Department of the Ministry of Rural Affairs, also attended the meeting and answered our questions. Now for the substance of the bill. The purpose of the draft is to propose to the government the urgent initiation of this year's State Budget Act Amendment Act, which would decide to grant emergency aid to dairy and pigmeat producers in serious difficulties in the current year, amounting to EUR 8.3 million. For more information, the Riigikogu has opened a draft Act 296 amending the 2016 State Budget Act, according to which 3 million euros of emergency aid is allocated to farmers in the area of government of the Ministry of Rural Affairs. The additional resources allocated will be allocated to our farmers in addition to the European Union's emergency assistance in the agricultural sector to alleviate the crisis. The implementation of emergency assistance can be decided by the Member State itself. In this respect, priority areas in Estonia are the dairy and pigmeat sectors affected by the crisis. In order to ensure the full utilisation of the allocated amounts, a carry-over of expenditure shall also be authorised. And now from the issues and questions raised in the Commission. What sources are being used to find these resources? There was a proposal to take them from the government reserve. The question was also that the European Commission provided Estonia with an emergency adaptation grant of 8.08 million euros, which could be used for co-financing. The 2016 budget is 4.6 million and the additional budget is 3 million; the disbursement of these amounts should be on the same basis as the payment of the European Union contribution. In the first months of 2017, it will be possible to pay out this money, so at least it was stated in the Commission. By 30 November, the European Commission should be provided with documentation on the basis of which the Estonian state will pay out these subsidies. EUR 15000 is the de minimis threshold. The Commission was also talking about what this whole situation has come about, especially because of the unexpected Russian crisis. Mai Talvik, Head of the Agricultural Market Management Department of the Ministry of Rural Affairs, explained that extraordinary payments are based on a regulation. Negotiations have started with representatives of producers to whom and how much to pay. Payments will start in the first months of next year. There was also an interest in having a cooperative form of business that would enable producers to obtain a fairer price and find new markets. It was asked whether the number of undertakings exceeding the threshold of EUR 15000 was known. Member of the Commission Andres Ammas pointed out that the draft had been handed over on 16 June, but the debate was only ongoing now that four months had passed. It would certainly have been more appropriate to proceed more quickly. The Commission took the following consensual decisions: to place the draft on the agenda by Tuesday, 25 October 2016 and to put it to a final vote. A majority of the composition of the Riigikogu is required for the adoption of the decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-25_U130	Questions for the Commission's rapporteur. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-25_U131	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! I wanted to ask Arthur, but I have to ask you. What did the government say about that? Can they find eight million or less in this year's wallet?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-25_U132	Thank you. This question also sounded in the Commission. The government's position was that 8 million in the government reserve could not be found and that there would be an amount that had been put out: it would be 3 million. Unfortunately, the farmer doesn't get the money he was hoping for.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-25_U133	Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-25_U134	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear waitress, I understood from the two presentations that this whole debate went quite positively on the Commission and that everyone in the soul feels sorry for Estonian farmers. Do you think the coalition will show its sympathy by voting in favour here? What are you forecasting, are we gonna get at least 51 votes tonight?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-25_U135	Thank you. We did not discuss this forecast in the Commission. But knowing that the government is very business-friendly and should guarantee our entrepreneurs equal competitiveness with others, I hope that the draft decision of the Free Party will go through and farmers will receive even some kind of support. With this help, it is extremely urgent, it is no longer possible to stall. We know how many dairy cows have already gone out of the herd and how many pigs there are less, so it is really very urgent. I hope that the government will take all the necessary steps to ensure that the farmer receives his support quickly, even if it does so.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-25_U136	Thank you, Commission waitress, Vice-President of the Monetary Commission Tarmo Tamm. I'm opening negotiations. On behalf of the Group of the Siret Eagle Centre Party, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-25_U137	Good chairman of the sitting! Ladies and gentlemen, There is a very clear crisis in Estonian agriculture and Estonian agriculture needs help. It's a fact you can't hide. As early as the second autumn, farmers gathered at Toompea for a great demonstration that their difficult situation would eventually reach the Government of the Republic. Amazingly, this knowledge has reached out to almost all opposition representatives, the media and also ordinary citizens, but the government continues its path numbly and denies the crisis. By hiding our heads in the sand from the problem, however, we deepen our concerns. Let's take a look at the facts. Our farmers have been struck by one blow after another. African swine fever has been rampant in Estonia for several years and the situation is getting worse. The plague is occupying new areas, and the third zone continues to expand, which is why Estonian pig farmers are forced to give up their pork halfway. Pig farming was only recently a very profitable business, which also provided essential jobs in the country, but now the industry is almost nonexistent. The second is our dairy sector, where farmers who operate are particularly affected by political games. The ban on imports into Russia and other sanctions have led to the price of milk at a level where farms are no longer able to make ends meet. We are very close to a situation that was more than ten years ago when, also due to the Russian crisis, farmers were forced to simply carry more than 30,000 dairy cows to a slaughterhouse. This was also symbolized by the demonstration in September, when the 10,000 milk bottles placed before the Riigikogu were like tombstones for our cows and, more generally, for the whole agriculture. Ensuring domestic food is a matter of national security. If this continues, it is no longer time for Estonian milk and meat to become a deficit, and instead of tended fields, the tacja fields will prevail. The Centre Party Group supports the draft decision initiated by the Free Party, which provides for emergency aid to be paid to the dairy and pigmeat sectors in difficulty. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-25_U138	The next item is the first reading of the Bill 273 on Supplementing to the Administrative Reform Act initiated by the Members of the Riigikogu, Jüri Adams, Monika Haukanõmme, Krista Aru, Andres Herkel, Ain Lutsep and Külliki Kübarsper. The waitress for the initiators is Jüri Adams. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-25_U139	Mr President of the sitting! I have a serious suspicion that I will not be able to complete my report within the time remaining. But today is a remarkable day, in the sense that we have just seen very rarely used to use it, I do not remember whether it has been the tactics of governing the Riigikogu during the composition of this Riigikogu. So at least there's been a certain novelty charm today. The text of the proposed draft text is extremely short and it can be said that the same idea can be expressed in very many ways, in shorter and longer terms, but background problems are wider if this one sentence reflects. I would like to talk about the following issues right now. First of all, I am talking about the administrative reform law adopted in spring, how it turned out and what is happening to him now. Then I want to talk about Petseri County and Setus. Finally, I would like to make some suggestions on how we can proceed in this situation. As far as the Administrative Reform Act is concerned, however, it is necessary to start with the concept that the new word 'jokk' stands for in Estonia, i.e. everything is legally correct. This term came into use in other contexts, but it is not inappropriate to transfer to today's subject. In fact, we have a wide range of people claiming, from the Minister of Reform to certain journalists, that it is absolutely right, that the law on administrative reform was passed in the Riigikogu. When we start looking at this thing, it's actually one of those jock-fiction. Although this bill formally passed all three reading stages, it did not work in the Riigikogu. There was no discussion of this either. As a member of the Riigikogu, I am extremely embarrassed when, in some circumstances, it is said that I have participated in the adoption of this law. As a member of the opposition, I have not participated in this. But it doesn't matter now. The members of the opposition often fall short, either because of their positions or because of the number of votes. When we were brought here in early spring, this bill did not, in essence, take place after this procedure, it was accepted as a rubber stamp. No substantive amendments were taken into account. This is regrettable, as a number of our positions and those of the other opposition groups would probably have made sense to include them in the law. However, the bigger problem is that the tactics of the government coalition had come from the helpers of Arto Asa to stamp the text of the draft as a law, without giving the members of the government coalition the opportunity to have a deeper discussion. Since I am also a member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, I was saddened, in a sense, to see how the individual members of the government coalition fulfilled their fundamental duty as a member of the Riigikogu, namely, trying to do their best to make the law better, but the rest of the government coalition told them that it didn't make sense, we won't even let you bring the amendments to the hall. Mark Soosaar, a prominent member of the Riigikogu, was, of course, whose interests relate mainly to the problems of West Estonia and islands. There are quite a number of administrative reform issues. But perhaps even more frustrating than putting a muzzle on their members and removing the right to make proposals from them was the fact that most of the government coalition had become clear instructions to keep quiet. You may take a salary, but you must not protest in any public way. And we're not gonna take you into the bill procedure because it's all been decided somewhere else. After that, there has been a major turn of events, and I will date at that moment when 26 parishes turned to the Supreme Court on the question of compliance with the constitution of several parts of this law. I am not quite sure who initiated it, perhaps, that it was Chancellor Madise and who first said that the text adopted in spring should be read in a completely different way, as long as everyone has read it. Indeed, the combination of several sections does not have the same effect as the legislative text, but the Government of the Republic has the right to make any reasonable proposals at a later stage of compulsory mergers that come to mind with this reform. The last time we discussed the same draft in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs in preparation for today's agenda, the officials of the Minister for Reform expressed the same idea to us that they would understand in this way that what is in the text of the law, of course, is my wording, they did not say this, are in principle not very important. What matters is which final decisions are taken by the Government of the Republic. It doesn't make anything worse, but it doesn't make much better. The laws of a democratic state should be such that every citizen, not to mention the local government officials involved, knows what opportunities and obligations he will have in the future. When it came specifically to the topic of Setumaa, people from both Värska and Mikitamäe told me that they had been put in a completely impossible situation in the light of such a 'new' interpretation. They fear that if the Government of the Republic makes a reasonable proposal during the final phase of the administrative reform to merge the rural municipalities of Setumaa, these municipalities would no longer receive the support of voluntary accession from the state under the law in force. Leaders cannot imagine how they can look the people in the eye in such a situation, since everyone considers that this money is very important for the further development of their municipalities. That's the kind of thing. I think that this 'number two' understanding of the fundamental possibilities of the Administrative Reform Act will not be the last. We are likely to see several more turns. One turn will certainly result in the Supreme Court's judgment coming, or there are several of these decisions. As far as I can tell, they should be dropped by Christmas. But practical problems will probably continue over the next year. So much specifically for the comment on the text of this bill. To conclude, I must say that I have also had one earlier period in my life when I was a member of the Riigikogu during several formations, and then all sorts of misdemeanours were seen in the work of the Riigikogu. But I could not have imagined that it would be possible to do something that the current coalition government and coalition group would do here in the Riigikogu to turn a bill into a law. If it continues to be practiced, it would be better to cancel the forthcoming Riigikogu elections and never come back here again, because such work is definitely not needed by the state. Secondly, I will go a little further to the ideology of this draft. Sometime in the new age, European thinkers began writing books that became their genre called 'utopia'. They proposed ways to reorganize the world so that the world would be a fairer, more effective, and also a more friendly place to live. However, this madness, which began in the second half of the 19th century with the birth of the so-called political pavilion, was basically reflected in the fact that if the bad parties or political currents had to be able to take full power in a country, they considered one of the main objectives of transforming the state's way of life according to the interesting principles they had. And neither Soviet Russia was the only one, much of this was done. Fortunately, Estonia was not one of them. But if we look at the process of preparing our administrative reform law and where its spiritual roots lie, these roots are certainly not in European culture, they are not in the history of Estonian politics either. Quite clearly, this path goes out somewhere in Moscow, the Kremlin and Jossif Stalin's understanding of how things need to be changed. It is, I don't know, a special form of social michurinism that we write to you in advance how you are best to live in the future, because we know it better. And it would only be like this! The group that drew up this concept put another element in it, which I would call the self-flow path. It's the method of voluntary accession. Voluntary accession seems to be well-democratic, and for years it was the basic method of changing the governance of the Reform Party. However, the greatest risk is that extremely foolish and unreasonable decisions may also be made voluntarily, and the mechanism for preventing them has not been put into this law or the whole process. Coming specifically to the aspects of today's draft, then historically setus and Setumaa have not been part of the provinces of the Baltic Sea or Livonia in a broader sense. For the first generation of Estonian intellectuals it was known that there were quite a number of Estonian-speaking people living on the east side of the line or state border that ran south along the Piusa River and north along the Mädajõgi River. It was discovered in the mid - 19th century. At least I have discovered that the first more serious approaches to this issue appeared in our four-volume correspondence with Kreutzwald. The later knowledge of Estonian intellectuals that such people and their territory exist is mainly a favor to Jakob Hurda, whose four-volume academic edition of the Setup Songs included a long and thorough preface entitled 'Residences and Number of Setubles'. There's also a map, and these are the first academic data on these people. When the state of Estonia was declared independent, the independence manifest stated that the state would be created within the historical and ethnographic limits of Estonia. So far, there is no understanding of what was meant by these ethnographic boundaries. Perhaps this pair of words was hidden by the possibility that the settlement area behind the border of Livonia would also be connected to an independent Estonian state. In fact, such a referendum was never reached, basically the result of a war on freedom of state. At the same time, it is true that after the declaration of independence was drawn up, various delegations and petitions began to come from that side of the Livonian border, so that this area would become part of the Republic of Estonia. At the time, they came not so much from the Setus, but from the Estonians who settled there. There were quite a few in Petseri's village, which at the time was a rather important educational center, apart from everything else. Very many South Estonians received their primary and secondary education there. It was a little easier with Narva. There was a referendum in Narva in 1917 before the war on freedom, even before the events of World War I arrived here, asking the inhabitants of Narva where Narva should belong, along with the surrounding areas, as they had belonged to Narva during the Swedish era. During the Swedish era, Narva Ingerimaa was the capital, and in the spring of 1917 the city government held a referendum and, if I remember correctly, about 70% of the inhabitants of Suur-Narva, Narva-Jõesuu and Jaanilinna voted that this area should become part of the province of Estonia. At the time, there was no mention of the independence of the state. There has never been anything like this in Petseri County, but the course of the War of Independence was such that all the compact areas of the Setus remained under the control of the Estonian troops and when Tartu peace negotiations took place, one of the results was that these areas were to be merged with Estonia, the future Estonia. But there was another important thing that might be less known about today. In fact, on the basis of military considerations, this was perhaps originally the proposal of the Russian delegation, the border was moved by another ten miles. It was the average fire extent of the artillery at the time. I understand my time is up.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-10-25_U140	Yeah, it's 20 minutes out. Thank you, George Adams! It's 1:07.59. Today's trial is over. I'll see you tomorrow! Closure of the sitting at 1.08 p.m.
