ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-12_U1	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. We will begin the session of the 3rd plenary session of the Riigikogu on Tuesday of the 1st working week. Do colleagues want to pass on enquiries and drafts? Please, Andres Herkel!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-12_U2	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the Riigikogu! On behalf of the Free Party Group, I have the pleasure of raising again the issue of electoral rights and opening up electoral lists. It is recalled that the first draft proposed by the Free Party Group to the Riigikogu procedure concerned the opening of the Riigikogu election lists. This draft received unanimous support in the Riigikogu at first reading on 28 May. He has now stopped in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, but, as we understand, there is broad support for this principle. However, it is excluded that we also have a list-based selection element in the local elections. Today, it only concerns Tallinn as the largest municipality with eight circles and political parties' common lists. In calculating the result of the election, the votes received do not even play the role in the elections of the Riigikogu in the case of compensation mandates. If we want to be consistent, this problem should be resolved. Assuming that our first draft on the election of the Riigikogu will soon become a law, the law on the election of local government should definitely be amended in the same way. I will hand over a draft to this effect and I hope that it will be dealt with soon.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-12_U3	There are no further requests for referrals of drafts or enquiries. I have adopted a draft on behalf of the management board, and the Management Board of the Riigikogu deals with it according to the Home and Rules of Procedure Act. Ladies and gentlemen, now the announcements. Today, after the plenary session, the Vice-President of the Estonian Group of the Interparliamentary Union (IPU) is elected in this Chamber. All members of the Riigikogu are invited to participate in the elections. Ladies and gentlemen, you are all members with the right to vote. Please, let's do the presence check! 82 members of the Riigikogu are present, 19 is missing. Before we go to the items on the agenda, there is one clarification. In today's second item, the draft law amending the Law on National Family Allowances initiated by the Estonian Centre Party Group at first reading, the Member of the Riigikogu, Mailis Reps, will make a presentation on behalf of the initiators.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-12_U4	Let's go to today's agenda. The first item is the second reading of the draft law 139 on the election of the local government council initiated by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and the related amendments to the law. The rapporteur is Andre Sepp, member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-12_U5	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The second reading of the Act 139 amending the Local Government Council Election Act and related laws is before you. Let us briefly reiterate that with this bill we wish to amend the Local Government Council Election Act, the Population Register Act and the Code of Civil Procedure. I will also give you an overview of the second reading debate in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. At the Commission meeting on 14 December 2015, we discussed 139 issues related to second reading. We were informed that the draft Act 139 amending the Local Government Council Election Act and related laws passed the first reading on 9 December last year; the deadline for submitting amendments was 11 December at 4 p.m. One amendment was received by the Group of the Estonian Centre Party by the deadline. The text of § 5 (5) is intended to be amended and worded as follows: 'Any Estonian citizen with a right to vote and a citizen of the European Union who has reached the age of 18 on the last day of registration of the candidates and whose permanent residence is no later than 1 August of the election year in the municipality or city concerned. ' The representative of the author of the amendment explained that this proposal aims to give young people aged 16 years and above the right to vote the right to apply to the local government council. The reason was that if young people were to be trusted to vote, they should also be entrusted with running and participating in the work of the council. The proposal was put to the vote in committee. It was voted in favour by 3 and 5 members of the Commission, with 1 abstention. It was therefore the Commission's decision not to take the proposal into account. As procedural decisions, it was proposed that the draft be placed on the agenda of the plenary assembly on 12 January, that the second reading be closed, that the draft be sent to third reading when the second one is closed, and that the final vote on the draft be taken. The decisions were taken by consensus. So much for the debate in the Commission, which, as we know, ladies and gentlemen, is in this Chamber as a re-debate. I would like to evaluate Estonia's constitutional order with you, and I hope you will support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-12_U6	Thank you, dear colleague. You have questions too. Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-12_U7	Thank you, manager. A representative of the good Commission. Does the Commission, in essence, also analyse why this is so that you can choose, but you cannot apply? Why are young people so unequally treated as not to drive, not to have a family, but to choose? Was there a substantive debate, or was there only a vote?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-12_U8	There was a vote at this committee meeting. I have already mentioned that this is a re-debate. Since two successive compositions of the Riigikogu have decided to make an amendment to the Constitution, these discussions have indeed already been in this Chamber. The two formations have now decided to amend the Constitution in this way. It can also be seen from the minutes of the Commission's discussions that the main thing is, however, to give young people the right to vote now and not to rush into giving them the right to stand as candidates. This has also been supported by youth organisations and the wider public.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-12_U9	March Sults, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-12_U10	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good waitress! Which 16-year-old hordes have demanded the right to vote and are willing to waive the right to stand as a candidate? Do you have any numbers, or do you just have backroom calculations or stuff like that? It's like I haven't seen 16-year-olds waving flags around here. As a school person, I know that kids in the 8th, 9th and 10th grade don't really give a shit.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-12_U11	Thank you. I do not wish to comment on your lines, but the discussions have been held in this Chamber and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has gathered views from several organisations during the previous term, both from organisations that unite local authorities and from youth organisations. Together, the decision has been reached to make such a change in our constitution.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-12_U12	March Sults, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-12_U13	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good waitress! If you're familiar with differential psychology and all these other things, you know that 16-year-olds are late in puberty. Haven't you thought about it, that you could provoke very extreme movements?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-12_U14	I certainly do not share your view that the decisions taken by the Riigikogu in plenary, including those which amend the Constitution of the State, should somehow undermine the foundations of state security or direct some of the extremism you have mentioned. Similar experiences are sufficient in Europe and have been positive. It has also given us confidence.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-12_U15	Thomas Vitsu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-12_U16	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, The amendment of the Constitution is a very serious step. Are you sure this decision has been sufficiently considered?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-12_U17	Having participated in the discussions and procedural processes of this issue, both in the previous and present composition of the Riigikogu, I am sure, as rapporteur for the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, that this is the right decision.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-12_U18	Thank you. Honourable waitress! You're not afraid that this decision will politicize high school education too much, are you?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-12_U19	Andrei Novikov, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-12_U20	Thank you for your question. This debate has already been here. Personally, I don't think it would politicise too much. When current upper secondary school students graduate from upper secondary school, they are 17 to 18 years old. I have also been to teach social studies myself, and I can assure you that their so-called orientation in the political landscape has improved considerably. So I do not share your view that this change could be too politicised.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-12_U21	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-12_U22	I'll ask for more. I have also passed the stage of amending this constitution and, of course, I opposed it. But I ask whether the right to stand as a candidate precluded the need to amend the Constitution or was ruled out by the committee, i.e. in this case the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-12_U23	§ 156 of the Constitution of the Republic states that the local government council is a council elected in free elections for four years. By law, the term of office of a council may be shortened in connection with the merger or division of a local government unit or because the council is unable to act. So in this sense, the Constitution gives the right to vote in local elections.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-12_U24	Olga Ivanova, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-12_U25	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Honourable waitress! Doesn't it seem to you that the possibility of choosing a local election should be accompanied by an opportunity to present your candidacy? Why did you opt out of this option, according to which young people would have the opportunity to present their candidacy, not just choose someone?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-12_U26	Thank you. This is also a subject that has already been discussed several times. The Riigikogu has decided to amend the Constitution in such a way that the right to vote is an Estonian citizen who has become 16 years old. This question of whether a 16-year-old can apply has passed the round of discussions, but the proposal did not find the necessary support. It was found that we are starting to strengthen democracy in Estonia by involving young people in local governments, local councils. So they can vote on the local government council, but not yet apply for it. It is possible that the time when they can also apply in Estonia will come at one point.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-12_U27	Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-12_U28	Thank you. Good colleague! A few months ago, I met the children in the room next to our country. I asked them whether they were going to vote and whether they wanted to do so. Amazing thing was, when I asked them to raise their hands to those who wanted to do it, only a couple of 40 to 45 children raised their hands and understood what they were talking about. My question is this: do you not think that, as before, the election result was 99.9%, we are now forcing 23000 to go to the ballot box and vote?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-12_U29	Thank you. Definitely also needs to be developed in the country of democracy. If you watch participation in the elections throughout the period of independence, it has been a constant upward trend. Consequently, more and more people are, however, involved in the electoral process in order to exercise their constitutional right. I have also met young people and I agree that opinions differ among them. If this is an ex-prompt to ask you what you think, there are both counter- and pro-arguments. I have had more to say in favour of those young people who have really expressed a desire to have a say in the life of the municipality or city where they live and where they may be planning to build their own home. I've heard their wishes. I share the idea that young people must be more involved in the election of the local government council, and then perhaps they will be candidates for the council at some point.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-12_U30	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-12_U31	Good manager! Good waitress! Young people under the age of 18 are considered to be incapacitated, as are the weak minds, mentally ill, and other mentally ill. Where's the water coming from? You want to give people with reduced capacity a choice, but they can't run. Where does that line run from?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-12_U32	Thank you. This limit is determined by the amendments to the Population Register Act and the Civil Procedure Code, which are made by the same bill, where the court can also declare a person of 16 to 17 years of age incapacitated as regards the right to vote. If the local authority or any public institution or citizen has doubts that the person concerned is incapacitated in respect of the right to vote, the right to refer the matter to the court and the court shall decide whether to declare that person incapacitated in respect of the right to vote. So this risk is grounded.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-12_U33	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, However, I ask again: if the Riigikogu decided now to grant the right to stand as a candidate to the 16- and 17-year-olds, would that be contrary to the Constitution?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-12_U34	Erki Savisaar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-12_U35	Thank you, good questioner! § 57 of the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia says that the right to vote is an Estonian citizen who has reached 18 years of age. Otherwise... [[Interjection: how can 16-year-olds vote?]] How? I apologise, this is § 156 of the Constitution, which says that under the condition laid down in the Local Government Council Election Act, persons permanently resident in the municipality's territory who are at least 16 years old are entitled to vote. Paragraph 57 was what was amended. Paragraph 156 states clearly, let it be repeated once again that, under the conditions laid down in the law, permanent residents of the municipality who are at least 16 years old are entitled to vote in municipal elections.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-12_U36	Martin Repinski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-12_U37	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Honourable waitress! Are additional measures intended to prevent young people from being influenced politically when they are granted such a right? For example, when school teachers influence them.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-12_U38	Thank you. Not all violations can ever be ruled out. In society, however, it is the joint responsibility of all of us to ensure that we observe the constitutional order as well as other laws and minimise the bias you have mentioned towards politicisation or any other way of influencing it. I believe that, following the legal order of the developed Estonian state, we can manage to minimise this risk.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-12_U39	Andrei Novikov, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-12_U40	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, Have you also analyzed how many people who, because of mental illness, insanity or other mental disorder, are unable to report their actions on a lasting basis could be affected by the assessment that is about to take place in court? For example, how great will the burden of a court grow? Do you have any such data or analysis results?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-12_U41	Thank you, good questioner! Today we have a re-debate, but in previous discussions on the same draft, we asked for this information from both the Estonian Judicial Association and the Ministry of Social Affairs. According to these data, there are 400-500 of these people. This figure cannot be called precisely, because the situation may change during the forthcoming elections, and no one knows exactly what the situation is at that time. At the moment, it can be considered that there are so many people whose inability to do so will be discussed by the court. It certainly brings certain costs, but the Constitution states that incapacity is for the court to decide only. We can discuss here, and in the Commission we were actually discussing whether there could be another extra-judicial body to decide, but unfortunately the Constitution does not provide such an opportunity.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-12_U42	Mart Nutt, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-12_U43	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! The Constitution distinguishes between the terms 'right to vote' and 'right to vote'. The right to vote is an active right to vote, i.e. the right to vote, while the right to vote is both active and passive. These terms have been interpreted in this way since 1992, or 23 years after this constitution has been in force, and since I have been in the Riigikogu. Judging by the current debate, it seems to me that it is no longer known that voting rights and voting rights are not the same. If we look at this amendment to the Constitution, it talks about the 16-year-old voting rights, not the right to vote. Has any interpretation or law changed the understanding so far?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-12_U44	Thank you. In this case, however, the amendment that the Riigikogu wants to make is also about voting rights. Therefore, we should then begin to understand the concepts unambiguously, perhaps to interpret them more precisely. I completely agree with the questioner that these are different terms. However, within the meaning of the Constitution, we are talking about voting rights.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-12_U45	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-12_U46	I'm gonna keep this up. On 29 December, the Minister of Justice sent a letter to the members of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, which states in black that persons under the age of 18 are incapacitated, together with mentally ill, weak-minded people and other people with mental problems, they are incapacitated. My question continues to be this: since voting in local elections is also an issue, where is the difference between voting for people with reduced capacity and not running?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-12_U47	Thank you. I say once again that the way in which capacity is dealt with in the case of voting rights and electoral rights is, in fact, also enshrined in the Code of Civil Procedure and the Population Register Act.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-12_U48	Vladimir Velman, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-12_U49	Thank you very much, Mr President. Good waitress! Could you refresh my memory of which European Union countries have the same practice? Has there been any analysis of the consequences there?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-12_U50	Thank you. I'm indebted to you right now on this speaker board, but I can assure you that I'm sending you the analysis done by the Legal and Analytical Department of our office. At this point, it is not appropriate to deduce these conclusions by heart and present them, but I will pass on this analysis to you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-12_U51	George Adams, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-12_U52	Thank you, Mr President. I'm listening here, and I have all kinds of questions. One question is that if this thing goes like this and the 16-year-olds get the right to vote, does that mean that, in the meaning of Estonian law, they become fully-fledged people.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-12_U53	Thank you. [[Laughing.]] When they exercise their right to vote, they shall have the capacity to exercise their right to vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-12_U54	Thank you, dear waitress. No more questions for you. Do colleagues want to negotiate? Please, Martin Helme!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-12_U55	Thank you, good deputy speaker. Ladies and gentlemen, That's what we've been talking about here so much, I'm not gonna talk anymore. The Conservative People's Party Group proposes to vote the draft out of the procedure.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-12_U56	Honourable proposer, I would like to ask you about your proposal. You have written in your proposal to reject the bill. This can be done at first reading, it can be stopped at second reading. Please, what is your will in substance?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-12_U57	I'm asking you to abort!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-12_U58	Okay, I understand there's been an interruption proposal. Please also submit it in writing. Is there another wish for negotiation? No, it's not. There is also one amendment to the draft; we will review it. The amendment is tabled by the Estonian Central Party Group; the position of the commission is not taken into account. Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-12_U59	Thank you. I ask for this amendment to be voted on.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-12_U60	Thank you. Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-12_U61	On behalf of the Reform Party, please take a five-minute break before the vote!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-12_U62	Thank you. Five minutes break.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-12_U63	Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on the amendment by the Estonian Centre Party Group, which the commission has rejected. Please take a stand and vote. 30 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the proposal, 57 against and 4 abstentions. The proposal was not supported. The Group of the Estonian Conservative People's Party has proposed to interrupt the second reading of draft 139. We are also going to the vote... Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-12_U64	On behalf of the group, I would like to ask for a three-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-12_U65	Three minutes break.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-12_U66	Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on the proposal of the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia to interrupt the second reading of draft 139. Please take a stand and vote. 33 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, 57 against and 2 abstentions. The proposal was not supported. The proposal of the commission is to conclude the second reading of draft 139 and we have finished it.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-12_U67	We will proceed to today's second item on the agenda and begin the first reading of the 89th draft law amending the State Family Benefits Act initiated by the Group of the Estonian Centre Party. The rapporteur is Mailis Reps, member of the Riigikogu. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-12_U68	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the Riigikogu! Let me briefly present draft 89. It's pretty simple, and I'm sure you're familiar with it from the past. This is a draft law amending the Family Benefits Act. By doing so, we would like to bring back one of the support that, before the 2008 cut, had a very clearly established target group in our society. In fact, at the beginning of each school year, parents have a great headache about how to get everything they need for school for their children. Writing about the rise in the price of school supplies has already become an annual hobby for journalists who then try to put together the cheapest school bag and such an Estonian average school bag. From a parent's point of view, until 2008, the amount received in August, together with other family allowances, played a pretty big role, which, in addition to the money normally set aside for the beginning of the school year, helped a lot. Parents could thus get the things they needed for their children to attend school. What do you get every year? This so-called "packing allowance" is intended to buy all stationery, glue, erasing, etc., but of course the growing child also needs to get sports footwear and clothing. Many schools today have agreed to wear a school uniform or other school clothes and sometimes something else, whether it is related to choir songs or to other circles. All of us who are parents know that there is a great deal of spending on school every year. That is why we have offered a small relief that, alongside family benefits, school support should be restored, which in society is very widely known as the "panish grant', because it was able to buy the pack and fill it with all the necessary equipment. Looking at the broader context, this is one measure that helps families with children to some extent to cover the high costs of caring for, raising and educating children. Of course, this is only partial compensation, because everyone knows that in reality the costs are much higher. The system is simple: every child aged 7 years is paid a school allowance of EUR 100, together with other family allowances, until he or she reaches the age of 16 in August. In addition, the draft provides for exceptions. For example, if a child goes to school later, the data will be taken out of the EHIS, and if the child goes to school earlier, the parent will submit a notification through the Social Welfare Institution. Later, parents do not have to apply each year; this is already automatic in combination with other family benefits. That's the system. With a few words about money and how many children we now have in school. According to the EHIS data, there is 1/9. Class 117460 children. If we take in an upper secondary school of 21540 children, there are about 139000 of them. If the school grant is EUR 100, the total cost is EUR 13.9 million. It was proposed to plan this into the 2016 state budget. As we know, the draft has been in the process for quite a long time, and if the Riigikogu decides to proceed with it, then it is probably possible to decide at second reading that the grant will be paid either from 1 September 2016 or, if necessary, the payment will be postponed to 2017. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-12_U69	Thank you. You have questions too. Siim Kisler, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-12_U70	Thank you. Honourable waitress! You spoke about the number of students, including all upper secondary school students, when calculating the cost of this bill. At the same time, you will see that the allowance is paid until the age of 16. Don't you think 17-year-olds are going to high school?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-12_U71	Thank you. So far, this system worked so that students received school support automatically until they were 16 years old, and if they were still still in the school system according to the EHIS, they also received support at the age of 17. Basically, we are re-introducing the same system that was before 2008. Since our country is very concerned that people may receive too many benefits, this is what has been done by automatically paying the allowance from the age of 7, although we know that some children also go to school at the age of 6. In the latter case, the parent needs to submit a separate notification. Those 17-year-old and older children who are studying, we know that there are 19-year-olds in the school system, will receive support on the basis of EHIS data or notification.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-12_U72	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-12_U73	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good waitress! In 2008, 78 million kroons were taken away because of the difficult economic situation, which was spent on this 450-kroon school grant. It's like life's gotten better since then. Yesterday we discussed how Estonian Air started pumping money from 2009 because the connection to Europe was considered the most important. What, in your opinion, is the most important thing, either to get into Europe or to provide children with a normal environment for growth and autumn school support?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-12_U74	Thank you, good questioner! In principle, there are two reasons why this proposal to restore support should be brought back to this Chamber. The first is that there is still a need for this support in society. Those who follow parents' discussions at the beginning of the school year, whether in the public media or in the social media network, see very clearly that the annual preparation for school is a problem for families with children. This is also demonstrated by a number of campaigns seeking support for families in difficulty, many children, etc. in filling children's school bags. I'm sure everyone who went shopping in July-August this year saw these big campaigns that asked to buy the children's school bags on the list. So first there's a need for society. The second reason is that when cuts were made in 2008, a very clear promise was made from this remote control that if times get better, the cuts will be reviewed one by one and, if possible, returned. One of these things is the packer's allowance. Of course, we can be happy and proud that after ten years, we have increased child benefits again, but one thing does not solve another. One thing is the monthly fixed costs for children, while the other is the one-off departure at the beginning of the school year. Therefore, the restoration of the pack subsidy is, in any case, topical, whether we are going to do so with the draft we are debating today or whether we will come back to it in a month, two or a half years' time. When we talk about whether the Republic of Estonia has the means and opportunities to do so, yes, it is a matter of priorities. Annual budgetary procedures show that such one-off and quite fast solutions are found, so it is an investment in Estonian Air or some other indispensable investment. We can still be surprised at how much money we need to find and find for the 2018 Presidency. The issue is not that we cannot find resources in society. The question is what is our priority. I do not want to contrast air traffic with children, the elderly or people with disabilities, just to see that if you need to find either 5, 10 or 20 million, it will be found. And if today we really want to resolve the issue of coast support together, then there are opportunities for this, either in the 2017 budget or at the end of the 2016 budget.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-12_U75	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-12_U76	In 2008, it was said that the circumstances were difficult and the money was low. It's been years now. When will things get better in the Republic of Estonia so that it is possible to re-establish the school allowance, so-called "panish grant"?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-12_U77	Thank you. First of all, when we look at our economic situation, we are basically back in the boom age for almost all the indicators. There are a few examples where there is a cent or a cent in prices, but in general we are at a stage where we can say that we are back in the time before the 2008 cut. Perhaps there are some exceptions, such as the municipal income base and some more. I believe, however, that it is time to come back to the various issues before the cut. Coast subsidy is indeed a very important issue for families with children. It was something families counted on every year. Parents set aside a little in the summer, and teachers, for example, who received a higher holiday fee in June, also bought some of the study aids for their children, but it was always known that there would be such an extra amount in August. Another issue in society, to which we must definitely come back at one point, is the dispute over children's activities of interest and sport. It was still absurd that part of the 2008 cuts was made in the sport and interest activities of children and young people. To say suddenly that this is not our priority, while all studies up to the investigations carried out by law enforcement authorities show that the interest of young people in society is something that cannot be saved. These are certainly aspects to which we must come back, and this is the time now.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-12_U78	Thank you, dear waitress. No more questions for you. I would like to ask Ms Aunaste, Member of the Social Affairs Committee, as a rapporteur for the Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-12_U79	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, On 23 November 2015, the agenda of the Social Affairs Committee was to prepare a draft law amending the State Family Benefits Act for the first reading. In addition to the members of the Social Affairs Committee, Anu Irval, head of the Social Security Department's policy on benefits and benefits, was also present. What is the amendment of the draft law, you have just heard about the report by Mailis Reps, to restore public school support, which would provide parents with part of the costs associated with the beginning of the school year. This would be an annual bonus of EUR 100 per child, which would cost the State EUR 13,9 million per year. The members of the Commission heard the presentation of the draft and the position of the Government of the Republic, asked for further questions and expressed their views on the draft. The Government of the Republic decided not to support the draft on the grounds that family benefits ensure that children are raised, including the costs of learning, on a regular basis. Since the trend has now been taken in the Republic of Estonia to radically increase child benefits and large family benefits, the Social Affairs Committee supported the government's proposal to reject the bill with 6 votes in favour and 4 votes against. It certainly made it easier for the bill to be rejected to know that the amendment should be in force as early as 1 March in the year. a. Thus, it was already known before the first reading that almost 14 million were not needed to implement the law in the state budget. The first reading of the draft law was put on the agenda by 8 December. On that date, however, this initiator, due to the external visit of the rapporteur, was excluded from the agenda of the plenary session, and a new proposal was made to place the draft 89 on the agenda by 12 January, i.e. today. The decision was consensual and Maire Aunaste, member of the Social Affairs Committee, was appointed rapporteur. At yesterday's meeting of the Committee on Social Affairs, it was proposed that the deadline for amendments be set at 10 working days, i.e. 26 January. 5.15 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-12_U80	Thank you, dear waitress. You have questions too. Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-12_U81	Thank you. Good colleague! Sometimes we have heard when the Commission discusses the draft that it will come back to this issue in the future. Was it said in the Commission this time that perhaps in the future we will still come back to the draft we submitted to your committee?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-12_U82	I was just drinking water here too slowly in the meantime, and the manager was already able to say thank you, but actually I wanted to continue on the very subject of coming back to this bill. It seems reckless to me, in two minutes and three sentences in this Chamber, to reject the draft which the initiator of this draft has really presented for years from this very board with his soul and heart. That is why I wanted to think before I finally said thank you here, and with this, I would advise everyone to reject this bill according to their conscience, to think about the pros and cons of this bill. I could think of some. First of all, the one and the first, most important plus, of this bill, is the same thing that Mailis just said here: when the payment of this public contribution was stopped in 2008, it was explicitly said that it was temporary. If it is said to be temporary and, in fact, this support will never be restored, it means cheating on the people. Indeed, I am absolutely sure that a lot of schools and very many parents have been waiting for nearly eight years now to come back with this pack allowance. What's the biggest minus of this bill, i.e. that works against him? This is because, as time has passed, the break for paying this grant has been going on for so many years, then, of course, the local authorities have occupied this niche. They realized that even if they did not start paying their students backpacking allowance, this would mean difficulties not only for parents but also for municipal schools. Before the new year, I asked the 15 municipalities to send themselves information on how their municipalities would pay the grant. I received feedback from 90 municipalities, and all of them receive the grant, except that its size is very different, the difference is tenfold. 30 euros are paid in some municipalities, 320 euros are paid in Tallinn and 300 euros are paid in Põlva County, for example in the small Mikitamäe rural municipality. There are also very different reasons why the reimbursement is paid. Schools want their students not to go to secondary school, not to leave their municipality. That's one reason. I also called a lot of local government leaders. For example, the head of the municipality of Põlva County said a sentence that I might not even be able to pass on here now, because it is, as if, a reminder of any hope that national rennet support will ever be paid again. He said that they would pay the backpack to their pupils, first-class entrants, even if it was necessary to pay EUR 1 000 per month only in order to prevent the school from dying out. In Põlva County, there are really great differences in the level of the grant for the last year. Here comes another bill 89, by the way. While students across Estonia are in a very different position, some parents receive 30 euros before their children go to school and the other 300, the bill that has just been introduced is that it equates all students, or rather parents, who would receive 100 euros in any corner of Estonia. Of course, there is a very large difference between paying the pack allowance only to the first-grader or to the gymnasts. It would actually equal the situation of the students. I think that among teenagers, this sense of equality is something that grown-ups may not even understand. For example, Raikküla Raikküla School does not pay the ranch allowance, but Raikküla is the only one that does not pay the ranch allowance, but it provides all first-class entrants with a tablet computer. That's what gives students lessons from the first day of school that everyone is equal, no matter what family they come from. For this reason, such an equal amount of rennet support throughout Estonia would be very welcome. What I have just said again, however, is that the state has taken a major step forward in paying subsidies for nearly eight years. As you all know, this year the monthly child allowance rose to 50 euros, which means that in 2016, 14 million euros of child allowance will be paid in Estonia. This is exactly the same amount that the draft 89 provides for in the case of State aid, which costs nearly EUR 14 million per year. We cannot forget, of course, that, as of 1 June 2013, needs-based family allowances will be paid. I could make two numbers over here. If the family allowance was paid to 4648 families EUR 459255 during the nine months of 2014, already a year later the number of families was nearly a thousand higher and the amount was nearly five times higher, or 2585000. I understand that at least none of the current ministers prefer to pay this kind of non-discipline. I spoke to the previous Minister of Education yesterday, as well as to the current Minister of Education. I wanted to know what they thought, how they would feel about restoring the support for the coast in the future. One thing is the figures I'm reading here right now, and they're huge, except that a parent who receives 50 euros per month of child support is still unable to buy the necessary schoolwork with this money in August. These ministers, let us say this, were not enthusiastic about my idea that we could, however, deal with the pack subsidy in the future. Rather, they agreed with another idea that I had come up with. I was recently in Tenerife, where 200 Estonians live today all year round, and some Estonian mothers, for example, have three children attending school there. Tenerifel, in Spain, there is such a law that a parent pays 300 euros to the school before each school year. The Estonian woman with three children will then have to pay EUR 900 before the school year begins. The school buys the attributes it needs throughout the school year for 300 euros. Of course, it would be nice if Estonia were to do so, then all students would be equally equipped with things, but we cannot demand such a sum from parents. That is why I asked Mr Ossinovski and Mr Ligi yesterday how they felt when, for example, the state would give local authorities money so that schools could provide all students with the same amount of educational resources. It is now the case that in upper secondary school, students must buy workbooks themselves, a lot of money is spent on drawing equipment, and if, for example, there are study trips to nature or I don't know where else, the bus fare will be charged to the students, i.e. their parents. These two ministers agreed that yes, it would be a matter of negotiation, the state could meet local governments here. It seems to me that local governments are already doing some pretty out-of-control moves from time to time to help schools and students. But whether schools stay, whether students want to go to school and feel good about it is not just a problem for the municipality, in my opinion. I think it's also a national problem. I don't have any more smart ideas here. Mailis, you might want to put some notes on the paper in case you're in line seven or I don't know how many times you're coming here to protect this coaster support. In response to you, Mr Korb, I think that this draft package of national aid could continue to be dealt with in the future.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-12_U83	Thank you for your comprehensive answer. But there are more questions for you. Siim Kisler, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-12_U84	Thank you. Honourable waitress! You said it would be better if this support were even across Estonia, so that all students would be treated the same way. However, this bill, if I understand it correctly, does not prevent local governments from continuing to grant support to school leavers. It wouldn't change anything, really. State support would be added, but municipalities that are competing for students could still offer computers, for example, and would not do anything in other schools. Let me get this straight. The inequality would actually be preserved?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-12_U85	Yes, inequality would be preserved because local governments do not share the same wealth and neither do they have the same goals for supporting students or parents. I think that, as I suggested earlier, when the national bailout is restored, local authorities will not give up supporting their children precisely because they do not want students to leave their schools. And that is one of the reasons why, when we draw up the state budget or the coalition agreement, we will, of course, immediately say, 'Hey, there is no point in paying double the same support.' So, yeah, here's the problem.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-12_U86	Kersti Sarapuu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-12_U87	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Thank you very much to the Maire Aunas for their very thorough answers! I understand in your report you were talking about kids going to school. How do you feel about paying the coat subsidy in the next school grades?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-12_U88	Yes, I said that one of the benefits of the 89 bill is that it does not deal with the grant of aid only in the first grade. In fact, the costs for a child in first grade, before school, are even the lowest. The costs are increasing every year and therefore the annual support would be excellent. By the way, in Malta, which is a small country and where people are feared to lose their people, students are paid a salary from the sixth grade, and the next, the higher the salary. Let's say it's a scholarship. This is a very clever move in the sense that a sixth-grade child will then have an incentive to move on to the seventh, eighth and ninth grade. By the way, in high school, they're already getting a perfectly decent average employee's salary. This means that students are motivated to stay in school, to become smarter. This, of course, will win because if you have few people, the smarter it is, the more sustainable it will be. So this first-class gravy grant is just a drop in the sea.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-12_U89	Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-12_U90	Honorable President! Respectable waitress! I'm listening and I'm thinking, but there's one thing I don't understand. Why does the coalition prefer even child support, for example, to pay off school lunch in full, to the state aid that is currently being discussed and to other slightly targeted grants?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-12_U91	I understand that this is precisely because support is regular. For example, if you pay EUR 600 per year of child benefit, which is currently EUR 50 per month, if the parent receives EUR 600 from one child, then this is more than a one-off subsidy in August, for example. And in fact, the amounts paid to these large families in 2017 look almost luxurious, these child-rich family allowances from 2017 onwards Its principle is then seven or... We begin by paying a new type of family benefit as of 1 January 2017, which will be supplemented by families with at least three children entitled to child benefit, and a family with a child benefit of 200 euros per month for families with three to six children. Yeah, they're already such decent sums of money that you might actually be able to set aside by the beginning of school. But I do know quite a few such wealthy parents who, for example, have three children. They say that there is always such a hole in the wallet before going to school, that it makes you wonder how they are less expensive or even unemployed, or if there is one employee in the family, if they are able to raise children. By the way, Andres, on this point, I am reminded that last year's statistics gave us a number that I had actually heard a year ago and thought, by raising my eyebrows, how this was possible. And it is very difficult, in fact, for Estonia that we have over 30,000 young people up to the age of 29 who do not have a job, they do not go to school, and they do not even have a basic education. And then I thought, reading the materials of this bill, that it would be very appreciated if someone did such an investigation among their 30,000 young people, or at least some of them, to find out why they stopped going to school. I don't think people are born stupid. I think that if you go to school, every person could graduate from middle school. But there are some small external signs that, for example, stop putting the child away from school. If, for example, a sixth-grade child or a fifth-grade child's mother or father says several summers in a row before school starts, you know, I don't have the money to buy you new shoes or a new school bag or a new phone, it's really social inequality that scares some young people away from going to school because they don't want to deal with continuous family poverty and they don't want them being fingered at school and they don't want to stay out of something. So I think the richer society is, the better. So these subsidies are good in that sense.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-12_U92	Heimar Lenk, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-12_U93	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, It is a pleasure to listen to such a thorough approach to the bill and to receive so much interesting information from all over the world. Very charming performance.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-12_U94	Heimar, you've been my teacher! [[Let's hear it, laugh.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-12_U95	Thank you for that word too. I recognized a number of middle party views of life in your performance. [[Laughter.]] A concrete example is that only recently the Centre Party discussed that perhaps a student scholarship in which classes should be established in Estonia, too, is not yet known. You mentioned the student wage that was set in Malta. What's your position? If you start analyzing, it might be a pretty good tool to keep the students on the bench. The student knows that this allowance increases every year, he already earns his salary. We're saying people don't have entrepreneurship. It might be a good practice to get through life, it'd be pretty interesting to try.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-12_U96	It seems to me that, in the case of a nation as small as us, this is entirely justified, because the less we have of those who drop out of school, the better for the country. When I told Mr. Ligi yesterday about this example of Malta, he cut like a knife. He said that's why they're where they are when they're already paying the kids money, that it's gonna bankrupt the country anyway. In short, if you're as stupid as you are, but you're still paid to study, it doesn't lead to a good outcome. But I'm pretty sure it's a good thing you have a little incentive to go to school when you're a kid, except you're getting a graduation diploma. I know from my own hands, I stayed in ninth grade, I stayed because I didn't go to school in ninth grade for a single day. It's really hard to graduate like this. That's what it takes to keep the kid from going to school, to motivate him with something. Home can't always do it, some homes maybe they say, "Hey, boy, you're so tall, go to work, and no money comes from there." So the kids start thinking maybe they could do some little business or go to work. When I spoke to Enn Veskimägi a year ago, he told me that we had so many people without basic education. And if we are saying that Estonia's driving force is moving forward in the economy, tell us, how do we move this economy forward when people who leave education behind are growing year after year? We still find genius people and ideas-rich entrepreneurs, but who will work on these ideas? Enn Veskimägi, for example, said that if he needed to find his Standard or I didn't remember exactly what this place was, one master and one employee, of the 120 candidates, they found exactly one worker who applied for the championship position. Because if you're still uneducated, you can't do anything today as a workman. So in this respect, any tool that makes a student stay in school is welcome. In my opinion, we should have compulsory basic education, I do not know at all how it is possible for people to drop out of school. So there's a lot of places to think.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-12_U97	Urve Palo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-12_U98	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good speaker! First of all, a comment to Mr Ammas. I was under the impression that he was criticising universal child support and would rather have seen that the subsidy was being paid. The note is that the subsidy for the coaster is also intended as a universal one, and that should be the case. How do you know the difference between kids? Should the child whose parent earns 500 euros a month not receive the allowance and the child of 502 euros a month should not receive the allowance? Before I ask you a question, however, first of all, I would like to say that I am very pleased to hear you perform; this preparation is impressive. Honour and praise for me! The question is this: what could be the amount of the pack allowance if it were intended for all children until the end of school age? What do you think would be the right amount?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-12_U99	If I look at the tables that have been sent to me, this so-called 'packing allowance' has indeed been paid from EUR 30 to EUR 320. The average in the municipalities where I got the information is 64.65 euros. This EUR 65 probably shows the ability of local governments to pay such support. I think that if Tenerife, where 24 degrees are warm all year round, is asked for 300 euros to buy teaching equipment and the same amount is paid by Mikitamäe Elementary School, rather than Mikitamäe Elementary School, but by the municipality, 300 euros is the money that could be done. However, there is certainly no such capacity in Estonia, which is why I think that the 100 euros proposed in the draft drafted by Malik is very normal.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-12_U100	Aadu Black, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-12_U101	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! I listened to this discussion, which is so warm and refreshing. You can see that education and the fate of the students are very important to both you and the questioners. However, it turns out that the Commission does not support this draft, and there are such hovering indications that something else will also be done. The only way to put it together is to make sure that some other measures should probably do a lot of good and compensate for lost support. Can it be concluded that, thanks to other measures, we are already doing well, which is why this particular draft does not have to be supported?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-12_U102	Since the first reading of this bill is today and we all know when the state budget was approved, even if the draft had been submitted, I do not know, IRL and Maire Aunaste, the necessary 14 million would not fit into this state budget in any way. This means that these subsidies certainly cannot be paid this year. As far as your question is concerned, Aadu, what the Ministry of Social Affairs and the Government are doing at the moment with all these subsidies is excellent, but it seems to me that it is a bit like erasing a fire because of things that have not been done before. That the country has finally gotten so much underfoot that we are helping those who have long been waiting to help, that is, families rich in children, children at all, people with disabilities. You all know that the Ministry of Social Affairs pays the largest part of the budget in the form of grants to the people at all. At the same time, Mr Black, I understand your question as to whether we are doing so well now. No, it's not! If we compare the country to one building and one wing burns on this building, we are now putting out a fire with the same subsidies. And thank God, thank the state for paying these grants and so many people get help. But when it comes to the second part, which may be less in need, that is to say, perfectly healthy people, whole families, including young people, who have the future of the country, we do not now just have the capacity to pay everyone and all the time. There are still so many things that have not been done in Estonia. In my opinion, the biggest mistake is not that subsidies are paid too little, but that our standard of living is too low and that the wages paid by the people cannot be lived very well.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-12_U103	Jaanus Karilaid, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-12_U104	Thank you to the manager. Good waitress! I also thank you for your very sincere and immediate presentation. My question is as follows. Did your debate with Minister of Education Jürgen Ligi only turn out to be caused by the socio-economic background of the interruption of studies, or are there other factors that may have contributed to regional inequality, the learning environment, the situation of teachers, etc.?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-12_U105	If I walked from the diner door to the wardrobe with Mr. Ligi, I can't call it a debate. [[Laughter.]] I could only give him one opinion, as a smart person, he understood it very quickly, and our debate ended in the wardrobe. I had to take Mr. Ligi's position from the air because it was only two minutes. At the moment, the primary responsibility of the Estonian state is to help the weakest, we all know that. Those who are stronger will have to cope on their own, fortunately not by themselves, but by means of public subsidies. I don't remember exactly how the question was, but yes, that was our debate.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-12_U106	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-12_U107	Thank you, manager. Good waitress! I'd be happy to hear your presentation. I understand you have strong internal contradictions. In the same way, you support this bill and you think it is the right thing, but I understand that you also have a coalition agreement and a party policy. Money is not a question, 14 million can be found very easily. For example, commercial banks may be taxed on profits that have probably been taken out of here by billions for years. There's no money missing. But how do you overcome your internal contradiction?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-12_U108	Usually with a hotter drink like this, I had tea last night, for example. I do not think there are any people in this Chamber who do not have internal contradictions, whether they are in opposition or in a coalition. There was a situation here a few weeks ago where I, an emotional person like me, tended to cry one morning in this Riigikogu. I can tell you that I don't eat onions since I was a kid, but that day there was no reason to eat onions, the reasons were emotional. That day many saw my tears and felt sorry for me. Let's just say there are no political parties in this room other than the Free Party who wouldn't have invited me to their home. I can say that the Centre Party did so twice, calling for two different wings. Why am I even saying this? I thought long and hard about what I was going to do with these proposals. Then I realized that no matter what I do in this hall, whether I walk into it, in this line or in that line or under the window, nothing will change, my inner doubts and doubts will still remain. So this fight, which remains for more than three years, must be fought and tried to do what can be done. I think that this can be done both in the coalition and in the opposition. You may be a member of the Riigikogu, but you have to be human. It would be nice if you were a good person. Because I'm trying to be a sincere and good person, maybe that's why my inner doubts seem more.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-12_U109	Thank you, dear waitress. No more questions for you. Thank you very much for your personal presentation by the Commission. [[Laughter.]] Let's move on with the negotiations...
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-12_U110	May I, Helir, say the final phrase? I don't know when I'm gonna be given another chance, I don't think I'm gonna be in the Social Affairs Committee in the near future...
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-12_U111	Honourable member of the Riigikogu, you, like all members of the Riigikogu, have the opportunity to speak at second reading of each draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-12_U112	I just wanted to say thank you. [[Laughter.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-12_U113	Thank you very much. Let us move on to the negotiations, the negotiations of the political groups. On behalf of the Peeter Ernits Centre Party Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-12_U114	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Of course, I don't have time to talk here for so long about Malta's experience and eating onions. But if you read the protocol, the Social Affairs Committee has decided to reject the draft 89. The Commission's waitress gave a completely different signal to do what you want. That's how I figured it out. Everyone's watching him do it. And that's what the waitress said. It was actually very sympathetic, and it should be discussed and spoken in a more realistic way rather than based on what has been decided in party offices and political groups. I do not know how Mr Chef looks at the way Mr Aunaste was performing here, but that is their business. So, in essence, we have a very large inequality, there are 30 euros in Mikitamäe, 320 euros in Tallinn. Ten times the difference. In Tartu, 50 euros is paid, less than average, although there is a wealthy city. This means that there is quite brutal discrimination against families and children. Mikitamäe's are discriminated against ten times more than Tallinn's. It can also be said that by losing the pack subsidy after 2008, we have created a new factor that will help draw Mikitamäe's parents along with their children to Tallinn, which is not really necessary. There is no need for everyone to come to Tallinn and go from here to where they don't know. In essence, Mr Aunaste also spoke about the usual talk of self-government, which I have heard a lot: the municipalities are forced to take what the state has failed on their shoulders. This is not a normal thing, this endless barbecue between rural towns and the country. The state has become more and more a day-to-day burden on the shoulders of the municipalities, and let them see for themselves how they can handle it. This example is one of many. Remember, the Cities Union and the Association of Municipalities didn't even coordinate the state budget. There was a reason for that, isn't it? As I understand it, most of my colleagues on the left and on the right are probably convinced that children and families, families with children, should be treated with all seriousness. At the same time, the Committee on Social Affairs has decided to send a draft of the Central Party Group to 89 bins. This is a very strange situation. It's interesting to see how this hall is going to behave now. I actually have two questions, one of which was answered by Mr Aunaste. The first question: how do you, dear colleague Maire, intend to vote here? Is it the way your party and the Social Affairs Committee have decided to send the bill to the trash, or the other way? Second thing: When are you moving to the window? Thank you. [[Interjection.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-12_U115	Ladies and gentlemen, peace! One speech at a time.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-12_U116	If there's any nonsense, we could continue on Estonian Air. [[Laughter, applause.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-12_U117	Thank you. The political groups have no more wish to negotiate. The commission's proposal is to reject the draft at first reading and we will go to the vote on this proposal. Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting to reject the draft proposal by the commission at first reading. Please take a stand and vote. 49 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, against 38. The draft will fall out of the procedure.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-12_U118	We will proceed to today's last item on the agenda, which is the first reading of the 110 draft law on widow's pension initiated by the Estonian Centre Party Group. The rapporteur is Mikhail Stalnukhin, member of the Riigikogu. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-12_U119	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, By way of introduction...
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-12_U120	Ladies and gentlemen, pay attention to the waitress.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-12_U121	A little bit of statistics for a start. Estonia has 247000 people aged 65 or more. One third of them are men, an exact third, or 82000 .. and two thirds are women, who are 163000. That's just the way it is. The total number of pension beneficiaries is 414000, 1 out of 3 people living permanently in Estonia are pension beneficiaries. These include 162000 men, 252000 women, thus almost the same difference. We have about 300,000 retirement pensions and the ratio is roughly the same once again: one third, or 105000, are men, almost two thirds, or 195000, are women. Women live longer lives, and when they're alone, it's much harder for them to be in retirement than with a man. Therefore, two years ago, pensioners from Narva approached me as a member of the Riigikogu. This was done by specific associations, in particular the association Nadezhda, which includes 500 people, most of whom are pedagogical veterans. They made me proposals, which, of course, together with the group, I have drafted a bill that is now before you and your decision to make. The question is that the average pension in Estonia was 370 euros in the third quarter of last year. But that's the average, and it turns out that the Statistical Office doesn't give exact figures to the database. But it has been asked one, the other and the third, and it is clear that women's pensions are on average somewhat lower than men's pensions. But they are married couples. They've lived together, had children, raised them. The man has worked hard, and because of certain factors, his pension, when he reaches retirement age, is slightly higher than that of his wife. She raised children, sat at home with them, had a smaller career, and maybe she didn't succeed because two or three children took the bulk of her life, made a career like this, and got paid as men usually have. The two of them can manage at retirement age: they pay their utility bills, buy food, maybe even have enough to visit their children. But if the pensioner is left alone, then he really will be hit by a great depression, and he won't have enough money. Utilities are growing all the time, they're very high. They always come up with something to make the people's wallets even easier. The proposal was very simple. If you have raised children for our country together, why can't it be that if a man is dead, then he or she will receive a higher pension from a surviving spouse? After all, the country is currently saving off this couple, which is pure savings. If the difference is figuratively that a woman has a pension of 330 and a man had, for example, 390, then a woman could choose a man's pension. We're not talking about the same amount for everyone. Every person, every family's contribution to our economy, our country has been different, but the pension that the family has earned could be paid to people. I have already explained this bill to you at least once in this Chamber. Right now, I was trying to do it a little differently. If there are any questions about the formal side of the letter of explanation or the text of the bill, please ask. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-12_U122	Indeed, you also have questions. Eiki Nestor, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-12_U123	Thank you. On behalf of the honourable initiators, the waitress! Can you not see the problem with this bill that a good woman, old lady, may begin to receive more pensions without going to work for one day than the person who, for example, worked for over 40 years and raised a child alone?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-12_U124	Thank you for your question. I don't see a problem with that when she's been there for her husband. After all, we are talking about the pension earned by her husband, whose contribution to our economy, our country, has been granted. In order for him to contribute, he needed support. A woman is always with a man like that. There must be a nice woman behind every successful man. I don't see any problem with that.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-12_U125	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-12_U126	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good waitress! Siri Oviir, if I remember correctly, came up with the same thing in 2001. So it's been a while. But here's my question. You said there was a woman behind every successful man. What if it's a man? My question: would the widow's pension also apply to homosexual couples?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-12_U127	It's not up to me, it's up to this hall. I'm too old to retrain me and make it clear to me that a husband, a woman, can be a man. I don't know, luckily or unfortunately, but you don't make it clear to me that this is normal. But it's up to this hall. Thank you for asking because, in fact, there will also be talk in the Commission that it can be that children are living together and often being raised without being officially married. For God's sake, this bill brings out a lot of people's problems. If, in the Chamber, if the political groups wish to supplement it, we will meet with an open spirit immediately: we will add, we will expand the content! The way this hall decides, so let's do it, but the principle should be clear. You know this legend about swans: when one dies, the other commits suicide, just flies into the ground to death. Our pensioners are practically in the same position. A husband leaves, and a person's life becomes very difficult. God forbid there'd be children to help. The main thing right now is to solve this fundamental problem here, so see what's going to be added to the bill. If fashion is such that a man may also have a male husband, and if most of the halls are in favour of it, so be it. What I can't stand is that people love each other.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-12_U128	George Adams, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-12_U129	Mr Stalnukhin, you have mentioned that you have submitted a draft to this effect before. Since this has not been the Riigikogu during its composition, I hope that I do not remember wrong, it must be during the previous or previous composition. Would you please tell me how this bill went back then?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-12_U130	Yeah, it was in the last one. And the procedure went exactly as it has been this time. That it's not like it's a mistake to help people, but we have other benefits, we have other options. A representative of the Ministry came to the Commission. You know, I'm from the Estonians who are still confusing these two social ministers, so I can't tell you whose subordinate it was. It's really hard to figure out who's doing what. But the person in the ministry comes and says we're helping these people both ways. Last time it sounded in the Commission, if I remember correctly, such a funny number that 12 people, not 12,000, but 12 people! just had to get some kind of support. A Commission waitress can fix me if I'm wrong about something. Basically, the same is the case with these drafts: we are waiting for the coalition to do the job. For example, the government is currently drafting the concept of the border zone. I've been dealing with border gardening cooperatives for 15 years, that's a damn thing in this hall, but it turns out again sometime we don't have the concept of a border zone. The border is, the neighbouring country, which most politicians consider to be the enemy, the Defence Forces are, the border guards are, but the concept has not been for a quarter of a century. They always come up with something like that. The idea is good, it's like you should see how to implement it more widely, so that people have a better life, but fail. That's usually how it works.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-12_U131	Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-12_U132	Honourable President! Respectable waitress! I'm sorry, but you haven't worked too hard to prepare an explanatory statement, at least by writing down the item that states the costs necessary for implementation. Was it not possible to obtain this data, even in the order of magnitude, how many people are concerned and what could it cost? Or you didn't think it was important right now, and you think it's just important to approve the principle?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-12_U133	This, of course, is very important. Even discussing issues that are not linked to state budget resources poses major problems here. But it is clear that the draft has a major impact on the state budget, as it concerns a large number of pensioners. It's very important. When the ideas were discussed for the first time, it became clear that we could name an arbitrary number, but in order to calculate the right amount, a database is needed that exists in the Ministry of Social Affairs or in its administration. In fact, we have no place to take the information about how many pensioners are widows and what the difference is between their retirement and that of the deceased spouse. No statistical base. But since this issue has already been under discussion, I can tell you from memory that during the previous term, there was an indeterminate amount of 3 to 4 million. But let's just take the statistics that there are 300,000 old-age pensioners, with 195,000 women and 105,000 men. The difference is 900,000. We can assume that these 90,000 are widows. We can also assume that the difference between men's pensions is, well, let me call it an arbitrary number, 25 euros per month, or 300 euros per year. Multiply them at EUR 300 to EUR 90000. That's huge. I think 27 million will come. But these are all random numbers. If the Ministry of Social Affairs took the idea seriously, he'd figure out the exact figures. We cannot calculate them if we are in opposition.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-12_U134	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-12_U135	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, I actually already received the basic answer to my proposed question. That's why I'm going to modulate it a little bit, and I'm going to take it a little bit to a speculative level. Yesterday we discussed at length in this hall what costs the state the bankruptcy of Estonian Air and how much money has been put into the new airline. This size is 250 million euros. What do you think if, in our country, such a waste and an uneconomic ending, we could pay not only a widow's pension, but perhaps even some sort of civil salary?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-12_U136	Yeah, sure. The short answer is: of course we could do that. But as you know, we have at least two countries. One country is the one that thinks that we definitely need our own airline to maintain our renomee, even by four, and that 100, 200 or 250 million is no amount of money to keep our brand high. And there is another country: those old people who may have flown a plane a few times in their lives, but not once in the last ten or twenty years, and who know nothing about this problem at all. This should be about democracy. Those people who need this 200 million in order to have a normal pension are more often, or even dozens of times, than those who simply consider to be important to some symbol, be it Estonian Air or something else. But our electoral system is that those who are proud to keep our brand high and to be at European level in all areas will still come to power, it will be the cohabitation law, the reception of refugees or something else. We still want to keep up with modern ideas. But thank you for asking! I remembered reading an article yesterday about the Icelandic cod wars, and then I checked again because I didn't believe my eyes when I read it. Little Iceland, a little over 300,000 people, but three times fought out a 200-mile fishing zone. He put everything on the table, Europe, NATO, everything, but he did it on behalf of his fishermen, his population. And he did it so boldly, it's hard for me to even talk about it. I don't believe it! Countries are different. One country is brave enough to stand up for its inhabitants. The other sees no need for it, even when people are leaving. Where farther away they're going than to Europe, they're still in Europe. We are all Europeans, what difference does it make how many people live in Estonia? And the fact that one in three is a pensioner doesn't seem to be bothering anyone at all.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-12_U137	Imre Sooäär, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-12_U138	Thank you, good manager. Honourable waitress! My question is motivated by the question of your good colleague, Peter Ernits. You said in your answer that you're an older person and that it's hard to retrain you, but you ended up with a very positive tolerance. Let me get this straight. Let me give a simple example: suppose two older members of the Centre Party have entered into a partnership agreement under the law on cohabitation adopted, we thank the Centre Party for its participation as well! And one of them will be widowed. Would you personally support this other person to receive a widow's pension?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-12_U139	Thank you, Mr Imre. Politics is an art of compromise. My sentence meant that if you and your group support our bill, I am so grateful that I will not resist if you put in single-sex couples. This is a compromise and I think it is a sensible compromise that people would understand.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-12_U140	Jaanus Karilaid.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-12_U141	Thank you to the manager. Good waitress! Has the Ministry of Social Affairs examined more precisely how many of Estonia's individual pensioners live in deep poverty? Is the Ministry of Social Affairs in charge of collecting such data?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-12_U142	I'm sure it will. If you can't help me, we can collect the data anyway, can't we? But how many are there? I somehow think that my colleague Marika Tuus-Song knows it much better, that's her line. I don't dive that deep in the study of this subject.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-12_U143	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-12_U144	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! There is a problem, people do have concerns, the solutions of which are expected from this hall. I was wondering, do you have an overview of how this has been resolved in different countries? How many countries have widow's pensions? Do you have any idea?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-12_U145	When the bill was in the previous composition of the proceedings, I obtained this information. There are countries where a widow's pension exists, which is called a widow's pension, but by its very nature it is completely different. There is no such solution as our pensioners have proposed to make a choice between their earned pension and their lost spouse's pension. There is a widow's pension in our neighbouring Finland, but this is a much more powerful measure than what we are proposing here. You might think there's nothing like that anywhere, but after that last time, I didn't start looking at those options. This can now be done between two readings. If this interest persists, we can certainly continue on this subject.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-12_U146	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-12_U147	Thank you, manager. Dear waitress, In my opinion, this is a very sympathetic draft and, in my opinion, it would level out the inequalities that have arisen over the course of life. I am thinking of a gender pay gap. It is clear that women are paid less than men. Unfortunately, the weaker half of the man who leaves early is alive. Why, then, should men's contributions to the state not, in many cases, receive a higher salary, not be transferred to the other side of the couple? One party's duties have to be taken over by another. I think that's a very nice idea. If we are trying to save young families with obligations to banks, such as leasing, why can't people of higher age be supported in the same way? It does not cost the country much, and these families have contributed to the country.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-12_U148	The honest answer is, I don't know why. I do not know why our country does one thing or another, why one choice is made. I've been a long time asking questions about what happens when you don't answer. I'm not predicting anything because I know that in a few minutes something could happen that was absolutely impossible to imagine. Even in a dream, you don't see things that actually happen. But I thank you for the question, because it said 'parental allowance'. I would remind you that, in my time, when it came out of my memory, it was in 2002 or 2003, there were two concepts. Basically everyone agreed, but there were two concepts. One was to pay it equally for everyone, but it was said that this mother or this father would make a much greater contribution to our country. This was the main argument and then a system of parental pay was introduced, where initially there was a 13-fold difference. The minimum was 200 kroons, and the maximum was around 3,000 if I wasn't fooled by memory. Actually, I think he's cheating. The difference was even bigger. So one problem is that we're betting on the kids, but right now, this measure isn't working very well. Ive is what it is. I guess I should at least bet on those people who've done everything they can. But yes, I can't tell you why some or other decisions are taken. Sometimes this can be explained by the arrival of an election campaign, sometimes by the desire to put competition on the ground. But in most cases, it's very difficult to explain anything.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-12_U149	Ain Lutsepp, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-12_U150	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Honourable speaker! This is a very remarkable problem, but here is my question. In the light of this draft, what would be the role of pension pillars in the payment of a widow's pension? Yeah, that's it.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-12_U151	I can see it very clearly. Our pension system is quite complex, but ultimately it gives each person a specific pension, depending on their age, contribution to work, pension pillars, etc. It can be calculated at any time, is the person alive or dead, and can be compared to the amount of pension for one spouse and the size of the other. I don't use words here, man and woman, sometimes, on the contrary, a woman has a bigger pension and she dies sooner. But all the elements from which the sum of the pension is calculated now remain. There are two amounts that a person compares, and if there is a difference and it is in the favour of a deceased spouse, there could be an opportunity to choose this pension rather than your own. There's no point in going into the second and third pillar theory here.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-12_U152	Arno Bridge.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-12_U153	Dear waitress, How do you imagine a widow's pension would have anything to do with the existence of raised children and their obligations?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-12_U154	Yeah, it's supposed to be about having kids. If we're gonna start something that looks like a thank-you, we're gonna have to figure out what for. And the draft law states that the right to a widow's pension is for a person who has reached the age of 63 or more, whose spouse, who has been married to a person for at least 16 years and who has together raised at least one child, has died at the time of his or her retirement age or at the age of his or her retirement age. Here, of course, the number of years of being married or the number of children could change between two readings. But the condition of having a child raised together is certain. For me, and for the people who initiated this draft, it is one of the most important things.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-12_U155	No further questions to the originator. The Commission's waitress is Aivar Kokk.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-12_U156	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, At its meeting on 14 December, the Social Affairs Committee of the Riigikogu discussed 110 preparations for first reading of the draft widow's pension law. Initiator's representative, Mikhail Stalnukhin, member of the Central Party Group, presented a draft to the Commission to amend the National Pension Insurance Act. The aim is to provide for a widow's pension for persons who are old-age and whose old-age spouse, with whom the person has been married for at least 16 years and with whom the person has raised at least one child, has died. Members of the Commission were informed of the views of the Government of the Republic on the draft widow's pension law. The government does not support the proposed draft because a similar pension already exists in the form of a survivor's pension. A widow's pension would essentially be a special case of a survivor's pension. In addition, the implementation of such a law would entail significant State budget costs, but no reference is made to what these resources are found in the explanatory memorandum. However, at the meeting of the Government of the Republic, it was decided to support the payment of additional support to pensioners living alone, according to the Population Register, whose monthly income is less than EUR 115 per person. In order to further develop the system of public pension insurance, the Ministry of Social Affairs and the Ministry of Finance, together with stakeholders and representatives of the social partners, analyse the issues of national retirement pensions. The members of the Commission listened to the presentation of the draft and the views of the Government of the Republic, expressed their opinion on the draft and asked further why such criteria had been chosen: they must have been married for at least 16 years and have been raised together with at least one child. The originator's representative explained that these criteria were based on the opinion of the people who proposed it. The Commission took the following decisions: to propose that the draft be placed on the agenda of the plenary session on 12 January; to propose that the draft be rejected (by 5 against 4); to set a deadline of 10 working days for amendments; and to appoint Aivar Kokk, President of the Commission as rapporteur. All decisions were taken by consensus, except for rejection. Peter Ernits asked how the chairman of the committee felt about the matter. I can tell you that I feel the same way as Maire. I'm ripped apart, too. Questions about how to treat one or the other draft are often difficult, as conscience and the possibilities of the state budget do not coincide. When it comes to widow's pension, Mikhail said that the relevant data could not be obtained from anywhere, but it is actually known that there are 96000 pensioners living alone in the Republic of Estonia, of whom widows are about a third. Considering that at least 16 years of marriage and at least one child's claim, the figures would, of course, decrease. At the moment, however, the Members of the Commission and the Coalition are of the opinion that it should not matter whether you have been married for at least 16 years or if you have been less married than you live alone and receive only a pension, it is much more difficult to live away than living together with someone. A law is currently under preparation, the implementation of which is also provided for in the 2017 state budget. The aim is to support all old-age pensioners living alone so that they can pay their utilities and even manage financially. I do not think there should be such a distinction that we support and do not support one of the pensioners living alone. That is why the Commission does not support the draft widow's pension law. At the same time, we are certainly prepared to come to the Riigikogu Hall this semester with a new draft, which takes into account all the pros and cons and all the people who are in retirement age but live alone. We want to support these utilities. It's just that it's really harder on its own than it is on its own.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-12_U157	Now the questions. Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-12_U158	Thank you, Honourable Chairman. Respectable waitress! You brokered the opinion of the Government of the Republic and it states that this bill would involve considerable expenditure or significant pressure on the state budget to become a law. Are there any more details about the order of magnitude? How much could that be?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-12_U159	Yes, the order of magnitude is 10 million euros.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-12_U160	Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-12_U161	Thank you. Good colleague! I honestly didn't understand that. You said in the government's reply that the normal pension already exists, and now you're announcing that in two or three months, a new bill will be issued. How do these things fit together? After this meeting, can we say that the government's decision states that the pension already exists, and Stalnukhin came up with a bill that is not necessary? Is there any way you can comment on that?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-12_U162	Valeri, I was actually talking about a survivor's pension. The survivor's pension shall be entitled to a survivor's pension in the event of the death of the survivor to the members of his/her dependent family. A survivor's pension shall be granted to a child, parent or widow regardless of whether they were dependent on the provider or not. If the survivor died because of an injury or occupational disease, the survivor's pension shall be granted without a claim for seniority. The amount of the survivor's pension depends on the number of family members. If there are three or more family members, the amount is 100 euros, and if there is one, it is possible to receive 50% of this pension. That's one. It is not the same as the widow's pension you have proposed. All pensioners who live alone are not widows. It is also known that many people live together in Estonian society, but for some reason they do not register for marriage. This is also the result of additional problems. All in all, we see that it is important to support pensioners living alone, and it is important that everyone is equally supported and not selected for one part of those who are struggling.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-12_U163	Jaanus Karilaid!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-12_U164	Thank you to the manager. Good waitress! You claimed that many pensioners living alone would find it difficult to pay utilities. If that's what you said, you certainly know how many people there are and how long such a problem has existed.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-12_U165	As I said before, people living alone on retirement pensions are in the size of 96000 in Estonia, plus people living alone who are receiving special pension or disability pension, who are 6000. So this order of magnitude is a little over 100,000 people who are struggling. Most of them must be hard to cope with. Some people receiving Riigikogu pensions or any other special pension are, of course, excluded, but most have problems. That is why this bill is being prepared to resolve them.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-12_U166	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-12_U167	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! It is known that we men live on average ten years less than Estonian women. That probably applies to us too, Aivar. Now you're saying that 10 million is a considerable cost. Does this mean that if our widows were to receive our pension, the state has actually calculated that we are going to die early and that this money is going to be paid out to the 10 million? The second question is that, according to you, in 2017, pensioners living alone will receive some form of public utility support. How big could it be? It's definitely much smaller than the widow's pension we offered.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-12_U168	Good Peter! Let us begin by saying that when this draft was presented in the committee, it would cost about 2.5 million. When asked about this in this room today, it was said that the cost could be 4 to 5 million. Today we are talking about the 10 million meant to support pensioners living alone. It is very easy to calculate that if the order of magnitude is 100000 pensioners living alone and if the budget is 10 million, the rate of this grant will be EUR 100-115. This 10 million is included in the point of the Coalition Agreement and should take effect from 2017. For now, I believe that before we go on our summer vacation, we will be able to accept this bill and accept it here. One proposal does not rule out the other. The draft we are proposing is simply a broader bottom and takes into account all pensioners living alone who have difficulty living. And it is not a measure to cover utilities, but a measure to support pensioners living alone. I merely mentioned, for example, that it is difficult for a pensioner living alone to pay utilities. If you live alone, you can divide that cost into two.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-12_U169	George Adams, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-12_U170	Mr Commission's representative! There's supposed to be a widow's pension right now. At least there was recently a decision of the Supreme Court on this subject, based on the fact that about three years ago the widow's pension for judges was abolished and some transitional problem arose. Perhaps this is still the case for special pensions. I can now recall that, in principle, in the case of the President's spouse, I do not know what kind of pension is provided for under the same name. Perhaps you have some information about this and maybe you know something about the kind of widow's pensions that were applied in Estonia before the war.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-12_U171	I do not know which widow's pensions were used in Estonia before the war. Right now, the only thing I know is really intended for the president's husband. If the President leaves this world, his wife is entitled to a pension, but this is not called a widow's pension.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-12_U172	March Sults, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-12_U173	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good waitress! You claimed that the survivor's pension already existed and the widow's pension was like introducing some sort of distinction. Do you not think that the Republic of Estonia is so small and so specific that all the differences must be discussed and taken into account separately? The one hundred euros you said here are going to be a pension supplement, that's a ridiculous amount at the present cost of living. Why was our bill not taken into account as a necessary distinction?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-12_U174	Once again, I say that the ideas and thoughts you have proposed will certainly be returned when the system of supporting pensioners living alone is being discussed. The pros and cons will then be considered, taking into account both the draft on the agenda today and the content of the subsequent initiatives. As the draft subsidy for pensioners living alone is not ready, it is not possible to examine and analyse the two drafts together. Of course, this amount is small, but I must admit to you that everything begins with taxes, tax receipts. That is how much social benefits we can share. Before we talked about the old-age pension, now we are talking about the widow's pension and other benefits for pensioners living alone. As you know, the social tax paid by workers through employers is not enough to pay the current pensions either. Half a billion must be paid for all other taxes. Someone here was talking about the problems of the airlines and the sums they're paying for them. I am sorry that there are very few people in the Chamber who are entrepreneurs. It is thanks to entrepreneurs and business that the sums that we can collect as taxes and then distribute. Every support always seems very small, if you look at it from an individual perspective, and very large, if you consider the entire company to whom some kind of support is given. Maire has just taken an emotional and very good look at the subject of ranch support. School food money, children's benefits, family allowances, when you put them all together, we get a very large amount of money that has to be paid out of the state budget. If you look at only one line and you know that 100 euros are paid to 141000 children going to school in Estonia and 100,000 pensioners living alone, it seems like a very large amount, but it is a small amount alone. That's how life is. But I think we need to think today in this Chamber about how to revive the Estonian economy, create more expensive jobs and give entrepreneurs more opportunities. It will certainly be possible to pay much more social benefits if we have a proper tax receipts. In the current economic situation, life in the European Union is not the easiest, and it will certainly not be what we hope for next year. But everything has to be done to boost the economy.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-12_U175	March Sults, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-12_U176	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good waitress! You had very good thoughts. You, like, think you're reviving the economy, but I think the coalition government is killing economic development and adopting laws to kill the economy from tourism to mediation. Well, maybe it's because you guys haven't been around a lot. I, for example, have been chosen from North Tallinn, Kristiine and Haaberst. If you go there with pensioners living alone, then, I'm sorry, they can't handle themselves, because many people have a pension of 200 euros. You are talking about social benefits, but it is extremely difficult to apply for them and they cannot get the money. They too have the right to live their last few years living and humane conditions, but they are unable to pay for gas and pay for heating. At the same time, we're practically trying to keep them alive and healthy and happy playing at the border of the law. How do you look at that?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-12_U177	Thank you, Märt, for the question. I don't think I go to seniors any less than you do. Of course, Lasnamäe is much more compact and it is easier to go to homes than in Jõgeva County or in Tartu County or in the rest of Estonia, where there are not so many people in one place together. It's easier to go through a high-rise building on Lasnamägi, of course, if you can get through any door. In some municipalities or villages, there aren't as many people as there are in one house. I have been dealing with the concerns of pensioners living alone for a long time, and that is why I know these figures a little better than the people in this Chamber on average. Of course, it is difficult for pensioners. That is why the coalition has made it very clear that they must be supported. The widow's pension we are discussing is also not a bad idea. No one in this hall is going to say that this is a bad idea. But it only takes into account one part of the pensioners living alone, the draft that is being prepared takes into account them all. If you ask again why so little is paid, I would stress that social tax will fall from 33% to 32.5% this year. The part of this tax that goes to pay pensions does not cover the current pension fund. To this end, more money must be taken from excise duties and VAT from other sources in order to cover the pension fund. We can still take money out of our pocket as much as there's money in our pocket, that's all we can do. It is within these limits that subsidies must be calculated. I have been an entrepreneur since it was possible to become an entrepreneur in the Republic of Estonia. I can sit calmly in this room, my companies will certainly pay taxes to pay my salary, and they will. That is the question of looking at the state of affairs with the eyes of the entrepreneur. It's always complaining there's nothing left to do, there's still more to do. As an entrepreneur, I say that it is always the right way to intervene as little as possible in business. The less to do so, the better it will be for the company to engage in its own business and to boost the economy. Any directives and other interventions could make it more difficult for the economy to recover.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-12_U178	Heimar Lenk, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-12_U179	Thank you. Honourable performer! I want you to explain to the hall the difference between a survivor's pension and a widow's pension. You are now amazed that these two things cover each other or that the new law can compensate for the widow's pension. We're still talking about a whole different thing. In the case of a survivor's pension, we are talking about very poor people, poor people who have to ask to go, have their hands on me long enough to give me support. Mikhail Stalnukhin of the Centre Party speaks of a completely different matter in this bill. He talks about married couples who have lived together for many years and who would have the right to receive a pension for their husband or wife. They have built their lives together and supported Estonia with their strong taxes. But we're gonna take that money, and the state's gonna put it in their pockets. You're saying we don't have enough money. But look in the mirror! The same government that is currently sitting in Stenbock's house is responsible for our economy...
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-12_U180	Now, please, ask a question.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-12_U181	I already asked! I'm asking him to compare these two pensions and explain the difference, not to blur in front of the hall.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-12_U182	Good Heimar! All of us, all of the members of the Riigikogu have been given a computer and all of our computers are connected to the Internet. If you type in a 'nutrition pension', you'll see that it's not the support people go by the door every month to ask for. It's something else. It states very clearly the conditions under which the survivor's pension can be obtained and the amount of the survivor's pension. It's a long table. For example, in the case of 30 years of service, the survivor's pension is about EUR 300. I don't have the whole table in my head, but I can tell you that the amount of survivor's pension depends on how many people get that pension. If there is a family with three or more members, it is 100%, if there are two family members, 80%, for a person living alone 50%. This also depends on the size of the pensioner's pension. And I would also like to draw your attention to the fact that the government had a letter about the survivor's pension, not the committee's debate. I was talking about what the government said. Some of the current widows receive a survivor's pension. But this, of course, is not the same as a widow's pension. That's what I said. I do not want to state at all that the difference between a survivor's pension and a widow's pension can be marked as equal. These are different approaches to the situation when someone in the family dies. I would like to emphasise once again that a draft is being prepared, in which we take account of all pensioners living alone, and that is why the Commission has taken such a decision.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-12_U183	No further questions. I'm opening negotiations. On behalf of the Centre Party Group, Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-12_U184	Mr. Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, I did not intend to speak anymore, but if we were talking about a widow's pension even when it came to economic recovery, how can we not talk about it? I would remind you that in 1999, there was this situation that there was a certain crisis and that the people began to steal metal. The problem became very big, with road signs, elevator engines disappearing, and not all of which were stolen. This was one of the most unpleasant of the problems in Ida-Virumaa, and so some members of the Riigikogu submitted a draft with which they wanted to put a barrier to the purchase of metal. There should be five people in this Chamber who were then in the Riigikogu, and they should remember this. The first time we proposed a simple solution is that there are three or four points that are licensed and can give away metal. After all, it was purely pirate. The first time the bill fell out, the second time fell out, then a rare thing happened. One single time, when it happened that I was travelling for two weeks, I learned after my return that the bill that I had issued before I left was accepted in the Riigikogu Chamber. I was just shocked. How is that possible?! But they really voted in favour. Oh, my God, they just got kicked out twice, but maybe they've been accepted.! I went to ask how it worked, and without me. And then I was told that the faction of a party that is still here in the Riigikogu found once again that, uh, the draft of the central party's group's draft of metal buying-in was thrown out. Then there were two readings, everything happened in one or two weeks. And then one man you all know stood up, a successful businessman, and he said, "Damn, you gotta put a stop to it! I have a cabin, three kilometers of cable stolen, and was stolen because all the reception points will accept this cable as metal at any time. Let's fucking do this thing so it's licensed! ' The faction gave up. Every time I think about how one thing goes or what kind of support it gets, I remember the story. And it comes to mind another story from the same group. When the problem of HIV and AIDS initially arose, everyone thought that it was not an Estonian problem; it was only somewhere in Ida-Viru County. One person here started talking about his cock and what he didn't say there was a joke. The mind was changed when young people in their area began to get sick. I do not know whether, in connection with this draft, I should talk about the fact that not all of us are entrepreneurs who have secured ten lives in advance. Among us are people who work from salary to salary. Isn't that right? Maybe we could think about our family, start with that. In the time I have been here in the Riigikogu, I have sent at least four colleagues who today did not know that they would die tomorrow. Their widows were left alone. Everyone has that problem. Think! More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-12_U185	An extra three minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-12_U186	And another thing. Anyone who comes to this remote control will start talking about 16 years of living together, one child raised together, 2.5 million or 4 million or 10 million and so on. I'd say, compared to a model, it's like a game of chess. Yes, the first moves we make are purely mechanical: we draw up a bill, we give in, e2, e4, the opposites are more or less known. But that's not gonna happen later. In the world, chess is not played in such a way that thousands of chessians only follow the same path, there are huge variations. It is also possible to consider and agree on a new scenario for each draft procedure. If you don't like living together for 16 years, let's think about how to change it. One child, two children or three children and all the other points, including the expenses that come to in everything can be discussed and changed. And another, third thing. This has been briefly discussed, but in fact there is no need to find any additional money in a pure form, there is no need for additional sources in the air. These sources are there. If you had a sincere desire for people to live longer, and, imagine, if the average life expectancy suddenly increased by five or ten years, you would have exactly the same problem if you didn't want to. It is not a question of finding a small piece of what has already been paid inside the same funds that a person has paid for his life. I wouldn't take that as an extra amount of money. I think it's a fair redistribution of money. So the question is which scenario to choose and how to agree on the main points. The best way to go now is to finish the first reading and think about how to proceed. I've already recalled 1999. There are people in this Chamber who remember how independent we were then, 17 years ago, how one or the other group chairman took a break, the group usually gathered in that corner and discussed that new facts, new facts, might think about them. Colleagues, why don't we think about it?! Take a break, let's finish first reading! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-12_U187	On behalf of the Jüri Adams Free Party Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-12_U188	Ladies and gentlemen of the House! The Chairman of the Social Affairs Committee, Aivar Kokk, said that I don't think anyone thinks this bill is bad. I have to admit that I came here on the remote to say precisely that I think this bill is bad, and not just bad, but very bad. The reason is not that I do not consider the objectives of this draft to be correct, but I think that this instrument, which is intended to achieve these objectives, is inappropriate. It is not the case that there is only one way in which an objective can be achieved. There are different instruments and, in this case, we are offered an exceptionally strange solution. In the last 20 years, no one in the Riigikogu has proposed to introduce an archaic social security mechanism in Estonia that has ever been and flourished, but which has now almost died out of the world for various reasons. The idea of having to be a widow's pension is, in fact, part of the pre-democratic era. This was in the era of the kingdoms of Europe, when, after the death of the higher rulers of the kingdoms, it was customary for their widows to receive financial support for the rest of their lives. It certainly was not designed to save them from starvation because the economic system and the system of charges were so arranged that they would not starve. The basic idea was to maintain their customary standard of living, a regular community of communication. This system also stood out in the sense that it was never financed by taxpayers' money. As a rule, public property or the personal property of kings were used. The system apparently reached perfection in Prussia in the last 30 years of the overnighting century, when the Prussian administrative model developed, one of the most important features of which was that the country was run by professional apolitical officials, whose profession also had the privilege that if they died earlier than their spouses, their widows would receive a special pension. As far as I know in the Republic of Estonia, until World War II, there were a small number of senior civil servants who were subject to the same rules. This particular type of pension began to die out all over Europe since the introduction of universal democratic pension systems. When we regained our independence in the early 1990s, the memory of the Prussian model was so strong that the same idea arose that such widow pensions could be introduced to attract the best people to higher state offices. They were introduced alongside other types of special pensions. I am not properly prepared today in the sense that I do not know whether there is a special pension, for example, for prosecutors or for anyone else. The President's wife has it. About three years ago, this pension was paid to the spouses of the judges. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-12_U189	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-12_U190	Last autumn, one of the Supreme Court's decisions was made on the missus of a judge. He applied for a widow's pension, justifying that he would not be treated as expected, since his wife, who was a high-paid judge, had died only a few months after the Riigikogu had lost this separate widow's pension statute. Anyway, the point of coming back to such archaicism is not good. I have been able to see quite a number of cases over these years when trying to introduce something in the country that is actually old and old. Mr Stalnukhin has voters who continue to live with memories that once, a hundred years ago, this type of pension has been practiced. That's what life is like. The voters are not obliged to be aware of everything, but Mr Stalnukhin and other members of the Riigikogu should be aware of what general tendencies are and where to go. I argue that archaisms, as far as I have seen them as established by Estonian law, have, as a rule, led to more harm than the good that is intended. At times, disasters have resulted. Yesterday, a groupmate, Andres Ammas, showed me a study prepared by the National Audit Office on how the institution of the shoreline provided for in the Law of Property Act has been restored in Estonia in its own time. There have been problems with this, too, but this is one of the few examples that an archaic institution has managed to restore our country so that we can be happy and proud of it. But the revival of the idea of widow's pension in the middle of the 19th century or even in the 18th century in the Republic of Estonia in 2016 is totally inappropriate. If there is any need to achieve results in order to alleviate the distress described here by Mr Stalnukhin, then the right, modern and appropriate methods must be chosen.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-12_U191	Mr Stalnukhin has the right to be heard. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-12_U192	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I always listen to everything Mr Adams says with great respect. But at least one thing I am sure of: European royal families and widows of their families have absolutely nothing in common with the widows of Ida-Virumaa and Estonia as a whole.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-01-12_U193	There is no further wish for negotiations. I'm closing the negotiations. The proposal of the lead committee is to reject the 110 draft at first reading. This proposal must be voted on in plenary. Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on the draft proposal of the commission to reject 110 at first reading. Please take a stand and vote. Quiet during the vote, please. 53 members of the Riigikogu are in favour of the commission's proposal, 30 against, 5 abstentions. Bill 110 has been rejected at first reading. Closure of the sitting at 12.52 p.m.
