ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-10_U1	Good fellows, good morning. We will begin the session of the 3rd plenary session of the Riigikogu on the 7th working week on Thursday. First of all, I would like to ask those members of the Riigikogu who wish to hand over the drafts or inquiries to the Riigikogu. Please, Thomas Vitsu!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-10_U2	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to report to Minister for the Interior, Hanno Pevkur, on the restructuring of the Rescue Board. I and the members of my group are a little concerned about the plans that the Minister of the Interior has with the Rescue Board. We want to know what is going to happen, whether restructuring will not damage the ability to save and how many people will lose their jobs. Right now, information has been on the level of rumors, but we'll ask the Minister of the Interior.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-10_U3	Riigikogu speech chair Aadu Musta, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-10_U4	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The members of the Riigikogu have become interested in a major public procurement by the Ministry of Education and Research, which had to resolve a number of important issues. First of all, this procurement is very interesting because it concerns the teaching of Estonian in Russian schools, second, it is innovative (digital educational resources, etc.) and it also has other interesting aspects. The public procurement was announced in November and it seemed that so much work for all classes of Russian-speaking schools would have to be completed by teaching the Estonian language in four months, but it would appear that this problem was solved. Public procurement was won by OÜ Hevami, whose business is to sell flowers, plants, seeds, plants and fertilisers in specialised stores and hairdressing and other beauty services. As the documents show, this limited company has so far had no experience of pedagogical activities. There's been a lot of detail going on in the first place. Therefore, we have a number of questions for the Minister for Education and Research, to which his previous experience as Minister of Finance must certainly help, and perhaps strong legal knowledge is also needed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-10_U5	Riigikogu speech chair Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-10_U6	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! It is quite nice that yesterday a very broad statement was handed over here regarding Nadia Savtšenko. Through this sad individual case, the Riigikogu can also address the international security situation, which we may have left a little out of focus. Eight members of the Free Party Group are now submitting an inquiry to the Prime Minister, which concerns another very important issue, which has not been discussed too much either here or in the Estonian public. This is the possible construction of the Nord Stream 2 pipeline under our side, with consequences both for the energy security of the European Union and very clearly for the future of Ukraine, should this pipeline be built in this form. We ask the Prime Minister six questions about what the government has done to raise awareness of this problem in its dealings with neighbouring countries and at European level with the European Commission. Among other things, one of the questions relates to how we intend to increase Estonia's capacity and legal competence so that we can have a better say in shaping the European Union's energy policy, also in view of the forthcoming Presidency of the European Union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-10_U7	Good colleagues, no more calls. On behalf of the Executive Board of the Riigikogu, I have adopted three inquiries. The Management Board of the Riigikogu decides on their further processing in accordance with the Home and Rules of Procedure Act. Let us move on to today's agenda item. But first, let's do the presence check. 90 members of the Riigikogu registered as present and no 11.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-03-10_U8	Our item today is the third reading of the draft law amending the Anti-Corruption Act, initiated by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. Do the representatives of the political groups wish to negotiate? No calls, no negotiations. Let us begin the preparation of the final vote. I will put draft 143 to the final vote. Please take a stand and vote. In favour of 73 members of the Riigikogu, there are no respondents or abstentions. Draft law 143 on anti-corruption initiated by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has been adopted as a law. The first item is closed. Good fellows, today's session is closed. I thank you and wish you the strength of our work! Closure of the sitting at 10.07 a.m.
