ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-28_U1	Dear Riigikogu, good afternoon. Question Time. Incoming check, please! 26 members of the Riigikogu will be present in Question Time. The members of the government at Question Time are Prime Minister Taavi Rõivas, Minister of Culture Indrek Saar and Minister of the Interior Hanno Pevkur. Attention, honourable Riigikogu! Since yesterday he expressed his wish to ask questions to six members of the Riigikogu, today the President of the Riigikogu gives two additional questions to the person who signed up yesterday and to the other good members of the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-28_U2	The first question is Krista Arult to Prime Minister Taavi Rõivas. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-28_U3	Mr President! Prime Minister! A meeting of the Scientific and Development Council was held on 20 September. The website of the Scientific and Development Council is very poor. The latest material has been released there this March. This does not correspond in any way to the good practice of e-Governance. But my question concerns the decisions of the Scientific and Development Council. In the report of the Scientific and Development Council, there was much talk about the merger of research institutions and higher education institutions. There was also talk of this as an initial idea, subsequent in-depth analyses, SWOTs, and only then will the decision be taken. At the same time, we know that the unification process has already begun. Who and when took the decision to unite higher education and research institutions?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-28_U4	Thank you. The Scientific and Development Council was remembered to have commissioned an analysis in this area from Gunnar Ok during the previous government. He wrote not only, as some may have been impressed, but also with the best heads in the field of research and development, a report containing a number of recommendations on how to improve the competitiveness of Estonian research and development. That's the background. Indeed, as you said, about a year ago, we looked at this report in the Scientific and Development Council and agreed on further steps. Now, on 20 September, the TAN proposed that the Government proceed with certain specific consolidation proposals. But the decision, of course, must ultimately be made by the government. At the moment, it is not correct to say that the decision has been finally taken. There are also specific nuances in the case of several establishments. Firstly, which major research institution to join, but there are a number of other issues. There was a question, for example, about the Institute of the Estonian Language, which you have asked me before: namely, how to ensure the role of the Estonian language so far when possible, and also to carry out the tasks that the EKI has to the public. All these issues must, of course, be considered in detail and analysed very calmly, so that no one can say that the result is getting worse instead of improving. This, of course, is something that we still have to deal with.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-28_U5	Krista Aru, the first question to be specified, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-28_U6	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! I will now stop at the Estonian Language Institute. As we know, both the Research Council of the Estonian Language Institute and the Ministry of Education and Research and the University of Tartu have dealt with the analysis of whether it would be necessary and reasonable to combine the language institute with the University of Tartu and what its good results could be. In fact, no analysis has shown these good results, yet it still seems that the language institute should be merged with the University of Tartu. The Language Council has taken a completely negative position. The Institute's own Council has taken a negative position. How, then, is it possible that this process will continue?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-28_U7	Thank you. The government must consider the opinions of all the panels of experts who assist the government in making a decision. You are right, the language council has taken a negative stance, but the TAN, the Scientific and Development Council, which is similarly qualified as expert council, has taken a positive attitude. I believe that there are certain nuances at stake here, which, given that it is possible to find a solution that actually suits most parties. Among other things, there has been a great deal of talk about how to ensure the protection of the Estonian language, even at the level of the law, much better so that such criticism cannot be made. But let it be said once again that the government has not discussed this issue and therefore it is not possible to talk about final decisions. The government must consider the arguments of both the Research and Development Council and the Language Council and then make a decision that is in Estonia's interest. Of course, we are guided by the aim that the Estonian language, on which it depends, if you could say so, our existence, would in any case be protected. There must be no risk that anyone can complain that in some of the new legal formats it is not possible to perform the most important functions of the Estonian language or the most important functions of protecting the Estonian language. This is, in my opinion, a very, very important issue, and the government is still going to make this decision with great thought.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-28_U8	Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-28_U9	Honourable President! Honorable Prime Minister! The proposals, conclusions and ideas contained in the so-called Gunnar Ok report have started with the most feasible or simple, i.e. consolidation of institutions. But what is the government going to do in the near future with its many proposals?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-28_U10	Thank you. That's a very good question. Indeed, there were dozens of proposals and they were not ranked in the order of importance or chronological order of Gunnar Ok. In his opinion, they are of equal importance and should all be treated in the same way. In what order and how are the proposals to be implemented? I believe that this can certainly be said in more detail to you by the Minister for Education and Science, who has just taken up office. But as head of the Scientific and Development Council, I can say that much more proposals have been discussed in TAN. It is simply this proposal for consolidation that has attracted the most public attention and, to say the least, has aroused passion. It makes sense, therefore, that this is what comes into the headlines. In fact, more proposals have been discussed, including, for example, how to bring more foreign students and lecturers to Estonia, what opportunities there are. One concrete step is Tallinn-centred, but still. The draft state budget, which I am handing over to you today, provides for an extension of the European School. This allows us to provide education in English to a lot more students, and it also gives us the opportunity to bring more foreign specialists, including faculty members. We have been talking about creating a scholarship programme in which talented students can study abroad. One proposal concerns how to ensure that foreign students who are graduating from the university in Estonia and whom Estonia has become adorable during this time stay here to work. These are often very good people who have received a very good education as well as our own people. So the range of topics is actually much wider, there are dozens of proposals and they are all dealt with in order. But I believe that the Minister of Education and Science is prepared to respond in more detail on this subject than I am.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-28_U11	The second point to be clarified. Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-28_U12	Thank you. Mr. Prime Minister! I wanted to get to the draft state budget for next year. Is R &amp; D a priority for this budget?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-28_U13	Thank you. The main priorities were formulated by the government about a year and a half ago when it took office. One of these priorities is also to contribute to economic growth, as far as possible in view of the country's potential. When we think about the potential of the state to contribute to economic growth, they are contributing to research and development in addition to creating a favourable business and tax environment, so that we have smarter jobs and higher wages. This is certainly an important area. The amounts of R &amp; D will increase next year. Their share of GDP will also increase, which we will follow very closely. We know that the European countries that have achieved the 1% of GDP of the R &amp; D target taken by Estonia can be counted on the fingers of one hand. But our ambitions must be high, and I think that in this area no one needs to iron out if we really want to get to the top five in Europe. And that, I believe, is supported by everyone in this hall. Now we're going from 0.84% to 0.86%. It is not a very rapid growth, it must be acknowledged, but it is still a clear step forward. I believe that this step forward is one that the Riigikogu could support.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-28_U14	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-28_U15	The next question is for Minister of the Interior, Hanno Pevkur. Erki Savisaar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-28_U16	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. In May 2015, Uber began to offer driving-sharing services in Estonia. In February 2016, the Estonian police took a clear view that Uber's activities in Estonia were illegal. How does the Estonian police exercise control over the activities of Uber and other travel-sharing service providers? How much has the driver been fined so far?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-28_U17	Thank you for your question. As you know very well, Parliament is currently discussing the issue of the collaborative economy very intensively. If this area were to be clarified, it would bring joy not only to the Ministry of the Interior, but also to the Police and Border Guard Board. There's a lot of grey territory right now. In fact, yes, the police were not able to answer the public in any other way, because indeed, when passenger transport takes place, it is regulated by law. And if an infringement of the rule on the carriage of passengers is detected, a misdemeanour procedure must be initiated. To date, as far as I know, the police have conducted two misdemeanor proceedings. They have been completed for reasons of rationality because, according to the explanations and information gathered, the people who provided this service themselves did not know that they could somehow go into trouble with the law. As far as I am aware, two more cases have come up, and if there are more, the police will collect them all, and then they will be able to take a decision as to whether, even in the cases currently pending, there is a reason for rational consideration to terminate the procedure or whether there is a need to proceed with the misdemeanour procedure.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-28_U18	Erki Savisaar, first question to be specified, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-28_U19	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, Tractors and combiners have been on our roads for over a hundred years. Now, the new Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications decrees that at least 3.5 metres wide harvester and tractor front must be driven by an escort car. If there is no escort car in front of the so-called special load, the police have the right to fine the driver. Is it not hypocritical to carry out such selective controls? In one case the legal requirements are not complied with and the police ignore it, but compliance with the requirements of this regulation is monitored with the utmost precision?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-28_U20	Thank you. I didn't understand what kind of requirements weren't followed. If you are now referring to a driving-sharing service, the situation will actually, as I said, be monitored. Two procedures have been carried out, two are currently ongoing. I very much hope that this issue will be resolved in Parliament as soon as possible, how the sharing economy will proceed. As far as combo and other wide machines are concerned, it does not really matter whether we are talking about a combine or some sort of wide cargo. If there is something oversized on Estonian roads, it is clear that it poses a danger in traffic, and so it needs to be regulated. Don't pull the combo out of the background. Here's just a question of three and a half meters. If someone is dragging a modular building along the road, you have definitely seen them on the road, then in front of it, the escort car will be labeled 'Big Cargo'. That's how it's done. If the harvester moves from field to field, of course no one will impose any sanctions. It's not the police's intention to punish anyone. The aim of the police is to draw attention to potential threats and to try to prevent violations. It's exactly the same with broad cargoes. Broad cargoes are subject to the same rules, regardless of whether it is a combine, a modular house or something else. When travelling on Estonian roads and streets, the requirements laid down must be taken into account.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-28_U21	Erki Savisaar, second question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-28_U22	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. Are you saying that if there is a grey area in the law, or if there is some kind of draft law in the proceedings of the Riigikogu, entrepreneurs and other people can already rely on it as almost adopted legislation and take account of new requirements already? After all, we have a lot of things going on here, such as the State Budget Act, which wants to increase the limits, and there are a number of other drafts aimed at changing some standards. Do you think that this is going to be a normal practice, that if some kind of change of norm is in the process, people can already consider it as a new adopted norm?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-28_U23	Thank you. There is still a written law in Estonia. Of course, we also have a common law that sets certain standards and moral rules, but in the eyes of the law, it must be based on the written law that has been approved by Parliament, announced by the President and published in the Official Journal of the State. That's what we're supposed to do. Once again, in the case of driving distribution, the question marks have a lot to do with how it is more widely regulated. This is what we have discussed in this Question Time, after all, that if two people agree to drive from point A to point B, and if someone who is not driving the wheel will cover some costs, whether it is necessarily passenger transport or not. In the case of Uber, it is clearly organised, and this would actually require more precise regulation. As I said today, in the cases that have been known to the police, the police have started the procedure and, in two cases, they have already completed it. These facts and facts have been verified. Similarly, the police have the right to terminate the proceedings on grounds of rationality if there is sufficient reason to do so. So you don't have to do anything you don't have permission to do. But in another area, I call on the Riigikogu to move a little faster. There are currently disputes about the implementation of the Cohabitation Act. There are court orders under which the rights of adoption confirmed by the court of persons are to be entered in the register. At the same time, the court has also said that they cannot be entered in the register until the Riigikogu has passed the Law on the Implementation of the Cohabitation Act. So there are different cases.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-28_U24	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-28_U25	Thank you. The provision of taxi services under the Uber sign is very common, I'd say massive. There are no doubt that this is not two or four cases. As long as the Riigikogu has not legalised this method of sharing, it is still illegal activity. If the police intervene in the various violations of the legal order, such as speeding, etc., and try to prevent them, the question arises as to why this issue of illegal provision of taxi services is not addressed. After all, there would be no need to do more than pick up a phone and make calls about what to deal with, dozens and hundreds. Why aren't the police working on this?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-28_U26	Thank you. I'll answer you the fourth time. I've said it three times, I'm gonna say it four times again. The police will deal with this if there are specific sources of information that show that the case has occurred. As I said, two cases have been dealt with so far, two are in business. And there's nothing else to say. We would just need a definition, and I believe that in the Committee on Economic Affairs of the Riigikogu we should discuss whether the platform from which driving is offered is Uber or Taxify or some other platform, is essentially a driving distribution or is still a purely IT service or a service mediation. These disputes need to be dealt with and it will be possible to regulate who, and how, must be responsible for how a service provider providing driving distribution should be held accountable and whether it should be accountable at all. I repeat: since we are dealing with new developments, it makes sense to get the regulation of this service in place as soon as possible. It is clear that this service will not disappear, and the regulated market is certainly better than the unregulated market.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-28_U27	I will conclude on this issue. No further questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-28_U28	The next question is the Minister of Culture, Indrek Saare. Arno Bridge, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-28_U29	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Minister, thank you very much. With regard to administrative reform, rural people have a lot of questions and problems. One block is certainly issues relating to the promotion of culture and the work of cultural institutions at all. I have been approached and studied several times about how life will be organised in this area in the future. Does the Ministry of Culture already have an idea that can change in the field of culture? Will everything remain the same, or what will be the future relationship of subordination, sources of financing, etc.?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-28_U30	Thank you for your question. Of course, the Ministry of Culture has been a little concerned about the impact of the administrative reform on the opportunity of Estonian people to participate in culture. The document adopted by the Riigikogu says that all people living in Estonia must have the opportunity to create and participate in culture, regardless of regional, individual, etc. I hope that the administrative reform will improve the current situation. I hope that emerging municipalities will indeed be more capable in some ways and that this will also provide an opportunity to pay decent wages to people working in the cultural field. We know that it is often those cultural workers who are paid by the local government who can barely live up to their pay. This is certainly one of the concerns at national level, and we have taken some steps, as you have certainly observed, that these salaries go up. On the other hand, the State also plans certain activities on its part. In principle, the principles will, of course, remain the same: the local government has its own responsibility, the state has its own responsibility. Ultimately, however, it is still one of Estonia's countries. We would certainly like the Local Government Organisation Act to explicitly stipulate in the future the responsibility of local authorities, not just the state, for the organisation of culture and sport. Now, strangely enough, the local government does not have this responsibility, although it does this work all the time and spends a very large part of its resources on it. In particular, local authorities will also benefit from an additional EUR 15 million per year from the state budget as of 1 September 2017. This money goes to local governments to organise recreational activities that mainly involve sport, culture, science, science and technology.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-28_U31	Thank you, Minister. Please try to stay within two minutes of the response! Arno Bridge, the first question to be specified, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-28_U32	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. I would like to ask you this: do you have information about Latvia and Lithuania? They're a little ahead of us in these things. Is there anything positive to take over this area you manage?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-28_U33	No, unfortunately, I do not have any in-depth analysis of how the administrative reform carried out in Latvia or Lithuania has affected the consumption of culture or its availability. We certainly have a certain advantage, as far as I know, the share of culture in the state budget in Latvia and Lithuania is somewhat smaller than in Estonia. And when we look at the data from various studies, we can see that Estonia is definitely among the five most successful countries in Europe on at least one point: it is the consumption of culture in very different categories, including the value of culture, in the category of its importance. We stand out that culture is very important for us, and certainly at local level. It is not just a question of what the state is doing here, in many ways it is precisely what is being done at local level. What can be said is that Latvia's choice has been to go on a much larger local government than we are going on. And they're already planning to make the municipalities even bigger. Consequently, they feel that the scale effect really works. As far as the impact of any merger on culture is concerned, we did examine the impact of previous mergers in Estonia. No significant impact on the cultural network has been observed with previous additions. The fact that some institutions come together or start operating in a new form is a modern phenomenon. The accession processes have not yet had an impact on the cultural field.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-28_U34	Thank you. Specific question, Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-28_U35	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable Minister of Culture! You have already touched on one very acute problem in the cultural field, the salaries of cultural workers. When you went to the Commission, we were in the middle of negotiations on wages. How did they end? What wage increases can cultural workers expect in 2017?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-28_U36	As a result of the negotiations on the state budget, it has been agreed that the four preferred areas in the government union agreement will receive additional funds of 3%. If you add a social tax drop to that end, you can actually say that 3.33% are together the resources that are generated. In the field of culture, it concerns higher education or people working in places where qualifications are equivalent to higher education, who actually make up two thirds of those who are paid by the state in one form or another in the field of culture, i.e. about 2700 out of 4000 people. It is estimated that the wage fund for them will increase by 3%. This means that, in general, it can be said that, in fact, in view of the whole company, the order of magnitude is 2%. This, of course, does not guarantee a wage increase that everyone knows. If we take into account the salary data of individual persons and take into account how many people we have who receive the agreed minimum for cultural workers, i.e. 830 euros this year, we will see that we have the opportunity to raise the minimum for a cultural worker with a higher education to nearly 900 euros. But that means the decision that this money will go only to raise the minimum wage for highly educated workers and that nobody else's salaries will be raised by this decision. The question, then, is whether the institutions themselves will find the means to maintain or create certain differences or to raise the wages of other people working in the cultural field, not just those who receive the minimum wage of a graduate worker.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-28_U37	Andres Ammas, a more specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-28_U38	Thank you, Honourable Chairman. Honorable Minister! I would like to thank you very much for your progress in organising the financing of Estonian sport by using public space. But can the coaches wait for some pay rise next year?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-28_U39	It's a little different with coaches than with cultural workers. The number of cultural workers will be smaller, the coaches will be more, if expressed with a very ax. But the coaches also come with more money. Just as the minimum wage for highly educated cultural workers rose by 13.5% this year, the coach payroll fund was added to exactly 13.5%. At the same time, the support provided by the State for its coach remained the same as last year, since the coaches must have increased by nearly 17%. Coaches............................................................................................................................................................................................................. The category "higher category" came up so much that it did not give us the opportunity to organise this wage increase. Now is the point of thinking whether the state must necessarily be responsible for ensuring 50% of coach's wage support and, at the same time, the coach's salary will only rise to what the state is giving or, in the run, the aim could be that, since the state is going to help local people, clubs and sub-unions in increasing volumes to pay their coach's salary, perhaps a nationwide wage agreement could be made so that the coach's salary can somehow catch up with the salary of a cultural worker with higher education. This is certainly a matter worth considering. However, with regard to next year, we have had good cooperation with the Ministry of Finance in the sense that we have managed to agree that, in a situation where the number of higher category coaches is clearly increasing, a hundred more coaches will be guaranteed next year. Plus the same 3% on the current payroll.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-28_U40	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-28_U41	Question for Minister of the Interior Hanno Pevkur. Arthur Talvik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-28_U42	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! In the field of internal security, the rescuers have played a constant role as orphans. In less than half an hour, the Riigikogu will be transferred to the next year's budget. Is there any hope of reducing the role of orphans in this budget? Is there any increase in their wages?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-28_U43	Thank you for your question. In reply to the previous question, it has already been pointed out that the area of internal security is one of the four priority areas for which we see an additional wage money. I would even take a bit more broadly: in the area of rescue, I think next year will be a very good year. Just a few keywords. Firstly, we are about to complete the procurement process, which will result in the rescue service receiving more than 80 new vehicles, which means that vehicles released from professional rescue will reach volunteers. Another important message is that we reached an agreement in the government that in the area of rescue and internal security, people no longer have to be made redundant. Quite the opposite. Given the cyclicality of the Estonian National Defence Academy's graduates, we can increase the number of people employed in the field of rescue if necessary. Thirdly, it is certainly very important that two new command buildings are expected to be completed next year: those of Vändra and Vastseliina commando. In addition, I name the new Pärnu common building, which is the headquarters and large centre of the western region of the Rescue Board. The house should be ready in 2018. As far as wage increases are concerned, as Mr Saar said here, we have an additional 3% of the payroll fund, plus free resources remaining due to the reduction in social tax. How exactly this money will be distributed is what we will discuss in the coming weeks. The Rescue Board has a preliminary proposal that was discussed today. By the way, half an hour ago, the meeting ended with representatives of the union of rescue workers, in which four areas were discussed in particular. Firstly, the increase in the qualifications of rescuers, with which the trade union is very pleased, is accompanied by an increase in wages. The commanding officer...
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-28_U44	Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-28_U45	Time's up? Please, ask me again, then I can finish.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-28_U46	That's very reasonable. Arthur Talvik, the first question to be specified, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-28_U47	Thank you for your answer. My point is, what are these four points and whether there is anything positive for volunteer rescuers?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-28_U48	Thank you. I'll pick up where I left off. Firstly, the wage adjustment related to the qualifications of rescuers, which is very reasonable and necessary. The second is the commanding officer's level. We have a problem with the commanding officers that when we know we have regular rescuers working shifts, the commanding officers are eight hours a day. There's got to be a little booste out there so people can trade their shifts for the day-to-day work. The third thing we are trying to do is to adjust wages also at the level of management so that people who do equal work can receive equal pay. There are certain differences so far. That's what the union agreed to, as far as I've gotten feedback. And fourthly, we also want to create a "performance or recognition fund" for the management level. If something extraordinary happens, or if men do more for another reason than is planned, it must be possible to recognise it. That too was accepted by the trade union. These are the four points. The trade union representatives themselves raised another issue: the salaries of the team elders could also be reviewed, i.e. the salaries of the different team parents should be compared. That's what the Rescue Department promised to do. However, in the case of volunteers, I will mention a fundamental change concerning both voluntary marine rescuers and rescuers on land. It's that the entire chain of management goes to the agencies, out of the ministry. There is also an agreement that we have already talked about here that basic subsidies should actually grow and then each company will have the opportunity to decide how it supports the umbrella organisation and whether it supports it at all. This principled decision has been agreed with both volunteer rescuers on land and marine rescuers.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-28_U49	Krista Aru, please, a more specific question!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-28_U50	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, In this Chamber, there have been several talks about improving citizens' own preparedness to increase internal security, so that every person feels that it also depends on him how well everything is secured and protected. In the budget for next year and in the plans for the following year at all, does the Ministry provide for any measures to clarify internal security as a concept in a broader sense among citizens and especially among young people?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-28_U51	Thank you. A good member of the Riigikogu knows that we have an internal security development plan in which activities are planned every year. This includes information. However, in addition to information, there is certainly a greater emphasis on practical activities and grants. However, one thing I did not say in reply to Mr Talvik. As far as voluntary marine rescuers are concerned, we have agreed that this year we will allocate additional resources to the Police and Border Guard Board for basic support for marine rescuers. So there will be equality, whether voluntary rescuers work in cooperation with the Salvation League or as other rescuers and marine rescuers. These regulations remain that there can be no real one for one because the goals are different, but for marine rescuers there will be base money, just as there are commandos who volunteer on the ground. It also bears the idea that everyone is dependent on a lot. Of course, other activities as citizens' initiatives elik saviors go through homes, control fire safety and tell people what can be done better. And in the police, there's a lot of prevention going on in the same way. I believe that we will take another qualitative step forward next year.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-28_U52	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-28_U53	Question for Prime Minister Taavi Clothes. Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-28_U54	Thank you, manager. Good Prime Minister! Soon you will be handing over the draft state budget for next year, which is unfortunately EUR 150 million in deficit. In the budget for the new year, you will see a huge increase in income from labour taxes and excise duties. The budget for next year is expected to receive 142 million more excise duties than this year. This year's economic growth is only 1.3%, while you are planning an increase in excise fuel tax of 91 million euros. I ask: how is the insane rise in fuel excise duty helping to improve the competitiveness of our companies, the purchasing power of people, job creation and the related revenue from the state budget?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-28_U55	Thank you. As it has become a good practice, you have mixed numbers this time and some facts too. In particular, if we look at the impact of tax changes, the effect of raising the excise duty rate on petrol will, however, be considerably lower than you said. This is EUR 12.7 million. The effect of the increase in the excise duty rate on diesel is EUR 25,6 million. And with regard to labour taxes, you said that they would rise, but the reality is, fortunately, exactly the opposite: labour taxes will fall next year in Estonia. If we take all the so-called excise euro that will be collected more from harmful consumption, including alcohol and tobacco, next year, we will have to counterbalance each such euro in order to reduce the burden of labour taxes. In addition, some EUR 10 million have been reduced to the tax burden on companies for which competitiveness is a key word. We're talking about the oil shale sector. This is not reflected in the calculation of the tax burden because it is technically environmental charges, but it is in any case a burden imposed by the State. As far as budgetary balance is concerned, chicks are to be counted in the autumn. We will read the balance of this budget next autumn and, more specifically, the next spring. It can now be said that all the three budgets that have been made during my Prime Minister's term have reached a surplus, both nominally and structurally. This specific budget, which we will be presenting by 2017, is already planned in a structural surplus.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-28_U56	Tarmo Tamm, the first question to be specified, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-28_U57	Thank you. Prime Minister! I can tell you what the tax changes are: the increase in excise duty on diesel is EUR 59.6 million, the increase in excise duty on petrol is EUR 30.3 million. Here's my question. The excise duty on diesel in Estonia is already 31.4% higher than in Latvia. The government coalition has decided to increase the excise duty on diesel by another 10% next year. How much will the Latvian government increase next year's excise duty on diesel, and will Estonia, in your opinion, take into account the excise policy of its southern neighbour or not?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-28_U58	Thank you. I suggest you check those extra receipts. These are certainly set out in the explanatory memorandum to the budget to be transferred and, if necessary, the officials of the Ministry of Finance will also assist. I've read you the numbers that the experts have prepared for me, and I'm absolutely sure they're true. However, your question about the policy of the Latvian Government in the near future should be addressed to my good colleague, Maris Kucinskis. I don't know if you'll have a chance to ask him anytime soon. I will meet him in the coming weeks, and if you want, I can ask him myself, and then we will find out exactly what the taxation policy of the Latvian Government is. Of course, however, we in the Ministry of Finance consider that there is a phenomenon such as border trade. Border trade exists both between Estonia and Finland and between Estonia and Latvia, and this has to be taken into account both in terms of impact assessment and in shaping policies. So far the price differences between Estonia and Finland have been more pronounced than the differences between Estonia and Latvia, and therefore border trade between Estonia and Finland has also been more extensive. If we look at 2016, we have the first eight months of data nicely and these eight months show that the share of border trade in fuel is very low. In fact, consumption of both petrol and diesel has increased in Estonia, although one of the objectives of excise policy is that consumption is rather declining. But we understand that fuel prices are currently at a low level, and therefore excise duties have not had an impact on human consumption.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-28_U59	Tarmo Tamm, second question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-28_U60	Thank you. Prime Minister! You're gonna be blinded in the open about the fuel excise. Specially raised in s. a Fuel excise duty of 1 February, an increase of 14%, and a second increase will occur at the end of the year. So this year the excise duty on fuel will have to be collected, and there will be no other way. Let's see what happens next year, then the tide is gone. But who's gonna be happy about it? For example, the mayor of Valka welcomes this, not the mayor of Valga, your party partner, but the mayor of Valka. Valka City plans new accommodation facilities, shops, service facilities to hold more Estonian consumers in Valka and get more money from Estonian consumers. Is Estonia's tax policy aimed at Latvia?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-28_U61	Thank you. I don't know which party is the mayor of Valka, but the mayor of Valga hasn't joined my party yet. According to our data, Kalev Härk belongs to the Social Democratic Party, which is our coalition partner, and he is probably doing his job there in Valga with his heart. We have no doubt about that. Now that we come back to tax policy, Estonia's tax policy has two objectives, as is the tax policy of each state. Firstly, taxes always have fiscal effects, i.e. budget receipts are linked to this. And secondly, taxes also affect people's behaviour. This is one of the reasons why our aim is to tax harmful consumption. In many countries, it is more common than we are. The fact that people smoke less cigarettes is not only a shared desire of politicians from different countries, but also of health experts from different countries. We want prices of alcohol to rise faster in Estonia than people's incomes, and this is not an obstinate recommendation from our politicians, but a consensual recommendation from health experts. We have a real goal that both alcohol and tobacco consumption in Estonia will decrease. And if we compare this reduction in consumption and also the fiscal effect, then both of them will certainly outweigh the a few per cent effect of the border trade between Estonia and Latvia. Estonia should certainly not become the land of the cheapest vodka in Europe to attract more tourists to us or to achieve that Estonians buy all the vodka from their home country.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-28_U62	Siret Eagle, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-28_U63	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! First of all, a good colleague, Tarmo Tamm, asks that he conveys that he meant not the mayor of Valga, but the governor of Valga, Margus Lepiku, who belongs to your party. But now to the question. Next year, the excise duty on special fuel used by farmers will be increased, which means that farmers will have to pay another EUR 1 million in taxes. At the same time, there is still a very deep crisis in agriculture, which deepened this year. Haven't you thought about not raising the excise duty on special fuel? Or please explain how increasing the excise duty on special fuel will contribute to the development of agriculture and to the improvement of farmers' performance.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-28_U64	Thank you very much. Indeed, Margus Lepik is part of the Reform Party and he has once been the mayor of Valga, so it is perfectly understandable that these two people get confused. But as far as your question is concerned, special fuel is used to subsidise fuel consumption in some areas. In some areas this is very necessary and agriculture has been one of them. Special fuel means that they will be able to buy between twenty and a few dozen cents of this diesel fuel at a lower price per litre. This will continue to be the case in the future. We have agreed on the percentage of excise duty on diesel fuel that constitutes the excise duty on specially labelled fuel. That's about a-- I'll say a quarter by the head. While the normal consumer has one cent increase in excise duties on fuel, the farmer has about a quarter of a cent. So farmers already have cheap fuel and the increase in excise duty is even slower for them. As far as support for agriculture is concerned, I am pleased to announce that in the budget for next year, this very famous top-up, or even the notorious top-up in this Chamber, has been found to be precisely focused on the sector in which the crisis is the most serious, has been found for a long time. It's dairy. We allocate the top-up to about half of the maximum possible for dairying, or 4.6 million euros. In addition, we are also providing emergency crisis assistance to agriculture from this year's budget, the bill for redeployment will come before you, too, and this amount will be 3 million. So, together, we are going to allocate crisis aid to agriculture in the near future to 7.6 million.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-28_U65	Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-28_U66	Thank you, Honourable Chairman. Honorable Prime Minister! You often like to emphasise how important a measure to support entrepreneurship is to reduce social tax by half a percentage. I have not, for some reason, met entrepreneurs who would be immeasurably impressed with this measure. By paraphrasing the well-known children's book, could you give me the names and addresses of the three entrepreneurs who would confirm your claim?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-28_U67	Thank you. I do not want to be rude in any way and say that you should perhaps meet more entrepreneurs if you have not met those who support it. But really, it's not meant in a bad way. There are entrepreneurs who greatly appreciate that labour taxes are falling in Estonia. We should not take it in such a way that half a percent less social tax is too little or that the increase in the tax-free rate or the tax relief for people with lower incomes is low. In total, these steps will amount to over 80 million, which will be paid less on people's incomes next year. And 80 million labour tax reliefs give entrepreneurs the opportunity to pay higher wages by 80 million throughout Estonia. We have agreed at national level that the money that will be paid out to people due to the tax cut will be paid out. It's very reasonable, by that we can raise a little bit more wages. This is not a one-off decision of government policy. We have agreed that a reduction in labour taxes will take place last year and next year, and this will have to be taken on a longer scale. Just as income tax was not reduced from 26% to 20% in one year or overnight, it took ten years, with a reduction in social tax and an increase in the tax-free rate. One more thing I would like to stress is that it is completely wrong to take a position as if the lowering of social tax would affect the income of the sickness fund. No, it doesn't! The income of the Health Insurance Fund will increase by more than 60 million euros next year and the reduction in social tax will be compensated 100%. So there will be no negative impact on the income of the health insurance fund.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-28_U68	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-28_U69	The next question is the Minister of Culture, Indrek Saare. Aadu Black, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-28_U70	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. Our good colleague Laine Randjärv has written on the TV, which we are discussing here, is one of the things that has significantly shaped the national identity of Estonians. And not only the general Song Festivals, but also the other Song Festivals, including Gaudeamus. There are currently worrying rumors on Tartu that it does not know whether the state is helping to organise Gaudeamus 2018. There have been so many tales that the Ministry of Education and Research once found that a student singing party was more like a matter for the Ministry of Culture, and gave it over responsibility. I don't know whether without a budget or a budget or how it was. And now it's going to be rattled that maybe it'll be lifted back. The biggest concern is that maybe the enterprise will be held between the two ministries. Is there any way you can take this concern off and make predictions, even though there's time for a song party? What do you say to interested people who are afraid to hear that something's wrong before the party?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-28_U71	Thank you. I thank you for the opportunity to clarify this matter. I certainly hope that Gaudeamus will not run off somewhere in the meantime and that the year 2018 will take place in Gaudeamus. I understand that both the Tartu Student House, which has been the organiser of Gaudeamus over the years, and the rectors of universities have made a practical agreement with their Baltic colleagues. In such a situation, it would be difficult and cumbersome to withdraw from the party arrangement or push it over another year. I can't appreciate what it takes for Gaudeamus to happen. For me, the Tartu Student House, founded by the University of Tartu and the Estonian University of Life Sciences, has applied to receive 100000 euros from the state budget next year and half a million euros in the year after. Since the Ministry of Culture has never dealt with the organisation of the Gaudeamus, it has been curated by the Ministry of Education and Research, it has been the initiative of universities, student societies and the Tartu Student House, I cannot assess whether this budget is absolutely necessary in this form or not. But since it has been handed over to the Ministry of Culture, I have given it conscientiously to the Ministry of Finance. They did not consider it necessary to allocate any additional funding for this by 2017. We have not received any funds from the Ministry of Education in 2014. I very much hope that in 2018 it will be better. I also think that the subject of this party should be discussed very seriously.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-28_U72	I will conclude on this issue. Thank you, Prime Minister Taavi Kõivas. Thank you, Minister of the Interior Hanno Pevkur! Thank you, Minister of Culture Indrek Saar! Question Time is over.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-28_U73	Honourable Riigikogu! We will start the 3rd working week session of the 4th plenary session on Wednesday. Transfer of pre-claims and enquiries. Representative of the Government of the Republic Heili Tõnisson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-28_U74	Mr. Chairman! Dear Riigikogu! The Government of the Republic is launching five draft laws today. First, the draft law amending the State Legal Aid Act and other laws. In the Riigikogu, the Government of the Republic is represented by Urmas Reinsalu, Minister of Justice, when dealing with the bill. Secondly, the draft law amending the Social Welfare Act and the State Pension Insurance Act. The Government of the Republic is represented by the Minister of Social Protection Margus Tsahkna in the proceedings of this bill in the Riigikogu. Third, the draft law amending the Health Insurance Act and other laws. In the Riigikogu, the Minister of Health and Labour Jevgeni Ossinovski represents the Government of the Republic when dealing with the bill. Fourthly, the draft law amending the Income Tax Act and the Social Tax Act. And fifthly, the draft State Budget Act of 2017. The Government of the Republic is represented by the Minister of Finance Sven Sester when the two aforementioned draft laws are processed in the Riigikogu. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-28_U75	Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-28_U76	Honorable Chairman! Respectable members of the Riigikogu! I have the opportunity to continue the subject of the state budget begun by the previous speaker and to transfer the draft law amending the State Budget Act and the Riigikogu's Home and Working Procedures Act on behalf of the Free Party Group. Simply put, we want to initiate a draft aimed at bringing the approval of the country's budgetary strategy to the Riigikogu. It's not a new idea. Remember, in the spring we discussed here the report of the Special Committee on State Budget Control, which my colleague, Kristjan Kõljala, has done a very effective job. According to a study carried out for this report, as much as 83% of respondents supported the idea of increasing the role of the Riigikogu in planning the state's budget strategy. But the coalition is not in a hurry to implement these thoughts and the other good ideas that are in this report. The Free Party will be happy to come to the aid, because in our opinion, the situation in which such an important document is confirmed only by the government is not in line with the principles of parliamentary democracy. If such decisions are made in a narrow circle, the reliability and quality of these decisions will suffer. We believe that this is one of the many steps that need to be taken to restore parliamentary democracy in Estonia. Serious debates, decision-making must once move from the government to Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-28_U77	I have adopted six drafts. On the basis of the Riigikogu's Home and Rules of Procedure Act, we take them to the procedure. Incoming check, please! 72 members of the Riigikogu are present at the plenary session, there is no 29.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-28_U78	Our working day yesterday ended at the first reading of the draft law 262 amending the obligation to leave and ban on entry initiated by the Committee on Foreign Affairs where the President of the Riigikogu is obliged to tell you that the Commission's proposal is to finish the first reading of the draft. I will set the deadline for submitting amendments at 5.15 p.m. on 12 October.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-28_U79	The next item on our agenda is the first reading of the draft law amending the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia initiated by Anneli Oti, Kadri Simson, Marika Tuus-Lauli, Heimar Leng, Märt Sults, Kersti Sarapuu, Mikhail Stalnukhin, Valeri Korbi, Vladimir Velman, Oudekki Loone, Andrei Novikov, Dmitri Dmitriev, Enn Esmaa, Tarmo Tamme, Rein Ratas, Olga Ivanova, Jüri Ratas, Martin Repinski, Erki Savisaare, Jaanus Kariladi, Aadu Musta, Viktor Vassilyev, Siret Kotka, Mikhail Korb, Peeter Ernitsa, Toomas Vitsut and Mailis Reps. The waitress on behalf of the initiators is Anneli Ott. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-28_U80	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, § 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia states that Estonia is an independent and independent democratic republic where the highest state power is exercised by the people. Paragraph 56 states that the highest state power is exercised by the people either by election to the Riigikogu or by referendum. However, only the Riigikogu has the right to initiate a referendum. This significantly limits the ability of the people to exercise their power in practice, as one of the supreme powers of the state. That is why 27 members of the Central Party Group of the Riigikogu proposed on 2 May to initiate the amendment of the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia in order to enable a popular initiative. Today we are discussing the possibility of granting the right of initiation to at least 25000 Estonian citizens and citizens of the European Union who are entitled to vote and to persons of 16 years of age residing in Estonia on the basis of a long-term resident's residence permit and permanent right of residence. The popular initiative itself is nothing unknown. However, the right to initiate legislation is limited to the local level and the signatures of at least 1% of the local or urban residents with the right to vote must be collected for this purpose. This allows the adoption and amendment or repeal of municipal or city council or government legislation on local life issues. In the European Union, citizens of Member States can apply for a new law if at least seven Member States participate in the action and one million grant signatures are collected. Similar features of the popular initiative can be found in the regulation of legalised collective redress in 2014, according to which at least 1000 grant signatures must be submitted in order for the appeal to be accepted in the Riigikogu. The disadvantage of a collective appeal is, above all, that people may collect signatures on petitions, but a substantive debate in this Chamber of the Riigikogu does not follow it. That is why the Central Party Group launched the amendment last autumn, which unfortunately was not supported. This was also one of the reasons why we decided to propose that the Constitution be supplemented by a provision allowing a popular initiative. We believe that legitimisation of the popular initiative would stimulate civil society, allowing citizens to have more influence in the affairs of the state during the inter-election period, while being independent of the political parties represented in the Riigikogu. It can be said that the possibility of initiating draft laws is still open to the people, either through political parties present in the Riigikogu or through a specific MP. However, I am convinced that the draft sent to Parliament by means of a public initiative would be much more binding on Members and that they would deal with the problem much more deeply. Just as the circle of drafts to be submitted to the referendum is limited, we have foreseen this in our draft, too, in the case of a public initiative. Drafts relating to the budget, taxes, financial obligations of the state, ratification and denunciation of external agreements, the establishment and termination of the state of emergency and defence issues could not be initiated under the People's Initiative. The draft law submitted under the People's Initiative procedure must comply with the same legal requirements as the draft law submitted to the Riigikogu proceedings. The Constitutional compliance of the draft submitted to the Riigikogu is checked by the Chancellor of Justice. The defective draft will be returned to the performers. A draft law in accordance with the Constitution shall be published on the website of the Election Commission of the Republic and may begin to collect signatures. The collection of grant signatures would be carried out on its own initiative in order to avoid excessive expenditure for the country by organising the work of the relevant departments. The signatures must be collected within six months of the publication of the draft. Support signatures shall be collected on paper and electronically. The controller of the population register and the Republic Election Commission shall verify the compliance of support signatures with the requirements. When the necessary supporting signatures are together, the Riigikogu will be handed over to the Riigikogu, where the procedure will take place in general. Renewed Estonia has been elected seven times by the Riigikogu according to the current constitution and two referendums have taken place. On 28 June 1992, the referendum included the draft Constitution of the Republic of Estonia and the draft Act on the implementation of the Constitution and the accompanying additional questions. On 14 September 2003, Estonia's accession to the European Union and the improvement of the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia were voted. It's obviously too little. Ladies and gentlemen, I call on you to support the draft decision and to make a decision that will enable our people to have more influence in organising state affairs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-28_U81	Questions to the originator's waitress. Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-28_U82	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable waitress! I certainly agree with you that the law on collective redress should be amended. This right of petition, which currently exists, has not met expectations at all. Rather, this has led to more disappointment when it comes to raising different issues. What makes your optimism so that the amendment of the constitution could be easier?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-28_U83	It will certainly not be easier to change the constitution if the steps that have been taken so far have not worked out. We can see that the questions raised by the people remain on the committees and that the large hall will not be reached. If we changed the Constitution, it would give people a guarantee that they can actually participate in the discussion. They see how the various political groups in the Riigikogu deal with these issues. And it provides an opportunity to discuss these issues in the large Chamber, just like all other issues related to the work of the Riigikogu. By making it possible to turn to the Riigikogu for at least 1000 signatures, we have achieved that these matters can be discussed in committees, but the practice has shown that these issues will remain on the level of the Commission and will not reach the large hall.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-28_U84	Cameron Maruse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-28_U85	Thank you! Good waitress! I'm a little confused. You spoke mostly about your talk on the popular initiative and, at the end of the speech, about the referendum. These are two different things in national law. I'm asking you exactly what you meant.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-28_U86	Thank you. Our draft law concerns the popular initiative. I spoke about the referendum in this context that we have adopted the criteria for organising a public initiative in the form of a referendum. Today, we are not talking about what the law of the People's Initiative will be, in substance. I'm sure that's the subject of discussion. Today we are talking about whether, in principle, we agree in the Statute to lay down the right of the people to intervene through a popular initiative in resolving matters of state life. The Statute provides for a referendum, there is no popular initiative. These are two different things, but we have taken the example of a referendum law, for example, which drafts could be initiated by means of a public initiative and which were not.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-28_U87	Igor Gräzin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-28_U88	Thank you. It was a very romantic presentation, only I didn't understand what the statute was referring to. The Riigikogu has no statute and I do not know what we are talking about. Apparently, we're talking about some kind of facility. But let's talk content right now. What will be the object of this initiative? Is there a subject, a question, or a bill? If we're talking about a bill, have you been about torn up, what's it gonna cost? Our councillors are very, very overburdened right now. How big is the composition of Riigikogu advisers and what kind of salary are they to be paid? What does that mean for the budget?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-28_U89	It is always very easy to vote down all the good ideas because there is no money. Estonia is a small country and, of course, it causes us problems all the time. As far as I've been sitting in this Chamber, the main argument for rejecting the drafts has been how much it will cost. I think that such a good initiative, which allows the Estonian people to have more influence on matters of state life, should not have been voted down primarily because we do not have enough advisers to do so. I have pointed out what our proposals are, how the People's Initiative Act could provide for the technical organisation of the initiative. How it really should be could be the subject of a substantive discussion in this Chamber if we ever come to that. But yes, we are talking not about the Constitution, but about the amendment of the Constitution so that section 56 of the Constitution is accompanied by the possibility of a popular initiative. My tongue was wrong, and I was talking about the charter, so I'm sorry! I always meant the Constitution.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-28_U90	Cameron Maruse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-28_U91	Thank you! I will also explain that, as the honourable speaker obviously knows, every draft passes through, it has come from the government, or it has been initiated or launched by parliamentarians on the basis of a petition, however, the Commission. The drafts go first to the committees and then arrive here at the big hall when they arrive. Do you foresee any speciality for your popular initiative, or do you imagine that these drafts will pass through the ordinary procedure of Riigikogu drafts?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-28_U92	The draft laws initiated under the People's Initiative would go through exactly the same procedure as the other drafts of the Riigikogu, they will then be submitted by the political group, Riigikogu, the government or specific delegates. That means they're supposed to be in this big hall. Whether or not they are voted down here is another issue. So far, such questions have never reached this great hall.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-28_U93	Igor Gräzin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-28_U94	I'm afraid I need to be more specific about the verbatim. I have not asked for anything to be put down or voted on, but I am now asking a very specific question. I've had this problem in my life before that I wanted all sorts of things, but there's no money. You said it was like auto-voting. Please tell me if the question of what it costs is inappropriate at all! If this is inappropriate, what is the point of discussing the budget? There's no other question about the budget than what it's worth or what it's worth. Is that against the state?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-28_U95	Thank you, good questioner! It is certainly not inappropriate to ask how much an action or a decision costs. Of course, we must always consider the budget. However, it is a question of the principle of whether we are giving the people the opportunity to have a say in matters of state life, and if there is then the first item on the agenda, whether we have enough advisers to deal with these maybe flawed draft laws, it will probably require a huge amount of work, I think that this should not be the main issue. The main question is whether the Riigikogu is prepared to process draft laws initiated by the people and to take them as serious proposals. But, of course, money is always a question, and this aspect must also be taken into account.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-28_U96	Imre Sooäär, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-28_U97	Thank you. Good waitress! This is perhaps a clarification question, because it is indeed necessary to agree with the previous speakers that the Riigikogu's rules of procedure and rules of procedure provide that when a draft is submitted, its estimated financial impact, at least, will still be mentioned. It's all about spending. Can you at least understand this principle that it is actually necessary, but this cost may not be the reason for the vote-off?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-28_U98	Thank you, good questioner! I do not think we were talking here about the cost of approving the draft. We talked about the cost of processing the bill. Those are two different things. We are always talking about the budget for every draft, and I believe that we will also talk about the budget when some drafts are presented to us by 25000 people to deal with them.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-28_U99	Thank you, Anneli Ott! No further questions. The rapporteur for the Constitutional Commission is Andre Sepp. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-28_U100	President of the Riigikogu! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! The Constitutional Committee of the Riigikogu discussed this topic on Monday, 12 September at its meeting. Invited was Mariko Jõeorg-Jurtshenko, adviser to the Public Law Service of the Ministry of Justice. The Commission discussed the draft law initiated by the Estonian Centre Party Group, which aims to amend the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia in order to enable a popular initiative. Bill 228 is on your tables right now. Anneli Ott, Member of the Commission, introduced the draft as representative of the initiator and explained that the draft intends to grant the right to initiate a draft law to at least 25000 Estonian citizens and citizens of the European Union with a right to vote and to persons who are not Estonian citizens or nationals of any other Member State of the European Union but who live in Estonia on the basis of a long-term residence permit and permanent right of residence and are at least 16 years old. We have to admit that the popular initiative is being implemented in different ways today. For example, at local level, at least one percent of rural municipality or city dwellers who have the right to initiate legislation are entitled to take initiatives for the adoption of municipal or municipal council or government legislation relating to local life issues. At EU level, however, citizens of Member States will be able to apply for a new law if citizens from at least seven Member States take part in the initiative. It was noted that in 2014 the regulation of collective redress was legalised in Estonia, where at least 1000 supporting signatures need to be collected in order to submit a proposal to the Riigikogu on how to change the current regulation or better organise social life. However, the problem with collective appeal is that people may collect signatures on all kinds of petitions, but they do not know what will follow. Often, as the previous speaker mentioned, a substantive debate may not take place in the Riigikogu's plenary. As a representative of Anneli Ott's initiator of the draft, the regularisation of the People's Initiative would revive community society and enable citizens to have more influence on state affairs also during the inter-election period and thus to be more involved. Counsellor of the Public Law Service of the Ministry of Justice explained that the Government of the Republic discussed the draft at its meeting on 30 June and decided by one vote not to support the draft. The Government of the Republic has already considered the increase in the participation of citizens to be important and has supported the amendment of the Act replying to the letter of formal notice and the request for clarification in such a way that there is an opportunity to submit a collective address to the Riigikogu. The Government of the Republic supported these changes precisely because the involvement of the people in the organisation of government is important and the proposed changes created additional opportunities for citizens to participate in the process of state governance. I will give a brief overview of the debate that took place in the Commission. One Member of the Commission asked whether the initiators of the draft considered it right to allow persons aged 16 or over to take part in the public initiative, or whether it was only based on the fact that it was possible to vote on the local government council at the age of 16. The representative replied that the draft was indeed based on the Local Government Council Election Act, which says that an Estonian citizen and a citizen of the European Union who has become at least 16 years old by election day have the right to vote. Of course, the subject of the future debate, as he mentioned, is the age at which a person should be able to vote on a public initiative. They asked what would happen if the Riigikogu did not support the draft law initiated by the People's Initiative. Can this be seen as a possible mistrust of the coalition and should it be treated in the same way as a referendum in the Constitution? Anneli Ott replied that the initiators of the draft had initially tried to include the possibility of a popular initiative in the Constitution. How it will work in practice is the next issue. It is now necessary to reach a common view that the possibility of a public initiative should be created. Mart Nutt, Member of the Commission, noted that he had learned from the study of the constitutions of European countries that the popular initiative became very popular in those countries which were independent after the first world war. Then there was an illusion of the power of democracy. There was no public initiative in the Western European countries, but several Eastern European countries did, including Estonia and Latvia. By 1939, however, the democratic regime in the independent countries after the first world war was only in Finland and Czechoslovakia. However, neither of them had the possibility of a public initiative in a form that would allow the Constitution to be directly amended. Mart Nutt noted that Latvia still has the possibility of a popular initiative, because Latvia has the 1922 Constitution. The referendums in Latvia have been on two subjects: firstly, the question of whether people want to increase pensions and, secondly, whether they are in favour of converting Russian into another national language. Both referendums have failed because Latvia is subject to a quorum. It was asked whether the initiators of the draft had discussed whether the purpose of establishing a public initiative was to change the constitution or whether it had any other purpose. In response, we have received that, if the public initiative is to be incorporated into the Constitution, it must also include restrictions on the conditions under which the public initiative could not be carried out. These conditions could be the same for which a referendum cannot be initiated. Chairman Kalle Laane asked how many times the Group of the Estonian Centre Party has initiated a similar change over the last 15 years. Anneli Ott replied that, as far as he knew, the Group of the Estonian Centre Party had initiated a draft on the possibility of writing the People's Initiative Institute into the Constitution five times: in 2000, 2003, 2005, 2008 and 2013. Member of the Commission Jaak Madison noted that the Estonian Centre Party Group has not supported the possibility of young people voting in the election of the local government council. There was a similar answer to that, which I have already spoken about. Jaak Madison also asked whether the initiator of the draft did not see that, if at least 25000 signatures were allowed, there could be a very long debate on some very painful issues. As an example, he brought the Russian language into being designated as another national language. Anneli Ott replied that there were certainly issues that could frighten and justify that allowing a popular initiative was not a good thing, but there were very many issues that people would like to have a say in discussing. Peter Ernits, Member of the Commission, said that the opinion of the Government of the Republic on the draft could be found that the Institute of People's Initiatives is too intense. The Government of the Republic recommends using less intensive opportunities: petition, collective appeal, listening. Does this mean that the government wants to supplement § 56 of the Constitution? The Public Law Adviser of the Ministry of Justice replied that rather these less intensive opportunities should be provided for in different laws, such as collective redress. They also asked why it was decided to require 25 000 signatures. We received the answer that this figure was taken from the 1920 Constitution, where the Institute of the People's Initiative existed and the same threshold was in force. Jüri Adams, Member of the Commission, felt that the popular initiative was a confusing and unsuccessful term because the popular initiative was not initiated by the people. He noted that the Estonian Constitutional Assembly was also of the opinion that the popular initiative should not be included in the 1992 Constitution. Finally, so much so that Commissioner Kalle Laanet proposed to refer the draft to first reading by 27 September - yesterday - today it will be here in this Chamber. 7 members of the Commission voted in favour, 3 against and 1 abstention. By Kalle Laane, Mart Nutt, Andres Anvelt, Kalle Muuli, Lauri Luik, Andre Sepp and Jüri Adams. Anneli Ott, Mikhail Stalnukhin and Peeter Ernits were opposed. Jaak Madison remained neutral. The committee chairman also proposed that Andre Sepp be appointed rapporteur for the draft, and all members of the committee were in favour of it. It was also decided to propose that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda yesterday and to propose that the draft law be rejected. The proposal was in favour of 7, with 3 votes against and 1 abstention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-28_U101	Questions for the Commission rapporteur. March Sults, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-28_U102	Thank you, Mr. Speaker. Good waitress! The question is simple: if we have everything so well and the government wants to know what the people think, do folk surveys and analyses, why is there no petition going to get here in the Riigikogu as a bill? They just disappear somewhere. Is there any way we can avoid that? People who have made a petition because of a problem should be able to feel that they are being taken into account. Why do these petitions not reach the Riigikogu Hall as drafts?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-28_U103	Thank you for your question. On the one hand, it's very difficult to answer. After all, we are a country with representative democracy in which Parliament and Parliament's committees process drafts in accordance with the Home and Working Procedures Act. However, petitions were only included in the letter of formal notice and the law on replying to the request for clarification on 11 April 2014. It is possible that there has been too little of this practice and it is too early to assess whether regulation works well, too well or too badly.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-28_U104	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-28_U105	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable waitress! I will continue with the previous question. This time has now been two and a half years, when the right of petition has been in force, and petitions have actually come to the Riigikogu with the right number of petitions. If the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has not yet analysed this practice, have you at least discussed when you will do so? It's a disappointing process, though it's been a process of collecting signatures, waiting for some results, but most of the time it ends with a quiet whistle. Do you intend to discuss this problem and move forward along a simpler path than the amendment of the Constitution? You have overwhelmingly rejected this proposal in the Commission. Perhaps to correct the law of collective appeal?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-28_U106	Thank you for your question. In fact, one of the legislator's tasks is to ensure that, when a law is adopted, its effects are also monitored and analysed. I agree with the questioner that there could indeed be more analysis of the impact of other legislative acts. But the law on replying to letters of formal notice and requests for clarification and submitting a collective appeal was also very much caused by the pressure of the people. We all remember how this bill came into this house, so it would be very legitimate to do this analysis now. We will certainly discuss this in the Commission. I agree with you that there have been quite a number of these petitions. Let's see if this set is enough to draw analysis and conclusions from its results.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-28_U107	Jaanus Karilaid, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-28_U108	Thank you to the manager. Good waitress! It has been said boldly for over ten years that we need various tools of democracy to reduce the alienation of power to the people. There have been residues, research has been carried out in universities, which require referendums and direct democracy-enhancing laws. Now this proposal comes up and again the Committee on Constitutional Affairs rejects the draft because it has been submitted by the opposition. But what has the Committee on Constitutional Affairs itself offered to replace? How can we enrich Estonia's picture of democracy?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-28_U109	Thank you for your question. The question is justified. In May 2016, an analysis of the Estonian political system was carried out, the results of which can be found precisely those aspects that were discussed in today's and yesterday's session: there should be more listening to the people, be it a referendum or a popular initiative. The collective appeal mechanism has actually been analysed. The results of the analysis are not based on practice, because there is not much of it, but it has been analysed why the 1992 Constitution is so, why some or other things were not written in it. However, as the handling officer of the bill and as a member of the Riigikogu, I am also of the opinion that listening to the people could be more than just an input to the work of this hall. How could this be laid down in a law? I am of the opinion that this could be done without amending the Constitution. Listening to the people is a principle that could be laid down in a special law, giving it the content of how to do it. The more forms of listening, the better. However, I am of the opinion that this picture should not be very passionate. As I said, five or six different forms already create some confusion: which is still a petition, which is a memo, which is listening to what is what. There must be legal clarity.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-28_U110	Aadu Black, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-28_U111	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! We discussed here with my colleague, Mr Gräzini, that perhaps it is not a good idea to vote this bill straight away. After all, the coalition has experience of keeping the title and making new content, as was the case with the Gender Equality Act. At the moment, we are in such trouble with the procedure for electing the President, so perhaps during the procedure we could give the draft a new content. Of course you're saying it's slippery, I'm saying it, but it's already started here. When you look at the verbatim, it turns out you said that Anneli Ott, Peeter Ernits and Mikhail Stalnukhin voted against the direction of the bill. Check the minutes, but they obviously voted against not ending the first reading.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-28_U112	Thank you. In this respect, I certainly need to improve myself and, in the interests of the verbatim report, I repeat the statement in the minutes that the chairman of the committee, Kalle Laanet, proposed that the proposal to reject the draft by 27 September 2016, in favour of which 7, was against 3, was impartial 1. The sides were Laane, Nutt, Anvelt, Muuli, Swan, Sepp and Adams. Ott, Stalnukhin and Ernits opposed, with Madison abstentions. Let it be an apology to you when my words got mixed up.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-28_U113	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-28_U114	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! There are 8 million people living in Switzerland, and there is a requirement that at least 100,000 signatures are required for a public initiative. We have a little over a million people, and we had this threshold of 25,000 in the draft. Don't you think it's unreasonable, given the population of both countries?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-28_U115	Thank you. The Commission did not discuss what the right threshold could be, as we were still based on the draft law amending the Constitution. However, as the initiator has mentioned on several occasions, this regulation could remain a special law. Whether this number is correct or not, I don't know, it's now taken over from the 1920 constitution.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-28_U116	Thank you, rapporteur for the Committee on Constitutional Affairs Andre Sepp. No further questions. I'm opening negotiations. On behalf of the Jüri Adams Free Party Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-28_U117	Mr President of the sitting! It seems true that history will always be with us. The history of Estonian politics over the last 130 years has been such that if something has happened there, it will be remembered and repeated constantly, both bad and good. Now a few words on the question of the popular initiative and the different meaning of terms and their subsequent history. The public initiative has also been mentioned here in two senses: in a broader sense and in a narrower sense. The narrower meaning is that which is legally very well defined in relation to the first Constitution of the Republic of Estonia in 1920. Indeed, there was such a passage. The People's Initiative then defined the text of the bill that someone had drawn up. It didn't matter who made it. What was important was that the text had been signed by at least 25000 people with a right to vote. And then it had to be submitted to the Riigikogu. The Riigikogu had two options: either to adopt it as a law itself or to put it to a referendum. There is no reason to submit a bill to the Riigikogu for adoption that the Riigikogu itself could not accept as an initiative of a national ambassador. The submission of a draft under the People's Initiative still means, in essence, a mistrust of the newly elected Riigikogu or the office of the Riigikogu and an attempt at least to get past the opposition of its Riigikogu. As Mr Sepp said, I have really argued that there is quite a mess between similar terms. The referendum means that a question of some kind will be put to the vote so that any person with the right to vote can take part in the vote. However, the popular initiative does not mean that all citizens have somehow taken part in this action. It's not there. Was there a question about at least 25,000 signatures? Is it too large or too small? There is only one experience in Estonian history in this regard. In 1933, the Union of Estonian War of Independence, a very popular opposition political movement, drafted a very comprehensive draft amendment to the Constitution and initiated it in accordance with the popular initiative. They got it back then, I'm not saying for sure, but it wasn't 25,000, it was more than 100,000 votes in total. They were very, very popular. We have no other experience of anyone collecting signatures under such a popular initiative. So it is not clear whether this number is too large or too small. I'm asking for an extension too!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-28_U118	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-28_U119	Indeed, the public initiative in Latvia is valid. I have also discovered a small message in a newspaper today that signatures are being collected in Latvia by means of a public initiative in order to make the use of cannabis entirely acceptable. These are the experiences we have now. In some parts of the world where the popular initiative is being used, the results are rather strange. Once I had the opportunity to translate one book from English, Fareed Zakaria's Future of Freedom, and there is a chapter on how the popular initiative is used in the United States. Zakaria claims that it rather resembles abuse of this possibility. If a billionaire puts money behind an initiative and his writing assistants write a convincing text and he is able to buy enough TV time, then such a popular initiative will work, no matter what its content, whether it is prohibited or allowed, or some other thing. It's like the bottom line. I would like to remind you here that the issue of referendum was quite important at the beginning of the 20th century, because there were no sociological tools that can be used to determine quite reliably today how people's opinions are divided. The Constitutional Assembly also discussed this issue, and there was a small group of ambassadors who thought that it should be in the current constitution, just as in the 1920 Constitution. There were no special disputes, most of the Members of the Constitutional Assembly were quite decisively opposed to this. Why did they object? I think that it was simply an attempt to make the text of the Constitution such that mistakes made in the course of our country's practice are avoided. And at least these people dealt with the 1933 referendum as one that should never happen again in Estonia. One thought was certainly that there could be a situation like this, that some worthy initiative with political ideas would not be taken, because at least one MP would not be present in the 101 members of our Riigikogu who could do so. I still believe that a serious initiative will find at least one supporter. We also have at least two experiences of how unpleasant political initiatives by the ruling coalition have been carried out in such a way that they have begun to collect signatures among the people and the harvest of signatures has been truly impressive. This was about the privatisation of the railways and also about the privatisation of the power plants. What else? The waitress said it was a good idea. The Constitutional Assembly argued the opposite: it was considered one of the worst and most dangerous ideas that could have been approved in the new Estonian regime. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-28_U120	On behalf of the Group of the Anneli Ott Centre Party, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-28_U121	I will explain to my report that there have now been many opportunities for citizens to participate in the discussion of state affairs. § 56 of the Constitution provides for two possibilities: Riigikogu elections and referendum. We're just offering you a third chance here, it's a public initiative. The popular initiative and the referendum are two completely different things. Drafts initiated in the Riigikogu by those who have the right to vote shall be submitted to the referendum. We are talking about a public initiative today. This is when the bill comes to the Riigikogu from the citizens themselves. It should not be feared that this initiative is necessarily something that the Riigikogu does not want to deal with, or that we can do it differently. Only recently 40,000 signatures were collected against the rise in excise duty. Where did this get us? 40000 people expressed their views very clearly, but the Chamber of Riigikogu did not discuss these views. 25,000 signatures, 25,000 people. It has been discussed and has also been held that perhaps it has been called for too much. Perhaps the very good draft laws that the people would like to initiate will not reach the Riigikogu, because 25000 is too high a threshold. This, too, should not be an obstacle; this number can be changed. Today we are talking about the principle of whether the Constitution could provide for the possibility for the people to submit draft laws to the Riigikogu by means of a popular initiative. All the other options, the petitions, the hearings, are softer. We all know where these ideas come from and how seriously they are taken. But thank you for this discussion! I very much hope that this initiative will be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-28_U122	I'm closing the negotiations. Honourable Riigikogu! The proposal of the lead committee is to reject it at first reading, and this proposal of the lead committee must be voted on. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the draft proposal of the leading committee to reject 228 at first reading. Please take a stand and vote. There are 55 members of the Riigikogu in favour of the commission's proposal, against 24, with 0 abstentions. Draft 228 has been rejected and will fall out of the procedure. Honourable Riigikogu! Yesterday, I promised the leaders of the political groups that, after the discussion on this item ended, the Council of Elders would meet. Break 30 minutes, proceed at 3:25.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-28_U123	Ladies and gentlemen, the break taken by the President is over. Let's move on to today's agenda.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-28_U124	Today's third item is the political statement by the Prime Minister regarding the transfer of the draft State Budget Act 2017. Before we go to that, I will present the debate on the item. First of all, the Prime Minister's political statement is up to 20 minutes. On the basis of § 155 (4) of the Riigikogu Law on Rules of Procedure and Rules of Procedure, the Board of the Riigikogu and the Prime Minister agreed that no questions will be asked to the rapporteur. After the application, negotiations will be opened, during which representatives of all political groups may take the floor. Prime Minister, please, the floor is yours!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-28_U125	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Riigikogu! When the Government of the Republic handed back the 2016 draft state budget to Parliament, I began my speech with a positive message. Only the days of the week earlier had the long - lasting injustice ended in the best way possible for Eston Suitcase and his family. He's back home. Today, however, there is the hope that the consensus candidate proposed in the Riigikogu's body of elders, under the leadership of Eiki Nestor, will receive the necessary support for the election of the President of the Republic, which has led to much criticism. The election of the President is a joint task of six political parties, and everyone in this Chamber must show their voters that Parliament is ready to work together to find a common candidate. I would point out that we are not electing the President either for the government or for the coalition of government. The President is needed for the Republic of Estonia. And the trust credit granted to the Riigikogu has obviously dried up too small to afford to play games. Therefore, good members of the Riigikogu, I will take this opportunity here before you and forward to you my personal request as a citizen. Choose the President in the first round of the Riigikogu! Thank you. Good Riigikogu! The Government of the Republic has just given you a growth-oriented and structural surplus budget of EUR 9.57 billion. Public budget expenditure will increase by 650 million euros compared to 2016, or 7.3%. I call the State Budget 2017 a growth budget because it aims to increase the economy and increase people's well-being, security and also the efficiency of the state. For the first time, we approached drawing up the budget in such a way that, already in the spring, we invited ministers to the House of Stenbock to find money together in the government's major and important decisions. The objectives of the areas set in the framework of the national budgetary strategy and the agreement on the four-year plan for public finances made the budgetary procedure much more efficient and enabled the agreements to be reached earlier than expected. I would like to thank all the ministers, particularly, of course, the Minister for Finance, for his sensible attitude and very well done work. Together, we have achieved much more than expected and we have shaped a number of things that have not been done for a few decades into decisions. It is also important that there is now a budgetary cover for these things. Next year, the government will continue on the path of success for Estonia. We are lowering labour taxes, increasing the taxation of vices and pollution and improving the livelihood of families. The idea of government tax incentives is simple: our people must have more money for themselves and for their families, especially for children. As regards the taxation of vices, i.e. the further raising of excise duties on alcohol and tobacco, this is justified by black and white facts. Alcohol consumption has been steadily decreasing since 2007. I unequivocally reject the misconception that the government is raising excise duties to patch up some mysterious budget hole. There will also be an equivalent tax reduction in the budget for the next year for every euro more than excise duty. In addition, environmental charges paid by certain companies in the sector fall significantly. As a whole, the tax burden will decrease by 0.2% compared to GDP. Thanks to wage increases faster than forecast and reduced unemployment, labour taxes will be better than those offered in the spring forecast in 2017 and more excise duties will be expected than previously projected. As has already been said, all the additional money collected thanks to the increase in excise duties will be returned to the economy through the reduction of other taxes. Although the state budget covers all areas of life without exception, today I am talking about the five priorities of the Government of the Republic in the budget. First, strengthening security. Secondly, contributing to economic growth and lowering labour taxes. Thirdly, improving the livelihood of low-paid people. Fourthly, improving the livelihood of families with children and further developing an environment conducive to the birth of children. Fifthly, an innovative and better-managed country. This issue also includes the successful conduct of the previous EU Presidency this year. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! This is the third state budget I will present to you after the annexation of Crimea. It is unprecedented that in the 21st century, soldiers from a foreign country, using military force, take away a piece of the territory of a free country. The war in Eastern Ukraine has not ended, peace has not been achieved. Two years and seven months later, the security situation in Europe and throughout the world is still alarming and, unfortunately, it is expected to remain this long-term. The 28 NATO Member States have assessed Russia's aggressive behaviour in the same way. Our position is unambiguous: the values of the West will be preserved and strengthened. In cooperation with our allies, over the past two years we have strengthened our alliance's consolidation policy, renewed NATO's defence plans, improved NATO's rapid reaction rate and increased military presence on the eastern wing of the alliance. The visible part of these activities for us is the Allied fighters at the Ämari air base and, since June, the NATO headquarters in the Defence Forces' territory, which aims to ensure good planning and training between NATO and the Allied units. At the NATO summit in Warsaw in July, we reached a clear conclusion that we need even more. Estonia and the other Baltic countries are not an eastern wing in need of NATO protection, but are a matter of NATO's wider security. It is necessary to show collective determination to carry out the main task of the alliance. This main task is to avoid war. In security policy, it is called a credible deterrent, a policy that must suppress anyone's aggressive intentions. The purpose of these units is not to wage war or to escalate the threat, but to prevent war and mitigate tensions. During 2017, soldiers from the United Kingdom, Denmark and France will arrive in Tapa, along with the United States troops already based in Estonia, to ensure peace. Three of these countries are permanent members of the UN Security Council, three of them also have nuclear weapons and all of the world's most professional military personnel. This clearly strengthens Estonia's defence capacity in both words and acts. It sends a strong signal that Estonia is not alone. This gives us as well as our partners the assurance that it is worth creating, investing and visiting Estonia as a tourist. Estonia has a role to play in this new deterrence policy. After all, the host country contributes to this policy with its territory, the Defence Forces, infrastructure and, more generally, public support. As the head of Estonian government, I would like to do everything possible to ensure that the Allied units have the necessary conditions, that they have proper opportunities to train in the air, on land and at sea, and that they have proper barracks to live in. In parallel, I consider it at least as important that we continue to develop the Estonian Defence Forces as a fighting force. New tasks related to the allies will not be an obstacle to the development of the Estonian Defence Forces itself. We want to continue with the policy that all the costs associated with the presence of allied units in Estonia come in addition to the 2% of the gross domestic product agreed by NATO. We will continue the procurement of anti-tank complexes and infantry combat vehicles to increase the fighting power and firepower of both our infantry brigades from year to year. We also want to continue to contribute to peace-building operations in Lebanon, Kosovo, Mali, Afghanistan and Iraq. The more stable the situation is in the neighbourhood between us and our allies, the stronger we are. In order to strengthen the military defence of ourselves and our allies, we contribute the largest share of gross domestic product ever: 2.19 per cent of GDP, as further specified by the Ministry of Finance today. As important as military defence is investing in making every person living in Estonia feel safe and good to live here and that the Estonian border and our regime have been preserved. We will allocate EUR 452 million to public order and security in 2017, which means 2.1% of GDP, like national defence. The work of police officers, border guards and defence police officers is self-evident for many, but it is also their responsibility to ensure that what happened in Estonia on 14 July in southern France, where two of our people lost their lives. Security is ensured primarily by a person who works as a police officer, savior or border guard. In this way, we want to raise the salaries of front-line officials and improve police and rescue equipment and working conditions. In 2017, a new rescue building will be completed in Vändra and Vastselina, the construction of the long-awaited Pärnu police and rescue joint building will continue in 2018, and the design of the new building will be started in Sillamäe. We will continue to build a modern and secure eastern border and allocate the necessary resources to this end. The security of Estonia is also protected by diplomats worthy of our recognition, whose working conditions and the dignity of representing the Estonian state, we are exponentially increasing investment and we are making arrangements for the Estonian embassy in Moscow, Brussels and Washington. For years, Estonia has been guided by the principle that security must be approached comprehensively. We will continue to implement a broad-based defence policy and, for example, allocate more than €7 million to improve the management and pre-warning capability at the strategic level. Good Riigikogu! It is clear that a functioning and attractive economy for investment is an essential pillar of both security and general well-being. It must be acknowledged that Estonia's economic growth has remained below its capacity in recent years. I believe that, in this situation, the foundations of economic growth must be strengthened. I have said before that the development of the Estonian economy does not have one big bottleneck, which will bring happiness to our yard. There are greater and smaller barriers to development, which must be addressed by taking steps based on economic policy. A year ago, I convened a working group of Estonia's best experts on economic development, and in a month's time, I expect them to report on the steps that will accelerate Estonia's economic growth. The growth and competitiveness of the economy must be tackled consistently by reforms, but it is important to keep in mind that the path of a free market economy, which is the best model for economic prosperity, must be maintained. In order to boost economic growth, we invest in our most valuable assets, alongside major infrastructure projects, in our people. We contribute significantly to improving the quality of education and we value highly labour market training and proficiency training so that we will have workers with the skills needed for economic growth in the future. We value life experience and also support investments to improve the qualifications of workers over 50 years of age. The salt of Estonia is the backbone of long-term economic growth and we have not left it to fate. Next year, the Teachers' Pay Fund will increase by 4.6%, which is in more than any other priority area, except for health. In addition, we are helping the labour market people with limited working capacity who are very keen to participate in the labour market. The Estonian economy urgently needs working hands, and in this situation it is natural to seek first the use of labour resources in our economy. The year 2017 is also significant in terms of the labour market and equal treatment, even though, in order to reduce the pay gap between women and men, the Labour Inspectorate is given the right to check whether women and men receive the same remuneration for the same and equal work. We are also setting an example here by drawing up an institutional overview of the gender pay gap in the public sector in order to reduce the pay gap. Gender equality is a quality mark of a well-functioning society and must become a norm. In terms of women's equal participation in the labour market, there is a huge potential. Next year, we will contribute to job creation by reducing the tax burden on labour to 32.5% and allowing more mobility for smart and knowledge-intensive people. Major investor support will also be provided. In addition, we finance the expansion of the Tallinn European School, which is important for bringing the families of foreign investors, foreign specialists as well as people serving in allied units to Estonia. We are making a substantial contribution to the funding of science and moving closer to our great goal of the country allocating 1% of gross domestic product to research and development in the future. It is important that our scientists can contribute more to economic growth in Estonia. In order to boost the economy and speed up our people's living standards, the government has decided to accelerate the use of EU Structural Funds money. Estonia has 3.5 billion euros of subsidies to be used during the 2014 to 2020 funding period, plus funds for agriculture. Together with our own contribution, there are 4.6 billion Structural Funds. This means EUR 1.6 million of investment every day to improve people's well-being and the quality of work and life. Euro-grants are developing education, employment, the economy, the environment, energy, transport and ICT. The most recent example that the government will use structural support for every person in Estonia in a visible and tangible way is not until a few weeks ago an investment plan has been approved to build or renovate 59 health centres across Estonia in the next few years. I also consider it a sign of the construction of the Tartu highway for four lines, which is the biggest road investment in Estonia that has re-independenced and has been debated for years. Preparation for the construction of Kose-Mäo road section begins already in the coming summer. The Estonian connections will also improve when the design of Rail Baltic begins in 2017 and the preparation of construction procurement begins. These are all very important decisions that concern the whole population. Overall, public investment will increase by more than a quarter next year. Good ambassadors! As I have already said, we must first and foremost value our people. Our task is to give confidence tomorrow to those most in need of state support, including single-living pensioners, families with children and people who receive a very low salary or income support. The state budget for 2017 will increase tax-free income to 180 euros, which means 2160 tax-free euros per year. People with lower incomes will have the opportunity to recover income tax paid on wages during the year. We will continue to improve the availability and quality of social services. In the new year, we will launch a programme to renovate municipal nursing homes for energy saving. Nor do we forget our elderly people who have contributed to the promotion of Estonia's life with their work. For old age to be dignified, the average pension will rise by more than 5% from EUR 395 to EUR 417 and will continue to be tax-free. Alone pensioners, who have more than 92000 in Estonia, will receive an additional grant of 115 euros next year. Next year, health funds will increase by around 100 million compared to the previous year's budget. The family's births increase the joys, but usually the costs. To have children at all, young families need confidence that they can cope and are not left alone. On 1 July 2017, a new family allowance for families with three or more children will enter into force. A family with at least three children is entitled to an additional allowance of EUR 200 per month on that day, i.e. the third child's allowance is basically EUR 300 per month. And more specifically, for a family with three children, the state will pay a total of EUR 400 every month from the next summer. In August 1377 children were born in Estonia, and at the same time last year 1182 were registered. We are on the right track, but in order for this trend to continue, we must also continue to create kindergarten places. As a result of the creation of childcare facilities financed by structural funds, childcare services will also become more accessible in areas where there is currently a shortage of places. A total of around 3200 new childcare places will be created by 2020, and we will also continue to develop childcare and disabled child support services.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-28_U126	Excuse me, Prime Minister. Do you need more time?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-28_U127	I'm asking for more time!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-28_U128	How much do you need? Please, five more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-28_U129	Thank you, manager. In 2017, we will launch a system of support for recreational activities so that every young person can participate in sports and recreational activities, regardless of the size of his or her parents' salary. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! Over the last year, we have discussed together several times that the services provided to citizens and businesses in the country must save time and money. Communication with the state must be as simple and quick as possible, but also, of course, effective. Like this year, in 2017 the public sector will face the challenge of providing better public services to people and doing so much more effectively. Every minister and every other public official must always look for ways to organise work even more efficiently and use taxpayers' money even more purposefully. In order for Estonia to be innovative and our country to be organised even better, we will continue to implement the state reform and reduce the volume of government according to the agreed plan. We plan to allocate EUR 14 million from next year's budget for the better success of the administrative reform. The increase in the income of local governments reduces remoteness. In the following year, the municipalities are expected to receive 910 million euros of income tax, which is a quarter more than at the end of the booming season in 2008. According to the summer economic forecast of the Ministry of Finance, the annual average annual growth in municipal revenue over the next four years is 5.6%. Additional support for municipalities, for example, is planned to provide EUR 5.7 million in 2017 and at least EUR 14.2 million in the following year to increase the availability of youth interest activities. Honourable Riigikogu! The UK's decision to leave the European Union was a shock to both the European Union and Estonia. One of the quickest decisions to take in the new situation was a change in the order of the Presidency. And although Britain is still a fully-fledged member of the European Union, the planned presidency of the outgoing country became politically impossible. The fact that the lot fell to Estonia was not merely calendar. I repeat to you Donald Tusk's words in Tallinn: 'There is no one I would like to see more on my side at this time. ' This shows confidence built up over the years, and the Riigikogu and, in particular, the European Union Affairs Commission, have played a special role. We must build this trust, because our security, our value and our well-being depend on it. Estonia is in the Presidency of the European Union at a critical, or rather turbulenceal, time. The Cassandra of our era has also been branded as an existential crisis. However, I think it is early to ring a bell on the European Union. In order to ensure that the difficulties do not become inherent, we must work together to overcome them, which are, above all, addressing security and internal security issues and the problems of growth and employment. We will start celebrating Estonia's 100th birthday and we will not make a discount in our international programme due to changes. This may even sound a bit hollow from the mouth of a politician, but the European Union must indeed come closer to the citizen. I fully agree with the President of the European Commission, Juncker, that everything that has been born is not the result of the work of the countries, and failure to do so is not the fault of the European Union. We must look in the mirror and admit that Brexit is also a painful lesson in the sense that communication must be responsible. It also means that issues of importance to the European Union will be increasingly discussed at the top of the Presidency. Unlike in the past, the new budget therefore also takes into account the possibility of a summit. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! Swedish liberal and historian Johan Norberg has said that never before have people lived safer, more prosperous, more equal, healthier and longer. For some reason, when we look at the news and read the papers, we often feel that the world is collapsing around us. Pessimism resonates. It is difficult for us to acknowledge the progress we have made, or that of society, because our concern for the future forces us to lose sight of the big picture. At the same time, there are very few countries in the world that have achieved more than our small Estonia in a quarter of a century. Thirty seconds more time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-28_U130	Please, one more minute!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-28_U131	The wage level of the Estonian people is two to thirty per cent higher than that of the southern neighbours and the minimum wage is much higher than the average wage of the eastern neighbour. Compared to Finland, the difference in living standards has been reduced by the number of times. We will have very large infrastructure decisions taken without credit. We have reason to be proud of the achievements of our people and our country. However, we must continue to work to ensure that the security and security of the Estonian people grow and the economy gets more momentum, so that no one in Estonia feels left out or abandoned, so that we have more children, so that the efficiency of the state increases and the competence of people working for the state grows. The next year's Public Finance Working Document is growth-oriented. I call on you to support the draft state budget for 2017 submitted by the Government of the Republic and I would like you to have constructive discussions on the budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-28_U132	Thank you, Prime Minister. Now is the opportunity to negotiate political groups, and first is Andres Ammas on behalf of the Estonian Free Party Group. Please! Five plus three minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-28_U133	President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, the Prime Minister and Finance Minister. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! To this year's state budget, the Free Party named the ticking budget a year ago. We have been ticking for a year now, and on the one hand we can rejoice that the soul is inside. On the other hand, the government has wasted a year's precious time without the courage to take more decisive steps. This year has been mocked, like the tailor Ray fooled the linen merchant Aaberkuke's precious Anchovies. What will look back on us from the state budget for the coming year? I'll start with a positive. Presidential candidate Kersti Kaljulaid repeated one of his creeds today when he met us: weaker first and foremost! That's right, that's it! And so, when you read the draft budget, the question arises as to whether the Prime Minister is still in Taavi Rõiva or already in Evgeny Ossinovski. It is a good thing that this budget does not forget the weakest, but in all good intentions they are halfway, not even half, a quarter, or even less. The tax-free minimum increases by 10 euros per month, the social tax falls by half a percentage point. The increase in salaries of teachers, cultural workers, domestic security workers and social welfare workers is below wage growth in the private sector. At the same time, excise duty on diesel is rising at 10%, excise duty on petrol at 10%, excise duty on tobacco at 8%, excise duty on alcohol at 10%, excise duty on natural gas at 20%. VAT on accommodation services will rise from 9% to 14%. The Estonian Taxpayers' Association has drawn our attention to the fact that the government's plan to continue the sharp rise in excise duty is unsustainable. Rapid increases in excise duty have already led to an increase in border trade and smuggling. Going to Latvia to buy alcohol, they buy cigarettes, they fuel fuel, they don't finally buy ice. The government has so far improved the opposition's comments on this subject with arguments that tax money is well received from excise duties, even more than planned. However, a negative momentum for the economy could be much more expensive in the long term than short-term revenues. Prime Minister and Minister of Finance! You yourself have committed yourself to analysing the effects of excise increases and, if necessary, to considering what steps to take. How big is the secret market to expand, how many Estonian shops along the Latvian border must close their doors so that the government considers the situation worth analysing? Listen to the business community and the taxpayers' union and brake the rise in excise duty! At present, this budget is a consumer tax budget, because the tax changes it contains relate specifically to the consumer in a negative direction. Yes, the budget is increasing significantly. In order for this to happen because of the recovery of economic growth, the government does not have the courage to declare it this time. Our growth is long overdue and we will soon be pretty midgets. Four consecutive times since spring, the forecast has been made on the same rake, looking for non-existent signs of the economic performance of the neighbouring countries, although the amazing growth in Estonia's export capacity has increased. There is now a lot of hope to take dividends from public enterprises. However, the inadequacy of organising ferry connections eats the supplies of the Port of Tallinn every day. Eesti Energia has not yet digested the toxic fruits of previous erroneous decisions; Estonian Railway has long since ceased to be a source of revenue, but is absorbing state money from the additional budget this year. In the view of the Free Party, in the run-up to business day, the government could not wave flags but actually listen more to entrepreneurs. The child thinks the money comes from the closet or the wall. We have forces in Parliament who say that money comes from the state budget. But where the money gets into the budget, we tend to forget. Entrepreneurship is what brings money to the budget. As a whole, this bill looks like a coward looking all over the world at once. Compliance with the electoral promises of the government departments and ministers, yes, has succeeded in writing so much into the budget that allegedly the cabinet did not have a real dispute. But it should not be very clear from the budget that the priorities of the government are visible. It's just a desire to please as many as possible. The Prime Minister told me what's in this budget. However, it is also important to note what is not in it. There is no solution to the problem of lack of funding for healthcare. Consequently, it is simply intended to put the health fund's reserve in a brush. The increase in R &amp; D funding, in order to see it, must be looked at with a glass. Where should growth come from if education and research are not budget priorities? Financing in this area must be an absolute priority in order to ensure economic growth in the current situation, if Estonia is actually to be developed. I recommend that you read carefully the position taken by the Governor of Eesti Pank, Ardo Hansson, in which he points out that the cheap labour-based industry will be pushed out of Estonia anyway. Internal security is still in the role of a poor relative alongside defence spending. However, it is clear that long ago it is time to speak as a priority about security as a whole, not just to brag that the defence budget is at our level. In summary, this is one of the budget for imitation of the appearance. Development, social advancement and the improvement of the business environment are imitated. In fact, entrepreneurs do not feel the victory resulting from a very small reduction in social tax, but a huge hole is created in the budget. At the Tax Conference of the Free Party, a number of ideas were presented in the spring that could be taken up with social tax if there was really a change to be made. In a sense, social welfare is also imitated by sowing money from aircraft without distinguishing between vulnerable groups as recipients of funds. This budget has now been handed to us by the usual drum roll and fanfare sounds. Ladies and gentlemen of the Riigikogu, we have a joint serious job to do to make this budget work. The Free Party, as we know, is not afraid of work, we are ready. But now, honourable members of the Riigikogu, one post script. Let me conclude by following the example of the Prime Minister on the progress made so far in electing the President. The reprimanding style demonstrated by the Prime Minister about 20 minutes ago was inappropriate to me. It's kind of weird, the role of attorney-in-law in the role of attorney-in-law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-28_U134	Thank you. On behalf of the Group of the Kadri Simson Centre Party, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-28_U135	Ladies and gentlemen, Ladies and gentlemen, The Prime Minister handed over the draft state budget for the following year a moment ago. This is a very important draft, but we have heard the Prime Minister's praise, which even needed more time, but we were not given the opportunity to ask questions about the government's priorities. So there was time for speech and more, but there wasn't enough time for questions. The first part of § 155 (4) of the Law on the Rules of Procedure of the Riigikogu states that a member of the Riigikogu may submit one oral question to an official who has made an application, a report or an overview. However, today the same statement was based on the second part of the sentence: '... unless otherwise agreed between the Board of the Riigikogu and the official.' Once again, it has been agreed that no questions will be asked to the Prime Minister. What's the Prime Minister afraid of? Is it that the beautiful bubble of conversation breaks down today instead of the first-reading debate on the state budget? According to the draft, the estimated amount of revenue and expenditure for the 2017 state budget is around EUR 9.5 billion and the budget represents a structural surplus of 0.2% of GDP. Nobody talks about a nominal fiscal position anymore. The fact that our budgets are in nominal deficit must have been the exception of the years of crisis, but, as you can see, the nominal deficit has become a new normality. For the sake of the tenogram, I note that the national budget for 2017 is nominally in deficit of 0.6%. Much has been acknowledged by the government coalition for wage increases in a number of key sectors. During the budget negotiations, the government agreed that social welfare workers, cultural staff with higher education and internal security workers will grow by 3.3% next year and that the teachers' wage fund will grow by 4.6%. But the background system is always important. If an overall nominal increase of 5.5% in the average wage is expected next year, this means once again that the teachers' average wage does not approach the average wage, but is far from it. The same must unfortunately be said of the Estonian Educational Workers' Association in its address to us. The calculations made by them show that raising teachers' salaries to 120% of the national average would require an increase in teachers' salaries of 11 to 122% per year in the coming years. However, I am particularly concerned about the increase in excise duties on fuel in the state budget for next year. The excise duty on diesel in Estonia is already 31.4% higher than in Latvia. It is also known today that, unlike Estonia, Latvia will not increase this excise duty rate next year. Thus, the difference between the rates of excise duty is 44%. According to the Prime Minister, the budget is intended to give the economy a boost, but I do not believe that further increases in the rate of excise duty on fuel will give the economy a positive boost, rather the opposite. Transport companies refuel their heavy goods vehicles to their southern neighbours with lower rates of excise duty, and tax revenues will not be collected. When excise duty is increased, a reduction in the social tax rate is promoted, which has not even been approved by the taxpayers' association. The Estonian Taxpayers' Association considers that reducing social tax to this extent does not give the employer enough effect to create new jobs or implement structural reforms in the economy. The Union also agrees with those operators who find it embarrassing to obtain tax reductions, which result in increased excise duties on fuel and increased VAT rates on accommodation establishments harm the Estonian economy and make many people's livelihood worse. Next year VAT on accommodation services will also increase by 5%: from 9% to 14%. According to the Estonian Tourist Association, the government's decision to increase VAT on accommodation establishments hinders the development and export of the Estonian economy and undermines the livelihood of those employed in the tourism sector. In this light, the words of the Minister for Finance that new tax increases are not planned with the state budget are very comforting. There was just nothing more to plan. Similarly, I have doubts about the sentence of Taavi Clothing, where he promised to trim the entire government sector next year. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-28_U136	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-28_U137	If we look at how thin the country has already been polished and how internal security is based to a large extent on voluntary and mission feeling, then further savings seem irresponsible. In two autumns, Estonian farmers have been protesting in front of the Riigikogu building. What is happening in this sector is a disaster. Due to the disappearance of milk quotas, milk production has increased in many Member States and this means pressure on milk prices. The agricultural sector is also heavily affected by the Russian embargo on agricultural products in the European Union. In Estonia, the number of dairy cows has decreased by about 10,000 cows, and the African swine plague has also put the pigmeat sector under pressure. Do we see solutions in this state budget? We see one-off crisis aid, which gives no assurance that in the coming years we will have as much support as our immediate neighbours. Would farmers support this budget, or would they put the Minister of Agriculture on the bench? These questions need answers. For several years in a row, we have been presented with a budget that can be called a budget for running into a deadlock. Just next year, we will be particularly good and, through tax increases, we will increase the pace to run further towards the deadlock. Dear Members of the Government! If you drive a car and there's a dead end sign in front of you, you're looking for a new way to reach your destination. You're not going to the end of the street. You don't have to try it personally, or maybe your Audi A8 doesn't turn into a bicycle in the meantime. It makes sense to do the same in economic matters. It's worth listening to experts instead of trying everything on your skin. According to the comments of the Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance, every year it seems to be a fantastic budget. Unfortunately, years have shown that the state budget is gold-haired, according to the government, on top of the onion, but if the document itself finally reaches the Riigikogu, something else will come out of it. We look forward to reading the first, second and third readings and promise constructive help to improve this budget. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-28_U138	Thank you. Remo Holsmer, Reform Party, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-28_U139	Happy Members of the Riigikogu! The government handed over the state budget for next year to the Riigikogu for discussion today. Looking at Parliament, it seems that discussions in the government have been restrained. No disputes have been brought to the public and no budget has been made available through the press. I think this shows quite well the determination of the government, the willingness of the ministers to agree and compromise. This is certainly extremely important right now. The context in which the government has put together the budget is in many ways influenced by external factors, or things that we cannot change with our own hands. There is still a migration crisis in Europe, Great Britain is leaving the European Union, the economic growth of our closest neighbours and our closest export partners is around 1%. It is difficult to assume in this situation that Estonia could show two-digit growth figures. However, when translated into budget languages, an increase in revenue of almost EUR 500 million, which is 6.3%, does not sound like a bad result. I admit that the 1.3% growth forecast for this year in Estonia is certainly not something to be satisfied with. I believe that the government is the founder of conditions in the economic environment, the rules of the game, not the saying that growth should be 5% or 15%. In addition to creating a favourable business climate, the role of the state can be to support our businesses in exporting and finding new markets. It is also important to increase investments by the state and it is good to note that next year's state budget provides for the development of the construction of the Tartu road and the construction of the "Russalka" and the Haaberst intersection in Tallinn. According to the draft budget, the estimated amount of revenue and expenditure in the state budget for the following year is approximately 9.5 million euros. It is in a structural surplus and the tax burden is reduced by 0.2%. The main objectives of the budget are strengthening security, promoting economic growth, reducing labour taxes, supporting people with lower incomes, further assisting families with children and public reform. If taken sectorally, according to a good table drawn up by the Ministry of Finance, public expenditure increases almost exclusively in all areas, namely social protection, education, health care, the development of the economic environment, public order and national defence. However, I will read out once again the priorities that the government has agreed on, and which I hope Parliament's political parties will not question during the budgetary procedure. Item 1: Defence costs. An increase in defence costs to 2,19% of GDP has been agreed, and this is the largest share ever. Next: tax changes. Tax-free income will rise to 180 euros next year and the social tax rate will fall from 2018 to 32%. Let it be said once again that the reduction in social tax does not affect the budget of the Health Insurance Fund, although this statement is also carefully distributed in the corridors of the Riigikogu. This amount, by which less social tax will be collected in the following year, will be covered by other revenue from the budget. The budget of the Health Insurance Fund will be EUR 1.09 billion next year, which is EUR 66 million more than in 2016. So much of the benefits and pensions that, as has already been mentioned, the support of a family with three children will increase from mid-next to 300 euros. The lump-sum allowance for a single pensioner living alone shall be EUR 115 per year. A maintenance fund will be set up and the average old-age pension will rise by 5% to EUR 417 and will remain exempt in the future. Forward: public sector wages. It certainly needs to be stressed that the wage fund for social welfare workers, higher education cultural workers and internal security workers will grow by 3.3% next year. The increase in teachers' payroll is 4.6% according to the budget. And certainly one of the main events of the coming year will be not only for the state sector, but for Estonia as a whole, the Presidency of our European Union. The resources needed to do this are planned in the budget, as the Presidency starts earlier. Now, from the criticism of the two groups on the budget. First, the Free Party. The Free Party says that R &amp; D funding will not increase, but an additional €8 million will be allocated to this area next year. This represents a total of EUR 192 million. So what you're saying isn't entirely true. You also mentioned that this budget for growth is like imitating something. In my opinion, your own speech imitated constructive criticism...
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-28_U140	Honourable waitress! Do you need more time?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-28_U141	Yeah, two and a half minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-28_U142	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-28_U143	That was not a very constructive criticism. Although Kadri has left the hall, the faction of the Centre Party has criticised the rise in excise duties. Last week we heard what would be the alternative to the government raising excise duties on alcohol, tobacco and fuel next year. Tarmo Tamm, a good colleague of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, explained this very clearly: the Centre Party believes that the alternative could be corporate income tax and graduated income tax. Unfortunately, there is no Tarmo Tamme Hall, I would like to ask him which business organisations require the reintroduction of corporate tax and the application of graduated income tax. These are different fiscal visions and I do not support the Central Party's policy of increasing labour taxes, as they have proposed here. According to the Reform Party Group, the budget proposed by the government is growth-friendly and forward looking. It supports structural reforms with a long-term impact, and I am thinking of labour capacity reform and administrative reform. The aim is also to improve the functioning of the country by cutting red tape. As Chairman of the Monetary Commission, I will announce that we will start discussions on the budget tomorrow. I look forward to meeting all the members of the Committee on Monetary Affairs with the Minister for Finance who gives an overview of the budget, and I hope that the other committees will also invite their Minister for Foreign Affairs to the committee meeting to defend the budget. We have planned for the first reading of the budget in the large hall by 26 October. So there is almost a month before the first reading in this Chamber is on the agenda. I wish everyone the strength to deal with the budget and to make constructive criticisms. Let's not get involved in this kind of criticism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-28_U144	Thank you. Andres Anvelt, the Social Democratic Party Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-28_U145	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, Prime Minister! Minister of Finance! Social democrats could generally be satisfied with this state budget. Certainly, on a very large number of points, cosmetic changes may be mentioned, but the most important steps for us, for which we have also stood in two governments, are getting more and more content and also material resources. The most important thing for us is everything that relates to children and families. A few years ago, child benefit was 19,90 euros in force for more than ten years, and no one even dreamed of its growth. But already in the previous government, before the elections, we took a step forward to change our traditional understandings. It has continued this year and will continue next year, with special attention given to helping families and single parents with more than three children. Raising a child alone is actually one of the biggest causes of child poverty. A support fund will be set up and children and young people will be able to participate in activities of interest. The situation has also been assessed by the Centre for Policy Studies in Praxis, which believes that all these changes will reduce the proportion of children living in poverty in the coming years in support of children and families twice. I'd like to bring another step forward. Our country has now finally started to fund women's shelters, as this too is part of child and family policy. So far, our partners from Norway and Switzerland helped us. Now this task falls to a large extent on the shoulders of the Estonian state, and so it should be. At the same time, as a member of the Coalition Party, I also allow myself some criticism, rather than criticism, but to look to the future. I hope that the number that the Prime Minister put out to us is 2,19% of GDP, taking into account investments in security, rather than a reduction in GDP. It was only a few weeks ago that we examined it in our group and then this figure was 2.17%. There may be several reasons behind the increase in this percentage. At the same time, we must also look at other scenarios for the future. In recent weeks, along with the election of the President, there have also been statements about the rise in retirement age. This has given rise to a lot of criticism and debate in society. Yes, an increase in retirement age may even be inevitable, and it is a matter of agreements in society at large, but we must certainly stand by the fact that people currently retired are not in the kind of trouble they are in. To this end, taboos must be removed when discussing possible development scenarios. We also heard during the debates on the election of the President of the Republic, from candidates in favour of the positions of the various political parties, that we should not be afraid of a debate on the tax system and, if necessary, a change in our country's clear lending policy, the use of foreign labour and all other steps that could boost our people's and the country's income. I'll take a few more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-28_U146	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-28_U147	We have recently heard very often that the problems are being pushed to the next few years to look for financial solutions for 2018 and 2019, perhaps in the longer term. In particular, we heard this about the health insurance fund. For me, however, one issue close to my heart is the issue of people involved in security, i.e. defence forces and police officers. The abolition of these special pensions is a very serious issue and has long been discussed in society. What worries me is that, even if we are going to wind up these special pensions by 2020, those people we want to work there must have some other very good motivation package. Maybe they don't have to go to that job with the hope that they'll never have a special pension, but they'll have to make sure they can save their retirement and plan their lives long and long. Unfortunately, neither in the previous budget nor in this budget did we see any sums that would seriously improve the motivation of our people for security and security. I hope that the government, as well as we in this Chamber of the Riigikogu, will keep this in mind not only in the debate on this budget, but also in the future. All of this requires a broad dialogue, not just proposals based on facts. At the same time, I think that, to sum up, the budget that the government has offered us can be more or less satisfied. Certainly Parliament still needs to work and work hard on this, but I hope that this budget will take us forward, not backwards. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-28_U148	Thank you. Martin Helme on behalf of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-28_U149	Dear Deputy Speaker! Ladies and gentlemen, Ladies and gentlemen, First, a few words of appreciation. The budget, which, of course, we have not yet had a thorough examination of, seems beautiful at least at first sight. Earnings are increasing, more or less balanced, depending on which angle you look at. There is also growth in priority areas: the salaries of national defence and internal security workers, as well as teachers, are increasing. It's like there's nothing to complain about. But the problem is elsewhere. The problem is that only the Estonian state is good in Estonia. Businesses aren't good. The latter will be squeezed out of the economy and the result will be whirlwind and stagnant economic growth, which in the long term means that our budget cannot be balanced because it is not possible to keep pace with the pace of expenditure growth. That's the main problem. It all comes down to the same tax increases that we have debated a lot and fought against a lot and whose long-standing undermining impact on our productivity growth, investment, job creation will become more and more evident in the coming years. If the government coalition proudly reports that the tax rate will fall by 0.2%, then, of course, this is as good as an insignificant number. In fact, the story is that everything you take out of the economy is squeezed out, and then it is kindly distributed by the hand of the country. All of us like it when child subsidies grow, all of us like it when the wages of cultural workers rise. But the real long-term perspective is that the Estonian state will not remain economically viable in this way. Each year, meeting the state budget becomes more difficult and requires the next ingeniously discovered places to squeeze out. This is the sad reality of this seemingly beautiful budget. When we start reading the bill, let's see what it says between the lines and on the lines, but this is the overall economic picture. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-28_U150	Thank you. The political groups have no further wish for negotiations. Ladies and gentlemen, We have heard and negotiated the Prime Minister's political statement regarding the transfer of the draft State Budget Act 2017. Thank you, Prime Minister. Thank you, Minister of Finance. That concludes the third item on our agenda today.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-28_U151	We go to the fourth item on the agenda, which is the third reading of the draft law amending the Law on Civil Service, which is the result of the Presidency of the Estonian Council of the European Union initiated by the Government of the Republic. Do the political groups want to open negotiations? There is no wish for negotiation. The Governing Commission's proposal is for a final vote of 240 on the draft and we are going to the final vote. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the draft law amending the law on public service arising from the Presidency of the Council of the European Union initiated by the Government of the Republic 240. Please take a stand and vote. 57 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the draft, no respondents, no abstentions 3. The bill has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-28_U152	Today's fifth item is the second reading of the draft eID and trust services Act 237 initiated by the Government of the Republic. I would like to present the Chair of the Committee on Economic Affairs, Kalle Palling.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-28_U153	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, The Government of the Republic initiated this draft. a on 9 May. The first reading took place on 8 June. No proposals were received from Riigikogu members, committees or political groups by the deadline for submitting amendments, 22 June. In preparation for the second reading, the Committee on Economic Affairs discussed the draft at its meeting on 22 September with representatives of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications. The Commission decided to make seven amendments to the draft, six of which were submitted to the Committee on Economic Affairs by the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications. A total of seven amendments drawn up on the basis of the wording of the initiator's representatives are proposals by the commission. Technical and linguistic changes have also been made to the draft, which in no case alter the content of the draft. The Committee on Economic Affairs decided to submit the draft for second reading on the agenda of the plenary session of the Riigikogu today and to propose that the second reading be terminated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-28_U154	Thank you, dear waitress. No questions for you. Do colleagues want to negotiate? There is no wish for negotiation. Amendments to the draft have been tabled, seven have been tabled and we will examine them together. The first amendment, tabled by the Committee on Economic Affairs, is the position of the commission: take full account. The second amendment, as well as the position proposed by the Committee on Economic Affairs, of the lead committee: take full account. Third amendment, author of the Committee on Economic Affairs, position of the commission: take full account. Fourth amendment, tabled by the Committee on Economic Affairs, position of the commission: take full account. Fifth amendment, author of the Committee on Economic Affairs, position of the commission: take full account. The sixth amendment, as well as the position proposed by the Committee on Economic Affairs, of the lead committee: take full account. And the seventh amendment, the position proposed by the Committee on Economic Affairs, of the lead committee: take full account. We have examined the amendments. The commission has proposed that the second reading of draft 237 be terminated. The second reading is closed and the fifth item is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-28_U155	The sixth item is the first reading of the draft Act 279 on the ratification of the Council of Europe Convention on the Protection of Children against Sexual Exploitation and Sexual Abuse initiated by the Government of the Republic. To present the speech chair, Minister of Justice Urmas Reinsalu!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-28_U156	Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable members of the High Assembly! Allow me to express my appreciation for the consensual spirit that prevails in the Chamber of the Riigikogu and other premises during the debate on today's serious topics. Draft 279 is a serious draft law on the ratification of the Council of Europe Convention. The content of this Convention is one and clear: to ensure jointly, in cooperation with countries, the same level of legal and different levels of prevention and protection measures in those countries that have approved it. Estonia holds the Presidency of the Council of Europe and this topic is one of our priorities. It is therefore appropriate to deal with this draft precisely during our Presidency. With regard to this convention, it must be said that it is the most comprehensive international agreement on the protection of children against sexual exploitation and sexual abuse. The cornerstones of the Convention are the prevention of sexual exploitation and abuse, the protection of the rights of children who are victims of sexual exploitation and abuse, and the promotion of domestic and international cooperation in the fight against child exploitation and abuse. In order for those countries that have ratified the document not only to implement it declaratively or on paper, a monitoring system is also foreseen to monitor the relevant national procedures. However, it is a fact that sexual exploitation and sexual abuse of children have increased both at national and international level. This is particularly encouraged by a situation where both children and the perpetrators are increasingly using information and communication technologies. When ratifying this convention, it is important to consider that this is a bill that does not require changes in Estonian law at the level of the Act. We can say that the criminal law, sanctioning content of the Convention has actually been fully implemented in our penal law and there is no need for legislative changes. From the perspective of the future, the Ministry of Justice is currently developing a criminal policy programme for the control of violent criminals, which also affects paedophiles. There are more severe punishments for saripedophiles up to a life sentence. The other half, and that is why the Government has not previously presented this Convention for ratification by Parliament, concerns our education and social system and what our institutions are capable of accomplishing in all this preventive and remedial action. It can be said that the direction taken in the development plan for children and families up to 2020, as well as in the strategy for preventing violence, should ensure that we have reason to claim: if Parliament ratifyes this convention, there is no doubt that Estonia will be able to comply with it in essence. We do this not only on paper, but we take real steps. One of the key steps in this direction was the enforcement of the new child protection reform. This bill is also linked to the draft Act amending the Victim Assistance Act drawn up by the Ministry of Social Affairs. This law should enter into force on 1 January next year. I would like to emphasise one more thing. We signed this convention as early as 2008. The fact that we are only now ratifying it is due to the fact that we wanted to involve all the authorities whose task it is to combat these very ugly crimes. We now have the whole necessary system in place to ensure that this is not just a declarative step. Of course, the most important thing for this convention is to link the activities of the Ministry of the Interior, the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Education and Research and the Ministry of Social Affairs to one chain. And in all this activity, we must bear in mind the fact that children need our special protection and gentle treatment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-28_U157	Thank you, Minister. You have questions too. Aadu Black, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-28_U158	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! You tried to convince us that this was a good bill, but it's no surprise to anyone. We all know that. We are rather surprised by what the Government of the Republic has done for eight years and whether this delay is due to our slow Finno-Ugric character, the ministry's replacement activities and other activities, or whether there are some personal reasons at stake that we have not reached it sooner. After all, there is no need for additional measures, ratification is simple and easy, the more we are surprised that the Ministry you run has fallen asleep in organising it.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-28_U159	Thank you. I represent the government as a whole on this bill. I don't want to slice this competence in any way here. As I said, even before we joined this convention, our criminal law system was such that we were guaranteed special attention by both juvenile prosecutors and police officers to sexual attacks against minors. These regulations already work in our law. Why is it only now so far that this international convention can be ratified? The reason is above all that our social welfare system also required the necessary enforcement steps to be taken. These preparations have been linked to a wide range of components, as I have already emphasised. For example, we now have a Victim Support Act and a reform of child protection has been developed under the new Child Protection Act. What I am saying is that our social system has been developed with an emphasis on protecting the safety of children. We have moved in the right direction, and it is also confirmed that if we are going to ratify this convention, we can be sure that Estonia will be able to implement it, it is not just a declarative step.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-28_U160	Heljo Pikhof, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-28_U161	Thank you. Dear Minister, We discussed the deadlines for the expiry of the crime in the Commission, and it was also said that if the Istanbul Convention is over, there will be changes in this area as well. It is now known that this package has been sent to the government for coordination. So when does it end up in the Riigikogu? We've been waiting a long time.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-28_U162	Thank you. I hope this will happen without stretching over the next few weeks. Indeed, in the preparation of the draft, a common section has also been found between the various authorities as regards how we envisage in national law the rules on combating violence against women, which are the subject of the Istanbul Convention. It is necessary to include some provisions in the Penal Code in this Convention. But the greatest burden on all substantive activities lies in the pre-deployment and the work of the support network, which is part of the social protection field.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-28_U163	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-28_U164	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! Am I right to understand that Estonia has been such a paedophiliac country with this long stretch? But the question really is this: are we the last or the last country that has not ratified the Anti-Pedophilia Convention? How many are we in the back?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-28_U165	Thank you. The Republic of Estonia is certainly not in any way a country where sexual violence against children is to some extent tolerated. On the contrary, this is one of the most serious crimes condemned both in society and in the criminal sanctioning system. Moreover, when we were dealing with the fact that the Constitutional Court declared the provisions of post-sentence detention to be unconstitutional, which were primarily designed to contain the very dangerous tendencies of serial pedophiles, for whom there is an extremely high likelihood of such acts still being committed, we began to analyse it and we intend to come up with proposals to consider the possibility that the court would impose life imprisonment on such persons. In criminal policy, we clearly have sexual crimes against children, both in research and in court charges, among the five main priorities. So there is no way that the Estonian state has failed to give the necessary attention to this problem. But the fact is that the Convention has been signed by all 47 Member States of the Council of Europe as of June and has been ratified by 41 countries. A simple act shows that if Estonia ratifies it, it will be the 42nd country.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-28_U166	Marianne Mikko, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-28_U167	Thank you. I am extremely pleased that this Lanzarote Convention has come before us. But it was in my ear to scratch one of your sentences, Minister of Justice, and namely that the document has come before us in a situation where the 100% enforceability of this convention is guaranteed. This is more of a philosophical question as to whether a convention could only be approved by Members when the state of affairs is perfect. In my opinion, the practice of European Parliaments in general is that political will is shown first and then the necessary actions follow. How do you feel about it being quite right when we ratify only when everything is done? We are among the latter and this is not a very comfortable position.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-28_U168	I think that the situation would be more serious if we had failed to take some steps that we would have been able to do, but what we would not have wanted or should have done because the Convention has not been ratified. All these measures will be implemented in different areas either on the basis of the Child Protection Act, the Children's and Families' Development Plan or a strategy to prevent violence. What is the point of this convention? The Convention is not a law of any kind that requires action, but the politics and legal environment of our country have not moved in the opposite direction from what it says. The point of the convention is that in the international community, especially in the European Union, but also in other Member States of the Council of Europe, children's rights would be protected in a similar way, whether they were children of Estonian people who are abroad with their families or children of residents of other countries. The significance of the convention is that it creates an ever-expanding space in the world, which provides a certain evidence-based standard of how sexual crime against children is prevented. This evidence-based standard is also a guide for us in the policy we have developed and on which we base our efforts to prevent, investigate and prevent. I am far from underestimating the symbolic value of this convention and its real impact in all the dozens of countries that have approved it or are prepared to do so. However, the fact is, as I said, that the ratification of the Convention will in no way affect the steps that we intend to take and in which we believe they will be useful in guaranteeing children's spiritual and physical integrity.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-28_U169	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-28_U170	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, I do not want to talk about this being all extremely important and necessary. But there are a few places in this explanatory statement that I don't understand, and I'm asking for your comment. There is, for example, the need to establish an integrated early intervention system to identify the developmental needs of the child and the abused child. Who's making it? Who's in charge? When will be created? The statement is nice, but I'd like to know who's doing it specifically.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-28_U171	Thank you. This is the core of the new Child Protection Act. We have tried to build a network of child protection officers at national level, according to a certain standard, in the key to this new law. Secondly, as stated in this new concept of child protection, family doctors play a very important role in this system. The reality is that this whole broader philosophy, which also concerns teacher training and information for educators in both pre-school and general education, is precisely that people are aware of the signals that they can conclude that a child has been abused. This means that workers in all these professions, both in education and in health care, will, at an early stage, be able to identify the signs by which it can be assumed that some children have been abused. They intervene and will certainly talk about their observations to child protection workers. The most difficult and painful problem with this ugly form of crime is the latency, or hiding, of the crime. In the case of violence against women, it is very important that these cases are registered so that victims can dare to come to the public. Unfortunately, in the case of children, it is clear that in the most ugly cases, a small child is unable to speak about the performance; he may not be able to speak about it. That is why it is vital that these individuals, namely family doctors, pre-school educators, spot and respond to this risk or danger.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-28_U172	Thank you, Minister. No further questions for you. Now I ask for a presentation of the Chair of the Committee on Legal Affairs, Heljo Pikhof.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-28_U173	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! The Committee on Legal Affairs discussed the draft Act 279 on the ratification of the Council of Europe Convention on the Protection of Children against Sexual Exploitation and Sexual Abuse, initiated by the Government of the Republic, at its meeting on 19 September. Urmas Reinsalu, Minister of Justice, presented the draft as the representative of the Government. Lavly Perling, the State's Attorney General, and Anne Kruusement, adviser to the Department of Penal Law and Procedure, attended the discussion. I will present the debate in the Committee on Legal Affairs. The Minister of Justice noted that the purpose of the draft is to ratify the Council of Europe Convention on the Protection of Children against Sexual Exploitation and Sexual Abuse and to implement the Convention in Estonia. Estonia has signed the Convention on 17 September 2008, but so far it has not been ratified because we have not been prepared to fulfil the obligations arising from it in full. However, the new strategy for preventing violence, child protection reform and various developments allow us to state that Estonia is ready to ratify the Convention and that the Presidency of the Council of Europe is also the right time to do so. The Minister noted that the government's action programme sets out as a criminal policy priority the fight against crimes involving and against minors, particularly sexual crimes, because we have seen an increase in the number of cases of abuse of minors. At the meeting of the Commission, we asked the Minister to explain what activities are included in the programme of action of the Government of the Republic he mentioned. The Minister explained that the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of Justice have agreed that the priority areas at present are crimes involving minors, organised drug crime, organised illegal migration, anti-state crime and corruption crimes. In order to prevent them, more research resources will be invested and the prosecutors dealing with them will be speeded up. It is also important that child-related procedures are carried out in a way that is as sustainable as possible for children, so as not to cause them further suffering. The Minister also noted that the State has committed itself to ensuring that the child is protected and paid for by the State in a process where there is a conflict of interest, such as the accused being close to the child. Members of the Commission asked the Minister to explain how to avoid situations where children can work by persons who have changed their names in addition to the offence committed against the minor. The Minister replied that under the new Social Welfare Act, persons who have been punished for serious crimes against persons, abductions or sexual crimes will never be able to work in a child and welfare institution. The records show the person's valid name as well as previous names. The criminal record is generally public in Estonia and therefore there is no need to create a separate paedophile register. The Ministry of Justice has issued a circular which reminds the authorities of the necessity and obligation to carry out a background check. The Commission was also asked that if one of the foster parents in a family with an adopted child committed an offence against a child, how to ensure that the other parent was also responsible if he knew or had to know what happened. The Commission was also interested in Estonia's ability to comply with Article 34 of the Lanzarote Convention. Article 34 provides that a Contracting Party shall implement the measures which may be necessary to ensure that persons, entities or services responsible for investigations specialise in and train against sexual exploitation and sexual abuse of children. The Minister of Justice confirmed that there is a special unit in the police that employs trained specialists. We also have prosecutors specialised in juvenile matters. State Attorney General Lavly Perling said that the prosecutor's office is also developing cooperation with the Bar Association, which is aimed at providing us with trained lawyers. Consideration will also be given to the specialisation of courts. Lavly Perling stressed that the prosecutor's office also involves psychologists in proceedings. It was considered important that judicial proceedings take full account of children's interests, saving them from repeated experiences of emotional trauma. The Commission was also talking about such cases being held in some countries outside the courthouse in order to create a more humane environment for the child. It also expressed the opinion that it could be started, for example, to adapt Tallinn, where most cases will be dealt with, the room and the staff will be prepared to deal with cases involving children. The Commission repeatedly stressed the need to ensure that the police, the prosecutor's office and also the barrister's office have people who have been specifically trained to communicate with children from victims of crime. The Commission also discussed deadlines for the expiry of the crime. Under the current rules, in the case of an offence against sexual self-determination, the limitation period for a person under the age of 18 shall be suspended until the person reaches the age of 18, unless the incentive to criminal proceedings has been established before the age of that person has been reached. It was also discussed whether the limitation period for more serious cases involving minors could be somewhat longer because the trauma suffered by the minor lasts a long time and may take years to overcome it. It was considered that a longer limitation period would provide an opportunity to investigate the case over a longer period and would contribute to the clean-up of society. A longer limitation period would not necessarily mean that there would be a penalty. Lavly Perling found that the children affected could have a sponsor who was next to them because these people needed more trauma than criminal proceedings. He noted that studies show that such offences often come out when the victim starts to create a family only then the trauma is over. In summary, I would like to say that it is important that the Estonian Government considers the fight against crime against minors to be its priority. The Convention will guide countries in developing their legal systems and international cooperation in such an important area as crime against children. Ratification also shows that the country is fully prepared to meet the high requirements of the Convention. The Riigikogu Legal Affairs Committee unanimously supported Estonia's accession to the Lanzarote Convention at its meeting. It was decided to refer the draft to first reading today, 28 September, and to propose that the first reading be completed. The deadline for submitting amendments is set at 4 p.m. on 7 October. Mr Heljo Pikhof was appointed rapporteur for the Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-28_U174	Thank you, dear waitress. No questions for you. I will open the negotiations of the political groups. Marianne Mikko, the Social Democratic Party Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-28_U175	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Council of Europe confirms that one in five children is a victim of sexual violence in the Old World. In the lion's share of cases, in three out of four cases, the abuser's child is a familiar person, an adult person who is part of the child's "trust circle'. Much of the humiliation and suffering of minors will never come to light because children are afraid to talk about it. Nine out of ten cases of abuse are not reported to the police. One thing is clear: what applies in Europe as a whole is also valid in Estonia. Can't rule out that we have worse stories than we want to admit to ourselves. The Lanzarote Convention is particularly important because it is the first international convention on the sexual abuse of children at home or within the family. As a Member State of the Council of Europe, Estonia has a duty and responsibility to raise awareness of child sexual abuse and to protect children from it. As head of the Estonian delegation to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, I am truly pleased that during the Estonian Presidency of the Council of Europe, the Lanzarote Convention has finally reached ratification before the members of the Riigikogu. It is worth knowing that children's rights are one of the three priorities of our Presidency. I would also like to remind you that, as the above speakers have already pointed out, Estonia has already signed the Council of Europe Convention on the Protection of Children against Sexual Exploitation and Sexual Abuse eight years ago. I am truly saddened when I have to say that Estonia is unfortunately one of the last countries facing this ratification. It has already been said here that the majority of the 47 countries of the Council of Europe, 41 countries, have ratified it. I name those countries that are among the latter: Estonia, Azerbaijan, Armenia, Norway, the United Kingdom and Ireland. It is also a reminder that it was nine years ago when this convention was signed on the island of Lanzarote. Among the first signatories were our neighbours Lithuania, Sweden and Finland. And the first ratifications in 2009 were the Greek and Albanian Parliaments. It still remains a little incomprehensible, where it has been our political will. To think that Greece ratified this important document four times faster than Estonia! Or a poor little Balkan country, Albania, which ratified the Convention four months after it was signed. But today I'm glad this convention is finally in our hands. I put it to everyone's heart that we do everything we can to ensure that the sexual abuse of our children is reduced to zero. Let us approve the Lanzarote Convention at the latest in November, before Estonia completes the Presidency of the Council of Europe. But as important as putting a stop to the sexual abuse of minors is to put an end to all violence against women in our society. This, in turn, means a legitimate expectation and hope that the Istanbul Convention on Violence Against Women will arrive in the Chamber of the Riigikogu this year, not because we are the President of the Council of Europe, but because of the health and health of both young and older women at all. Social Democrats support the cessation of all forms of violence, whether it is child sexual abuse within the meaning of the Lanzarote Convention or violence against women, regardless of age, within the meaning of the Istanbul Convention. Let us make society fairer where, regardless of gender or age, there is no fear of sexual violence or any violence at all! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-28_U176	Thank you. The political groups have no further wish for negotiations. The lead committee has proposed that the first reading of draft 279 be terminated. First reading is over. I shall set the deadline for the submission of the 279 amendments, including 7 October at 16 a.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-28_U177	Let's go! Today's seventh item is the first reading of the draft Act amending the VAT Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. Minister of Finance Sven Sester, please waitress!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-28_U178	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear Members, I hereby give you an overview of the draft law amending the VAT Act, which bears the number 276. The draft proposes two changes. First, the threshold for taxable turnover is raised, above which a person is obliged to register for VAT purposes. The threshold is to be raised from EUR 16000 to EUR 40000. This will help reduce the administrative burden on small businesses. An undertaking whose taxable turnover does not exceed the threshold does not have to register for VAT purposes and therefore does not have to keep a VAT record, so its administrative burden is lower. At the same time, if the trader so wishes, he can be identified for VAT purposes. In most cases, the company's decision is based on whether it is economically viable to be liable for VAT or not. As a general rule, it is necessary to be liable for VAT when goods or services are sold to other taxable persons. However, when goods and services are sold to the final consumer, it is more beneficial for the undertaking to be liable for non-VAT. The amendment is planned to enter into force on 1 January 2018. The increase in the threshold to EUR 40000 reduces the revenue of VAT by EUR 6.6 million per year. This reduction has also been taken into account in the country's fiscal strategy 2017-2020. This increase is subject to authorisation by the Council of the European Union. Estonia submitted an application to raise the threshold already in May this year and this authorisation is likely to be obtained. So far, requests from all Member States have been granted. Secondly, the reverse charge is imposed on certain metal products. These metal products include construction dashboard, sheet metal, water and gas pipes, beams. Reverse taxation is implemented as an anti-tax fraud measure. Reverse taxation was proposed by companies in the metal sector because VAT fraud is very high in the metal sector compared to other sectors and it is difficult to remain competitive by acting honestly. Tax fraud, which is spreading in this area, is the creation of buffer companies that invoice value added tax (VAT) which they do not pay in public revenue. At the same time, the buyer of the goods shall recover the VAT entered in the invoice from the State. In the case of reverse charge, the use of buffer companies will be significantly reduced, as VAT will be paid to the revenue of the State by the recipient of the goods. This ensures a level playing field for companies in the metal sector to operate on the market and is expected to increase public revenues by EUR 5 million. Metal products are subject to reverse charge in Poland, Austria, Slovakia, the Czech Republic, Hungary and Germany. In defining the reverse charge item, these countries have used the codes of the goods nomenclature and this draft has also used these codes to define the items. The amendment is due to enter into force on 1 January 2017. If we enforce the reverse charge at the beginning of next year, we do not have to apply for a reverse charge authorisation from the Council of the European Union. Further enforcement would already require authorisation from the Council of the European Union. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-28_U179	Thank you. There's a question for you too. Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-28_U180	Thank you. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. I would like to clarify why exactly EUR 40000. Maybe a few words? You guys talked about it a little bit, but I'd like to know more.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-28_U181	Thank you. Yes, of course, we have quite a long time, literally more than 20 years of the limit of EUR 16000, which was once EEK 250,000. Of course, we have examined what have been, or still have, the limits of other countries, and indeed, they are very different in Europe. There are countries where there is no such threshold at all, for example Spain, the Netherlands, Malta, also Sweden, by the way. At the same time, there are countries with a higher threshold. Among them, perhaps the United Kingdom, with a threshold of more than EUR 100000, is the strongest. Our neighbours, Latvia and Lithuania, have thresholds of EUR 50000 and EUR 45000 respectively, so essentially at the same level that Estonia wants to raise them to. If we're looking at the Nordics, it's going to be lower. We analysed the number of operators on the particular market, how many companies are affected. In the meantime, it was discussed at length that the threshold could rise from EUR 16000 to EUR 25000. However, we reviewed our financial opportunities, also considering that this is a cost in the sense of the state budget, if it means income for small businesses, then it is a cost for the state budget, and we finally decided that this limit could be EUR 40000.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-28_U182	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-28_U183	Thank you. Mr. Minister! It would be a good thing if you once again reassured my colleague that, in the case of turnover below EUR 40000, businesses may and may not be in the VAT register. It's their free will, no one's going to erase them.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-28_U184	Thank you. I repeat once again that the trader always has the possibility to register for VAT. It will also have this possibility if it has not achieved a turnover of EUR 16 000 or, in the future, a turnover of EUR 40 000. He's gonna have that chance. The company is pragmatic, of course it will decide how it will be better for it: whether it will make more investments in the previous period and whether it will want to ask for this money back later. It is also optional for businesses today located in this corridor between EUR 16000 and EUR 40000; they do not have to withdraw from the VAT register. Again, for purely pragmatic purposes, they monitor their trade and service flows and decide whether or not they do so. The estimates made by the Ministry of Finance take into account the number of companies with more end-user production. Pragmatically, it might be logical for those who sell very much to the final consumer to withdraw from the VAT register. But yes, it is voluntary, their rights are not restricted in any way.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-28_U185	Thank you, Minister. No further questions for you. I would now like to ask for a presentation by Mr Remo Holsmer, Chair of the Monetary Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-28_U186	Ladies and gentlemen, This draft was discussed by the Committee on Monetary Affairs. On 20 September 2004 the Minister of Finance Sven Sester gave an overview of the content of the draft. In two sentences, the main objectives of the draft are to increase the threshold for VAT registration from EUR 16000 to EUR 40000. The impact on the budget, which was not mentioned here, is less than EUR 6.6 million for this amendment. The second objective of the draft is to add to the list of goods subject to the reverse charge mainly the various metal products used in the construction and mechanical engineering industry. The aim of this amendment is primarily to reduce tax fraud, as the Minister has already said. The budgetary impact would be an additional EUR 5 million next year. The Commission's debate was constructive. We recalled the history of where this threshold of EUR 16 000 began. The year was 1995. In the Commission, we also talked about which companies are affected by the change, as well as which companies are reasonable to register for VAT even in the case of lower turnover. In the same way, we discussed in the Commission how the removal from the register would take place. It's on the application. In the case of reverse charge, as has already been said, the aim is to reduce tax fraud and is applied to metal products used in construction. We would like this draft to enter into force on 1 January, because in this case, the Council of the European Union should not request a separate authorisation for the amendment. The procedural decisions were all consensual: to propose that the first reading of the draft be stopped and that the deadline for submitting amendments be set at 5.15 p.m. on 12 October. Thank you for your attention. Presumably today's first reading will be completed.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-28_U187	Thank you, dear waitress. No questions for you. Do the political groups want to open negotiations? There is no wish for negotiation. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 276. I will set the deadline for submitting amendments, including 12 October at 5.15 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-28_U188	The eighth item on the agenda is the first reading of the draft Act 277 on the ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Estonia and the Government of the Socialist Republic of Vietnam on the prevention of double taxation and prevention of tax evasion and related protocol. Minister of Finance Sven Sester, please waitress!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-28_U189	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I will try to be brief. The Minister of Foreign Affairs said that matters relating to the Socialist Republic of Vietnam should be very clear. But then I'll give you a quick overview of what we're doing right now. Indeed, the aim of the DTC is to encourage transnational investment, to prevent discriminatory taxation and to prevent tax evasion. All Estonian tax agreements are based on the Standard Agreement of the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD). The Agreement between Estonia and Vietnam was signed on 26 September 2015. I will quickly bring some of the key points of the agreement between Estonia and Vietnam. In particular, if the dividend-paying company holds at least 70% of the voting rights of the dividend-paying company, the State of the source of income may not retain more than 5% of the gross dividend but 10% in the remaining cases. In the case of interest income, the withholding tax rate on interest paid to a resident of another country may not exceed 10% of the gross interest rate. The State of the source of income shall not be entitled to tax interest received by government, central bank or government-owned financial institution of another country. In the case of licence fees, the State of the source of income shall have the right to respect 10% of the gross licence fee and 7,5% of the gross technical service fee. The Estonian-Vietnam contract also allows the establishment of a permanent establishment in the provision of the service. In the agreement between Estonia and Vietnam, a pension fund or pension scheme established in a Contracting Party is also considered to be resident, so the benefits resulting from the agreement apply to them. The Agreement provides for a thorough exchange of information on the income of persons, the obligation to exchange information is not limited either to residents of the Contracting Parties or to the taxes mentioned in the Agreement. Unlike the OECD Standard Agreement, the agreement between Estonia and Vietnam also lays down the principles of cooperation between tax authorities in the recovery of tax claims. The agreement does not provide additional tax opportunities for countries, but limits the existing tax rights established by national law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-28_U190	Thank you. You have questions. Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-28_U191	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable Minister of Finance! I wonder about the size of the circle of people that may be affected by this agreement. Have we made any investments in Vietnam or vice versa? What kind of company is this, or what volumes and amounts are we talking about?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-28_U192	Thank you, very good question! I'll give you information on this right now. Direct investment between Estonia and Vietnam is basically missing or so small that it is included in the aggregated investment of the so-called rest of the country. As far as exports and imports are concerned, according to Statistics Estonia, exports to Vietnam amounted to EUR 11.7 million in 2015 and imports to EUR 9.2 million. To understand what this EUR 11.7 million means to us, I note that this represents 0.1% of our total exports, and EUR 9.2 million of imports means 0.07%, so less than 0.1%. Among our trading partners, Vietnam is 49th. In addition to the information that the main export items in 2015 for this amount of 11,7 million were various precision equipment, measuring and control equipment, which accounted for 42%, the wood products accounted for 14%. However, imports account for 44% of plastic and plastic products and 14% were fruits, berries and nuts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-28_U193	Thank you, Minister, for a very thorough answer. We were convinced that the Ministry of Finance has a complete overview of trade relations between Vietnam and Estonia. No further questions for you. Now I would like to ask Priit Sibula, member of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, to serve as a waitress.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-28_U194	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Minister! Good ambassadors! We discussed this draft in the Committee on Monetary Affairs on 20 September, and just as Minister Sven Sester presented it to the House in committee. Lemmi Oro, Head of the Tax Policy Department of the Ministry of Finance, was also present. The question that came up with us in the Commission was exactly what our good colleague, Krista Aru, asked in this large Chamber: how many people are affected. We got the answer here, not many at first, but hopefully more in the future. In addition to this table, which was read out by the minister and which was given to me, I am not going to repeat these figures, it was said that there is now the closest cooperation between Vietnam and the University of Tartu. A large number of Vietnamese students study as doctors at the University of Tartu. We decided in the Commission that the first reading should be completed and that the deadline for tabling amendments should be set at 10 working days, the same as for the previous draft: 12 October at 5.15 p.m. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-28_U195	Thank you, dear waitress. No questions for you. Do the political groups want to open negotiations? There is no wish for negotiation. The Steering Committee has proposed that the first reading of draft 277 be completed. I will set the deadline for submitting amendments, including 12 October at 5.15 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-28_U196	Let's move on to the agenda. Today's ninth item is the first reading of the draft Act 242 on the ratification of the Agreement on Investment and Mutual Protection between the Republic of Estonia and Georgia, initiated by the Government of the Republic of the Republic, and the Protocol amending it. Minister of Foreign Affairs Jürgen Ligi, please waitress!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-28_U197	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Riigikogu! The Government of the Republic has submitted to the Riigikogu, for ratification, the Protocol on the facilitation and mutual protection of investments between Estonia and Georgia and its amendment. The purpose of this agreement is to create favourable conditions for transnational investment and business. The Agreement establishes equal treatment of investors in the territories of both Parties, provides greater legal certainty for investments and establishes an investment dispute settlement mechanism. The agreement was signed in Tbilisi on 24 November 2009 and the protocol amending it was signed in Tallinn on 2 November 2015. The need for change was the result of the judgment of the Court of Justice of 19 November 2009 that a Member State of the European Union should, in its investment protection agreements with third countries, emphasise the competence of the European Union to restrict transfers of funds to countries outside the European Union in certain cases. At the request of the European Commission, we also amended the agreement in such a way as to exclude an interpretation allowing the right to access through investments under the agreement, and we specified the concept of investment as defined in the agreement at the request of Georgia. Estonia's economic relations with Georgia have so far been modest despite good political relations. Estonia is interested in closer economic cooperation and the sale of Estonian goods and services on the Georgian market. Estonia's direct investment position in Georgia was 21.8 million euros this March, which is only 0.4% of the total volume of direct investment. Of this, EUR 10.5 million is investment in real estate, EUR 1.2 million in wholesale and retail trade, and investment in the electricity supply sector, financial and insurance activities and health care. Georgia's investments in Estonia are modest: 0.6 million euros. The main investments are made in real estate (78%) and in wholesale and retail trade. Georgia has completed its internal procedures for the entry into force of the Agreement and the Protocol and notified Estonia thereof on 8 December 2015. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-28_U198	Thank you. You have questions too. Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-28_U199	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, I know there was a businessman's delegation in Georgia in September. Do you have an overview, managed to make any new contracts there? Was it effective? I hear there were several businessmen from the timber sector.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-28_U200	Thank you. I do not have this overview at the moment, and these first impressions may not accurately describe the results. Setting up economic cooperation is certainly not a matter of one visit.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-28_U201	Thank you, Minister. There are no more questions for you right now. And now I ask Andres Herkel, member of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, to serve as a waitress.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-28_U202	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! Minister! This agreement was concluded quite a long time ago, as the Minister has already outlined. It has since been amended by the Protocol. The other side, Georgia, or as we tend to say here in the Riigikogu, Georgia has, for its part, completed the procedural procedures relating to it. The Committee on Foreign Affairs discussed the draft ratification at its meeting on 31 May, with Jüri Seilenthal, Director-General of the Department of Foreign Economy and Development Cooperation of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, who gave a brief overview of the content of the agreement and the state of economic relations between Estonia and Georgia. The Committee on Foreign Affairs made all the decisions on the draft procedure by consensus, while in the meantime, on a proposal from the initiator of the draft, the Commission amended the decision on the date of the first reading of the draft by 30 August. So, together, this draft has been dealt with in two sessions. The procedural decisions of the Committee on Foreign Affairs were as follows: to place the draft 242 on the agenda of the plenary sitting by 28 September 2016 and to conclude the first reading; when the first reading is closed, to propose to the Riigikogu Bureau that the deadline for amendments be set at 5 October and to appoint a rapporteur here. I will not say the results of the vote, because all the decisions were consensual. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-28_U203	Thank you, dear waitress. No questions for you. Do colleagues want to open negotiations? There is no wish for negotiation. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 242. I will set the deadline for the submission of 242 amendments, including 5 October at 5.15 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-28_U204	Today's 10th item is the first reading of the draft Act 283 on the Approval of the Protocol to the North Atlantic Agreement on the Accession of Montenegro initiated by the Government of the Republic. For a presentation, Minister of Foreign Affairs Jürgen Ligi!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-28_U205	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Riigikogu! Montenegro became a acceding country from the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation, i.e. a candidate in 2011. At a meeting of NATO Foreign Ministers held in Brussels on 1 December last year, Montenegro's readiness to become an alliance member was discussed and it was decided to invite the country to accession negotiations. They took place from January to March and ended with the approval of the draft Protocol of Accession by the North Atlantic Council on 22 March. The protocol was signed at a meeting of NATO Foreign Ministers in Brussels on 19 May 2016 and Marina Kaljurand did so on behalf of Estonia. Once all NATO members have approved the Protocol after its signature, the Secretary-General of NATO shall send Montenegro a formal invitation to accede. Ratification procedures vary in length between allied countries. If everything goes smoothly, Montenegro will become a NATO member in the second half of 2017. The Protocol on the accession of Montenegro will become part of the North Atlantic Agreement after its entry into force. With Montenegro's accession, NATO will open its doors for the fifth time after the end of the Cold War and become a member of NATO's 29th Member. By approving the Protocol on the Accession of Montenegro to the North Atlantic Agreement on its agenda, Estonia will play its part in its enforcement. As of the moment, eight NATO members have approved the protocol according to their right. Montenegro's accession to NATO will enhance the security of the Euro-Atlantic region and contribute to a single, free, democratic and peaceful Europe. The implementation of the Act does not entail any direct additional costs for Estonia. Montenegro already shares not only the consumption of security but also itself. The State participated in the ISAF operation in Afghanistan 2010/2014 and is now in the RSM follow-up mission, advising and assisting Afghan armed forces and training them. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-28_U206	Thank you, Minister. No questions for you. I would like to present the Vice-Chairman of the Foreign Affairs Committee Enn Frontland!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-28_U207	Dear Minister, Ladies and gentlemen, The Committee on Foreign Affairs discussed Montenegro in this context, which is discussed today, at its meeting on 20 September. Foreign Minister Jürgen Ligi and Counsellor of the Political Department of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs Kristina Meius gave us information. We took the following procedural decisions: to propose that the draft be put on the agenda for the plenary session for the first reading today, 28 September, to conclude the first reading and, if the first reading is closed, to set the deadline for the amendments on Friday 7 October 2016 at 16 a.m. By decision of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Enn Eesmaa, Vice-President of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, was appointed rapporteur for the draft. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-28_U208	Thank you, dear waitress. No questions for you. Do the political groups want to open negotiations? There is no wish for negotiation. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 283. I shall set the deadline for the submission of the 283 amendments, including 7 October at 16 a.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-28_U209	Today's 11th item is the first reading of the draft law amending the law on the External Action Service initiated by the Government of the Republic. For a presentation please, Minister of Foreign Affairs Jürgen Ligi!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-28_U210	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Riigikogu! The draft law amending the Foreign Service Act was discussed in the Government of the Republic on 12 May and it was decided unanimously to submit it to the Riigikogu. The Foreign Service Act will be amended as a result of the task of the Estonian Presidency of the Council of the European Union in the second half of 2017. The current law does not allow for the flexibility of the Presidency and the operational processing of documents relating to secondments under increased burdens. The aim of the amendments is to simplify the appointment of the Presidency-related staff and to reduce the workload involved. The purpose of the draft is also to allow for the smooth and operational deployment of staff in Presidency-related posts and to clarify the current regulation. Among other things, there will be the possibility to include professional diplomats in the External Action Service, even if they know only one foreign language, in this case English. So far, two languages were required. Professional diplomats are specialists in their field, for whom the most important professional knowledge is. The amendment is necessary as the requirement for two foreign languages may be an obstacle to the posting of otherwise qualified specialists. The draft provides for a one-off allowance of EUR 800 for all staff when they enter another country of employment. The one-off allowance is intended, first, to cover the additional costs of taking up employment in another country and, second, to cover the purchase of household effects. Such compensation is still being paid, with the amendment harmonising compensation. It is currently linked to the amount of one month's salary paid by a staff member on secondment and is therefore very different, for the various authorities EUR 500.2600. The changes foreseen in the draft should be put into effect as soon as possible, as the deployment of additional posts due to the Presidency will take place in stages. Some people are posted this year, some next year. Before creating additional seats for the Estonian Presidency of the Council of the European Union, there have been 79 employees in the Estonian Permanent Representation to the European Union. By the beginning of the Estonian Presidency, the number of employees in the European Union's diplomatic mission will increase to about 200. This appropriation is intended to cover the Agency's staff and administrative expenditure (Titles 1 and 2), and operational expenditure relating to the work programme (Title 3). Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-28_U211	Minister, thank you very much. There are no questions. I now ask for the speech chair of the Riigikogu to be presented by the Chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Sven Mikser!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-28_U212	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Minister has already presented the content of the draft 241. The Committee on Foreign Affairs has discussed this draft twice at its meetings. The draft, which was launched in May, first arrived at the meeting of the Committee on Foreign Affairs for discussion on 14 June, when Marina Kaljurand, then Minister for Foreign Affairs, presented the content of the draft to the Commission. He spoke to the Commission about its objectives, which, as you have just heard, is the most important objective of successfully conducting our first European Union Presidency. The Commission also took procedural decisions, which, indeed, were somewhat amended at the meeting on 30 August, on a proposal from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, as regards the time at first reading and the deadline for amendments. I will read the decisions taken by the Committee on Foreign Affairs on 30 August, which, by the way, were taken by consensus. Firstly, to put the draft on the agenda for the plenary session on 28 September. Secondly, propose that the first reading be completed. Thirdly, to propose that the deadline for amendments be set at 4 p.m. on 5 October, and fourthly, to appoint Sven Mikser, Chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, as rapporteur.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-28_U213	Good waitress! A little bit of clarification. Am I right to understand that the deadline for amendments is 5 October at 5 p.m.?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-28_U214	The deadline is October 5th at 4 p.m., my papers are based on the minutes of the Committee on Foreign Affairs sitting.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-28_U215	I'm sure they're perfect. Thank you, good waitress. There are no questions. Do the representatives of the political groups wish to open negotiations? No calls, no negotiations. The commission has proposed to close the first reading of draft 241. I will set the deadline for the submission of 241 amendments, including 5 October at 4 p.m. The first reading is closed and the 11th item is also closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-28_U216	Let us move on to agenda item 12, which is the first reading of the draft law amending the law implementing the common agricultural policy of the European Union initiated by the Government of the Republic. I would like to ask the Minister of Rural Affairs Urmas Kruuse to present the speech chair of the Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-28_U217	Mr President, thank you very much. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! Let me briefly present the draft law amending the law implementing the common agricultural policy of the European Union. There are two main reasons for amending this law. Firstly, a number of European Union legislation on CAP support has changed. Secondly, during the year and a half during which the grants for the new period have been implemented, operational problems have emerged in practice which need to be resolved. At the same time, the amendment of this law does not lead to fundamental changes in the Estonian legal system. Some of the proposed changes relate to the adoption of sub-acts of the European Union, while others simplify and update the procedure for implementing remedies. As regards direct payments and arrangements for the organisation of the market in agricultural products, the draft does not provide for any substantial changes. In the case of rural development subsidies, the law does not so much regulate what or who and under what conditions to support, as it is largely laid down in the Estonian Rural Development Plan 2014 The aim of amending these procedural provisions is mainly to simplify the process for farmers, other applicants for and beneficiaries of rural development support, as well as for bodies involved in implementation. Two changes will be more specific. In the case of RDP investment grants, the duration of the projects is usually two years. At the same time, a great deal can change during this period, so a project that has ever been approved may not be able to be implemented in 100% of the form envisaged at the time of approval. The amendment now being made is intended to provide a very precise regulation in which cases and under which the beneficiaries will be able to modify the project, for example by replacing one brand of tractor with another if the other essential parameters in the price offer remain the same. In addition to the information required by the Water Act, farmers are required to enter information on the producer's agricultural activities in the water register in addition to the information required by the Water Act, according to the second most important amendment relating to rural development payments. This last amendment is driven by the need to ensure more effective control of the requirements for environmental support and organic farming support in the rural development plan. In addition, keeping the data in the field book also allows producers themselves to gain a better understanding of the compliance with the eligibility requirements, as these support schemes are predominantly five-year commitment periods. The simplification aspect is that no additional forms or additional requirements are foreseen for the collection of the data required for the verification of the requirements, but that an existing farm book is used. An important addition is the addition of a new section of the law to regulate the situation where, for whatever reason, a farmer who has exceeded the milk production quota fails to comply with the obligation to pay the excess levy to the PRIA. The need for such an addition is due to the fact that in the last year of implementation of the milk production quota which ended on 31 March 2015, the quantity of milk delivered to Estonian purchasers for the first time exceeded the volume of the milk supply quota by around 8000 tonnes, or 1.16%. The surplus levy calculated for this purpose, amounting to EUR 2,23 million, has to be collected ex post from farmers who have exceeded the delivery quota. For the purpose of collecting the surplus levy in full, the PRIA shall be authorised to offset the amount of the unpaid levy from the aid paid to the farmer who has exceeded the quota in case of non-payment by the deadline for the levy calculated for the overrun of the milk production quota. Honourable Riigikogu, please read the first reading completed!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-28_U218	Minister, there are also questions for you. Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-28_U219	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. I had a question about the apiculture programme. Are you so kind and a little bit to improve our knowledge of whether our beekeepers, our beemakers, are happy with the changes to the national programme?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-28_U220	Thank you. We have tried to attract more attention to beekeeping, and this greater attention means, apart from additional amounts, that we are trying to get a better view of where honey producers are located and where hives are located in order to implement different programmes. This concerns certain important procedures. When we talk about the major problems facing beekeepers in one region or another, one of them concerns the use of plant protection products. Secondly, in order to combat bee diseases, it is extremely important that we have a mapping of all honey producers. If our registers are more complete than they are now, it will be possible to implement a variety of effective support programmes. However, in any case, the amounts allocated to beekeeping from the national budget will be increased.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-28_U221	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-28_U222	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you, Minister. I wonder how you believe that this new period of Structural Funds in the European Union has been implemented, in which support is still very important for our farmers.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-28_U223	Thank you. Looking at what we have planned as a rural development plan and other measures, it can be said that the implementation of this plan has been quite successful. I also mean, above all, that almost all calls for proposals are open, but only a few will be pushed to the next year. This is definitely an important sign. If we look at Estonia as a whole, Estonia certainly does not have to be ashamed of its applications in front of other Member States. What have we done because there is a crisis in agricultural production? We have tried to sign up to these plans and also to apply a certain degree of flexibility. Whether it relates to African swine fever, which requires additional investment support to comply with biosecurity requirements, or whether it relates to the implementation of the aid from the following year when the additional payments are granted to small herds and herds with up to 400 cows. So much is positive, but we can sum up after this plan has been implemented and we can see its impact. We want to support certain structural changes that would allow crises to be overcome more easily.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-28_U224	Arno Bridge, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-28_U225	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. As we know, the European Union is giving dairy farmers the opportunity to receive some compensation. It doesn't belong to this point, but it has something to do with it. Why don't you let us know what's going on?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-28_U226	Indeed, when it comes to the specific measure that the honourable questioner has now marked, one crisis relief measure has been that EUR 150 million is shared between producers who wish to reduce their production, because part of the crisis is linked to overproduction. Markets are unable to accept the quantity offered and the price has fallen very much. It must be said that this support has also been requested in Estonia. If I remember correctly, there have been at least 50 of these companies. But this is only one measure. In the agricultural sector as a whole, our aim is not only to reduce production, we are also looking for new markets and we are trying to find alternative ways to exploit Estonia's potential for producing quality milk. Yes, indeed, our concern is a weak position in export markets, which prevents farmers from earning as much as possible for milk. After all, production is almost twice as big as we consume ourselves.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-28_U227	Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-28_U228	Honourable President! Honorable Minister! I have heard and read farmers complaining about excessive bureaucracy in obtaining possible subsidies. Will this draft help to solve this problem in a more acceptable direction for farmers or will it increase bureaucracy?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-28_U229	Thank you. One part, as I said in the introduction, will certainly cut red tape. If you think that one of the work topics of the current Commissioner has also been the simplification of processes, it is clear that there is certainly a debate in Europe as a whole, not just in Estonia, about this and trying to cut red tape. This goal is, on the one hand, to make it easier for a farmer in a sense. However, this does not necessarily mean that the controls that the authorities have to carry out will be made easier in terms of bureaucracy. However, the introduction of different registers, including the introduction of e-PRIA as a whole, will facilitate the submission and processing of applications. It must be said that all e-solutions have increased the quality of applications, and certainly the advisory service will also play a role in this. We definitely want to move on from here.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-28_U230	Minister, thank you. No further questions. I request the Chair of the Riigikogu Chair, Chairman of the Rural Affairs Committee Ivari Padari!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-28_U231	Ladies and gentlemen, The Commission discussed the draft on 12 September and 19 September. A substantive debate took place on 12 September, and the procedural decisions on the draft were reviewed on 19 September. The meeting of 12 September was attended by Urmas Kruuse, Minister for Rural Affairs, Mai Talvik, Head of the Agricultural Market Management Department of the Ministry of Rural Affairs, and Merle Saaliste, Adviser to the Rural Development Department. The Minister and other representatives of the Ministry answered questions from the members of the Commission. Siret Kotka wondered whether the principle of cutting red tape was the basis for drafting the draft law and making changes. It was said that most of the changes were made in order to smoothen the process. The Minister added that the overall direction of the European Union's agricultural policy is to cut red tape. Artur Talvik was interested in the information needed to be included in the book of the field. The representatives of the Ministry replied that persons engaged in agriculture had to include in the farm book, in addition to the information required by the Water Act, information on the conditions under which the aid was granted, such as information on the varieties of crops grown and others. Keeping the data in one place in the farm book helps the applicant to apply for the aid. Ivari Padar wondered whether the opinion on the draft had been sought from the agricultural organisations. The representatives of the Ministry replied that major fundamental changes, including the issue of milk quota fines, had been discussed with farmers. The Ministry of Rural Affairs always sends draft laws to producer organisations. The committee decided to propose to stop reading the draft at 5.15 p.m. on 12 October 2016 in accordance with the Parliament's Rules of Procedure and Rules of Procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-28_U232	Honourable waitress, thank you. There are no questions. Do the groups want to open negotiations? There is no wish for negotiation, so they will not be opened. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading. I shall set the deadline for the submission of the 259 amendments, including 12 October at 5.15 p.m. The first reading is closed and the 12th item is also closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-28_U233	Let's move on to agenda item 13. This is the first reading of the draft law amending the Law on organic farming initiated by the Government of the Republic. I would like to ask the Minister of Rural Affairs Urmas Kruuse to present the speech chair of the Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-28_U234	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! The number of organic production enterprises and the size of organic land in Estonia has increased steadily in recent years. We have reached third place after Austria and Sweden in terms of the proportion of organic agricultural land in Europe. We have more than 1,700 operators engaged in organic farming, organic plant and livestock farming. Organic agricultural land accounts for almost 18% of Estonian agricultural land. About 50% of Estonian sheep and meat cattle are farmed organically. Nearly 300 people are involved in the preparation and placing on the market of organic products. Organic products are good export products because in Western Europe their demand is high and consumers are willing to pay more for organic products. At the same time, despite the high share of organic land, much of the organic products in Estonia do not reach the market with a label referring to organic farming. This means that we do not have a large range of organic products, it could be much bigger. The main obstacle is that the processing of organic products is mostly carried out by small businesses and their performance is not sufficient. Large industries are not very interested in this because they do not want to get too involved with a single source of raw materials. Another obstacle is that the administrative burden of referring to the use of organic raw materials is a problem in catering. Only 22 catering establishments offering organic food in 28 places have been notified by the Food and Veterinary Office. Removing this obstacle is the objective of the draft under discussion: we want to facilitate the reference to organic origin for food provided in catering establishments and thus contribute to the delivery of organic products to the consumer. At a meeting with representatives of organic organisations and caterers prior to the drafting of the draft, it became clear that caterers have an interest in the use of organic products. Organic products are already used in food production in many schools, kindergartens and mass caterers, but without any indication. Although catering establishments are already given some flexibility in this area, complex accounting requirements are still an obstacle. It was also found that, apart from the introduction of simpler requirements, an attractive sign was also needed; in this respect, it was decided to follow the good practice of the northern neighbours. The draft has been inspired by a well-functioning label system in Denmark, Norway and Sweden for several years. Consumers have received it well there, and the number of operators using the food eco-label has increased in these countries every year. The draft is intended to complement the requirements for the provision of information on the use of organic ingredients in the preparation of food in the catering establishment. In addition to this option, caterers will be given a simplified opportunity to report the percentage of organic products introduced into the company for food production in all agricultural products used. According to the draft, the percentage of organic products to the holding is calculated on the basis of the quantity or cost of the agricultural products introduced into the preparation of the food during the previous month. The data are obtained from the company's accounting records and caterers are given the opportunity to decide for themselves whether the weighting is based on the quantity or cost of the products. The ranges of percentage shares and the corresponding marks shall be established by a ministerial regulation. The following percentage ranges are envisaged: 20% to 50% of the raw materials are organic; 50% to 80% of the raw materials are organic and 80% to 100% of the raw materials are organic. The draft explanatory memorandum gives an annex to the draft explanatory memorandum to the draft character plans to be established. The implementation of the Act would not entail additional costs for the state budget, nor would there be any new revenue. The law amending the Organic Farming Act would enter into force on 1 March 2017. Honourable Riigikogu, I support the completion of first reading.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-28_U235	There are no questions. Minister, thank you. I would now like to ask Tanel Talve, Member of the Rural Affairs Committee of the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-28_U236	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, who are you here, and certainly all of you who watch us on TV in your office! The draft law amending the organic farming law initiated by the Government of the Republic was discussed at the meeting of the Riigikogu Committee on Rural Affairs on 19 September. The Minister gave a fairly good overview of the content and objectives of this draft, so I will not repeat it. I will talk briefly about the debate that took place at the committee meeting. The draft was presented to us by Mr Toomas Kevvai, Deputy Secretary-General of Food Safety and Research and Development of the Ministry of Rural Affairs, and by Ms Marika Ruberg, adviser to the Department of Plant Health. Toomas Kevvai noted that Estonia is the third largest country in the European Union in terms of the proportion of organic agricultural land. It pointed out that, contrary to popular opinion, businesses do not need to take any specific authorisation for the use of organic raw materials. This legislative amendment gives caterers the possibility to indicate the use of organic raw materials more clearly and to decide whether the proportion of organic raw materials is calculated on the basis of the quantity or cost of the products. Kevvai also pointed out that such a system had been successfully implemented in Denmark, Sweden and Norway. The question raised by the members of the Commission was the possibility of taking the proportion of organic raw materials into account, either in terms of quantity or in terms of cost, whether this would not lead to confusion for consumers. The representatives of the Ministry replied that this issue had been repeatedly discussed with the various parties and that it was precisely the chosen solution that had been reached. An explanation campaign is also planned to avoid confusion. The representatives of the Ministry stressed that a more accurate overview of the use of organic raw materials in food can be found in the menu of each food place. The labelling is rather intended as general information that the catering business uses organic raw materials. It also examined which countries are first and second in terms of the share of organic agricultural land in Europe. The answer was that Austria was the first, Sweden was the second. At the same time, it was pointed out that the most successful country in selling organic products has been Denmark, which shows that marketing and communication are also crucial for the promotion of organic products. In Estonia, by the way, organic agricultural land is about 15% of all arable land, and the committee meeting concluded that we too have the potential for greater consumption of organic products. In summary, by consensus, it was decided to propose that the first reading of the draft be completed and that the deadline for submitting amendments be set by 10 working days, i.e. 12 October 2016 at 5.15 p.m. in accordance with the Riigikogu's Home and Rules of Procedure Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-28_U237	Thank you, good waitress. There's a question for you. Ivar Padar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-28_U238	Ladies and gentlemen, What about your daily meal table? How much organic products do you use?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-28_U239	I am certainly also using organic products, but this is the problem that was also discussed at the committee meeting that when buying products from both the catering place and actually from the shop, it may not even be known that they are mild. And this is the problem the draft law is trying to solve: this labelling should be more clearly presented to consumers. People's awareness of the fact that they can precisely consume soft products must increase and demand for this production must also increase.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-28_U240	Good waitress, thank you! No further questions. Do the representatives of the political groups wish to open negotiations? You don't want to open negotiations. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 282. I shall set the deadline for the submission of amendments to the draft, including 12 October at 5.15 p.m. The first reading is closed and the 13th item is also closed. Good fellows! Our trial today is over. I thank you and wish you the strength of our work! Closure of the sitting at 6.03 p.m.
