ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-10_U1	Good morning, good fellows. Dear Riigikogu, we will begin the session of the 4th plenary session of the Riigikogu on the 7th working week on Thursday. First of all, I would like to ask those members of the Riigikogu who wish to hand over drafts or questions. There's no call. We're gonna do a presence check. 67 members of the Riigikogu registered as present, there is no 34.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-10_U2	We will begin the processing of today's item: Second reading of the draft law amending the law on law enforcement initiated by the Committee on Legal Affairs. I ask Kristjan Kõljala, Member of the Legal Affairs Committee of the Riigikogu Chair!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-10_U3	Good chairman of the sitting! Ladies and gentlemen, We discussed...
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-10_U4	Good waitress, I'm sorry! Good fellows! I ask you to honor the waitress and those who wish to hear the presentation! There's a lot of noise in the hall. Thank you! Please, waitress!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-10_U5	Thank you, Mr President. We discussed this draft on 24 October, including. The main discussion was whether to supplement § 38 (21) of the Law Enforcement Act and to add the word 'with indicator tool' after 'checking'. Finally, the Commission decided that this clarification was not necessary because the combined effect of several provisions of the Law Enforcement Act is that the drink is controlled by an indicator tool. The decisions taken by the Commission were consensual and two. First, it was proposed to put the draft on the plenary agenda today and then to close the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-10_U6	Dear colleagues, do you have any questions for the waitress? There are questions. Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-10_U7	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, I still have one question. This theme is not very familiar to many because they do not drink alcohol, are sober and sober. What exactly does this change change for people who are driving and who are stopped by a policeman? Does this apply to any situation where a policeman stops a car or any extraordinarily circumstances?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-10_U8	Thank you for your question. These are so-called blowers. The Chancellor of Justice has pointed out to us that it would be right for the current regulation to have all his rights read to any driver who has been detained during a blowing trip before blowing. The purpose of this draft is precisely to keep law-abiding citizens in this procedure for as short a period as possible. According to this bill, people have the right to demand that rights be read. As we know, 98 to 99% of drivers are law-abiding. So it is in their interest that the blowing procedure should take place as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-10_U9	March Sults, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-10_U10	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good waitress! I don't have a drinking problem myself, but I'd be very flattered if a police officer pulls me over, says hello and says that this is the captain and this, we have blowers, please be good and blow. This personal approach is so polite, and the 20 seconds that are lost are not a world revolution. What do you think of that?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-10_U11	Thank you for your question. The courtesy forms will, of course, remain. The police officer who is expected to detain you will eventually ask if you would like to be introduced to your rights as well. If you answer yes, you will be introduced to these rights. If you say no, then just the time that would otherwise take to introduce your rights will not be lost to you. In my opinion, these courtesy forms, which you have just mentioned, are natural, and they will remain. The question is simply whether your rights under the law should be read to you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-11-10_U12	Good waitress, thank you! No further questions. Is there a desire to negotiate? No, I don't. We are going to examine the 267 amendments to the draft. They have not been submitted, so they cannot be reviewed. The position of the commission is that the second reading must be completed. The second reading is closed and the first item has also been dealt with. Good fellows, thank you. Today's trial is over. I wish you the strength of our work! Closure of the sitting at 10.06 a.m.
