ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-21_U1	Dear Riigikogu, good morning!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-21_U2	Our session today begins with a festive event, because Nele Parrest, a member of the Supreme Court, takes an oath of office. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-21_U3	Honourable Riigikogu! I pledge to remain faithful to the Republic of Estonia and its constitutional order. I pledge to exercise justice according to my conscience in accordance with the Constitution and the laws of the Republic of Estonia. [[Let's hear it.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-21_U4	Good fellows! I would now like to ask those of the Riigikogu who wish to hand over drafts or enquiries. Please, Rainer Vakra!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-21_U5	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! On behalf of the Committee on the Environment, I have the honour to initiate a draft law supplementing § 17 of the Water Act. As a reminder, the Committee on the Environment decided in 2016 at its meeting on 18 April to initiate a draft Act supplementing § 17 of the Water Act following the Riigikogu's decision of 21 January to support the proposal of the Chancellor of Justice. The purpose of the Act is to bring Article 17 (4) of the Water Act into line with the Constitution. To this end, the Environmental Board will be given discretion to deal with situations where different interests cannot be followed at the same time, such as situations where the interests of heritage protection and nature conservation conflict. The current text of the Act does not allow the Environmental Board to grant exemptions and mitigations for the application of § 17 (4) of the Water Act, even if it is considered in principle correct. Good luck processing this bill!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-21_U6	Riigikogu speech chair Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-21_U7	Honourable President! Respectable members of the Riigikogu! Good morning. I am pleased to pass on, on behalf of the Free Party Group, a draft decision on the proposal to the Government of the Republic regarding the abolition of the minimum social tax. It kind of fits into the bill line we started last week. The political party's economic panel has actually dealt with this issue for a long time. During the year we have been in the Riigikogu, we have perceived their concerns in numerous meetings with all over Estonia and especially with small entrepreneurs. The abolition of the minimum social tax would make their options more flexible. Both workers and employers are interested in flexible employment opportunities. At present, it is very costly for employers to keep low-burdened workers on the payroll if they are not students or are not raising a child under three years of age. However, the need for part-time work may also arise for "normal" working-age people, as well as for pensioners. The target group for working people could be significantly expanded by all of them. We also propose a tool to implement this idea. This tool is, in our view, hourly wage and tax accounting instead of the current monthly wage and tax calculation. We hope that the Riigikogu and the Committee on Monetary Affairs will address these thoughts in greater depth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-21_U8	Good fellows! On behalf of the Management Board of the Riigikogu, I have adopted two drafts, and according to our Home and Rules of Procedure Act, the Management Board of the Riigikogu decides on their further processing. Now let's go to the messages. This Saturday, the Question Hour for Riigikogu guests will take place in this Chamber in the framework of Riigikogu Open Doors Day, so I ask you to bring all your materials from both tables and drawers. Now, please, let's do the presence check! 81 members of the Riigikogu registered as present, 20 missing.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-21_U9	Let's start working on today's agenda. The first item is the second reading of the draft Environmental Monitoring Act 100 initiated by the Government of the Republic. Rein Ratas, vice-chair of the Environment Committee, would you like a presentation?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-21_U10	Good manager! Honourable members of the Riigikogu! The draft Environmental Monitoring Act 100 was initiated by the Government of the Republic on 28 September last year. Before the first reading, this draft was discussed in two meetings of the Committee on the Environment. The first reading took place on 25 November and the deadline for the amendments was 9 December 2015. No amendments to the draft were tabled. During the interim period, the members of the Committee on the Environment, Commission officials and the employees of the Ministry of the Environment have analysed, evaluated and tried to improve this draft in every way at their meetings. During the period between the first and second readings, the draft Environmental Monitoring Act has also been discussed at the meeting of the Committee on the Environment on 11 April. At that meeting, the opinions and proposals submitted in the interim of the Commission working meetings were discussed in order for the Commission to consider completing the draft. That is what the Commission did at its meeting on 11 April. And the Commission's amendments were produced in whole ten. The draft Environmental Monitoring Act clarifies and improves the organisation of environmental monitoring, updates the provisions and aligns the Environmental Monitoring Act with other environmental code laws. The current Environmental Monitoring Act entered into force already on 25 February 1999, and it has been in the way of time. In the meantime, many changes have taken place in the area of the environment, both in the area of fundamental environmental rights and in the area of environmental protection, which is why a new version of this law is necessary. Now allow me, honourable members of the Riigikogu, to briefly describe the amendments tabled by the Committee on the Environment. Amendment 1 is editorial in nature on the one hand, on the other. This proposal specifies the title and content of § 1 of the draft and indicates the scope of the law. As an editorial change, the favourite word 'composition' of the general message is replaced by 'filling', which is more relevant. At the same time, the Commission considers it necessary to clarify that the Environmental Monitoring Act does not regulate the environmental monitoring of an undertaking. Environmental monitoring of an undertaking results in particular from the obligation to collect data for monitoring purposes and its regulation. This part, however, is governed by the Industrial Emissions Act, which provides for national supervision and accountability. However, Amendment 1 has amended the generic name of environmental permits in this context: the term 'environmental permit' has now been used instead of the original 'environmental permit'. Amendment 2 is more precise. Paragraph 4 (3) also provides a part of the requirements: specify the requirements that the Monitoring Act must include. Amendment 3 is also of a clarifying nature: § 6 new paragraph 1 states the basis on which the investigator responsible collects monitoring data. Amendment 4 is complementary. This highlights the role of requirements and methodologies in the title of § 7. Amendment 5 is also complementary: § 9 is supplemented by a new paragraph 4, which states that agreements on the establishment of a public environmental monitoring station and an area with the owner of immovable property will be concluded by the responsible contractor of environmental monitoring. Amendment 6 states that in the national environmental monitoring station, in its vicinity and in the area of national environmental monitoring, activities that could damage the station or the monitoring area, hinder monitoring work or lead to a disruption of the implementation of the national environmental monitoring programme are prohibited. Amendment 7 is of a clarifying nature: the title of Chapter 4 and § 13 of the draft are brought into line with the actual content of § 13; the title is simply supplemented by the word 'preservation'. We're talking about keeping records. Amendment 8 is also complementary: § 22 is supplemented by paragraph 2, which explains that the terms of the obligation to farm, including the compensation for the obligation to farm, shall be agreed upon in an agreement between the responsible monitor and the owner of the immovable property if the owner so requests. Amendment 9 is of an additional nature. A new explanatory text is inserted in the draft, according to which the agreements concluded before the entry into force of the Act will continue to apply until their expiry. And Amendment 10 amends the date of entry into force of the law. The draft was scheduled for 1 January 2016 at the time of entry into force, and now we propose to set the date of entry into force at 1 January 2017. This should be quite a transitional period. At its meeting on 11 April, the Committee on the Environment decided to put a draft on the agenda for the plenary session for a second reading by 21 April, to propose that the second reading be closed and, if the second reading is closed, to refer the draft to a third reading. I've been talking.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-04-21_U11	Good colleagues, do you have any questions? There are no questions. I thank the waitress! Do you want to open negotiations? There's no call. We will begin the examination of the 100 amendments to the draft. Ten amendments have been received, all from the lead committee and all have been fully accounted for: the first, the second, the third, the fourth, the fifth, the sixth, the seventh, the eighth, the ninth and the tenth. Thank you! We have examined the amendments. The position of the commission is that the second reading should be terminated. The second reading is closed and the first and only item is also dealt with. Good fellows! Today's session is not yet over. Our sitting today has been served by my left-hand Mrs Elin Heinvee, who for the last 15 years has been committed to ensuring that the work of the Riigikogu goes as well as possible. Today he served the hearing for the last time. Let me thank the Riigikogu very much for the work it has done. [[Let's hear it.]] Good fellows, our hearing today is over. I wish you the strength of our work! Closure of the sitting at 10.20 a.m.
