ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-13_U1	Dear Riigikogu, good afternoon.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-13_U2	Honourable Riigikogu! Due to the suspension of the mandate of Maris Lauri, a member of the Riigikogu, due to his appointment as a member of the Government of the Republic, Rait Maruse will become a member of the Riigikogu on 13 September. Let's hear the oath from Rait Marus. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-13_U3	Honourable Riigikogu! By taking up my duties as a member of the Riigikogu in the composition of Riigikogu XIII, I swear to remain faithful to the Republic of Estonia and its constitutional order. [[Let's hear it.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-13_U4	Honourable Riigikogu! By decision of the President of the Republic No 827 of 12 September, Jürgen Ligi was released from office as Minister of Education and Research and was appointed Minister of Foreign Affairs. According to § 7 (2) of the Government Act, a minister who has taken an oath of office in the composition of the Government does not have to do so again when he takes the lead in another ministry. By the same decision of the President, Maris Lauri has been appointed Minister of Education and Science. Next, we will hear the oath of Minister of Education and Science, Maris Lauri. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-13_U5	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable Riigikogu! In taking on the duties of a member of the Government of the Republic, I am aware that in this capacity I am responsible for the Republic of Estonia and my conscience. I solemnly swear to remain faithful to the constitutional order of the Republic of Estonia and to devote my strength to securing the well-being and future of the Estonian people. [[Let's hear it.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-13_U6	Ladies and gentlemen, let us proceed to the sitting. Transfer of pre-claims and enquiries. Colleague Marika Tuus-Laul, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-13_U7	Ladies and gentlemen, I am going to pass on an inquiry on the issue of chronic underfunding health care. It is not for the Minister of Health and Labour, Mr Ossinovski, but for the Minister of Finance, Sven Sester, because he is the one who has ignored the concrete proposals that have been put forward by the Health Insurance Fund and does not support a thorough overhaul of the financing system. We know that we have demographic problems. Our population is ageing, and it's taking more money than the Health Insurance Fund. Our population is declining and health care is becoming more expensive, inflation is higher than in other areas. So we need more money. As we know, our healthy lives have decreased because people do not get to the doctor in time. Sven Sester has unfortunately supported the increase in people's own participation, which has already been brought to the critical limit of 25%, which cannot be increased again. He wishes to raise the visit fee and the hospital's bed-day fee, include private capital, etc. We certainly can't agree with that. Healthcare needs a very thorough change, structural financing reform. That's why we're asking questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-13_U8	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-13_U9	Mr President! Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! I have to say that the Free Party Group has quite eagerly waited for our daily working mood to return in the autumn, because there are many questions that are in the air. Yesterday, a number of ministers responded to inquiries which had perhaps already been made in May. Very much time has flowed into the sea, and now new questions have arisen, situations have changed. These questions were also answered, while some political parties in the government coalition held their Bureau meetings and did not participate in this debate. But there have certainly been a lot of problems in the government during the summer, which I now would like fresh and very quick answers to. One of these issues is the consolidation plan for SOEs. Eight members of the Free Party will present an inquiry to Kristen Michal. We want to understand more precisely what this consolidation is all about. If this is justified by a reduction in politicisation, we do not fully understand how building such a politically determined link will reduce politicisation. It seems to us that behind this may rather hide the Minister's direct responsibility. There are a number of other issues, including how an additional level of governance should contribute to the clarification of ownership policy, i.e. the Minister's vision of the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-13_U10	Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-13_U11	Honourable President! Respectable members of the Riigikogu! I am pleased to refer to Minister Sven Sester, on behalf of eight members of the Free Party Group, an inquiry into the issue of insurance cooperatives, right on the subject of the preparation of the relevant law. If you don't mind, I'll refresh our memory together a little bit. Last spring we processed the Insurance Act here, and the representatives of several groups in the Chamber wanted to complement it with the chapter of insurance cooperatives or the inclusion of the relevant provisions. At that time, the Minister did not consider this a good idea, as the draft is already very prepared. Last autumn we submitted a draft decision that a separate law on insurance cooperatives should be developed or a chapter developed in accordance with the Insurance Act should be added. This draft decision was not supported by 51 members of the Riigikogu. One reason was that according to the Ministry of Finance, we are breaking through an open door and that the Ministry of Finance already has a comprehensive, detailed plan of how the law on insurance cooperatives is to be implemented. By 30 April this year, the intention to develop this law was to go to the public coordination circle. We hope that the Ministry of Finance has completed the development of the law as planned, successfully, as planned, and we are happy to give the Minister of Finance the opportunity to inform the members of the Riigikogu about this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-13_U12	Thank you. There is no further request for referral of drafts or enquiries. On behalf of the management board of the Riigikogu, I have adopted three inquiries and they are dealt with in accordance with the Home and Working Procedures Act. We're gonna do a presence check. 95 members of the Riigikogu registered as present, missing 6.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-13_U13	Ladies and gentlemen, let us move on to today's agenda. Today we have one item on the agenda: First reading of the draft of the Riigikogu decision "Proposal for the Government of the Republic" submitted by the Group of the Estonian Centre Party. But before we go to this procedure, I will brief you on the procedure. Ladies and gentlemen, attention! First of all, the representative of the author shall be present for a maximum of 20 minutes, after which there shall be an opportunity to ask questions. The representative of the commission will then be present for up to 20 minutes and questions can be asked again after that. I would point out that each member of the Riigikogu may ask an oral question to each of the rapporteurs. Negotiations will then take place with speakers from the political groups and committees. There will also be a final vote and a majority of the composition will be necessary for the adoption of the draft. Ladies and gentlemen, We will begin the first reading of the draft of the Riigikogu's decision 'Proposal for the Government of the Republic' presented by the Estonian Centre Party Group. I request Anneli Oti, member of the Riigikogu as a waitress!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-13_U14	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! Members of the Estonian Centre Party Group have initiated a draft decision that will allow self-employed persons to continue to enjoy paid paternity leave. With this amendment, we would end the unequal treatment of self-employed workers compared to other working fathers. Paternity leave is a ten-day leave which the father can take during a two-month period immediately preceding or following the birth of the child. Speaking briefly about the history of paternity leave, fathers have been able to use ten working days of publicly paid paternity leave since 2002. 2009-2012. Fathers were entitled to paternity leave until 2004, but holidays were not reimbursed from the state budget. Since 2013, paternity leave has again been publicly paid. The paternity allowance is calculated on the basis of the father's average salary. Paternity leave is regulated by the Estonian Employment Contracts Act, which provides for paternity leave for fathers working on the basis of an employment contract, but deprives self-employed persons of state-paid paternity leave, as the activities of self-employed persons are regulated by the Commercial Code. We approached the Minister of Justice, Urmas Reinsalu, with this contradiction, and he also found that this was not a legally correct situation. Despite the fact that the Minister had not received information on specific cases, he felt that this was the way in which self-employed fathers were treated unequally compared to other working fathers who were entitled to state-paid paternity leave in the event of an employment contract. In the end, the Minister was in favour of having the same opportunities for father leave as fathers in employment contracts. The Committee on Legal Affairs pointed out that when granting paid paternity leave to self-employed persons, we would not yet guarantee equal paternity leave for all fathers. Yes, indeed, this bill does not guarantee that all fathers will receive paternity leave on an equal footing. But with this, we would start with a very large group of people who have a problem, and if we wish, we will be able to solve it. In the background, I would add that as of March 2016, there are 32086 self-employed people in Estonia, many of whom are also fathers. Yes, we are not talking about all the fathers, but we are talking about a very large number of people in Estonia. The government's plan, as the Commission has shown, is, of course, to reform the entire parental leave system in a comprehensive manner immediately and, in this respect, allegedly also to regulate the paternity leave of the self-employed. However, while the new comprehensive law is being passed, today's applicants for paternity leave may already be able to prepare their youngsters for school, because by the time the law is completed we must consider at least two or three years. I am, in itself, very pleased that we share the view of the government that the area needs changes and improvements, as was clear in the Commission's meeting. We can see that our proposal is part of the reform proposed by the government, and I therefore see no reason why this initiative should not be supported today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-13_U15	Thank you, dear waitress. You have questions too. Kersti Sarapuu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-13_U16	The issue of the remuneration of self-employed paternity leave is quite specific. Be so precious and tell me how this came to you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-13_U17	Thank you. As always, all topics reach members of the Riigikogu from the people of Estonia. I believe that we can view this as a narrow problem, but at the same time I believe that we are all in this Chamber in order to solve the problems of some people in Estonia if, for some reason, they are neglected by law and are therefore treated unequally. The specific problem was discussed in my circle of acquaintances even before I came to the Riigikogu. And when I got here, this problem was raised again in the conversation circle, and then our group tabled this draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-13_U18	Olga Ivanova, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-13_U19	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Honourable waitress! As you mentioned in your report, the Minister of Justice also agreed that the current situation is not quite fair and needs legal correction. For his part, did he make suggestions on how to solve this problem?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-13_U20	Thank you. The Minister did not directly offer solutions, although he admitted that self-employed fathers had been treated unequally. When we discussed this issue in the Commission, the representative of the government also claimed that they are aware of the problem, but that all this issue needs legal clarity, there are very many and very different terms, and the government has a plan to reform the whole area. I hope our bill will help them move forward.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-13_U21	March Sults, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-13_U22	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good waitress! Here's the question. In the current situation, self-employed paternal leave is like a hindrance. At the same time, it also happens in a state enterprise where paternity leave exists that when fathers return from this holiday, they no longer have much work to do. Now I'm going to ask again about the self-employed. Doesn't this pattern of behavior suddenly affect the model of family planning? How do you think?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-13_U23	I very much hope that the current situation will not affect this. However, we must be aware that if the people of Estonia feel unequally treated in some areas, it will certainly not arouse confidence in their country. This is a very personal and family problem. If a father who is a self-employed person, for example a notary, bailiff or entrepreneur, goes to the Social Insurance Board with the topic of wanting to be at home with his child and receiving compensation from the state, he is told that, unfortunately, he is not covered by this compensation. The usual behaviour of an Estonian person is as the Minister claimed, the problem has not come to him, that he is leaving there with this knowledge, but the concern remains, and he still feels that he has contributed to the state, paid taxes, but unfortunately the state does not behave in the same way as he does. I hope this does not directly affect the model of family planning, but on some level it is certainly very disturbing.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-13_U24	Thank you, dear waitress. No further questions for you. I now ask for a presentation by Mr Valdo Randpere, Member of the Committee on Legal Affairs of the Speaker's Committee on Legal Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-13_U25	President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, The Committee on Legal Affairs discussed this draft at its meeting on 6 June 2016. Uno Kaskpeit, Andrei Novikov, Imre Sooäär, Kristjan Kõljalg, Külliki Kübarsepp, Mark Soosaar, Olga Ivanova, Raivo Aeg, Toomas Vitsut and Valdo Randpere, and Linnar Liivamägi and Raini Laide as advisors, participated in the meeting. Anneli Ott, member of the Riigikogu, who is also the author and author, and Hanna Vseviov, Head of the Department of Children and Families from the Ministry of Social Affairs and Marilis Proos, Head of Labour Relations Policy, were also invited. In itself, we discussed this bill for quite a while. There were quite a number of questions from the members of the Commission as well as from invited guests, and the latter in turn answered the questions. Some of the most important points we found out back there. First of all, I agree with the previous speaker that the entire parental leave system is currently quite fragmented in Estonia, with the exception of paternity leave, for example, maternity leave, parental leave, adoption leave, etc. In principle, the Ministry expressed this wish, as expressed in the coalition agreement, according to which the system should be reformed so that part of the single parental leave scheme is reserved for fathers, the other part for mothers, and a certain part can be shared by the free choice of the family. It is described in the Coalition Agreement as making the system more flexible and perhaps in some respects complementing it. The position of the representatives of the Ministry of Social Affairs was that if you wanted to support all fathers, it would not make sense to do so through paternity leave, but, after reviewing the whole system, to support fathers on the exact same principle as the parental benefit is currently paid. This means that holidays and compensation are not linked, as the right to leave can only be enjoyed by workers who need additional protection by law in order to realise it. However, self-employed people can regulate their work in such a way that they do not need to be granted additional protection through law to obtain leave. That's the charm and pain of being a self-employed person, that you can regulate your vacation pretty well yourself, you don't have a relationship of control. Internationally, it is also generally the case that the issue of leave is still governed by employment contracts. The previous speaker also indicated that they had sent a letter to the Ministry of Justice and received a positive reply from the Minister of Justice. The Commission did not have this letter or answer at the time, but we received them later. In reading this letter and the answer, of course, it must be added that yes, in principle the Minister of Justice really said that there is a bit of an unfair situation, but he did not deal with all self-employed persons in his reply, but specifically notaries and bailiffs. So I wouldn't dare put those words in the mouth of the Minister of Justice that the whole situation of self-employed people in Estonia is unfair in this sense or that they have been treated unequally compared to all other people working under an employment contract. He did find it in the case of notaries and bailiffs who, in particular, have to register for accounting operations, rather, can register as self-employed because they do not really have that obligation. When we sum up what the Commission found, the Commission still had the impression that one could wait for the government to come up with a broader concept and solve this problem in one way or the other. Of course, I also understand when the opposition representatives say that we are now taking this first small step, the government will come after us, because the government will agree with us. But on the other hand, the opposition might act like it's going to take on a coalition treaty, find a small point there and say it's their bill, and it's nice that the government supports it. However, since I am the representative of the coalition, and now also the rapporteur for the Committee on Legal Affairs, I must say that the position still remained in the committee that if the government intends to have this broader plan, let them prepare it. There is no point in driving in to the government all the time with any small proposals and, in fact, making the overall picture more difficult and extending the whole system even further. The Commission's decision was to propose that the draft be put on the agenda for the plenary session on 13 September, that the final vote be taken on the draft and that Valdo Randpere be appointed rapporteur. All decisions were taken by consensus. Oh, there are questions now!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-13_U26	Thank you, dear waitress. You have, yes, a lot of questions. Viktor Vassilyev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-13_U27	Thank you, Mr President. Dear colleague Valdo, you have described quite a long and detailed discussion of what someone has said. It remained to be said that the Commission wanted to wait for the ministers to get in place or for the government to change or for the Centre Party to come to power. However, I would like to ask you what your personal assessment of the current paternity leave system is.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-13_U28	Thank you, dear colleague Viktor. First of all, if I take your introduction as part of the question, I think that if we wait for the Central Party to reach its government, we will never make it to the beginning or the end of any draft. My personal view is that, yes, basically, there could be some kind of compensation for self-employed people if they become fathers and want to behave in this situation in a way comparable to those in employment relationships working under a contract of employment. On the subject of holidays, however, I fully share the view of the Ministry of Social Affairs that the extension of this leave requirement to self-employed people is warring against the whole idea of being a self-employed person.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-13_U29	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-13_U30	Thank you, manager. Dear waitress, I ask this question: is the current paternity leave system equal for all fathers? How do you comment on that?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-13_U31	In principle, he is not equal for all fathers, but the Commission did not discuss it very specifically. So I wouldn't be bringing out separate groups of fathers now. However, in principle, there is also the possibility of a debt-law relationship between the employer and the employee, in which case paternity leave and compensation will not extend to the employee either. It currently extends only to people working under employment contracts and the Civil Service Act. In this sense, the system is not equal, but it still covers a very large part of the population.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-13_U32	Marika Tuus-Laul, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-13_U33	Thank you. Good performer! I don't think we're going to go so far with your coalition agreement, because in a lot of ways we still have a different view of the world. But with the question of self-employed people, we really have come up with this before, and you may even have taken this idea from us in your contract. When, however, will you be able to come up with this in particular if he is listed in the coalition agreement? You have a plan. Will this government last as long as you can pass this law?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-13_U34	Dear colleague Marika, the government will certainly endure. By the way, the government's health is better than ever, despite the fact that some of your partymates are going around talking about how the government is about to fall apart or how you're going to be a social minister. I think this deadline, such a definite deadline, is the deadline for this government in 2019 if we choose a new Riigikogu and definitely get a new government. I'm not quite aware of whether this bill will be on the government's agenda next year or not. On my hand, I would predict that 18 months and then maybe we could see some result.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-13_U35	Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-13_U36	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I mean, this is about people's rights. I would like to ask you whether it was discussed in the Commission or whether it is known what the Chancellor of Justice thinks about this matter.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-13_U37	As far as I know, no one has asked the Chancellor of Justice for an opinion. As I have already pointed out, the Minister of Justice sent a letter concerning a relatively narrow area, i.e. notaries and bailiffs. However, as far as I know, no one has consulted the Chancellor of Justice on this matter.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-13_U38	Imre Sooäär, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-13_U39	Thank you. Good waitress! I think it is very good that the opposition also supports the coalition agreement and that a common denominator will soon be found. Indeed, there was quite a long debate in the Commission on this issue. Recently, the press reported that some of Europe's best parental benefit systems are in Iceland and Sweden. In Iceland, it is said that there are three months for the father, three for the mother, and then three more for the divided, a total of nine months for which 80% of the salary is paid. You've lived in Sweden for a long time. Is this compensation system better in Sweden? Did you, for example, get a paternity allowance there? What makes this system better in Sweden than in Estonia? Can you name something?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-13_U40	The Swedish system is undoubtedly no better than Estonia's, because Estonia's is the best. But Sweden also has pretty good systems. Well, the parental benefit system has evolved since I lived there. At that time, Sweden did not have compulsory paternity leave under the parental benefit system, for example, but, as far as I am aware, today it is. They've made it so that if Dad doesn't take out any part, it'll be lost at all. I personally think that we have nothing to be ashamed of about the Estonian parental benefit system. I have also seen studies where it is very high and very commendable, but certainly it can be made more flexible, better and more perfect, and that is what the government is doing.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-13_U41	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-13_U42	President-in-Office of the Council. Good speaker! It is, of course, excellent if the coalition and the opposition have common positions, and it would be normal if they were implemented jointly. But I understood your speech quite clearly that if the opposition also puts forward some kind of draft or proposal that coincides with that provided for in the coalition agreement, then a priori you reject it because the proposal came from the opposition. I would like to ask you if you consider such confrontation and non-cooperation to be normal. Does it make no sense for the opposition to put forward any drafts, because you are rejecting even those that you essentially agree with?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-13_U43	Thank you, my good colleague Henn. It was really sad listening to you, especially because I don't think you understand what I said in the beginning. I didn't say that this bill was entirely in line with the coalition agreement or the coalition plan. That's one tiny piece of it. Therefore, in our opinion, it would be wiser, purely tactically, to wait a little bit and do the whole thing instead of doing the whole thing in pieces. I did not say at all that, since the bill comes from the opposition, it is bad-bad. It's very nice of you to come from the opposition. But the fact that the opposition is now presenting it as if you see, we came up with a good idea and why you're not doing it, or that that's where we came up with a good idea and it's nice that the government has some ideas in its head, isn't quite right. This issue has long been in the government coalition agreement. I understand that the task of the opposition is to poke a little bit. And if the opposition had now come up with a comprehensive solution, I would be prepared to discuss it very seriously. But instead of solving this piece by piece, I think, as has been said, tactically it is better to take some time and then make a complete solution, not that we are doing one piece now, and then, in the case of the whole solution, we are probably going to change, correct or adjust that part.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-13_U44	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-13_U45	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Commission waitress, There are also representatives of this generation who knew nothing about paternity leave when the children were born. Did the Commission talk about how actively this paternity leave is being used in the first place? It doesn't exactly relate to the bill, but maybe you can tell me.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-13_U46	Thank you, good questioner! There was no direct mention of this in the Commission, but as far as I have observed this social debate, it is the same phenomenon that once existed in Sweden. At first, when parental leave came, fathers basically did not use it, and those fathers who wanted to use it sometimes even fell into disdain from employers or started to discriminate a little. But things are evolving and moving on. I think that Sweden is still quite ahead of us in this attitude, but there is a growing perception in Estonia that father's role is perhaps not only fertilization but also rearing.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-13_U47	Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-13_U48	Thank you. Dear Valdo Randpere! Who is the minister to whom, after voting off today's draft decision, must be turned to to ensure that self-employed fathers, as taxpayers, enjoy the same rights as those of those working on an employment contract?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-13_U49	Good Kadri Samson! You must be very fatal if you think the bill will definitely be voted down. I don't know the results of the vote in advance. But in case it really happens that it is voted down, I think the right minister to turn to is either Jevgeni Ossinovski or Margus Tsahkna. Evgeny's probably a better alternative.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-13_U50	Monika Haukanõmm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-13_U51	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, When you answered questions both in your speech and after, you repeatedly said that the government was working on updating the parental benefit system in the overall view. Yes, I agree with you that it is better to change everything at once. When, then, can we get to the fact that this whole view of parental benefit and the modernisation of this system exists? Will we still be able to deal with this bill in this Riigikogu?
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-13_U52	Pretty recently, I just answered the same question, but I can answer it again. In principle, this rear boundary is when the current Riigikogu will complete its work. By that time, the Coalition Agreement and its commitments must be met. But I suppose for the next 18 months, there's a complete picture in front of us or through our hands.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-13_U53	Thank you, dear waitress. No further questions for you. I'm opening negotiations. First of all, on behalf of the Group of the Anneli Ott Centre Party.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-13_U54	President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, Having heard Mr Randpere's report, I would add that, when we started to deal with the subject we were discussing, there was no level of knowledge of this problem. No one was able to answer us precisely why self-employed people are treated differently from fathers working under an employment contract, even though they really pay social tax in the same way and have thus fulfilled their obligations to the state. The claim that we have taken out a section of the coalition agreement is not competent. The problem has arisen in the everyday life of the people of Estonia, not in the coalition agreement a passage has been sought. I have not sat here in the Riigikogu for a very long time, but during this time it seems to me that it is already a customary practice that such a learned answer is given to the opposition's drafts: we are about to start a major reform, we are about to have exactly the same bill on the table and we are about to improve it. It's actually really nice. As in the Commission, the content of the debate was that everything is basically right in itself and we need to find a solution, but the draft proposed by the Centre Party is too narrow. I will read to you the beginning of the draft submitted by the Central Party Group: 'On the basis of § 154 (1) of the Rules of Procedure of the Riigikogu Act, the Riigikogu decides to propose to the Government of the Republic. ' We are proposing to the Government of the Republic to initiate a legislative amendment which also allows self-employed persons to get paid paternity leave, thereby ending the unequal treatment of self-employed workers compared to other working fathers. I would like to say that we draw attention, point out a problem that has been left, perhaps not maliciously, overlooked, and give us the opportunity to address this problem. So please do not take it in any way or in any way, because we are actually talking about thousands of people for whom this issue is very personal! At the same time, I believe that it will also be insulting at a certain level if we do not take this seriously. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-13_U55	Thank you. On behalf of the Estonian Free Party Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-13_U56	Good vice chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, The Free Party Group supports this draft. This is indeed a matter of principle. The first forms of entrepreneurship in our country were self-employed, but unfortunately, the self-employed have remained in the status of being exfoliated in one way or another. The attitude is not positive. Who are we talking about with the self-employed? We're talking about farmers whose representatives were on Toompea yesterday. We're talking about shoemakers, family doctors and other doctors. We are talking about notaries and other representatives of this field of life. The biggest problem facing the Estonian state, which we acknowledge, recognised by every party in this hall, is the small increase in the birth rate of children. There are all kinds of forms of entrepreneurship, but we should especially recognise self-employed people who are self-employed. He's more enterprising than the one who goes and takes the contractual fee. We must not forget this. I support the proposal made in this draft decision. The Commission made a promise that within two years the government would come up with a new system of family benefits. But nota bene: the period of the European Union Presidency has already put political decision-making on the development of many countries at a standstill and it is likely that this process of seeking solutions will continue. The fact that we are raising this issue again here today is a signal that we must not neglect the other life that affects our future in the long term, but must deal with important issues that will move the Estonian state and its population forward. Very often we hear one typical response in the Commission: it is not foreseen either because of European Union directives or because of the European Union Treaties. Or perhaps the reason is that the draft has been tabled by the opposition. We should be over it and look for common solutions, because, as I said, the development of our country is stuck and the consequences are not the most beautiful. We will overcome this taboo on political culture and look for solutions. I call on everyone in this Chamber and those in the halls to support all parties in this draft. This is indeed a good proposal, and the programmes of all parties will support the birth of children. We will also support fathers' contribution to raising children! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2016-09-13_U57	Thank you. There is no further wish for negotiations, I will conclude the negotiations. No amendments to the draft have been tabled. The commission's proposal is for a final vote on a draft 246. We are going to the final vote. Ladies and gentlemen, since the draft requires a majority of its component members to be adopted, we will do a presence check before the vote. 52 members of the Riigikogu registered as present, 49 are missing. Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on the draft decision of the Riigikogu "Proposal for the Government of the Republic" tabled by the Group of the Estonian Centre Party 246. Please take a stand and vote. 41 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the draft, no one opposed, no abstentions. The draft was not supported. Ladies and gentlemen, today's agenda has been exhausted. Thank you and a good day's work. Closure of the sitting at 10.48 a.m.
